lip; V N : M'M:A WEDDING BREAKFAST TABLE.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF A Complete Dictionary of ill pertainins to the Art of Cookery and Table Seryice. ILLUSTRATED with COLOURED PLATES and ENGRAVINGS, by HAROLD FURNISS, GEORGE CRUIKSHANK, IV. MUNN ANDREW, and others. EDITED BY THEODORE FRANCIS GARRETT, Author of “The Chef's Memoranda,” “ Plain and Artistic Cookery! “Little-known Foods," “ Ice and Ice-Making,” “ The Manufacture of British Wines, tFc.f “ Ball Suppers and their Service," “ Wine Adulteration,” “ Savoury Suppers '‘'‘Muffins and Crumpets,” “ Sandwiches,” “ American Drinks,” “ Confectionery! “Notes on Curries “Loving-Cups“Antiquity of Cheese,” “ Good Coffee,” “Lives of Famous Cooks," and numerous other Serial and Special Papers in Technical and Domestic Publications. Assisted by WILLIAM A. RAWSON (Cook and Confectioner to Messrs. Ring and Brymer, Caterers for City of London and other Banquets ; Sec. of the Original U.F. Society of Cooks and Confectioners); And, in Special Departments, by the following and other distinguished CHEFS DE CUISINE and CONFECTIONERS: C. J. Corblet, Chef de Cuisine, Bute House, W.; Grand Diploma of Honour; ist Grand Prize, 1887; 1st Gold Medal of ist Class, 1885. J. Detraz, Chef de Cuisine, Hotel Metropole, London. J. Fiorillo, Chef de Cuisine, late of Hotel Victoria, London ; Grand Prix d’Honneur, Paris, 1889 , ist Prize, Gold Medal, 1885 ; Champion Silver Medal, 1885 ; ist Prize, Gold Medal, 1888 ; ist Prize, Gold Medal, 1889. G. Heywood, Chef de Cuisine, and President of the Original U.F. Society of Cooks and Confectioners. C. Norwak, Confectioner, Gold and Silver Medallist in Sugar-Flowers and Piping, London, 1889. L. Lecomte, Chef de Cuisine to Lord Harewood; Silver Medal, Exposition Culinaire Internationale, London, 1885; Diploma of Honour, Grand Prize, and Gold Medal, Expo- sition Culinaire Internationale, London, 1887. C. Reichert, Confectioner to Messrs. W. and G. Buszard. A. Thoumire, Chef de Cuisme to Sir Julian Goldsmid ; Silver Medal for Turtle Dinner of 13 Dishes, Universal Cookery and Food Exhibition, 1889; Bronze Medal for Menu Design, 1889; and Vermillion Medal, Expo- sition Culinaire, 1887. T. Wallace, Chef de Cuisine, Great Eastern Hotel, London. C. WlLLlN, Chef de Cuisme, late of the Grand Hotel Bristol ; ist Prize in Open Turtle Competition. Division V.—Mus to Pin. LONDON: L. UPCOTT GILL. Sole Agent: A. W. COWAN, 30 and 31, NEW BRIDGE STREET, LONDON, E.C.LONDON: A. BRADLEY, LONDON AND COUNTY PRINTING WORKS, DRURY LANE, W.C. L.HVr KiifY LIBRARY LEEDS L-XTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 961 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <be., referred to, see under their special heads. Mushrooms—continued. the pan on the fire and cook the contents, stirring con- tinually to prevent it getting lumpy; add the yolks of two eggs to thicken, and mix in toz. of butter. When thoroughly mixed and of the required consistence, put it in a dish, and serve hot. Mushrooms in Cases.—Peel and chop about two dozen large Mushrooms, mix with them 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley and a small quantity of finely-chopped shallot (the latter ingredient may be omitted if not desired), and season to taste with salt and pepper. Butter the interior of ten or twelve small paper cases, till them with the Mushroom mixture, and bake in a brisk oven. When cooked, stand the cases on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve very hot. Mushroom Cream Soup.—Carefully wash and peel lqt. of fresh Mushrooms, put them into lqt. of boiling water, and boil until tender enough to nib through a sieve; stir them into 2qts. of cream soup made as follows: Put into a large saucepan 2 table-spoonfuls each of butter and Hour, and mix together until they begin to bubble; then gradu- ally stir in lqt. each of hot milk and boiling water, a teacupful at a time, and mixing the one quantity in smoothly before adding more. When all the milk and water have been used, season the soup to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, stir into it the puree or pulp of Mushrooms, let it boil once, and then serve. Mushrooms with Eggs.^(l) Break four eggs into a sauce- pan, and add 2 iz. of warmed butter, 1 table-spoonful of chopped Mushrooms, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and b salt- spoonful of pepper. Put the pan over a clear fire and stir continually until quite thick. Have ready some pieces of hot buttered toast, put them on a dish, pour over the mixture, and serve very hot. (2) Peel lib. of Mushrooms, and put them into a sauce- pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of Mushroom ketchup, 3oz. of butter, one onion chopped small, a little grated nutmeg, 1 table spoonful of vinegar, and salt and pepper to taste. • Put the pan over the fire, cover it, stew the contents gently 1 for twenty minutes, and add the yolks of two eggs to thicken, taking care not to let the mixture boil after they are added or it will curdle and spoil. Put a border of mashed potatoes round a dish, pour some of the sauce in the centre, pile the Mushrooms up in a heap, and decorate them with two hard-boiled eggs cut in slices. Pour over the re- mainder of the sauce, and serve. Mushroom Garnishing.—Mince finely twelve Mushrooms 1 and place them in a saucepan with b pint of Madeira sauce. Cook for five minutes, and it is ready for use. Mushroom Ketchup.—(1) Break up the required quantity of Mushrooms, put them in a tub, strew salt (allowing |lb. for every 71b. of Mushrooms) over them, and leave for two or three days. Afterwards press the Mushrooms to extract all their juice, which strain into a large saucepan; for every pint put in loz. of salt, h teaspoonful of pepper- corns, six cloves, and ;\oz. of ginger. When boiling, move the ketchup to the side of the fire and let it simmer gently for an-hour-and-a-half. When ready, strain through a fine sieve, leave it until cold, then pour it into bottles; cork tightly, and stow them away in a dry store-cupboard. (2) Procure freshly-gathered Mushrooms, pick them over carefully to see that they are clean, but do not wash them, and put them in layers in a deep pan with plenty of salt between each layer. Stand the pan in a warm place or over a rather cool stove, and keep it covered. Leave the Mushrooms for three or four days, pressing and mashing them well every day with a wooden spoon. When quite soft and well mashed, place the Mushrooms and juice into a large stone or earthenware jar, and put in for each 2qts., loz. each of allspice and whole pepper. Cover the jar closely, put it into a saucepan with boiling water to reach almost up to the top of the jar, and boil for two-hours-and-a-half, adding more boiling water as the quantity becomes dimin- ished. At the end of that time, take the jar out of the water, and strain the juice through a fine hair sieve, being very careful not to disturb the sediment. Pour the ketchup Mushrooms—continued. into a clean stewpan, and boil it slowly for an hour, removing all the scum as it rises. Next pour it into a jug, cover, stand it in a cool place, and leave for twenty - four hours. Strain the ketchup through flannel, return it to the jug, and for every quart mix in b table-spoonful of brandy. Let the ketchup stand to see if any more sedi- ment settles, then strain it again, pour it into small bottles, and keep them tightly corked. (3) The Mushrooms are always best when gathered first thing in the morning before the sun is on them; pick over carefully to see that they are clean, as they must not be washed, break them into pieces, and lay them on a dish; strew over plenty of salt and leave for three or four days in a warm temperature, turning often, and occasionally adding a small quantity of salt. At the end of that time, turn the Mushrooms on to a fine silk sieve with a basin underneath, and leave them until all the juice has inn through. Pour this juice into a stewpan with plenty of spices, and place it over a slow fire. Beat the whites of tivo eggs, and when the juice boils stir them in. Boil it for a minute, then strain it through muslin into a basin. When quite cold, pour the ketchup into small bottles, cork tightly, and keep them for use in a dry store-cupboard. (4) Break the Mushrooms into small pieces, put them in a large earthenware jar, strew over plenty of salt, and leave for a week or ten days, stirring well every day; after- wards leave them without stirring until a thick scum rises to the top, when strain oft' the liquor into a sauce- pan. Tie up in a muslin bag a moderate quantity of ginger, mace, cloves, peppercorns, and mustard-seed, put it in the liquor, and boil until well flavoured with the spices. When cold, put the ketchup into a bottle with the muslin bag containing the splices, cork it, and leave for tvro months. At the end of that time, boil it up again with the spices, then strain through muslin, and bottle it for use. (5) Take some large full-grown Mushrooms. Put a layer of them at the bottom of a deep earthenware pan, sprinkle with salt, then add another layer of Mushrooms and a sprinkling of salt, and so on till all the Mush- rooms are in the pan. Let them stand for three hours, by which time the salt ought to have made the Mushrooms easy to break, then pound them in a mortar or mash them well with the hands, and leave for two days (not longer), mashing and stirring well each day; pour them into a large stone jar, measure by lifting them out of the jar, with a pint or quart measure, and to each quart add ^oz. of allspice and l^oz. of whole black pepipier; cover the jar very closely, set it in a pan of boiling water, and keep) the water boiling for over two hours. Then let the juice drain through a hair sieve into a clean stewpan, without squeezing or pressing the Mushrooms, and boil very slowly, skimming well, till reduced to one half; then pour it into a clean dry jug, cover closely, and let it stand all night in a cool pflace. Next day pour it oil' as gently as possible so as not to disturb the sediment, strain it through a thick flannel bag till perfectly clear, and add for every pint 1 table-spoonful of good brandy; put it again into a clean dry jug and leave all night closely covered. Next day a sediment will again have settled, and the ketchup must then be very gently poured off so as not to disturb it. Bottle in pint or half-pint bottles which have been rinsed with brandy or other spirit, being very careful to cork well and seal them air-tight. If badly corked or kept in a damp place the ketchup will soon spioil, but if properly kepit it improves. It should be examined from time to time, pflacing a strong light behind the neck of the bottle ; if there is any appearance of film forming in it boil it again with some more whole black pepipier. Mushroom Omelet.—(1) Either fresh or canned Mushrooms may lie used for this. Heat 1 table-spoonful of chopped canned Mushrooms in enough white sauce to moisten them; or clean three fresh Mushrooms of medium size and fry them in jrst enough butter to prevent burning, seasoning with salt and pepper to taste. While the Mush- rooms are being heated beat three whole eggs for half a minute together with 1 teaspoonful of salt and very little 4 ATHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 962 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Mushrooms—continued. pepper. Put a frying-pan over the fire, with 1 teaspoonful of butter; when the butter begins to brown pour in the beaten eggs, and as soon as they set upon the bottom of the pan break the omelet a little with a fork occasion- ally to allow the uncooked portion of the egg to reach the-pan, but do pot break the outer edge of the omelet, and do not stir it all together like scrambled eggs. When the omelet is cooked'to the desired degree, put the Mush- rooms on one half, and fold the other half over by lifting with a broad, flexible knife; then loosen the omelet fiom the pan, turn it out without breaking on to a dish, and serve at once. See Fig. 1206. (2) Trim and wash some button-Mushrooms, cut them into slices, put them in a stewpan, dust over with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of flour, squeeze over the juice of half a lemon, and moisten with a little water. Stew them until tender and the liquor has reduced ; break four eggs in a basin, season with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity each of finely-chopped thyme, parsley, and shallots, add the Mushrooms, and beat the whole well together. Melt a good-sized lump of butter in an omelet- pan, pour in the above mixture, and stir it with a wooden spoon ; turn the edges of the omelet up all round with the spoon, and as soon as it is lightly browned underneath turn it over on to a hot dish and serve immediately, or it will not be nice. Mushroom Patties.—Butter and line some small patty- pans with good paste, till them with uncooked rice, and bake. Trim and wash a sufficient quantity of button- Mushrooms, drain perfectly, and chop them; next put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and tcss about over the fire until they are nicely fried. Thicken about 1 teacupful of water with a small quantity of flour, pour it over the Mushrooms, add 1 table-spoonful of thick cream and a few drops of clear broth! season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne, and squeeze in a few drops of lemon-juice. Stir the mixture over the fire with a wooden spoon, and boil very gently for a few minutes. When cooked, turn the rice out of the patties, and fill them with the above mixture. Serve on a hot dish nicely garnished with parsley. Mushroom Pie.—(1) Select about twelve or fourteen large flat Mushrooms, peel, and cut them in quarters, also peel and slice some large potatoes; butter a pie-dish, put in a layer of potatoes, then a layer of Mushrooms, another of potatoes, and so on until all are used, seasoning between each layer with salt and pepper, and putting pieces of butter here and there. Cover the pie with a nice crust, trimming otf neatly round the edges, and bake in a moderate oven. Put the trimmings of the Mushrooms in a small quantity of clear gravy and boil them for several minutes, then strain the liquor and season to taste with salt and pepper. When the pie is cooked, make a. slight incision in the top and pour in the gravy, which should have been kept hot. Serve the pie hot. (2) Select a quantity of large Mushrooms, remove the stalks and skin, and cut them in halves; put them into a frying-pan with a little oil or butter, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and fry quickly for a few minutes, then remove them from the fire. Put a few slices of raw ham at the bottom of a pie-dish, next a layer of the Mushrooms, then one of minced parsley, onion, and fennel; squeeze down tightly, place another layer of ham on top, and pour over 2 table-spoonfuls of light brown sauce. Cover the pie-dish Mushrooms—continued. with short-paste, put it on a baking sheet in a moderate oven, bake for an hour, and serve hot. Mushroom Powder.—(1) Wipe h peck of fresh Mushrooms with a cloth to remove any dirt or grit, and cut off the uneatable parts; put them into a saucepan with a few onions, cloves, a little mace, and a good supply of pepper, do not add any liquor, but toss them over the fire until all the moisture from the Mushrooms and onions has dried up, taking care that they do not burn. Now lay the Mushrooms on sieves, set them in a hot oven, and leave until they are so dry that they will easily beat into powder. Put this" powder into small bottles, cork, fasten down closely, and keep in a cool dry place. (2) Select the largest and thickest button-Mushrooms, lay them out on dishes, and place them in a rather cool oven. When the Mushrooms are very dry, put them in a mortar, and pound to a fine powder; mix with it a moderate quantity each of powdered mace and cayenne pepper, and sift it through a fine hair sieve. Keep the powder dry in well-stoppered glass bottles. Mushroom Puree.—(1) Remove the stalks and skins from lib. of Mushrooms, chop them up, put them in a sauce- pan with a little broth or milk, and simmer gently for ten minutes. Add the crumb of a French roll, and stir vigorously until all the moisture has evaporated. Add loz. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, and rub the whole through a fine strainer. Put the puree in a pan to keep warm until wanted, and if too thick a little milk or cream may be added whilst it is being passed through the sieve. (2) Cut off the stalks from some Mushrooms, wash them well, chop them up very fine, put them into a lined sauce- pan with a little butter and salt, cover the pan, and reduce the moisture quickly over a brisk fire. Turn them out into a mortar, put hi a little butter and meat glaze, pound them well, and add a little bechamel sauce; when the mixture is quite thick, pass it through a sieve, and it is ready for use. (3) To make a white puree of Mushrooms, put them (when they are peeled and washed) into some water and lemon-juice; chop them up small and put them into a saucepan with a little butter, and when the Mushrooms are softened add a few table-spoonfuls of good sauce, such as veloute or bechamel, boil for a few minutes, rub them through a fine sieve, and the puree is then ready for use. (4) To make brown Mushroom puree, put the Mushrooms into a saucepan with a little Spanish sauce, and boil for a few minutes, skimming once or twice; add a little sugar, and pass it through a fine sieve. (5) Wash IJlb. of Mushrooms, cut them up small, and put them into a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful each of water and lemon-juice and a small quantity of salt. Place the pan on the fire, boil the contents gently for two minutes, then remove the pan and let the Mushrooms cool in their liquor. Take them out, drain, wipe on a cloth, and pound them in a mortar together with loz. of butter, and pass the whole through a fine sieve. Have ready 1 pint of bechamel sauce, put it in a saucepan with the Mushroom liquor, reduce it, and add the puree to it. Boil up, add loz. of butter, mix -well in, and serve very hot. Mushroom Sauce.—(1) Put lib. of Mushrooms into a sauce- pan with three shallots, finely chopped, and a small bunch of parsley. Pour in sufficient clear gravy stock to cover the Mushrooms well, season to taste with salt and pepper, and let them stew gently at the side of the fire for a couple of hours, keeping the lid on the saucepan. At the end of that time, pass the sauce through a fine hair sieve, rubbing the Mushrooms through with a wooden spoon. Put loz. of butter into a small saucepan with 1 table- spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until well mixed, then pour in the sauce, and stir the whole until boiling. It is then ready for use. (2) Clean lqt. of Mushrooms, and boil them gently in a small quantity of water until tender. Put 2oz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour into a stewpan, stirring them over the fire until well mixed; then pour in 1 breakfast- cupful of cream and a small quantity of the cooking-THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 963 Mushrooms—continued. liquor of the Mushrooms, continue stirring until boiling, then strain the Mushrooms and put them in. Season the sauce to taste with salt and cayenne pepper, and let it simmer at the side of the fire until ready to serve. Mushroom Brown Sauce.—(1) Pare lqt. of Mushrooms and chop off the roots; wash them well, cut them in halves, and put them into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of brown gravy and the peel of half a lemon, adding salt and pepper to taste. Cook gently for thirty minutes, and if the liquor has evaporated too much add a little more gravy and a small piece of butter rolled1 in flour. Remove the lemon-peel, add the juice of half a lemon, and it is then ready for use. (2) Peel the Mushrooms, cut them into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with about loz. of butter, and fry until lightly browned. Pour in \ pint of clear broth, season it with lemon-juice and salt, and boil for a few minutes. Serve the sauce hot. (3) Pick carefully over 1 pint of Mushrooms, and when they are quite clean put them iii a stewpan with three finely-chopped shallots and a few sprigs of parsley. Pour in sufficient clear gravy to cover them well, season to taste with salt and pepper, boil gently for two hours, and at the end of that time pass the Mushrooms with the sauce through a fine hair sieve. Mix loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in a stewpan over the fire, pour in the sauce, and stir until it boils. Keep it hot in the bain-marie until ready to serve. Mushroom White Sauce.—(1) Chop off the stems from lqt. of Mushrooms, peel and wash them well, cut them in halves, and put them into a saucepan with 1 gill of water. Add half a blade of beaten mace, a little lemon-peel and grated nutmeg, cover over the pan, and stew gently for thirty minutes, taking care not to let them burn. Beat up the yolks of two eggs with 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, and add a little butter rolled in flour and salt to taste. Stir the Mushroom mixture until it is quite smooth ; pour in the cream mixture, and stir well until the whole boils. Take out the lemon-peel, add the juice of half a lemon, and it is ready for use, being served separately or poured over the fowls, &c. (2) Peel and trim off all the dark parts from the Mush- rooms, cut them into small pieces, and put them in a saucepan with 1 teacupful of cream, 2oz. of butter, and a small quantity of white pepper; put the lid on the sauce- pan, and let the Mushrooms simmer gently at the side of the fire until soft. Put h pint of clear broth into a sauce- pan with sufficient flour to bring it to the thickness of cream, stir it over the fire until cooked, then pour in with the Mushrooms. Season the sauce to taste with salt and grated nutmeg, boil it for two or three minutes longer, then serve. (3) Cut about 1 pint of button-Mushrooms into halves. Melt 2oz. of butter in a saucepan, and mix in 2 table- spoonfuls of flour. When smooth, pour in gradually about 1 pint of clear veal stock, and stir until boiling. Put in the button-Mushrooms, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil for ten minutes. Beat the yolks of two eggs together with the juice of a small lemon, ai d strain and stir them into the sauce, first moving the saucepan to the side of the fire. When the eggs have thickened, the sauce will be ready for serving. It must not boil after the eggs are added, or they will curdle. Mushrooms Saute3.—(1) Pick and thoroughly cleanse some large Mushrooms, and put them into a basin of cold water with the juice of a lemon or a small quantity of vinegar. Take them out, and dry them on a cloth; melt a lump of butter in a saute-pan, put in the Mushrooms, with salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and toss them over the fire until nicely cooked. When ready, turn the Mushrooms on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Peel and trim some middling-sized Mushrooms, chop up the trimmings with one shallot and 1 teaspoonful of parsley, and when they are minced very fine put them into a sautApan with loz. of butter, a little brown sauce, 1 table-spoonful of breadcrumbs, and salt and pepper to taste. Mushrooms—continued. Saute them until done, stuff the Mushrooms with the mixture, put them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. Have ready some croft tons of fried bread cut the size of the Mushrooms, put them on a dish with a Mushroom on the top of each (see Fig. 1207), and serve quickly. Mushrooms Sautes a la Bordelaise.—Select lib. of the largest, driest, thickest, and firmest Mushrooms procurable ; pare them neatly, wash well, drain, and cut them into lozenge shape. Place them in an earthenware dish, sprinkle over them 1 table-spoonful of oil, 1 pinch of salt, and twelve whole peppers, and leave them in the marinade for two hours. Take them out, stew them for six minutes, and when done place them on a dish. Put 3 table- spoonfuls of oil in a saute-pan together with 1 teaspoonful each of well-chopped parsley, anchovies, and a clove of crushed garlic, heat for five minutes, add to the Mush- rooms, and serve. Mushrooms Sautes a la Creme.—Prepare lib. of fine, fresh Mushrooms by neatly paring off the ends; then clean and wash them well, and if very large cut into halves. Drain, and place them in a saute-pan with loz. of butter. Season with 1 pinch of salt and \ pinch of pepper, put on the lid, and cook over a moderate fire for six minutes. Add 2 table-spoonfuls of veloute sauce and l breakfast- cupful of sweet cream, cook for four minutes longer, and serve in a hot dish with six heart-shaped bread croft tons for garnish. Mushrooms Sautes on Toast.—Prepare lib. of fine, large, fresh Mushrooms, as for Mushrooms Sautes a la Creme, and place them in a saute-pan with loz. of butter. Season with 1 pinch of salt and 7 pinch of pepper, cover the pan, and cook for ten minutes, tossing them well. Squeeze in the juice of half a medium-sized lemon and add 1 pinch of chopped parsley, well sprinkled over. Place six pieces of toasted bread on a hot dish, dress the Mushrooms over them, and serve. Mushroom Soup.—(1) Peel about two dozen nice large Mushrooms, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter and fry them ; and then pound them finely in a mortar. Mix U pints of good stock with the Mushrooms, and pass the whole through a fine hair sieve. Pour the soup into a stewpan, and mix with it 1 pint of cream and some stewed button-Mushrooms; season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil it up. Serve in a soup-tureen with a plate of sippets of toast or erofttons of fried bread. (2) Put a good quantity of chopped Mushrooms and a sliced onion into 3 pints of boiling water in a saucepan on the fire and thicken with a little flour fried hi butter. Season to taste with salt and pepper, strain into a tureen, and serve with small pieces of fried bread, macaroni, or vermicelli floating on the top. Pickled Mushrooms.—(1) Procure sufficient young button- Mushrooms (the best for pickling), cut the stalks off short, and remove the skins with a piece of flannel dipped in salt. Put them into a stewpan together with 1 teaspoon- ful of pounded mace and h teaspoonful of ground pepper for each pint, dredge with salt, and toss them over a moderate fire. When the juice runs from them and has all dried up again, pour in a sufficient quantity of vinegar to cover; boil for about three minutes, then turn all into jars or wide-mouthed bottles. On the following day, cover the jars or bottles with parchment, tie down securely, seeing that they are perfectly air-tight, and stow them away in a diy store-cupboard for use. (2) Procure a sufficient quantity of small button-Mush- rooms, and rah clean with a flannel dipped in vinegar. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. 4 A 2TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 964 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mushrooms—continued. Lay them on a deep dish, strew a moderate quantity of salt over, and let them macerate for several hours, until the juice has well run from them. Next, put them with their juice into a saucepan and boil gently for fifteen minutes; then turn on to a sieve, and drain until cold. Put them again into the saucepan with a blade of mace, a moderate quantity of ginger, cloves, peppercorns, and salt, pour in sufficient strong sour beer to cover, and boil gently until they have shrunk to about half their original size. When cold, put them into wide-mouthed glass bottles and pour the beer over them ; put the stoppers in the bottles, tie parchment over the top, and keep in a dry store-cupboard. (3) Wash well, but do not peel, some small button-Mush- rooms, and drain. For 9qts. of Mushrooms allow 2 table- spoonfuls of finely-powdered mace, 1 table-spoonful of finely-powdered cloves, two or three pieces of garlic, cayenne pepper to taste, and 1 teaspoonful of salt. When the Mushrooms are drained, put them into jars or bottles, sprinkling the spices, well mixed, among them as they are put in, and fill up with boiling vinegar. When cold tie down air-tight, and in a few weeks the pickle will be ready for use. (4) Clean some small button-Mushrooms, and cut off the stalks; put them in a jar, cover with vinegar, and add 1 tea- spoonful of salt, a few white peppercorns, and 1 blade of mace to every pint of Mushrooms. Cover the jars securely, and let the pickle remain for a day or so, when it will be quite ready for use. (5) Procure the requisite quantity of small button-Mush- rooms, and rub off the skin with a piece of flannel dipped in salt; throw them into milk and water, then drain and dry them on a cloth. Boil a sufficient quantity of white vinegar to cover the Mushrooms, adding moderate quan- tities of salt, bruised ginger, mace, cayenne pepper, and nutmeg. Put the Mushrooms into wide-mouthed bottles, pour the boiling vinegar over, and when cold cork the bottles, cover them with bladder, and tie down. Pickled Mushroom Sauce.—Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of brown or Spanish sauce into a saucepan and mix in 1 table-spoonful of Mushroom ketchup, a little butter rolled in flour, salt and pepper to taste, 1 table-spoonful of the liquor from some pickled Mushrooms, and lastly 1 teacupful of pickled Mushrooms. Put the pan on the fire and continue to stir until quite smooth arid thick, when it is ready for use; it is very good poured over roasted fowls. Potted Mushrooms. -Large button-Mushrooms without any brown inside them should be used, and about 2qts. will be sufficient. Peel and remove the fur from the larger ones, put them all into a saucepan with l drachm of powdered mace, 2 drachms of white pepper, and six or eight powdered cloves; place the pan on the fire and shake and toss it until the liquor from the Mushrooms has dried up. Now add 2oz. of butter and cook until the Mushrooms are quite done, then drain off the butter and leave until quite cold. Pack the Mushrooms closely in an earthenware pot, pour some warmed flutter over, cover the pot with white paper, over this pour clarified beef-suet to exclude the air, and set away in a cool diy place until wanted. Preserved Mushrooms.—(1) Select the largest button-Mush- rooms and wash them in vinegar ; lay them on a fine sieve, sprinkle with a small quantity of salt, and leave them to drain. Next place them in a deep dish in a cool oven and in about an hour’s time drain them again. Pour all the juice that ran from them into a lined stewpan, mix with it a blade or two of mace, and boil until reduced to half the original quantity; then move it from the fire and let it get cold. Put the Mushrooms into large earthenware jars, and pour the cold liquor over them. Melt some suet in a stewpan, and pour a layer of it in each jar; when cold and hardened, cover the jars with bladder, tie them down, and keep in a diy store-cupboard. (2) Clean the Mushrooms, cut off the heads, wash them in a basin of clean water, drain, turn, and peel them; put them into a stewpan with loz. of butter, the strained juice of half a lemon, 1 pinch of salt, and 1 teacupful of cold water; set the stewpan over a quick fire and Mushrooms—continued. boil the Mushrooms for five or six minutes, then turn them into a jar, without the liquor, and keep them for use. Peel and finely chop the stalks, put them into the stewpan with 3 table-spoonfuls of the liquor in which the Mushrooms were cooked, and let them boil gently for three or four minutes. Turn the Mushroom-stalks into another jar and use as wanted. Stewed Mushrooms.—(1) Peel and remove the stalks from some large Mushrooms, wash, and cut them into halves. Put 2oz. of butter into a small lined saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and mix them over the fire; stir in gradually about I ?, breakfast-cupfuls of milk, and when boiling and thickened put in the Mushrooms. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of powdered mace, and stew them gently at the side of the fire until tender. When cooked, turn the Mushrooms on to a hot dish, garnish with some small croutons of bread that have been fried a nice brown in butter, and serve. (2) Peel the required quantity of Mushrooms, turn the stalks, put them in a pan with a little butter, and half cook them. Dust them over with pepper and salt, cover with new milk or cream, and stew gently for fifteen minutes longer. Serve hot with sippets of toast placed round the dish for garnish. (3) Thoroughly clean some button-Mushrooms, and cut the largest into halves or quarters ; have ready a basin of cold water made slightly acid with lemon-juice or vinegar, and throw the Mushrooms into it. When all are done, drain and dry them on a cloth. Melt 2oz. of butter in a stewpan, add a small quantity of water, put in the Mush- rooms, season to taste with salt, pepper, and moderate quantities of grated nutmeg and finely-powdered sweet herbs, and stew gently at the side of the fire for ten minutes. Beat the yolks of two eggs together- with the juice of a lemon, strain, and stir in with the Mushrooms, then turn them on to a hot dish, and serve. (4) Peel or pare 1 pint of button-Mushrooms, throwing them as they are pared into a basin of water with a little lemon-juice in it. When all are done take them from the water without disturbing the sediment, put them over the fire in a stewpan with a sprinkling of salt, the strained juice of half a lemon, and sufficient fresh butter to stew them. Fit on the lid of the pan, and let the Mushrooms stew slowly till they are tender; they may require nearly half-an-hour. Thicken the butter with 1 teaspoonful of flour mixed smooth with a little cream or milk and flavoured with mace. Serve all together very hot. (5) Pare some Mushrooms and put them into a saucepan with a little milk and water; add a little veal gravy, mace, and salt, and stew them until done. Thicken the liquor with a little cream or the yolks of eggs, and it is ready for use. (6) Melt 2oz. of butter in a saucepan, and put in some Mushrooms (without their stalks or skins) with the rounded side downwards; dust them over with salt and pepper, put the pan on the fire, and let them simmer gently for fifteen minutes or so, according to the thickness. When quite tender, cover them with white sauce and simmer gently for thirty minutes longer. They will then be quite ready for use, and can be either served as a sauce or eaten with fried cr.nitons of bread. Stewed Mushrooms with Cream Sauce.—Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan, and when it is dissolved mix in the yolks of two eggs lightly beaten, the juice of a lemon, and a little salt and pepper, and stir over the fire until it thickens. Have ready h pint of plain butter sauce, pour it in gradually, stirring all the time. Skin and trim 41b. of Mushrooms, and stew them gently in a saucepan with a little milk or broth. Pour them with their liquor into the sauce and let them remain for a few minutes. Have ready some pieces of toast, spread the Mushroom mixture over them, and serve. The sauce must be of such a con- sistence that it will not inn when put on the pieces of toast, and care must be taken not to let the butter oil or the sauce get lumpy in cooking, or it will be spoilt. Stewed Mushrooms in Cups.—Cut off the stalks of 1 pint of Mushrooms, remove the peel, chop them up small, and965 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ibe., referred to, see under their special heads. Mushrooms—continued. put them into a saucepan with a little gravy and chopped parsley; sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and stew gently over a moderate lire for forty minutes. The gravy can he made by boiling the parings and stalks in water and when done straining and using instead of gravy. Beat six eggs up in a basin, add them to the mixture, pour the whole into buttered cups or moulds, bake in a quick oven, turn out on to a hot dish, and serve with a little white sauce. Stewed Mushrooms with Egg's.—(1) Peel about ljlb. of Mushrooms, and peel and chop a moderate-sized onion. Melt Jib. of butter in a lined stewpan, and put in the Mushrooms and onion with 2 table-spoonfuls of Mushroom ketchup, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; season to taste with salt and pepper. Put the lid on the stewpan, and stew the contents gently for twenty minutes. Beat three eggs well and stir them Fig. 1208. Stewed Mushrooms with Eggs. in with the Mushrooms, but do not boil or they will curdle. Put a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, pile the Mushrooms in the centre, garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs (see Fig. 1208), and serve. (2) Peel and trim some Mushrooms; put them into a saucepan with a little butter, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and stew gently till quite tender. When quite done, put them into a shallow dish, with sufficient eggs to cover them—without breaking the yolks. Cover the top with fried breadcrumbs, salt, and pepper, and put them into a quick oven for live minutes or so, until the eggs are set but not quite hard. Put some crofttons of fried bread round the dish, and serve. Stewed Mushrooms for Garnish.—Clean aftd wash Jgall. of Mushrooms, and cut them with their stalks into slices about Jin. thick. Put Jib. of butter into a frying-pan on the fire, and when the butter is quite hot, without being coloured, add the Mushrooms, with a little salt and pepper, and toss them-for four minutes. Then sprinkle with loz. of flour, and toss them again for one minute longer; add 1 teacupful of broth, 1 table-spoonful each of minced parsley and shallot, and when they are of a light brown colour they are done and ready for use. Stewed Mushroom Stems.—Cut into rather small pieces the stems of Mushrooms which have been used either for baking or broiling; put them in a pan over the fire with 1 piled table-spoonful of butter to 1 pint of stems, together with a seasoning of salt and pepper, and stew gently until tender. Have ready a slice of toast, and serve the Mush- room stems on it; or mince them, and scallop them with an equal quantity of breadcrumbs, a seasoning of salt and pepper, and brown them in a hot oven. Stewed Mushrooms with White Sauce.—(1) Choose small Mushrooms just opening from the button. Pick, trim, and clean them well, then rinse them in cold water with a little salt in it ; pour this water off, and rinse them in fresh, drain them, and spread them out to dry. When the Mushrooms are dry, put them into a stewpan with about 2oz. of butter and a bunch of sweet herbs, and shake them a few times over the fire. Then take out the herbs, dredge the Mushrooms with flour, add a seasoning of pepper and salt and just enough gravy to moisten them, and let them simmer till they are sufficiently cooked. Beat up the yolks of four eggs with J pint of cream, add a little grated nutmeg, and stir this mixture of cream and Mushrooms—continued. eggs in with the Mushrooms. Put some pieces of toasted bread into a hot dish, pour the Mushrooms hot over them, and serve at once. (2) Pick and clean the Mushrooms, and if large cut each into four pieces, throwing them into a bowl of slightly- acidulated water. When all are done, diy them on a cloth. Put 2oz. or 3oz. of butter into a stewpan, and when melted put hi the Mushrooms with a small quantity of white stock, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity each of powdered sweet herbs and grated nutmeg. Boil the Mushrooms gently for about ten minutes, then move the stewpan to the edge of the fire and stir in quickly the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten with the juice of a lemon, and strained. Turn the Mushrooms on to a hot dish, and serve. Tinned Mushrooms with Brown Sauce.—For a tin of Mushrooms, put into a saucepan 1 piled table-spoonful each of butter and flour. Stir them together over the fire until they begin to brown, then gradually mix in the liquor from the tin, together with water if any be needed to make the sauce of the proper consistency; add the Mushrooms, and season with salt, pepper, and a very little grated nutmeg. When the Mushrooms are hot stir in 1 wineglassful of sherry or Madeira, and serve as a vege- table. Toast may be served under the Mushrooms, or the sauce and Mushrooms may be poured on a dish with broiled beef-steak or broiled chicken, or with a baked or roasted tender loin of beef. Tinned Mushrooms with Cream Sauce.—After opening the tin, carefully drain the liquor or essence from the Mushrooms, saving it «to add to the sauce. Put into a saucepan over the fire 1 table-spoonful each of butter and flour, and stir them until they are smoothly blended, then gradually stir in the Mushroom essence or liquor from the tin, and add sufficient cream to make a sauce of the con- sistency of gravy. Put the Mushrooms into the sauce, season with salt and pepper, and when hot serve them as a vegetable. Toast may be served under them if desired. Tinned Mushrooms used in Sauce for Steaks.—Take about half a tin of Mushrooms (which will be quite suffi- cient for two large steaks), drain off the liquor, and fry them in a little butter, adding salt and pepper to taste. When done, put them on one side of the pan and add 1 teaspoonful of flour to the butter; rub it to a smooth paste, and when it is well browned add gradually the Mushroom-liquor, and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of water. Shake in the Mushrooms, boil up, pour in the juice of a quarter of a lemon, and turn over the meat on a dish, and serve. MUSK.—What is known to confectioners under this name is an essence prepared from the contents of the Musk-bag of the Musk-deer. It yields a powerful, pleasing scent and a warm aromatic flavour. Musk Cakes (Turkish Receipt).—Mix lib. of wheat- starch to a thin batter with sufficient water; put Jib. of butter in a saucepan with 1 pint of boiling syrup, then mix in gradually the flatter, 4oz. of blanched and skinned almonds, and a small quantity of rose-water and Musk. Stir the mixture gently over a moderate fire until it begins to crumble, then turn it into a deep square dish, and smooth the surface with the back of a spoon or a spatula; leave it for a few minutes, then cut it into diamonds, dust over with caster sugar, and serve. Musk-flavoured Cream.—Put 6oz. of caster sugar into a basin, pour in 3 wineglassfuls of maraschino, and stir until dissolved, then mix in 3 table-spoonfuls of rose-water, a small quantity of Musk, and 1 Joz. of dissolved isinglass; stir the ingredients till well mixed, pour in 1 pint of whipped cream, and continue stirring for a few minutes longer. Turn the cream into a mould and pack it in ice, or leave it in a cool place until firm. Dip the mould in tepid water, turn the cream out on to a fancy dish, and serve. Musk Drops.—Take 21b. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, re- jecting any powder, as it will spoil the appearance of the966 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Musk—continued. drops, and using only the very small lumps; put it into a sugar-pan with a lip to it, and add gradually, stirring all the time, sufficient water to form a paste that will drop from the spoon without sticking to it. Set the pan on the stove and stir the contents with a spatula until the suga ' is dissolved and upon the point of boiling, remove it, add essence of Musk to flavour, and with the pan in the left hand and a piece of bent wire in the right, let the drops fall, cutting them off from the pan with the wire on to cartridge-paper or a smooth tin, and set them away to dry for two hours. Remove them carefully from the paper or tin and pack in boxes or bottles. Musk Flavouring- for Liqueurs.—Pound in a mortar two grains of Musk with Jib. of sugar; mix them thoroughly together, put this powder into a bottle, and keep it air- tight. A pinch of this is enough for 4cits, or 5qts. of liqueur. MUSK MELONS.-See Melons. MUSKELLUNGE.—The name of a large American pike (Esox nobilior) caught in the great lakes and esteemed as food. MUSSELS [Ft. Moules; Ger. Muscheln).—These are the oysters of the poor (said Grimod de la Reyniere), and they ought to be favoured also by the rich, for there is scarcely a shell-fish which surpasses them in flavour. By Continental cooks they are largely used, and so too would they be by British cooks if it were not for that disparaging Fig. 1209. Mussels. fact that they are cheap and common. The Mussel (Mytilus edulis) (see Pig. 1209) is found in vast numbers along the coasts of almost every sea, some, termed horse- Mussels, being especially large; both kinds are edible, and largely consumed, especially in Prance, where cases of poisoning from eating them are unknown. In this country some few cases of so-called poisoning have been attributed to eating Mussels, but most authorities are agreed that such cases are exceedingly rare in comparison with the number of Mussels consumed as food. It is just possible that something of their wholesomeness would he due to their freshness and the purity of the water from which they were taken. Mussels feeding in the neighbourhood of a sewer’s outlet would scarcely be expected to be whole- some. Prepared according to the following receipts, Mussels are exceedingly delicious: Boiled Stuffed Mussels.—Put the Mussels into water, brush them with a stiff brush or scrape them to clean them thoroughly, and wash them. Open the shells with a knife, but without separating them entirely. Put 1 Mussels—continued. breakfast-cupful of olive oil in a saucepan with three finely-chopped onions, and stir them about over the fire with a wooden spoon until nicely browned. Wash 1 break fast-cupful of rice, put it in with the onions, also 1 table-spoonful of washed currants, and 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of blanched pistachio-kernels. Season the mixture with salt and pepper, and stir it over the fire until the rice begins to take colour, then pour in 1 teacupful of water, and continue stirring it over the fire until the moisture is reduced. Leave the mixture until cold, then stuff the Mussels with it, close the shells, and lay them in a stewpan; moisten to height with water, put a plate over to keep them down, and boil quickly. When the moisture has evaporated, take the Mussels out of the stew- pan, and place them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. They may be served cold if preferred. Fried Mussels.—(1) Pick some Mussels out of their shells, remove their beards, dip them in milk, cover with bread- crumbs well seasoned with salt and pepper, and fry in a frying-pan until they are of a light brown colour. Put them on a dish in a warm place, pour a little of their liquor in the pan, add a little pepper and salt (if required), sprinkle in a few breadcrumbs, and add a little butter. When it is quite hot, pour it over the Mussels, and serve at once. The Mussels may be previously pickled if desired, but it is not necessary. (2) Open and take the Mussels out of their shells, dip them in Hour, then in beaten eggs, and then in flour again, and fry till nicely browned in boiling olive oil or butter. Drain the Mussels, pile them in a group upon an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, dust them with salt and pepper, and serve. Bustled Mussels.—Wash well some Mussels in several waters, and put them in a basin with only just enough water to cover, and let them remain for twelve hours or so. Put them in a saucepan without any water, cover over, and place the pan on a brisk fire. As soon as they begin to get warm those at the bottom will throw out sufficient water to keep the pan from burning, and they will require to be hustled or tossed to the top so that all of them will have felt the heat. As soon as they open they are done; put them on a dish, pour their liquor over, and serve. Mussels en Brochette.—Thoroughly clean the required number of Mussels, removing the beards and all uneatable parts; fasten six at a time on small skewers and roast them in front of the fire, or dip them into fritter-batter | and fty in boiling fat. Mussels en Coquilles.—Procure some small Mussels, they being the most delicate, scrape the shells, and wash them in several waters to remove all the grit. Put the Mussels in a, stewpan with one sliced onion, a small bunch of parsley, and 1 pint of French white wine; season with pepper and salt. Stand the pan over the fire till the shells open, when the Mussels will he done. Take them out of their shells, clean thoroughly, and cut them into halves. Strain the cooking-liquor of the Mussels into another saucepan, mix with it an equal quantity of veloute sauce, and boil till reduced to about half its original quantity. Thicken the sauce with a lump of butter or a liaison of two yolks of eggs, stirring by the side of the fire and not allowing it to boil after the eggs are added: put the Mussels in the sauce with 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Fill some silver shells with the above mixture, cover with finely-grated breadcrumb, put a small bit of butter on the top of each, and brown under a sala- mander or in the oven. When cooked, arrange the coquilles on an ornamental dish-paper or a folded napkin that has been placed on a hot dish, garnish with neat sprigs of fried parsley, arranging it here and there between the shells, and serve. Mussels a la Matelote.—Wash and clean some Mussels, put them into a saucepan over a clear fire, and toss or hustle them until the shells open. Turn the Mussels into a colander placed over a pan, so as to save all their liquor,THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 967 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mussels—continued. and remove tlie half shells, beards, &c. Put 2 table-spoon- fuls of chopped shallots and a clove of garlic into a sauce- pan with a little butter, and fry without letting them take colour; put in the Mussels, pour over 1 wineglassful of wine and the Mussel-liquor, place the pan over the fire, boil for a few minutes, thicken with a pfiece of butter kneaded with finely-minced breadcrumb, parsley, and a little cayenne, and toss the pan for a little while longer Fig. 1210. Mussels 1 la Matelote. until all the butter is melted. Put them in a metal dish, pour over the liquor, stand in another dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve very hot. See Fig. 1210. Mussels a la Poulette.—(1) Take some Mussels that have been hustled or plain cooked, remove the half shell that does not contain the fish, take off the beard and weed, remove any young crabs there may be, and put them on a dish either piled up or packed closely together. In the meantime, prepare a little melted butter, made with the Mussel-liquor instead of water and a good quantity of butter, and sprinkle over a little pepper and sufficient vinegar to give it a sharp taste; make this mixture hot, pour it over the Mussels, and serve at once. Nutmeg, mace, or chopped parsley and chives may be added to the sauce if desired to heighten the flavour. (2) Wash and clean the shells of some Mussels, put them in a pan with a little wine, and cook them over a slow fire until they are done, which will lie seen by the shells opening. Take away half of the shells, or all of them if preferred, and put them in a saucepan with a little butter, chopped parsley and chives, and grated nutmeg and black pepper. Toss the pan over a clear fire, mix in a little more butter, and pour in a little of the strained Mussel- liquor and stock ; after it has boiled for a few seconds add the yolks of one or two eggs to thicken the liquor, pour it all out on a dish, and serve hot. (3) Put three dozen large Mussels into a saucepan and steam them for ten minutes. Remove half the shells, put them into a saucepan with some of their liquor, and add lo_z. of butter, a little salt, and pepper; warm them in this, pour in 1 teacupful of hollandaise sauce, stew well for a couple of minutes longer, but without letting the liquor boil, add 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley and the juice of half a lemon, stir gently, arrange the Mussels on a dish, pour over the remainder, and serve. Mussels a la Villeroy.—Wash and thoroughly cleanse some Mussels, changing the water five or six times if necessary, and remove the sinewy strings that are to be found inside. Put them into a saucepan, pour over 1 wineglass- ful of wine, toss them over the fire until the shells open, then turn them into a colander over a pan and let them drain. Pull them out of their shells, and when they are cool dip them into a little villeroy sauce ; arrange on a baking-sheet, and when the sauce has cooled sprinkle them over with breadcrumbs, repeating it to have them thoroughly covered. Plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, fry to a light brown colour, then take them out, drain, put them on a napkin on a dish, and serve with a garnish of fried parsley. Mussel Ketchup.—(1) Open lqt. of Mussels, saving the liquor; put them in a mortar with four Bordeaux anchovies, pound to a smooth paste, season with i table-spoonful each of powdered cloves, ground mace, and cayenne pepper, and h table-spoonful of salt. Pound again to thoroughly in- corporate the seasoning, then put the mixture in a stew- Mussels—continued. pan with their liquor, 1 pint of white wine, and 2 urine- glassfuls of cognac. Place it over a slow fire until boiling, then strain the ketchup through a fine hair sieve. When cold, pour the ketchup into small bottles, cork them tightly, and keep in a store-cupboard for use. The above makes an excellent relish for either boiled or fried fish. (2) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Mussels beaten to a pulp into a lined saucepan, pour over J pint of sherry wine or very strong old ale, and add Joz. of salt, Joz. of mace, and a small quantity of black pepper ; set the saucepan at the side of the fire, simmer for fully ten minutes, strain the ketchup through a cloth, let it cool, pour it into bottles, add a little brandy to each, cork up, and set them in a cool place until wanted. Mussel Filau.—Wash and open 2qts. of Mussels. Peel and chop three moderate-sized onions, put. them in a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of olive oil, and stir over the fire until nicely browned; then put in the Mussels with 3 table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce, or, if preferred, two tomatoes, cut crosswise into four, pour in pints of water, season with salt, and place the pan over the fire until the contents boil. Wash lib. of the best rice in plenty of water, then put it in the saucepan with the other ingre- dients. Put the lid on, move it to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer until all the moisture is absorbed, then move it right to the back of the stove and leave it for fifteen minutes. Arrange the pilau tastefully on a hot dish,and serve. Mussel Salad.—Wash the Mussels and boil them till the shells open. When cooked, drain them, remove the shells, and put them on a hot dish. Melt ^lb. of butter, season with pepper, salt, lemon-juice, and a small quantity of Worcestershire sauce, and pour it over the Mussels. They should be eaten hot, with some thin slices of brown bread and butter. Mussel Sauce.—(1) Open the required quantity of Mussels, remove the dark spots found in the body parts, wash them well, and stew in Avater for about half-an-hour, seasoning Avith a blade of mace. Strain the liquor, return the Mussels to it, bring it gently to the boil, remove from the fire, thicken Avith a liaison of flour and butter, add a small quantity each of cream and milk, and it is then ready for use. (2) Wash and clean about fifty Mussels, steam (or hustle) them, take them out of their shells, and remove the beards and any Aveeds that may be in them. Put 3oz. of blitter into a saucepan Avith 2oz. of flour, mix them thoroughly, and add the Mussel-liquor, H pints of milk, tAvo eloA'es, six peppercorns, half a blade of mace, 1 tea- spoonful of salt, and half the quantity of cayenne. Put tlie pan over the fire, boil it for ten minutes, stirring continually, and add 1 table-spoonful each of Harvey sauce and essence of anchovies. Pass it through a fine sieve into a saucepan containing the Mussels, make it quite hot, but Avithout boiling, and serve. Mussel Soup.—(1) Clean thoroughly tgall. of Mussels and toss them in a saucepan OArer a clear fire until the shells open. Take out the fish, remove the Aveed, &c., put them into a saucepan Avith loz. each of butter and flour, and add a little chopped parsley and SAveet herbs. Put the pan on the fire, pour in 3 pints of rich gravy, boil up, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer until the liquor is reduced to half its original quantity. Pour it out on to a dish, garnish Avith pieces of fried bread, and serve very hot. (2) Put some fish or veal stock (see Stock) into a sauce- pan, pour in its equal bulk of Mussel-liquor, and make it hot. In the meantime prepare a roux by rolling butter and flour together in equal proportions and warming them in a saucepan over the fire for three minutes; add the stock, &c., to this, mix thoroughly, put the pan back again on the fire, and Ai’hen it boils remove it to the side and simmer gently for thirty minutes or so. Pour it into a tureen over some Mussels, Avork in a liaison of lemon- juice and yolk of egg, and serve at once. (3) Open and clean sufficient Mussels to fill a quart measure, steiv them, put them into a mortar Avith theTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 968 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Mussels—continued. yolks of six hard-boiled eggs, beat them to a pulp, put it into a saucepan containing {gall, of hot fish stock, add 1 table-spoonful of essence of anchovies, and simmer for an hour. Remove from the fire, add 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, and serve in a tureen. Pickled Mussels.—(1) Take any quantity of cooked Mussels, pick them out of their shells, remove the beards, put them into jars or wide-mouthed bottles, and sprinkle over with salt and pepper. Strain some of their liquor (that is what comes from them when being cooked) and add to it an equal quantity of vinegar; fill up the bottles with the liquor, tie them down, let them remain for a day or so, when the Mussels will be ready for use. They -may be eaten hot by pouring a little of the liquor into a saucepan, uitli some minced parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and thickening with a little butter well rolled in flour. Add the Mussels, let them remain in it until thoroughly warmed through, and serve. (2) Take some hustled Mussels, remove the piece of weed, if any, that is attached to them, and take out any small crabs that may be found in them. Pull the fish out of the shells with a fork and put them in an earthenware jar, sprinkling them over frequently with pepper. When their liquor is settled and clear, take some of it, and vinegar in equal proportions, pour it over the Mussels, tie them down tightly, and they will keep good for several days. (3) Take the Mussels out of their shells and beard them, put them into a saucepan with their liquor, moderate quantities each of whole, black, and Jamaica pepper, mace, ginger, and salt, and boil them for five minutes. When cold, turn the pickle into jars, pour in each a little vinegar, cover them with stout paper, and tie down securely. Scalloped Mussels.—(1) Put some Mussels hr a saucepan and hustle them over a quick fire for a few minutes until the meat will come away easily from the shells. Remove the beards, weeds, &c., take out the fish from their shells, squeeze all the liquor out of them, aird add it to that which came from them while being cooked; strain it into a saucepan, put hi the Mussels, and warm them up, adding a little flour, butter, grated nutmeg, and pepper. Care must be taken not to let them boil, and not to use any salt, as they generally contain sufficient. Have ready cleaned some scallop shells, cover them with breadcrumbs, put a layer of the Mussels over it, then breadcrumbs again, and another layer of Mussels; moisten them with a few table-spoonfuls of the liquor, put a layer of crumbs on the top, with a few pieces of butter placed here and there, sprinkle over a little dried parsley, and put them in an oven to cook until they are a bright brown. They may be browned with a salamander instead of in the oven if desired, and must be served hot. (2) Wash the shells several times till they are quite clean, but do not let them soak in water or lie in it. Plunge them into just sufficient boiling water to cover, and keep the water boiling till the shells open. While they are boiling, shake the saucepan frequently, and keep it closely covered. When the Mussels are done (that is when the shells open), remove their beards, pick them out of then- shells, and save the liquor that runs from them. If there are 1 pint of Mussels when they are shelled, add to them { pint of the liquor that ran from them, and put them over the fire hr it, adding a bit of butter rolled in flour and a blade of mace. Let them stew gently for a few minutes. Have some clean scallop shells ready and well heated, pour the Mussels into them, cover with fine breadcrumbs, stick little bits of butter over them, brown before the fire, and serve hot. When boiling Mussels it is as well to boil a silver spoon with them, and if it turns black consider the Mussels unfit to be eaten, and throw them away. (3) Wash the Mussels in plenty of water, then drain them, and steep them in milk for a few hours. Put the Mussels in a saucepan without any water, and place them over the fire until the shells open. Pour the liquor from the Mussels into a basin, and leave it until it settles. Remove the beards, tongues, and any weeds from the Mussels. Pour the liquor of the Mussels slowly into a saucepan, taking care not to disturb the sediment that will have Mussels—continued. settled at the bottom, place it over the fire until hot, then put in about loz. of butter and sufficient bread- crumbs to absorb the liquor ; season it with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg or mace. Put the Mussels in with the above ingredients, and stir the whole over the fire until quite hot, but without letting it boil. Fill scallop shells with the stewed Mussels, baste each with a small quantity of warmed butter, and brown them lightly under a salamander. Arrange the shells on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, and serve while very hot. Stewed Mussels.—(1) Have some cooked or hustled (Mussels, take them from their shells, and remove their beards and any weeds there may be. In the meantime prepare a stew by mixing 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling milk with an equal quantity of the hot Mussel-liquor, and adding a little butter and salt and pepper to taste. Put the Mussels in a dish, pour the liquor over, and serve hot. (2) Take some strained or hustled Mussels, remove their beards and any weeds, and pull them out of their shells. In the meantime put a little bacon in a saucepan with a few button-mushrooms, warm them, and stir in a little Hour mixed with some reduced stock and seasoned with mixed herbs and pepper. When they are done, pour off all the grease, put hi the Mussels with a little of their liquor, and when quite hot pour it into a dish and serve with small pieces of toasted bread. (3) Open some Mussels, remove the beards, put them with their liquor into a saucepan with a little vinegar, a large onion or two, and a small quantity of parsley. Place the pan over a moderate fire and stew them, then remove from the fire, add a beaten egg or two, thicken with butter rolled in flour, warm up again, and serve. Stewed Mussels a la Mariniere.—Put'three dozen Mussels into a saucepan without any water and steam them for about ten minutes; take them out, remove half of their shells, put them into a saucepan with 2oz. of fresh butter, 1 pinch each of chives and finely-chopped chervil, { pinch of pepper, and 1 teacupful of finely-sifted breadcrumbs; pour over { breakfast-cupful of water and boil for two minutes longer. Turn the whole out on to a dish, and Fig. 1211. Stewed Mussels k la Mariniere. serve with the juice of half a lemon squeezed over. The Mussels should lie arranged on the dish with the half- shells downwards. Garnish with parsley and quarters of lemons (see Fig. 1211). MUST.—The juice of the grape before fermentation. MUSTACCUIOLI.—Sometimes spelled Mustacciole or Mustascioli. A sort of gingerbread or spice-cake, prepared extensively in Italy. It is of a flat lozenge shape, ! stuffed with a mince of fruit slightly sugared, and glazed j with plain chocolate without sugar. MUSTARD (Fr. Moutarde; _ Ger. _ Senf; Ital. Mos- tarda; Sp. Mostaza).—Kettner, in his "Book of the Table,” informs us that Mustard, in the form which at present prevails in England, was not known before 1/29. Its Old English name was senvy, from sinapisThe seeds, either whole or coarsely pounded, were boiled in vinegar or must—whence the name, meaning a kind of pickle. The French to this day adhere very much to the old form; they grind the seeds to a fine flour, mix them with tarragon vinegar, and present them for use thus moistened. English Mustard as we now have it was the invention of an old lady, Mrs. Clements, of Durham. She ground the seeds in a mill exactly like wheat, and969 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Mustard—continued. sold it as a very fine flour. She kept her secret, and made a little fortune out of it, trotting about from town to town on a pack-horse for orders, and contriving to secure the patronage of George I. It came to be called Durham Mustard through being manufactured in Durham ; though in fact it was no longer Mustard—that is some- thing steeped in must. The Mustard of America is the flour or finely-ground seeds of Sinapis nigra, a small plant with a yellow flower (see Fig. 1212) or 8. alba. Both are similar in external appearance ; the flour, however, obtained from the former is darker than that obtained from the latter. Blyth tells us that whit e Mustard-seeds are of a yellow colour, elliptical, smooth, a little larger than those of black Mustard, and of a sharp biting taste. The seeds of black Mustard are dark brown in colour, very small, inodorous, and sometimes covered with a whitish coating. The Mustard powder sold by grocers is fre- quently a mixture of both. Mustard is prepared for culinary use by first crushing the seeds between rollers, and then pounding the meal in large mortars. The powder is then passed through sieves—that in the first sieve is called the dressings, that which passes through is the impure flour of Mustard. This impure flour on being passed through a second sieve yields the pure flour of Mustard and a second quantity of dressings. The dressings yield an oil upon pressure that is much valued as a cure for rheumatism. Ground Mustard is very frequently adulterated—the commoner additions being wheat-flour, turmeric, cayenne pepper, gamboge, ginger, potato-starch, pea-flour, radish and rape-seeds, linseed-meal, yellow ochre, chromate of lead, plaster of Paris, and clay. With such a record it is quite evident that consumers will do well to purchase of such manufactm’ers as Keen and Colman, and others of equal repute, and with good reasons for retaining it. From the following receipts it will be seen that there are several modes of mixing and using Mustard : Caster Mustard.—(1) Mix 2oz. of Mustard with 1 salt- spoonful of sugar, adding sufficient water to make it of the required consistence and perfectly smooth. The sugar may be omitted and milk used. (2) If required for keeping, mix 4oz. of Mustard with J teaspoonful of salt, and when it is quite smooth add gradually 1 teacupful of horseradish vinegar and 2 table- spoonfuls of chilli vinegar. Put it into bottles (wide- mouthed for preference), cork it down, and it will remain good for some time. Mustard—continued. (3) Put 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of salt in a basin, pour 1 pint of boiling water on it, and leave it until cold. Stir in with the above water sufficient Mustard to make it thick, put the Mustard in a jar, cover it with parch- ment, and tie it down. Mustard mixed in this way will not discolour, and will keep for three or four months. French. Mustard.—(1) Put 1 pint of brown Mustard-seed in a basin with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls each of parsley, burnet, chervil, and tarragon, and about J teaspoonful each of celery-seeds, cloves, mace, and garlic. Pour over these ingredients a sufficient quantity of white wine vinegar to cover them, put a plate on the basin, and let them steep for twenty-four hours. Afterwards pound the mixture in a mortar, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Moisten the Mustard with more vinegar to bring it to the desired consistency, pack it into small wide-mouthed glass bottles, and cork them tightly. (2) Put a moderate quantity of mixed spices into a saucepan with about J pint of vinegar, boil it until nicely flavoured, then strain it from the spices. Mix some Mustard to a stiff paste with cold vinegar, then with a red-hot Italian iron-heater stir in quickly the boiling spiced vinegar. Turn the Mustard into a bottle, and cork it well. The Mustard will keep for several years. (3) Imitation.—Mix together a little each of salt and Hour, dilute with salad-oil so as to form a thick paste, and then mix in a sufficient quantity of vinegar, such as horse- radish, tarragon, or chilli, to suit the taste. Imperial Mustard.—Finely chop \ teacupful of capers, and put them into a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful each of shallots and sardines both finely chopped, and a clove of garlic also chopped small; pour \ pint of water over and boil for ten minutes. At the end of that time, strain the liquor, return it to the saucepan with an equal quantity of tarragon vinegar and 1 wineglassful of common vinegar, and boil the whole together. Mix Jib. each of brown and yellow Mustard with the boiling liquor until very smooth, then stir in 1 table-spoonful of salad-oil, J table-spoonful of sugar, and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Put the Mustard mixture into small pots, tie bladder over them, and keep them in a dry store-cupboard for sixteen days. At the end of that time the Mustard will be ready for use. Mustard mixed with Eggs.—Rub the yolks of two hard- boiled eggs through a fine wire sieve, then mix with them 2 table-spoonfuls of Mustard, J table-spoonful of salt, and 1 table-spoonful of Florence oil. Work these together, pouring in gradually at the same time sufficient tarragon vinegar to make a smooth paste. Keep the Mustard tightly corked in a jar until wanted. Mustard Sauce.—(1) Put 2oz. of butter in a saucepan over the fire and warm it without letting it brown. Mix in well 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, pour in gradually 1 pint of hot stock or water, and stir until it thickens and is per- fectly smooth. Add 2oz. more of butter pulled in small pieces, stir well, and sprinkle with a little salt and pepper. Mix in 3 table-spoonfuls of made Mustard and a little cayenne, and it is ready for use, being generally used for devilled turkey, salt fish, &c. (2) Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan, and when it is melted add 1 teaspoonful each of vinegar and flour, half the quantity of English and 2J teaspoonfuls of French Mustard, 1 saltspoonful of sugar, the yolks of two eggs, and a little salt. Put the pan on the side of the fire, stirring gently until it is done and of the consistence of cream and very smooth. A little water or vinegar (in addition), may be added if it is too thick. (3) Thicken 1 pint of milk with flour, put in 2oz. of butter, and stir it over the fire until boiling; next mix with it 1 table-spoonful of Mustard, a few drops of vinegar, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Keep the sauce hot until ready to serve. (4) Dilute in a saucepan 1 table-spoonful of ground English Mustard with 1 table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar and half the quantity of Worcestershire sauce; strain into this 1 pint of Spanish sauce, and place the pan on I the hot stove. Beat continually until thoroughly heated,970 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <l-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mustard—continued. then add 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. This sauce must not be allowed to boil. (5) Mustard sauce made as follows is served with beef: After the beef has been boiling for two hours, take 1 pint of the broth from it to use for the sauce. Peel and chop a bunch of chives, a shallot, or two or three small green onions, and put them over the lire in 1 pint of broth to boil for an hour ; then add 1 table-spoonful of diy Mustard, 1 gill of vinegar, and a high seasoning of salt and pepper. Stir the sauce until it is thoroughly incorporated, and keep it hot until required for use. (6) Put about 2oz. of butter into a stewpan with 1 table- spoonful of flour, and mix them over the fire; pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of hot water, season to taste with salt and pepper, and mix in 1 teaspoonful of Mustard pre- viously moistened with a small quantity of vinegar. Stir the sauce over the fire, and when it begins to boil it is ready for serving. A few chopped capers or pickles may be added if liked. (7) Melt ‘2oz. of butter in a saucepan over the fire, then dredge in 1 table-spoonful of flour and stir it until browned. Mix 3 table-spoonfuls of brown Mustard to a smooth paste with a small quantity of water, stir it into the flour and butter, and add 1 breakfast-cupful of brown gravy, 1 wineglassful of vinegar, and a small quantity of salt and sugar. Stir the sauce over the fire, and when it boils and is smooth and of a creamy thickness it is ready for serving. Two or 3 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced shallots may be added to the sauce if liked. Piquant Mustard.—Peel and slice an onion, put it in a saucepan with two or three thinly-sliced cloves of garlic, two bay-leaves, 1 teaspoonful of crushed peppercorns, a few cloves, a sprig of tarragon, and 1 pmt of the best vinegar; season with salt, and boil the whole together for ten or fifteen minutes. Leave the vinegar until cold, keeping the lid on the saucepan; then stir in sufficient Mustard to make a stiff paste, and pour the mixture into small jars, which should be tightly corked and tied down with paper. Mustard prepared as above may be kept for a considerable time. Spiced or Aromatic Mustard.—(1) Mix 2 table spoonfuls of powdered Mustard with 1 teaspoonful each of flour and sugar, and half the quantity each of salt, pepper, cloves, and cinnamon, and stir them into a smooth paste with boiling vinegar. Add a little salad-oil, and in a few hours it will be ready for use. (2) Peel two moderate-sized onions and cut them into thin slices; put them in a jar with four bay-leaves and a few thin slices of garlic, pour over them 1 pint of tarragon vinegar, and keep the jar closely covered for two days. At the end of that time, turn all the above ingredients into a saucepan, and boil them; strain the vinegar, return it to the saucepan, mix in 2oz. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, and boil it up again. Mix 1 teacupful each of brown and yellow Mustard, i table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of Jamaica pepper, and | teaspoonful of finely- powdered cinnamon, and add the boiling vinegar, stirring well with a wooden spoon until quite smooth. If too thick, add more vinegar. Put the Mustard mixture into small jars, over which pieces of bladder should be securely tied, and keep in a cool place. In a fortnight’s time the Mustard will be ready for use. (3) Put 1 pint of vinegar in a saucepan with an onion, a clove of garlic, h dessert-spoonful of crushed cloves, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, J table-spoonful of salt, two or three bay-leaves, and a very small quantity each of powdered cinnamon and black pepper. Boil the above ingredients slowly for ten or fifteen minutes, then strain the vinegar and mix it with sufficient Mustard to make a smooth, creamy paste. Put the mixture into small jars and keep it for a fortnight in a cool place before using. MUSTARD and CHESS.—The first sprouting from the seeds of the Mustard, combined with those of the cress-seed, or by themselves, make a valuable addition to our salads, especially those prepared for breakfast service. MUSTARD PICKLES.—See Pickles. MUTTON (Fr. Mouton; Ger. Hammelfleisch; Ital. Castrato; Sp. Carnero).—The term itself is derived from the French mouton, having been introduced to us by the Norman conquerors. Second only in importance to beef is the flesh of the sheep. During the first few months of its existence the flesh is known as lamb, and some years ago Mutton was not considered to be in its prime until it was four or five years old; but a four- year-old wether is now rarely heard of, for the cost of keep for so long would render the meat too expensive, considering that the quality would be so little superior to that which was killed two or three years earlier. By successful breeding farmers are now able to produce sheep which reach maturity in foiu-teen months. Welsh Mutton differs in this particular because these sheep are of such a roving disposition as rarely to accumulate fat; but when fattened in the uplands of Herefordshire, Worcestershire, and Shropshire they gain flesh rapidly, and are then prime for killing. Southdown Mutton is very famous for quality, and next to it come Leicestershire, Lincolnshire, Cotswold, and Shropshire Mutton. These are large sheep and are second to the Southdown in quality. The flesh tastes rather strong of the wool, a peculiarity of long-woolled sheep, especially at certain times of the year when the wool is longest. Mutton imported from Germany and Spain are sometimes palmed off upon unwary cooks as first-quality Mutton, but in reality the flesh of these foreigners is inferior to our second qualities. No flesh differs so much as Mutton, and this depends not only upon the breed, but also upon the sex, age, and pasture. Ewe-Mutton, in the autumn, when not more than two years old, is often nearly as good as wether-Mutton under similar conditions. Ewes that have had two lambs are more often killed than those which have only had one. They are therefore more aged, and if it were possible to get a glimpse of the teeth the jaws would be found to hold eight, each fully developed. In the younger sheep the eight are not all developed. Ram-Mutton is sometimes sold to the unini- tiated, but it will always prove coarse, woolly-flavoured, and tough. The colour of the flesh is deep bluish-red, and the fat is spongy. The udder on the belly between the legs is the distinguishing characteristic of ewe-Mutton, the wether having a similar lump of marrowy fat. Good Fig. 1213. Sheep Divided into Joints. Mutton is in season all the year round, although at its lowest ebb in autumn, the meat then partaking some- times of the woolly taste before described. The carcase is cut up by the butcher (see Fig. 1213) first into quarters (1, 2) and a head (5); this latter is usually included amongst the offal. Then we have two fore-quarters and two hind-quarters or haunches. The haunch is again cut up into leg (6) and loin (7), the double loin without the legs forming a saddle (see Fig. 1215). The fore-quarter is cut up into shoulder (4) and breast (3), and the neck and scrag end (8). The various qualities and values of these parts are fully described in the following receipts. See Boning, Carving, &c. Baked Breast of Mutton.—Sew up a breast of Mutton in a very thin cloth, put it into a stewpan, pour over sufficientTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 971 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. cold water to nearly cover it, and let it stew very gently, allowing ten minutes to each pound, counting from the time the water begins to simmer. Then take it out of the saucepan and out of the cloth, put it in a baking-dish, rub it over with warm dripping or butter, sprinkle some flour over, and bake it for half-an-liour, basting frequently with its own broth. Five minutes before taking it out of Fig. 1214. Baked Breast of Mutton. the oven strew fine dry breadcrumbs thickly over it, put little bits of butter here and there, and let it brown. Put it on a hot dish, garnish with slices of beetroot (see Fig. 1214), and serve. Baked Minced Mutton Kebobs. Trim off all the skin and most of the fat from 31b. or 41b. of raw Mutton, and finely chop the lean part. Slice and chop two large onions, put them in a stewpan with 2oz. or 3oz. of fresh butter, and toss them about over a brisk fire for a few minutes, then put in the minced Mutton, 4 teacupful each of well-washed currants and skinned pi .tachios, and a dust of salt, pepper, and powdered cinnamon. Stir the mixture over the fire till the meat is partly fried. Cut a piece of caul-fat into rather small squares, and put an equal quantity of the mince on each; wrap them up to any shape fancied, and lav them on a baking-dish. Put them into a quick oven till nicely coloured, then place on a hot dish and serve without delay. Baked Mutton Cutlets. -Procure the required quantity of cutlets from the best end of a neck of Mutton, trim off nearly all the fat, chop the bones off to within lin. of the meat, and scrape the remaining pieces clean. Dust the cutlets over on both sides with salt and pepper, lay them in a pie-dish, pour some nicely-flavoured beef gravy over, cover with a flat dish, and bake in a slow oven. In about two-hours-and-a half, or when the chops are tender, boil a sufficient quantity of potatoes, and when done drain and mash them with butter, seasoning with salt. Put the potatoes in a heap in the centre of a hot dish, smooth them over with the prongs of a fork, and brown them under a salamander. When cooked, arrange the chops in a circle round the potatoes, mix 4 wineglassful of vinegar and a small quantity of mushroom ketchup with their cooking- liquor, strain it round the cutlets, and serve. Baked Mutton Cutlets with Apples.—Prepare the cutlets taken from a neck of Mutton by trimming off the fat and ragged pieces, season with sait and pepper, lay them in a pie-dish with some thinly-sliced apples and one or two finely-chopped onions, pour in sufficient clear gravy to cover them, place a flat dish over, put it in a moderate oven, and bake the cutlets until tender ; they will require about three-quarters-of-an-hour’s cooking. When done, serve all together. A tureen made of fire-clay answers capitally for this dish. Baked Ribs of Mutton a la Mallorquina (Spanish).—Put a lump of butter into a mortar with a few boned anchovies and any dried sweet herbs, pound them well together, and work in a little lemon-juice. Take a piece of ribs of Mutton, separate the ribs without actually parting them at one end, put them into a baking-tin, and bake in a quick oven, basting with butter as required. When well done, take them out, open the ribs, put a piece of the anchovy butter between the ribs, and serve. This is an excellent dish for those that like the fishy flavour. Baked Saddle of Mutton.—Cut off all the fat and skin from a saddle of Mutton, chop oft' the ends of the ribs, and remove the cord-and veins along the back. Wipe it dry with a cloth, and nib well inside with salt. Roll the Mutton—continued. flank under on each side, tie it three or four times across the middle (see Fig. 1215), sprinkle well with flour, salt, and pepper, and put it hi a baking-dish with the inside upwards so that the fat will be thoroughly cooked. Cover it Fig. 1215. Saddle of Mutton prepared for Baking. over with a piece of well-buttered paper and cook until the fat is brown and crisp and the meat quite done. Put it on a dish, and serve. Boiled Boned Shoulder of Mutton with Oysters.—Select a shoulder of Mutton that has been hung until tender, put it in salt for a couple of days, bone it, and sprinkle over with mace and pepper. Place one-dozen-and-a-half of oysters over the inside of the joint, roll it up, tie tightly, and put it into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover; add an onion and a few peppercorns, put the lid on the pan, and cook until thoroughly done. Put six oysters into a saucepan with 1 pint of gravy, cook them gently until done, then thicken the liquor with a little butter rolled in flour. When done, put the meat on a dish, remove the string, pour over the sauce, and serve. Boiled Breast of Mutton.—Put a breast of Mutton into a saucepan with water, place the pan over the fire, and boil until the meat is quite tender. Take it out when done, remove all the bones, and cover with a mixture of chopped parsley and thyme, breadcrumbs, and salt and pepper to taste. Put it on a dish in front of a clear fire to brown, pour round a good gravy with capers in it, and serve. Boiled Breast of Mutton with Caper Sauce.—Trim off the fat from a breast of Mutton and bone the joint. Chop fine 3 table-spoonfuls of sweet herbs and a couple of sprigs of parsley, mix them up with 4 table-spoonfuls of bread- crumbs, and sprinkle over sufficient salt and pepper to taste. Put a layer of this mixture over the boned meat, roll it round, and tie with string. Place it in a saucepan of water over a moderate lire and boil very slowly for two hours or so until the meat is done; put it on a dish, remove the string, pour over a little caper sauce, and serve with more of the sauce in a sauceboat. Boiled Leg of Mutton.—Put a leg of Mutton into a sauce- pan with sufficient water to cover, and to every gallon of water add 2 table-spoonfuls of salt and l teaspoonful of pepper. Put the pan on the fire, boil quickly for ten minutes, skim well, and then remove it to the side of the fire where it will cook just at boiling-point (fifteen minutes for every pound weight is sufficient, but if it is a large leg weighing 81b. or more it will not require quite so long). Put it when done on a dish and serve with some mashed turnips in a separate dish, or a little caper sauce may be either poured over it or served separately. It may also be boiled with a little rice if desired, and garnished with parsley. Currant jelly should also be served with it. Boiled Leg of Mutton with Caper Sauce.—Prepare a leg of Mutton by cutting oft the shank-bone, trimming and making an incision at the first joint; put it on to boil in a stockpot filled with slightly-salted cold water, and add a bouquet garni and one carrot cut up. Boil for an-hour- and-a-quarter, and serve with 1 pint of hot caper sauce, made by putting 1 pint of hot liollandaise sauce into a972 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. saucepan with 1 handful of capers, and heating thoroughly for five minutes without boiling. Boiled Leg of Mutton with Oyster Stuffing.—Remove the beards and uneatable parts from a dozen or so large oysters, parboil them, chop them up with boiled parsley, onion, and sweet herbs, and add the yolks of two or three hard-boiled eggs. Make five or six incisions in the fleshy part of a leg of Mutton, put in the stuffing, tie it up in a cloth, and boil in a saucepan with plenty of water for from two-hours-and-a-lialf, according to the size. When done remove the cloth, put the leg on a dish, and serve at once. Boiled Mutton Chops.—Cut off some chops from the neck end of Mutton and put them into a pan with a little salt and pepper dusted over them and sufficient water to cover. Place the pan over the fire, cover it, and let the con- tents simmer until done, then take them out, drain, and wipe them dry on a cloth; put a small piece of butter, salt, and pepper over them, and lastly cover with egg beaten quite stiff. Sprinkle with pounded crackers, and put them in a pan in the oven to brown. Boiled Mutton Ham. —Take a cured Mutton ham, wash it in cold water, and soak overnight. The next day drain it, put it over the fire in enough cold water to cover, let the water heat to the boiling-point, and then boil the ham gently, allowing twenty minutes for each pound. Half-an- liour before the ham is done, boil with it half-a-dozen peeled turnips or a head of cabbage first washed in cold water; or serve it simply with a dish of plain boiled potatoes. Boiled Neck of Mutton.—Saw down the chine-bone of a neck of Mutton, strip the ribs half-way down, take out the end bones, and turn the llap under; this will give the neck a good appearance when cooked. Put it into a saucepan of water, and boil; when done, take it out, drain, cover it thickly with well-seasoned breadcrumbs made into a mass with warmed butter and yolk of egg, place the Mutton in a Dutch oven, and roast in front of a clear fire until well browned. Serve hot. Boiled Shoulder of Mutton.—Rub a shoulder of Mutton well with salt and pepper, and stuff it with a forcemeat of herbs made without eggs; roll it up into an oval form, and tie into shape. Put it into a saucepan with a little broth or water, and add two sliced carrots and onions, a little fine herbs, a bay-leaf, and salt and pepper to taste. Put the pan over a slow fire or in a slack oven and cook gently, basting frequently. When it is nearly done remove the lid, if it is being cooked in the oven, and let it brown on the top. Take it out, put it on a dish, cut the bindings off, and keep it hot. Remove the fat from the gravy, boil it down to a strong glaze, pour it over the meat, and serve with tomato sauce poured round it or a cucumber sauce in a sauceboat. Boiled Stuffed Breast of Mutton.—Put a knife in between the bones and flesh of a breast of Mutton, open it, dust over inside with salt and pepper, and stuff it with a mixture of fresh pork, breadcrumbs, parsley, onion, and mushrooms all finely chopped and seasoned with salt and pepper to taste. Sew up the cut, put it into a saucepan with some broth, and boil it gently until done. Take out, put it on a dish, and serve with a little Robert sauce. Braised Boned Haunch, of Mutton.—Bone the leg to the first joint and the loin of a haunch of Mutton cut to the height of the first ribs, sprinkle the inside with salt, and fasten it with string in a long shape. Cover the bottom of a long saucepan with sliced vegetables and trimmings of bacon, sprinkle slightly with salt, and pour over about 1 h pints of broth. Put the pan over a quick fire, reduce the liquor to a glaze, then pour in more broth to cover it; boil up quickly, remove the pan to the side of the fire, put hot ashes on the lid, and leave it where its contents can simmer gently for about five hours or so according to the age of the animal from which it was cut. When the meat is done, put it on a baking-sheet, add 1 wineglassful of white vine to the liquor, boil it up, take off all the Mutton—continued. fat, pass it through a fine sieve into another saucepan, reduce it quickly to half-glaze, and add a little brown or tomato sauce to thicken it. Put the haunch of Mutton on a dish, take away the string, cut the Mutton along the top into slices, but without removing them, put a ruffle on the bone, and serve with a garnish of small glazed onions put in heaps. Pour a little of the sauce round the dish, and send up the rest of it in a sauceboat. Mushrooms may be used instead of the onions if preferred. Braised Boned Leg of Mutton.—Bone a leg of Mutton on the cushion side only, sprinkle it over with salt and pepper, tie it up with thin string, and saw the bone off short. Put it into a saucepan with a little lard or melted bacon, place the pan over a slow fire, and fry it to a delicate colour, turning frequently ; take it out and put it on a dish. Cover the bottom of the pan with some onions and carrots chopped small, sprinkle the leg over with salt and pepper, cook for twenty minutes longer, and then add sufficient broth to moisten it to half its height. Put the pan over a slow fire, and when the liquor is well reduced add a little more (so that the Mutton can boil short of liquor). When the meat is cooked, take it out, put it on a dish, and reduce the liquor to half-glaze. Remove all the fat, add a little wine, and thicken with kneaded butter; mix all thoroughly, pour it over the leg through a strainer, and serve. Braised Boned Leg of Mutton a la Milanaise.—The following receipt is a favourite dish of the M ilanese, but the Italians of Rome and Naples are not so fond of it, as they consider it has a woolly flavour. Remove the knuckle from a leg of Mutton, and bone it as follows, from the thick end down to the first joint: Chop it off at the first joint, push in a knife near the joint to loosen the flesh, leaving the tendons and gristle on the bone; then commence at the small or tail end and scrape away the fat from the backbone and follow the bone up until the joint is arrived at, continuing in this way until all the bone is out. The cavity may be stuffed and sewn up at the thin end. Then bring the edges together at the upper end, pushing all the flesh inside, and sew the skin tightly together, which will give a rectangular form of solid meat and stuffing. To cut it straight down to the bone to take it out would spoil it and a lot of the juice or liquor would escape, and if sewn up it would be very unsightly, but by this way the juice is preserved and when the meat is cold it does not become dry or hard. Fill the cavity with a mixture of ham, bacon, mushrooms, garlic, egg, pepper, and bread- crumbs soaked in broth and squeezed quite dry. Sew up the place where it was cut so that the stuffing will not fall out, and put it in an earthenware stewpan with some fat bacon cut up and melted. Put the pan over the fire and fry the contents gently until it is of a light colour, turning frequently. Sprinkle over salt and pepper, add a few vege- tables cut in slices, and pour in 1 wineglassful each of white wine and broth. Cover with a round of paper, put some hot ashes on the lid, and braise for four hours or so, adding a little more broth every now and then, and "when done put it on a dish and keep hot. Add a little gravy or broth to the liquorin which it was cooked, boil it up, strain it, remove all the fat, and reduce quickly to half glaze, thickening it with a few table-spoonfuls of tomato Tig. 1216. Braised Boned Leg of Mutton A la Milanaise. sauce, keeping it quite light. Pour a little of the sauce over the leg, put the remainder in a sauceboat, garnish with potato croquettes and Brussels sprouts in piles (see Fig. 1216), and serve very hot.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 973 ces, cice., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. Braised Boned Shoulder of Mutton.—Take out the hone from a shoulder of Mutton (see Boning), letting the stump remain for a handle. Lard it with strips of fat hacon, and sprinkle over chopped herbs, salt, and pepper. Roll it up, and sew together with a trassing-needle. Place a few slices of bacon at the bottom of a braising-pan, put in the shoulder of Mutton, and add the shoulder-bone, a few carrots and onions, a little thyme and laurel-leaves, two heads of celery, and a little stock. Cover with slices of bacon and then with paper, put the pan over a slow lire, and simmer gently until done. Take it out, remove the string, put the Mutton on a dish, and serve with a garnish of glazed onions. Braised Breast of Mutton.—(1) This should he partly boiled the day before wanted, in order to more readily free it of its superfluous fat; cut it into pieces, put them into a saucepan, dust over with salt and pepper, and lay over them three onions cut in slices. Place the pan over a slow fire and let the meat cook slowly for about three hours, when it should be done; its own juices and fat will be quite sufficient moisture. Put the meat on a dish, and serve ; the fat may be poured into a basin for further use. (2) Put a few slices of fat bacon at the bottom of a saucepan, and add a few tarragon-leaves, young onions, a little mixed spice, and salt and pepper to taste. Put a breast of Mutton, not too fat, on the top, place the pan over the lire, and when it begins to cook pour over 1 pint of stock; remove the pan to the side of the fire (or over a very slow one), and cook very gently until done. Put the breast of Mutton on a dish, pour over the strained liquor, and serve very hot. (3) Put a breast of Mutton into a braising-pan with a few carrots and onions cut in slices, sprinkle over salt and pepper, and add a little mixed spice. Place the pan over the lire with hot ashes on the lid, and cook the contents until thoroughly done. Take the Mutton out, remove all the bones, and put the meat in between two plates or pieces of hoard with a weight on the top; let it remain until cold and flat. Cut it up into various shapes, brush them over with yolk of egg, dip them into breadcrumbs, then into clarified butter, and then into breadcrumbs again. Put them on a baking-sheet in a quick oven to brown, place them on a dish, and serve with Italian or brown haricot sauce. Braised Haunch of Mutton.—The haunch should be cut to the height of the first ribs; bone the loin and the leg to the first joint, and season the meat inwardly with salt and pepper. Put some slices of vegetables and trim- mings of lard in an oblong stewpan, put in the meat, dust a little salt over it, and pour in I i pints of broth. Put the stewpan over the fire, and boil the liquor till reduced to a glaze; then pour in some more broth to the height of the Mutton, and let it boil up. Place the stewpan by the side of the fire, put some live embers on the lid, and cook the Mutton for five hours, or more if it is not very young. When the haunch is cooked, take it out of the stewpan, mix 1 tumblerful of white wine with the cooking- liquor, boil it up, skim well, then strain it through a fine hair sieve into a smaller stewpan; boil it quickly till reduced to half-glaze, then thicken with a small quantity of brown sauce. Remove the string from the Mutton, and cut it in slices across the top, leaving them in their places. Fix a paper raffle round the bone, place the Mutton on a hot dish, brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze, and garnish with groups of glazed button-onions. Pour part of the sauce in the dish round the meat and serve with the remainder in a sauceboat. Braised Leg of Mutton.-(l) Put a leg of Mutton into a braismg-pan with some slices of fat bacon on the top and underneath it, and add a bay-leaf, a bunch of sweet herbs, four carrots, two onions, a few meat-bones, and 3 gills of gravy. Put the pan over a wood fire with hot ashes on the cover, and cook the contents slowly until done. Take out the leg, put it on a dish, and glaze; remove the fat from the gravy, strain it, pour it over, and serve. (2) Put a very tender leg of Mutton into a braising-pan, and when it is nearly done take it out and cut it into very thick slices without taking them off the bone. In For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, . Mutton—continued. the meantime prepare a stuffing of chopped parsley, shallots, chives, powdered ginger, breadcrumbs, salt, pepper, and a large quantity of butter; spread this between the slices, and put the leg in a saucepan. Pour in 1 wineglassful of champagne, and some of the stock in which it was cooked. Put the pan at the side of the fire, cover the lid with hot ashes, and simmer gently for thirty minutes or so. When done, put it on a dish, skim off the fat from the liquor, add a little orange-juicc, pour it over, and serve hot. (3) Prepare a stuffing of bread and pork, chopped fine, seasoned highly with pepper, salt, sweet marjoram, and pounded cloves. Bone a leg of Mutton and stuff it with the forcemeat. Place some skewers at the bottom of a saucepan, lay the Mutton on them to keep it from burn- ing, put in two sliced onions, turnips, and carrots, and a little chopped celery, and sprinkle a large quantity of salt on the whole, with a little powdered cloves, mace, and pepper. Put enough water in the pan to cook the contents slowly for four or five hours, without burning. When done take out the meat, and put it in a covered dish by the fire. Skim off all the fat from the liquor, add 1 tumblerful of port wine thickened with flour, also a little currant jelly ; bring it to the boil, pour over the meat, and serve. Braised Leg of Mutton in Polish Style.—Cut oft' the thin end bone of a leg of Mutton that has been hung until quite tender, and put it into an earthenware pan that is just deep and large enough to hold it. In the meantime fry three chopped onions, the same of celery roots and carrots in a frying-pan with some fat, and pour in 3 wine- glassfuls each of water and vinegar and boil gently ; then add a little parsley, thyme, basil, bay-leaf, sweet herb-, two cloves of garlic, and a few peppercorns and cloves, and continue to boil for twenty minutes longer. lake the pan off the fire, and when the mixture is nearly cold pour it over the leg of Mutton and let it remain for twenty-four hours or so, turning frequently. Take out the leg, drain well, wipe it dry, and put it into a moderate oven for thirty minutes on a roasting-pan with a large piece of butter. Pour over 1 pint of sour cream and half the quan- tity of the stock (marinade stock). Put the pan back again to complete the cooking, basting the leg frequently. When done put it on a dish; strain the liquor with which it was basted and reduce it over a quick fire until thick. Pour it over the leg of Mutton, put a ruffle of paper on the end of the hone, and serve. Braised Legs of Welsh Mutton a la Jardiniere.—Cut off four small legs of Welsh Mutton, remove the hone, and lard them on the inside with large strips of fat bacon and lean ham. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and tie them round into shape. Put them in a braising-pan with 1 tea- cupful of brandy, pour over sufficient mirepoix to cover, place the pan in the oven, and let the contents simmer gently until the meat is done. In the meantime, have ready a large socle of rice on a dish, put the legs on it, glaze them, and garnish around the base with cauliflowers, asparagus, peas, carrots, &c. Strain the gravy, remove all Fig. 1217. Braised Legs of Welsh Mutton 1 la Jardiniere. the fat, reduce it quickly with some Spanish sauce, and serve it separately in a sauceboat. The base of the socle should also be garnished with the vegetables so as to hide it completely from view. See Fig. 1217. Braised Mutton under a Basin.—Cut some Mutton into small pieces about the size of an egg, rinse them in plenty of cold water, and dry on a towel; rub each piece over well until finely-chopped onions, pepper, salt, and mixedTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 974 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. spices, put them in a basin, cover with a cloth, and leave them for a few hours. Turn the basin containing the meat upside down on to a strong baking-dish, place the dish on a trivet over a charcoal fire, and cook the meat for an-hour-and-a-lialf. When the gravy has run out, put in the baking-dish, around the basin, 1| breakfast- cupfuls of well-washed rice, and pour in 1| pints of clear stock broth. When the rice is diy, baste it with more broth till it is tender. When cooked, take the baking-tin off the fire, lift the basin off the meat, pin a paper ruff round the tin, and serve while very hot. Braised Mutton Chops.—(1) Cut the chops off a neck of Mutton without flattening them, and remove a little of the flat bone at the end, also a little of their fat. Put them into a stewpan with the pieces cut off them and the parings of three onions, a bunch of parsley, a few carrots and green onions, a little spice and salt, and 4 or 5 table- spoonfuls of good broth to braise them. When they are quite done take them out, put them on a strainer to drain, and cool. Pass the liquor through a fine sieve, and reduce it to a glaze; place the chops in this and dish in a mirotin way with the onion sauce poured into the centre. (2) Take a piece of neck of Mutton and cut off some chops, making them a little larger than for broiling; pare them and put them into a stewpan where they can lie quite flat. Put one or two onions, a few carrots, a small bunch of parsley, a few green onions, sweet herbs, 4 or 5 table-spoonfuls of stock, and a little salt into a stewpan, place it on the fire, and let the ingredients steam until done. Remove the roots, add a little glaze, and put it over a good fire to reduce. When it has become a glaze, put in tlie cutlets and let them settle in it; turn them over, take off the grease, and let them drain. Serve hot. Braised Mutton Cutlets.—Take about 311). of cutlets, trim, and put them into a pan to braise. When done, take them out and put them on a board with a weight on top to keep them in shape while they are getting cold. Trim them again, mask on one side with 6oz. of quenelle force- meat, and then dip them into a mixture of finely-minced tongue and truffles. Place them in a saucepan with 3 gills of brown sauce, cover with buttered paper, and cook very slowly for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Put a border of mashed potatoes on a dish, place the cutlets on it, garnish the centre with strips of tongue and gherkin, and the white of egg mixed with them, pour the sauce round, and serve. Braised Mutton Cutlets with Onions.—Trim the cutlets and lard them with thin strips of ham and fat bacon. Put the trimmings of the ham, bacon, and cutlets into a stew- pan with a sliced onion and carrot and a few sprigs of parsley; season the cutlets with salt and pepper, put them in the stewpan, moisten to height with stock, and cover with a few slices of bacon and a sheet of buttered paper. Put the lid on the stewpan and let the contents simmer at the side of the fire. When the cutlets are tender, take them out, pass their cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve into a smaller saucepan, and boil it quickly until thickly reduced. Peel and boil a sufficient quantity of young onions in salted water until tender, then drain them well. Put loz. of butter in a saucepan with 1 table- spoonful of flour, stir it over the fire until mixed, then pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of cream and nearly 1 breakfast- cupful of milk; stir the sauce until boiling, season to taste with salt and pepper, add the onions, and move it to the side of the fire. Coat the cutlets thickly with the reduced liquor, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pour the onion sauce in the centre, and serve. Braised Mutton Cutlets with Onion Sauce.—Trim the cutlets taken from a neck of Mutton, and chop off some of the fiat bone at the ends. Put the trimmings in a stew- pan with one sliced onion, two carrots, a bunch of parsley, and a small bunch of green onions; put in the cutlets, dust them over with salt and pepper and a small quantity of spice, moisten to a third of their height with white stock, and braise them. When nice and tender take the cutlets out of the stewpan, drain well, and lay them on a dish to cool. Strain their cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve into a Mutton—continued. small saucepan and boil it until reduced to a glaze. Mask the cutlets on both sides with the glaze, placing them in the saucepan to get hot again; arrange them on a hot dish, and serve with an onion sauce. Braised Mutton Cutlets with Vegetable Puree.—Cut some cutlets off' a neck of Mutton ra tlier thicker than is usual for broiling, trim them neatly, and lay them flat in a stewpan, together with two onions, two or three small carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a small bunch of green onions ; season with salt and pepper, and moisten to about a third of their height with white stock. Braise the cutlets gently at the side of the fire until tender, then take them out, strain the cooking-liquor, and boil it quickly until reduced to a glaze. Turn the cutlets over in the glaze, masking them well, then arrange in a circle on a hot dish; fill the centre with a puree of any kind of vegetables preferred and serve while very hot. The fat should be skimmed off the liquor as much as possible before it is reduced to a glaze. Braised Rumps of Mutton.—Put half a dozen Mutton rumps into a saucepan with a little water and stew them gently for an hour. Take them out, cut in halves, and put them into a small braising-pan with 1 breakfast-cupful of gravy and add 1 wineglassful of Madeira or any other white wine, an onion stuck with six cloves, a little cayenne, and salt. Put the pan over the fire, cover it closely, and co >k until they are quite done and tender. Take out the meat and onions, thicken the gravy with butter rolled in flour, and add the juice of half a lemon and 1 table- spoonful of browning. Boil this up until it is perfectly smooth and rather thick, then put in the rumps; boil up again, lay them on a dish, and serve hot with scraped horseradish for garnish, and pour the sauce over the meat. Braised Saddle of Mutton.—(1) Take out the kidneys from a saddle of Mutton, remove the skin covering the fat of both fillets, and cut off the flaps or skirts and roll them up underneath. Tie the meat round with twine and put it into a braising-pan over slices of fat bacon laid at the bottom and add an onion and carrot cut into slices. Sprinkle over salt, pour in 1 pint of broth, and reduce over a clear fire; then pour in water to half its height and braise slowly. When nearly done, take it out, drain it, pass the liquor through a conical sieve, add a little white wine, skim off the fat, put it with the Mutton into a saucepan, and complete the cooking at the entrance of the oven, basting frequently and letting it get a good colour. Take it out when done, put it on a dish, garnish with mashed vegetables, and serve with the strained liquor in a sauceboat. (2) Remove the skin and fat from a saddle of Mutton without ribs, but recovering the two fillets; cut the flaps straight on both sides, take nut the kidney and nearly all the fat, break the backbone at various places, and roll the flap underneath, keeping it in position with string. Put some vegetables cut in slices and a little minced trim- ings of bacon at the bottrm of a braising-pan, put in the meat, sprinkle it over with salt and pepper, and pour in sufficient broth to nearly cover it. Put the pan over a quick fire and cook until it is about three-parts done, then pour in £ pint of white wine, remove the pan to the side of the fire, or put it in the entrance of the oven with hot ashes on the lid, and braise. It must be basted frequently, adding more stock as the liquor evaporates. Skim well, and when the meat is quite done (it will take about three hours or so), take it out, drain on a baking-sheet, remove the string, glaze it, and put it at the entrance of the oven to keep hot. Strain the stock through a fine sieve, add a little brown sauce and a few table-spoonfv.ls of Madeira wine, boil it up, and carefully skim. Take out the two fillets of the saddle, cut them transversely into rather thin slices, and put them back into their places. Put the saddle on a dish, garnish it on both sides with some onion pirree, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Braised Stuffed Leg of Mutton.—Remove the bone from a leg of Mutton, carefully cut out all the meat, leaving the skin° intact; reject the fat and mince the lean together with lib. of fat bacon, and season with chopped parsley975 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. and shallot, also salt and pepper to taste. Replace this mince in the skin, sew it up on the under-side, put it into a braising-pan with a little gravy made from the hones and trimmings, add also two or three large slices of veal, sliced carrots and onions, a few slices of fat bacon, a bunch of parsley, and braise slowly from three to four hours. When done put the leg on a dish, strain the liquor into another pan, reduce it to a glaze, brush over the Mutton with this, and serve with plenty of French beans separately. Broiled Briskets of Mutton.—Soak a couple of briskets of Mutton in cold water for a few hours, take them out, drain them dry, trim neatly, and remove the bone adhering to the sinews as well as the skin at the end of the ribs. Fasten both together with string, put them into a saucepan of salted water, add a few mixed vegetables, and partly boil. Take the briskets out, remove all hones, put them between two boards with a weight on top, and let them remain until quite cold, so as to have them perfectly flat. Trim and dust them over with salt and pepper, roll them in warmed butter, sprinkle with cooked parsley and fine lieibs, and cover with breadcrumbs. Broil them slowly on a gridiron over a clear fire for twenty minutes, turning them frequently. When done, put them on a dish and serve with piquant sauce in a sauceboat. Broiled Mutton Chops.—(1) Cut the chops from the loin or best end of the neck and remove some of the fat if necessary. Dust over with a little pepper, put them on a gridiron over a good clear fire, turning two or three times, and cook evenly. When done, put them on a hot dish, sprinkle with a little salt, put a small lump of butter on each, and serve very hot. They may be garnished with sliced okras and stuffed egg-plants. (2) Cut the chops from a loin of Mutton, trim them neatly, and remove all the fat. Lay them on a dish with some sliced onions, a few cloves, peppercorns, and sweet herbs, a small quantity of salt, and sufficient oil and vinegar in equal quantities to cover; put another dish over, and let them marinade for ten hours, turning occa- sionally. Afterwards broil the chops on a gridiron over a clear fire, and when cooked lay them on a hot dish on an ornamental dish-paper; finely mince three or four shallots, fry them in butter until a light brown, spread over the chops, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sharp sauce in a sauceboat. (3) Cut off some selected chops, and broil them (see i Broiling) on a gridiron over a clear fire; put them into a pan, cover tightly, and simmer for a-quarter-of-an-hour ■ at the side of the lire. Take the chops out, and put them on a dish with a piece of butter and a little salt and pepper on each. In the meantime, peel and finely chop some tomatoes, season them with a small piece of butter, salt, pepper, and sugar, and with a spoon place a little on the top of each chop. Sift a little pounded biscuit or breadcrumbs over, and serve hot. (4) Brewers’ Style—The chops should be cut from the end of a saddle of Mutton, using the whole breadth of it; beat them lightly with a cutlet-bat, and dust them over on both sides with salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Brush the chops over with a paste-brush dipped in melted lard, lay them on a gridiron over a clear but not too brisk fire, and broil them, turning them I occasionally. Work well in with about 2oz. of butter 1 table spoonful of finely-chopped parsley and 1 table-spoonful of chopped shallot, and when cooked arrange the chops on a hot dish, spread the butter over them, flavour with the juice of a lemon, and serve. Broiled Mutton Chops a la Bretonne.—Pare six Mutton chops, season with 1 table-spoonful of salt and pepper, and pour a few drops of oil over each. Broil four minutes on each side, arrange them on a dish, and serve with £ pint of puree of white beans, mixed with 2 table-spoonfuls of hot meat glaze. Broiled Mutton Chops a la, Provencal.—Flatten and pare neatly six fine, thick Mutton chops, and season them with 1 pinch of salt and £ pinch of pepper; oil them slightly with sweet-oil, and then either boil or cook them Mutton—continued. in a saute-pan for two minutes, on one side only, and lay them aside to get cold. Spread over them the garnishing il la Provencal to about Jin. in thickness, and sprinkle with breadcrumbs mixed with a little grated Parmesan cheese. Carefully place the chops in a well-buttered pan, pour a little clarified butter over, and put them into a very hot oven for five minutes, or until of a good colour. Serve with l pint of hot veloute sauce in a sauceboat. Broiled Mutton Chops a la Soyer.—Take 51b. of saddle of Mutton, cut and saw it crosswise into six pieces, flatten, pare, and trim them ; season with 1 table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Broil them for six minutes on each side, then place them on a hot dish, and serve with a garnishing of 1 pint of fried potatoes placed round the dish. Broiled Mutton Cutlets.—(1) Season some cutlets, dip them first into melted butter, then roll them in breadcrumbs. Broil them over the fire for about eight minutes, and place them on a dish round a heap of potato balls piled up in the centre. (2) Cut off the required number of chops from a loin of Mutton, and form them into cutlets by cutting off the thickest end of each bone, and about lin. off the top of the bone. Put them into a stewpan in which a little butter has been previously melted, season with salt, and stew for a short time, but not until they are brown. Chop some parsley very fine, add a little thyme, and mix together with sufficient yolk of egg to coat the cutlets when cool, then sprinkle them with breadcrumbs seasoned with 1 pinch of cayenne pepper. Broil over a clear but not brisk fire. When brown, dish them, squeeze a little lemon-juice over, or the dish in which they are served may lie garnished with thin slices of lemon cut into halves or quarters. Broiled Mutton Cutlets with French Beans.—Procure the best end of a neck of Mutton, and cut it into slices tin. thick ; remove a greater part of the fat, trim them to a nice shape, and* beat lightly with the cutlet-bat. String the required quantity of French beans, put them whole into a saucepan with plenty of boiling salted water, and boil until tender. When cooked, drain off the water, put in a large piece of butter, a moderate quantity of finely- minced parsley, the juice of half a lemon, a dust of pepper, and let them remain at the side of the fire until the cutlets are ready. Lay the cutlets on a gridiron, and Fig. 1218. Broiled Mutton Cutlets with French Beans. broil them over a clear, brisk fire, turning them when done on one side. When cooked, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, on which the beans have been piled in the centre (see Fig 1218), and serve. Broiled Mutton Cutlets with a Macedoine of Vege- tables.—Take twelve cutlets of equal size, trim off some of the fat, dust them over with salt and pepper, and dip them into warmed butter. Broil them in front of a976 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. moderate 'ire, frequently turning, and when they are done put some paper frills on the bones, and place them in a circle on a dish on which a macedoine of vegetables of different kinds and shades thickened with bechamel sauce and reduced with a little glaze has been piled in the centre. Serve with a boatful of half-glaze separately. Broiled Mutton Cutlets with Mushroom Sauce.—Take the cutlets from the best end of a neck of Mutton, saw the bones off short, trim them to a nice shape, removing the gristle and fat, and beat them flat with a cutlet-bat. Mix with the beaten yolk of an egg, in small quantities, some finely-chopped parsley, thyme, and marjoram, also some grated breadcrumb, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Cover the cutlets with the mixture, and wrap each one sepa- rately in a sheet of buttered paper. Trim off the stalks from J pint of mushrooms, wash and chain them, and put them into a stewpan with -1 pint of nicely-flavoured gravy, and boil gently until tender. Put loz. of butter into a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir it over the fire until brown, then strain in the gravy from the mushrooms, and continue stirring until it boils. Put the cutlets on a gridiron, and broil them over a clear fire, turning them when done on one side. When cooked, remove the paper and arrange the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish, put the mushrooms in the centre, pour the sauce round, and serve. Broiled Mutton Cutlets with New Carrots a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Trim some rather thick cutlets from the best end of a neck of Mutton to a nice shape, leaving very little fat on them. Peel some new carrots and cut them into halves, unless they are very small; boil them in salted water until tender, drain, and put them into a stewpan with a large piece of butter and some finely-minced parsley; dust them over with pepper and a small quantity of caster sugar, and squeeze in the juice of half a lemon; toss them about over the fire until nicely glazed, then move them to the side and keep hot. Broil the outlets over a clear but not too fierce fire, turning them when done on one side. When the cutlets are cooked, dredge them over with salt, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, each cutlet overlapping the other, pile the carrots in the centre, and serve. Broiled Mutton Cutlets with Tomato Sauce.—Trim the cutlets to a nice shape, and roll them in butter which has been slightly warmed; dust over with salt and pepper on both sides, place them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil, turning them when done on one side. When cooked, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pour some thick tomato sauce in the centre, and serve. Broiled Mutton Steak.—Cut a leg of Mutton in halves, sawing through the bone, and take a slice off each about fin. thick; sprinkle them on both sides with salt and pepper, and put them on a gridiron over a clear fire to broil. When done, put them on a dish, pour over a little mushroom ketchup or Harvey’s or Worcestershire sauce, and serve very hot. Broiled Mutton flteak with Tomato Sauce.—Cut off a slice about Hin. thick from the thickest part of a leg of Mutton, sawing through the bone. Beat it a little with a cutlet-bat to make it flat and even, put in a deep dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper to taste, cover it well with oil and parsley-leaves, and let it remain for several hours to macerate, so as to make the meat quite tender. Put it on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil gently for twenty-five minutes, basting and turning it frequently. When quite done, put it on a dish, pour tomato sauce round it, and serve. Broiled Neck of Mutton.—Put a neck of Mutton into a saucepan with a little water and boil it slowly until it is nearly done. Take it out, cover it with breadcrumbs and sweet herbs, moisten with beaten egg, and brown it in a Dutch oven before a clear fire. Put it on a dish, pour brown gravy round, and serve. Broiled Neck-of-Mutton Cutlets.—Saw off the chine-bone from a neck of Mutton and cut off the chops, together For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Mutton—continued. with about lin. of meat from the long bone; remove the fat and gristle, and flatten the chops a little with a cutlet-bat. Put them into a basin with a little milk, and cover vdth breadcrumbs pressed on as thickly as possible; then dip them into warmed butter and again into bread- crumbs, dust them over with salt and pepper, and broil over a clear fire until done. Put a pile of mashed potatoes on a dish, lay the cutlets round it, and serve. Carbonnadoed Mutton. -The name carbonnades, from this dish, is given to that part of a neck of Mutton from the point where the cutlets end and the loin commences. Select four carbonnades, chop them in halves, remove the bone from between the. larger fillet and the smaller one with- out taking out the minion fillet, trim off all the fat, and re-cover the loins. Lard the loins with strips of fat bacon, fold the skirt underneath, tying it round with string, put them into a saucepan covered at the bottom with vege- tables cut into slices, a few cloves and peppercorns, and a small bunch of sweet herbs ; sprinkle them over with salt, and pour in 1 wineglassful of good broth. Reduce the. moisture over a brisk fire to half-glaze, and then pour in sufficient broth and white wine to nearly cover. Boil quickly for six minutes, then remove the pan to the side of the fire, cover it, and braise the loins, basting fre- quently with the liquor. When done, take them out, glaze them, remove the string, put them on a dish, pom- over the liquor mixed with a little tomato sauce, and serve very hot. Carbonnadoed Mutton with Cream.—Saw off the spine- bone from three carbonnades of Mutton, cut off the skin and fat from the minion fillet, double the skirt part under- neath, keeping it in its place with wooden skewers. Put some vegetables cut in slices at the bottom of a sauce- pan, and add a small bunch of sweet herbs and a few peppercorns and cloves; put in the meat, and pour over sufficient broth to cover it. Place the pan over a sharp fire, boil quickly for eight minutes or so, then remove it to the side, cover the meat with paper, put the lid on the pan, place hot ashes on it, and complete the cooking- very gently, basting and turning it frequently. When done, take the carbonnades out, drain them, remove the bone between the loin and minion fillet, and put them between two dishes to cool and flatten. Cut them in halves, trim them square, cutting away all the fat from the larger fillet, and dip them into some good bechamel sauce reduced with a little of the stock. Place them on a baking-sheet to cool, and let them remain for thirty minutes; then dip them into a mixture of well-beaten eggs and clarified butter, roll them in breadcrumbs, and put them into a moderate oven in a well-buttered sautd-pan, to give them a good colour, basting them frequently with a brush dipped in clarified butter. When done, and quite hot, put them on a dish and serve with mashed turnips for a garnish. Casseroles of Mutton.—Put some large boiled potatoes into a saucepan and beat them well up with loz. of butter, the yolks of three eggs, and a little grated nutmeg; sprinkle over a little salt and pepper. Work this mass vigorously over the fire for a few minutes and then rub it ° through a sieve; lay it in a deep flattened heap on a buttered baking-sheet, and when cold, cut it into shapes the size of a patty-pan with a round biscuit-cutter. Brush these over with egg and cover them with breadcrumbs; cut down into the top surface a little way with a smaller round cutter to form the lid of the patty. Plunge them into boiling lard and fry till light brown; take themTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 977 Mutton—continued. out of the fat, drain them, lift out the centre, scoop out the inside, and fill them up with cooked minced Mutton moistened with a little gravy. Replace each small round to form a lid, put them again in the oven for a few minutes, and serve very hot on an ornamental dish-paper laid on a dish. See Fig. 1219. Chaudfroid of Mutton Cutlets.—Trim some cutlets from a neck of Mutton, having a hone to each one, and put them in the oven for an hour to braise, until the meat is quite tender. Take them out, put them on a hoard with a small weight on the top and leave them to get cold. Trim them neatly, and dip them in 1 pint of good glaze until they assume a smooth, glazed appearance Take 1 pint of aspic jelly, cut off a few croutons from it to put round the cutlets, and chop up the remnants and put them on a dish; arrange the cutlets in a circle and fill up the cavity in the centre with a macedoine of carrots, potatoes, peas, cauliflower, green haricot beans, French beans, cucumber, and beetroot. Cut up the vegetables into small pieces of equal size, boil them in separate saucepans, take them out, plunge them into cold water to preserve their colour, and mix well (with the exception of the beetroot) with £ pint of mayonnaise sauce. Put the beetroot in the dish last, as it is liable to discolour all the other vegetables if mixed with them. Decorate the end of each bone with small frills of paper, and serve. China Ckilo.—Finely mince about 2ilb. of loin or neck of Mutton without much fat; peel and chop a moderate-sized onion; wash a lettuce, trimming off the outside leaves, and shred it finely. Melt 6oz. of butter in a stewpan, put in the above ingredients with 1 h pints of green peas, season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and moisten with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of weak stock or water. Leave the stewpan over the fire until the contents are on the point of boiling, then move it to the side, cover with the lid, and simmer gently for two-hours-and-a-half. At the end of that time have ready prepared on a hot dish a border of boiled rice, turn the Mutton, &c., into the centre, and serve. Cold Boiled Mutton served with Tinned Tomato Sauce. —Trim off the fat from about 111), of cold boiled Mutton, and cut the lean into slices; season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne, lay them on a dish, and baste with loz. of warmed butter. Put loz. of butter into a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir it over the fire until well mixed, then put in i breakfast-cupful of stock, and continue stirring until it boils. Mix 1 pint of tinned tomatoes with the boiling stock, season to taste with salt and pepper, add 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar, and boil the whole for three or four minutes longer. Drop the slices of Mutton in the sauce just before serving so as to make them hot. Cold Mutton Cutlets.—(1) Cut part of a neck of Mutton into cutlets, trim them to a neat shape, removing all the fat and cutting the hone quite short, and lard them with thin strips of bacon. Cover the bottom of a braising-pan I with a slice or two of fat bacon; put in the cutlets with a few slices of carrots and turnips, one sliced onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Pour in 1 wineglassful of white wine and a small quantity of rich gravy, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Braise the cutlets gently until tender, then drain them, put them on a dish with another pressed over them, and leave until cold. Strain the cook- ing-liquor through a fine hair sieve into a small sauce- pan, and boil it until reduced to a glaze. When the cutlets are quite cold, trim them again and coat them with the glaze. Arrange them on a dish over which has been spread a fancy-edged dish-paper or a folded table- napkin, garnish with a few neat sprigs of well-washed parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of cold tomato sauce. (2) Trim some neck-of-Mutton cutlets, free them almost entirely from fat, cut the bones off short, and lard with fdlets of bacon. Line a braising-pan with a slice of fat bacon, a few slices of carrots, onions, and turnips, put in the cutlets with a hunch of sweet herbs, salt and pepper to taste, ami moisten with a small quantity of gravy, also 1 wineglassful of white wine. Stew them gently until Mutton—continued. tender, then drain and press them between two plates until cold. Strain the cooking-liquor and boil it until reduced to a glaze. When quite cold, trim the cutlets again, and brush them over with it; lay them on a dish over which has been spread a fancy dish-paper, garnish with crofttons of aspic jelly and sprigs of chervil, and serve. (3) Remove the spine-hone anil rib-bones from some neck- of-Mutton cutlets, leaving them 3in. long. Beat them lightly with a cutlet-bat, trim neatly, and sprinkle on both sides with salt and pepper; put them into a frying-pan with some clarified butter, and fry on both sides. When nicely browned, strain off' most of the fat from the cutlets, and pour over them about & teacupful of gravy, having a small piece of glaze about the size of a walnut and a few drops of lemon-juice added. Leave the cutlets over the fire for two or three minutes, then take them out of the pan and boil the gravy until reduced to a glaze; coat the cutlets on both sides with it, and let them get cold. Well wash 31b. or 4lb. of fresh spinach, and boil it; when tender, turn it into a colander, pour some cold water over, and press firmly to squeeze dry. Chop the spinach finely, put it into a stewpan with about J teacupful of white sauce and toz. of butter, season it with salt, a small quantity of grated nutmeg and caster sugar, and stir it over the lire for a few minutes. Next pass the spinach through a fine hair sieve, and make a border of it on a round dish. Reel an equal quantity of carrots and turnips, slice them rather thickly, and cut them into small squares. Boil the carrots and turnips separately in salted water, and when tender turn them into a basin of water where they may remain until cold. When ready, drain the vegetables well and turn them into the centre of the border of spinach, arrange the cutlets round the dish against the spinach, and serve. Cold Mutton Sliced and Fried with Bacon.—Cut some slices of cold Mutton, dredge them with flour, and season each slice with pepper, salt, and a few drops of mush- room ketchup. First fry some rashers of bacon, then fry the slices of cold Mutton in the fat, and arrange them on a hot dish, laying a rasher of bacon next to each slice of Mutton. Collared Breast of Mutton.— (1) Take out the bone from a breast of Mutton, rub it well over with yolk of egg, sprinkle with grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and over this again a mixture of chopped capers, bread- crumbs, parsley, and sweet herbs. Roll up the breast as tightly as possible, and boil it gently in a saucepan of Fig. 1220. Collared Breast of Mutton. water for two hours; then put it into a pickle composed of the liquor in which it was boiled, vinegar and salt, and leave it for several days. Take it out, drain, place it on a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. See Fig. 1220. (2) Remove the skin from a breast of Mutton and take out all the hones and gristle; lay it flat on a board or table, sprinkle it over with ground mace and cloves, and season with salt and pepper to taste. Put 1 handful of breadcrumbs into a basin, and mix hi five washed and For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. 4 BTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 978 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—con tinned. boned anchovies, the grated peel of half a lemon, and the bruised yolks of three hard-boiled eggs. Cover the meat with this mixture, roll it up, and tie with very wide tape. It is then ready to cook, and may be boiled, roasted, or baked, according to taste. Collops of Cold Mutton.—Cut some very thin collops from a loin of Mutton near the leg, and remove the sinew; sprinkle them over with mace, salt, pepper, chopped parsley, thyme, and shallots, and put them into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of gravy, a little lemon-juice, and a little butter rolled in Hour. Simmer gently on the lire for live minutes. Put them on a dish, and serve at once. Comettes of Mutton.—Mince the cold Mutton and mix with it some oysters or mushrooms also finely minced. Put loz. of butter into a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and mix well over the fire; then pour in gradually a sufficient quantity of highly-seasoned stock, and reduce it to a thick sauce. Add the minced ingredients to the sauce, and when hot turn all into a dish and leave until cold. Make some puli paste and roll it out as thinly as possible; divide it into rather small pieces, putting a lump of the mince, about the size of a walnut, on each, and roll them iuto small triangular patties. Brash the patties over with a paste-brush dipped in beateli yolk of egg, and dip them in uncooked vermicelli. Put them into the oven and bake until of a pale golden colour. When cooked, arrange the comettes on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve. Curried Mutton.—(1) Chop a large onion into small pieces and fry it in a pan with 1 table-spoonful of butter. Mix 1 table-spoonful each of curry powder and Hour in a basin together with I teaspoonful of salt, and when thoroughly incorporated add to the onion in the pan and pour in gradually 1 pint of water or stock. Chop 21b. of lean Mutton into small pieces, put them into a frying-pan with a little fat, fry till of a light brown, add to the curry, and simmer gently until tender. Put the meat on to a dish with a border of rice roun I it, an I serve hot. (2) Cut l|lh. or 21b. of Mutton into small pieces, put them into a frying-pan with a little fat, and fry till light brown. Chop up two onions, fry and stir them in with the meat, add 3 table-spoonfuls of curry powder and 2 table-spoonfuls of curry paste, pour over _ a little gravy made from the bones and trimmings, thicken with a little butter rolled in flour, and cook gently over a moderate lire until done. Turn it out on a dish, and serve with a border of boiled rice. (3) Indian Style.—Cut 21b. of fat Mutton into pieces about ljin. square. Put 5oz. of fat into a stewpan, make it hot, add twelve onions cut up into thin slices, fry them until they are brown, and take them out. Put into the stewpan 4 teaspoonfuls of ground onions, 1 teaspoonful each of ground chillies and coriander-seeds, h teaspoonful of ground ginger, j teaspoonful of ground garlic, ten ground peppercorns, five ground cloves, and live or six ground cardamoms. Fry them, stirring con- tinuously, until they are quite brown, add 1 breakfast- cupful of milk thickening, two or three blades each of bay-leaves and lemon-grass, £ teacupful of water, then the cooked onions, after being finely chopped, and the meat. Cover the pot, simmer for from an hour-and-a-half to two hours, take out the blades of lemon-grass, turn the curry out on to a dish, and serve. Curried Mutton Forcemeat Balls.—Put 21b. of Mutton cut from the leg into a mortar and pound it to a pulp, then mix in 1 teaspoonful each of pepper, salt, and chopped sweet herbs, 2 table-spoonfuls of fine breadcrumbs, a well- beaten egg, and sufficient gravy made from the bones and trimmings of the Mutton to form the whole into a mass. Make it into halls about the size of a large walnut, and roll them well in breadcrumbs. Put 4oz. of fat into a frying-pan, make it hot, and add 1 table-spoonful of ground onions, \ table-spoonful each of ground turmeric and chillies, h teaspoonful each of ground ginger and pepper- corns, and | teaspoonful of ground garlic. Fry these until they colour, sprinkling over about 1 table-spoonful of water. Put in the forcemeat balls, sprinkle over 1 dessert-spoonful of salt or sufficient to taste, and fry them until they are Mutton—continued. - brown; pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of Mutton broth, cover the pan, and simmer gently over a clear but slow fire Fig. 1221. Curried Mutton Forcemeat Balls. for about two hours. Turn the curry out on to a dish, and serve with a border of boiled rice. See Fig. 1221. Devilled Mutton.—Cut some cold Mutton into thick slices, trimming off' most of the fat, then gash it across in several places with a sharp knife ; mix 1 teaspoonful of cayenne pepper with 2 table-spoonfuls of black pepper, and rub the mixture well over the slices of Mutton ; lay them on a gridiron and broil over a clear fire, turning when done on one side. Put teacupful of roast-meat gravy into a small saucepan with an equal quantity of port wine, £ table-spoonful each of Worcestershire, Reading, and anchovy sauce, or the strained juice of half a lemon and a small quantity of finely-shred lemon-peel. Place the sauce over the fire until boiling, arrange the pieces of broiled meat on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. It will be found an improvement if the gravy can be slightly flavoured with onion. Devonshire Squab Pie.—Cut about 21b. of the neck of Mutton into chops, shorten the bone, and remove a little of the fat. Take 21b. of sour apples, remove the core, peel, cut them up into slices, and put a layer of them at the bottom of a pie-dish. Sprinkle a little sugar and ground allspice over, then put a layer of chops seasoned with a little finely-minced onion, salt, and pepper, and so on, in layers, until all the meat is used up. Place an ordinary pie-crust on the top of the dish, pour in 1 pint of water or gravy, and bake it in the oven for an-hour- and-a-half. Fillets of Mutton a la Compiegne.—Bone two fillets of Mutton and raise the skin ; lay them in a deep dish, and pour over a marinade made with warmed butter, olive oil, and red wine, seasoned with salt and pepper. Let the meat marinade for three or four hours, turning occa- sionally, so that it may be seasoned equally. Afterwards put it in a stewpan with the marinade, brown over a slow fire, moisten with a small quantity of stock, and keep simmering gently. In about two hours’ time, or when the meat is tender, strain the sauce into a smaller pan in which some flour should have been browned in butter, add a small piece of sugar about the size of a pea, and stir it over the fire until thickened and boiling. Place the fillets on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with sliced truffles that have been stewed in wine, and serve. Fillets of Mutton ft la Minute.—Put some good strong stock into a saucepan, reduce it quickly to a glaze, and add a slice of fat bacon and as many fillets of Mutton as required. Cover over with a piece of well buttered paper, put the pan over a slow fire, and simmer gently for from ten to twelve minutes, when they will be done and well glazed, but care must be taken to prevent the bacon burn- ing. Put the meat on a dish, add a little stock to the liquor in the pan, warm it up, pour it over the fillets, and serve hot. Fricasseed Mutton.—Cut 21b. of the breast of Mutton into large squares, sprinkle them over with flour and salt, put them into a frying-pan with a little fat or butter, and fry till brown. Then put them into a saucepan with an onion cut in slices, cover with water, and simmer gently until the bones can be easily removed. Skim off the fat from the liquor after it has been strained, put it back in the saucepan, and when boiling put in the boned meat979 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Croces es, Utensils, Sauces, efcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. and salt and pepper to taste. Add 1 pint of peas, simmer gently for a-quarter-of-an-liour, turn out on a dish, and serve. Macaroni cut into Jin. pieces, or the tops of asparagus, may be used instead of the peas. Fricasseed Mutton with Egg-Plant Fruit.—(1) Cut the required quantity of Mutton into small pieces, place them in a stew pan, and dust them over with salt and pepper ; toss the pan about over the fire until it begins to make a slight hissing noise, then put in Jib. of butter, and fry until the meat is nicely browned. Trim and slice four egg-plant fruit, rub them with salt, and leave them for a few minutes to extract the bitter juice; take the pieces of meat out of the frying-pan, keep them hot, then drain the slices of egg-plant fruit and fry them in the remain- ing fat till well browned. Place the pieces of meat on a hot dish, put the fried slices of egg-plant fruit in a circle round it, and serve while very hot. (2) Cut some loin of Mutton into small pieces and lay them in a deep frying-pan, season with salt and pepper, toss them about over the lire until their moisture has evaporated, then put in a small lump of butter ami fry them until nicely browned. Bake four good-sized egg- plant fruit till tender, peel them, cut them into slices, and lay them in a saucepan; then put in the pieces of meat and the remainder of the frying-fat, pour in 1 break- fast-cupful of clear broth, put the lid on, and simmer at the side of the lire for twenty minutes. When cooked, turn the fricassee on to a hot dish, dust it over with salt and pepper, and serve. Fried Breast of Mutton with. Green Peas. -Cut a breast of Mutton into small pieces of equal size, sprinkle them over with flour, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry until they are light brown. Add a bunch of sweet herbs and one onion cut in thin slices, pour in sufficient water to cover, and cook slowly over a clear fire until the Mutton is tender. Put the meat on a dish to keep warm, remove all the fat from the liquor, strain it into a saucepan, and boil it; add lqt. of boiled green peas, and when they are quite hot and done pour them with the liquor over the meat, and serve quickly. Fried Fillets of Mutton.—(1) Cut off 21b. of cutlets from the middle of a loin of Mutton, remove all the fat and skin, and cut each one up into slices about Jin. thick ; flatten them with a cutlet-bat, and dip them first into beaten egg and then into sifted breadcrumbs. Dust them over with pepper and salt, and let them remain for an hour or so. Put some butter into a frying-pan, and when it is 1 hot put in the fillets and fry them first on one side and then on the other until they are quite done and of a nice brown colour. Place them on a dish, garnish with aspar- agus, sea-kale, or cauliflower, and serve. (2) Remove the fat from the inside lillets taken from under a sirloin of Mutton, flatten them a little with a cutlet-bat, sprinkle with salt and pepper, brush over with yolk of egg, and dip them first into breadcrumbs and then into warmed butter, and smooth over with a knife, j Put them into a frying-pan with a very little butter and fry them till a light brown colour; take them out when done, place them on a sheet of paper to drain away the fat, i and arrange them on a dish. Boil down quickly a little tarra- I gon vinegar in a saucepan, add 4 table-spoonfuls of Spanish ( sauce and a little cayenne, pour over the meat, and serve. Fried Loin-of-Mutton Cutlets. —Trim off nearly all the fat from two cutlets (a chop will do, if cut from the bone and split down the middle with a knife); dip first in a Mutton—continued. little egg and then in some highly-seasoned breadcrumbs, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them first on one side and then on the other. Boil three or four onions until they are tender, pass them through a sieve, and replace them in# the saucepan in which they were boiled, adding a small piece of butter and a little salt and pepper. Mash this puree with a spoon until it becomes quite thick, then put it on a dish with the cutlets over it (see Fig. 1222), and serve. Fried Marinaded Inside Fillets of Mutton.—Cut off the inside fillets from four saddles of Mutton, lard them, and put them in a basin with a marinade of vinegar, onions, bay-leaves, parsley, thyme, salt and pepper, and let them remain for about three hours. Take them out, put them in a frying-pan over a few slices of fat bacon, and fry them to a light brown. Take out when done, glaze, and put them on a dish ; pour round a little sharp brown sauce, and serve very hot. Fried Minced Mutton.—Chop 2lb. of raw Mutton and three peeled onions quite tine, then put them into a mortar with an equal quantity of cooked rice and pound them well. Season with salt and pepper and 1 table- spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, stir in sufficient beaten eggs to make a stiffish paste, work the mixture thoroughly, then cover it with a cloth and leave it for an hour. Divide into small, equal-sized portions, roll them round, and fry them in butter till nicely browned. When cooked, drain the balls, arrange them in a group in the centre of a dish, and serve. Fried Mutton Chops.—Prepare the same as for Broiled Mutton Chops. Put them in a stewpan and cook; when done, the hot fat must be poured away and a few table- spoonfuls of good stock, or water slightly warmed, and 1 table-spoonful of ketchup or any other flavouring added. Boil this stock up after removing the chops, and either pour it over them or serve separately. Fried Mutton Collops.—Cut 21b. or 311'. of Mutton from the leg into pieces about the size of an egg, make two or three incisions on each piece, and beat them; dust them over with salt, pepper, and powdered cinnamon, and rub a small quantity of finely-minced onion over them. Leave the pieces of Mutton for about an hour so that they may be well incorporated with the flavouring. When ready to cook them, put sufficient butter into a frying-pan, and when it has melted place in the pieces of meat and fry them, turning them over when browned on one side and finishing the other. When cooked, drain the pieces of Mutton, arrange them tastefully on a folded napkin or fancy-edged dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish here and there with a few neat sprigs of fried parsley, and serve. Fried Mutton Cutlets.—(1) Put a carrot cut into strips in a saucepan with water to cook. Take four mushrooms and the same number of gherkins and truffles, cut them into strips likewise, and put them in a stewpan. Place the pan in the bain-marie to keep warm. Take some cutlets from a neck of Mutton, and trim them. Mince finely two or three slices of lean ham, and mix with some breadcrumbs. Dust the cutlets over with pepper and salt, brush them over with egg, and then dip them in the breadcrumbs. Put them in a frying-pan with Jib. of butter, fry them to a nice brown, put them in a circle on a dish with the vegetables in the centre, and a little Spanish sauce poured round, and serve. (2) Take Jib. of fat bacon, cut it up, and fry it in a pan for five minutes with Jib. of calf's or pig’s liver, one carrot, one onion, a bunch of parsley, bay-leaf, and thyme tied up in a muslin bag, one clove of garlic, one shallot, a small blade of mace, and a dozen peppercorns. When the liver is done take it out, pound it in a mortar, season with salt and pepper, and pass it through a sieve. Take six or seven cutlets, trim them, and fry them in a little butter till done; take them out, put them under a weight until cold, then place them on a flat dish and spread the liver mixture and a piece of pig’s caul over them. Make them hot in the oven, glaze, place them on a dish in a circle on a border of cooked spinach or mashed potatoes, put 4 b 2980 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. some of the macedoine in the centre, pour round a little half-glaze, and serve. (3) Take some cutlets from a neck of Mutton, trim them, and beat them flat. Dip the cutlets into a thin batter made of flour, a little salt, and cold water; sprinkle them with fine browned breadcrumbs, and fry quickly in boiling- hot lard or clarified fat. Drain them on paper and serve as hot as possible. (4) Trim some cutlets taken from a neck of Mutton and beat them flat. Shake a little salt and pepper over them, dip them in well-beaten egg, roll them in a paper of fine breadcrumbs till they are well covered, and fry in boiling luff lard or clarified fat. Drain them on paper, arrange upright and touching one another round a mound of mashed potatoes, and serve hot. (5) Take the cutlets from the best end of a neck of Mutton, trim off a little of the fat, and shorten the hones. Put a lump of butter into a flat stewpan, place it over a brisk fire, and when melted put in the cutlets, previously dusting them over with salt and pepper, and fry them nicely on both sides. When tender, drain a little of the fat oft', pour over the cutlets \ teacupful of Spanish sauce and the strained juice of a small lemon, add a small piece of glaze, and stir the whole at the side of the fire until the glaze has dissolved, but do not let the sauce boil. Lay the cutlets on a hot dish, pour the sauce round, and serve. (6) Cut off some cutlets, trim them into equal shapes, and season them with salt and pepper. Put them first into some well-beaten egg, then into breadcrumbs, and throw them into a frying-pan with boiling fat; they will take from eight to ten minutes to fry. Put them in a circle on a dish, pour some rich tomato sauce round them, and serve. (7) Hindustani.—Cut off the required number of chops from a neck of Mutton, trim oft' all the fat, and scrape the ends of the bones; wrap them singly in mashed potatoes, Fm. 1223. Fried Mutton Cutlets (Hindustani Style). brush them over with egg, or dip them in hatter, and fry. Serve hot with tomato sauce. See Fig. 1223. (8) Italian.—Trim some Mutton cutlets taken from the neck end, dip them in egg first and then breadcrumbs, put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry. Put a border of mashed potatoes round a dish, and place the cutlets on them. Have ready some thin strips of tongue, truffles, and macaroni, in equal quantities, and add to them 1 teacupful of white sauce. Mix well together, place them in the centre of the dish, and pour 1 teacupful of good brown sauce round, and serve. Fried Mutton Cutlets a la Proven$ale.—Cut off about 31b. of cutlets from a neck of Mutton, trim, and fry them in a little butter. When done, take them out of the frying-pan, put them on a board with a weight on the top, and let them get cold. Trim them again to an equal size and shape. Put \ pint of white Soubise sauce into a saute-pan, and add six mushrooms, one onion, one shallot, half a clove of garlic, and salt and pepper to taste. Place the pan on the fire and cook them for ten minutes, remove the garlic, mix in the yolks of four eggs and 1 table spoonful of parsley, and cook them well until it becomes a thick paste. Spread this over the cutlets when arranged on a dish on one side only, dust some browned breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan cheese over, and heat through in the oven. Put some gocd brown sauce in a tureen, and serve. Fried Mutton Cutlets a la Soubise.—Saw off the upper rib-bones from the best end of a neck of Mutton, leaving the cutlet-bones about 3iu. long. Saw off the spine-bone, Mutton—continued. cut off the cutlets, trim them, and with a knife remove the meat from the end of the bone by scraping it, leaving about tin. of bone showing. Arrange the cutlets in a saute-pan, dust salt and pepper over them, put in loz. of butter, and fry them to a good brown colour on each side. Put the cutlets on a dish in a circle, pour some Soubise sauce in the centre, and serve. Fried Mutton Cutlets garnished with Haricot Beans.— Take some cutlets from the best end of a neck of Mutton and dip them first in egg and then in breadcrumbs. Put them into a frying-pan with hot fat or melted butter and fry them. Take 1 breakfast-cupful of haricot beans and four onions (both well cooked) and put them in a stewpan with loz. of butter, add pepper and salt to taste, and put them over the fire, stirring well; when quite hot pass through a fine sieve, and add 1 teacupful of bechamel sauce. Put the cutlets on a dish, place the beans, onions, &c., in the centre, pour a little brown sauce or half-glaze round them, and serve. Fried Mutton Cutlets with Mushroom Puree.—Trim off a little of the fat from twelve cutlets, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, and roll in breadcrumbs; brush them over again with the beaten egg, breadcrumb them, and dip them in warmed butter and more breadcrumbs. Melt a lump of butter in a frying-pan or a flat stewpan, put in the cutlets, and fry them over a brisk fire, turning when done on one side. When cooked the cutlets should he well drained on a sheet of kitchen- paper. Blanch lib. of mushrooms in water with a little lemon- juice in it, drain, and chop them. Melt loz. of butter in a stewpan on the fire, put in the mushrooms, and toss them about for a few minutes. Pour \\ teacupfuls of bechamel or veloute sauce over them, and boil gently for a few minutes. When sufficiently cooked, rub the mushrooms through a fine wire sieve. Pour the puree of mushrooms in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the cutlets round, and serve. Fried Mutton Steaks (French).—Cut a neck of Mutton into moderately thick slices, and trim them neatly; put them into a saucepan with a hunch of sweet herbs, two or three small onions, a few peppercorns, and cold water to cover them. Boil them for five minutes, then take the steaks out and in their place stew the trimmings ; stew until the liquor is well flavoured with them. Next strain the gravy and skim off all the fat. Beat up the yolks of one or two eggs, season some finely-grated breadcrumbs with chopped sweet herbs, and roll the steaks first in the egg and then in the breadcrumbs, coating them well on both sides; put them into a stewpan of boiling lard, and fry until nicely browned. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir over the fire until well browned, then mix in the strained gravy with 1 table-spoonful of vinegar and continue stirring over the fire until boiling and thickened. Drain the steaks as free from fat as possible, lay them on a hot dish, pour the gravy round, and serve. Fried Neck-of-Mutton Cutlets.—Take some cutlets, saw away the chine-bone, and take away about lin. of meat from the long bone. Cut off all the fat and gristle and flatten them with the cutlet-bat. Take each one separately, dip it first into egg and then into breadcrumbs, the latter being highly seasoned with salt and pepper, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry for six or seven minutes. Boil some potatoes, mash them with a little cream, add salt and pepper, form them into the shape of a mound in the centre of a dish, arrange the cutlets round, and serve. Fried Shoulder-of-Mutton Cutlets.—Take two thin slices from the lean under-cut of a shoulder of Mutton, and dust them over with salt and pepper. Place a small piece (about 4<>z.) of butter in a frying-pan, and when it is hot put in the cutlets. Cook them slowly, turning them often, and when done put them on a hot dish, pour over a little thickened gravy, and serve. Glazed Boiled Breast of Mutton.—Put a breast of Mutton into a saucepan with some stock and boil it until thoroughly981 the encyclopaedia of practical cookery. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <be., referred to, see under their special heads, Mutton—continued. tender; take it out, remove all the bones, sprinkle with salt, put it between two plates or boards with a weight on the top, and when cold cut it into pear-shaped pieces about 3in. in length. Put them in a saute-pan with some veal stock, warm thoroughly, and glaze; place them on a dish, and serve with half-glaze poured over. Grilled Breast of Mutton.—Put a breast of Mutton into a saucepan of water and boil it. When it is about half done take it out, score it, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and rub it well over with yolk of egg; then cover it with minced fine herbs and breadcrumbs. Place it on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil until light brown and cooked through. Put an onion, a little chopped parsley, 1 table-spoonful of capers, and four pickled cucumbers into a saucepan with 1 pint of gravy, boil them quickly for about live minutes, and add a little butter kneeded with flour to thicken it. Put the breast of Mutton on a dish, pour over the sauce, and serve hot. Haricot Breast of Mutton.—Put a breast of Mutton into a braising-pan with a few slices of onions, carrots, &c., and cook until done. Take it out, remove all the bones, and when cold cut it up into shapes like hearts; warm each one separately in a little of the liquor, put them on a dish, pour over brown haricot sauce, and serve hot. Haricot Mutton.—(1) Remove the fat from the chops of a loin of Mutton, put them into a frying-pan with two onions cut into slices, and fry until the meat is a light brown. Put a little flour into a breakfast-cupful of gravy to thicken it, pour it over the meat, and cook slowly for about forty-five minutes. In the meantime, put two carrots, two turnips, and a small head of celery into a saucepan of water and partly boil them. Cut the vegetables into slices, put them into the pan with the meat, and stew gently for twenty minutes longer. Add 2 table- spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup and 1 wineglassful of port wine, boil up quickly, pour it on to a dish, and serve. (2) Cut some pieces from a breast of Mutton, put them in a saucepan with a little butter, and toss gently until they are slightly coloured; take out the meat, add a little Hour to thicken the butter, replace the meat, and add a little stock, one or two onions, a little thyme and parsley, salt and pepper to taste, a bay-leaf, a little grated nutmeg, and a few peeled potatoes. Put the pan on the side of the fire, and cook gently until done ; skim carefully, pour the whole on to a dish, and serve. (3) Cut a neck or loin of Mutton into thin chops, trim off a good part of the fat and flour them; melt about Joz. of butter in a stewpan over the fire, shake in a little pepper and salt, and fry the chops in it, turning them once till they are slightly browned. Then put into the stewpan an onion or two, a small quantity of celery, and some slices of boiled turnips and carrots fried. Cover the bottom of the pan with the fried Mutt( n, over the Mutton put a layer of the fried turnip and carrot, and if there is more Mutton than will cover the bottom of the pan lay another layer over the carrots and turnips, and cover it with more fried slices of turnip and carrot. When all is in, pour hi sufficient water to cover the meat, and let it stew very gently for three hours. Just before serving season the haricot with a small quantity of ketchup or Worcestershire sauce. (4) Cut some thin cutlets from the middle cf a loin or neck of Mutton, hour them, put them into a stewpan, and fry brown in a little butter; pour off the butter, add lqt. of boiling water, an anchovy, pepper and salt to taste, a few slices of carrots and turnips, and let it simmer gently for two-hours-and-a-half. Fifteen minutes before serving, thicken it with flour and butter. (5) Cut off eight or ten cutlets from a neck of Mutton, leaving the bones short and removing a part of the fat, and fry them in a small quantity of butter; when well browned, add 1 table-spoonful of flour, mix it well in, and pour in lqt. of water. Cnt one or two turnips and carrots into rather small pieces, put them with a few spring onions into a frying-pan in which a little sugar and butter have been melted, add a little parsley and two bay-leaves, toss them over the lire for a few minutes, put Mutton—continued. them into the stewpan with the cutlets, and simmer gently until all are done, taking care to remove the scum as it rises. Arrange the cutlets in a circle on a dish, put the vegetables in the centre, pour over the liquor, and serve. (6) Cut off' some of the end bones, trim the cutlets neatly, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and brown slightly on both sides; take the cutlets out, put in the same stewpan 1 table-spoonful of flour and loz. of butter, and stir them over the fire until mixed and browned, then pour in sufficient veal gravy to cover the cutlets, season it highly, and stir until boiling. Put the cutlets into the sauce with a few turned turnips, a bunch of parsley and green onions, and stew them gently until nearly tender. When cooked, place the cutlets in the centre of a hot dish, garnish round with the turnips, strain the sauce over them, and serve. (7) Trim the cutlets from a neck of Mutton to a nice shape, put their trimmings in a stewpan with a few slices of carrots and onions, a bunch of green onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs; put in the cutlets, moisten to about half their height with white stock, place the lid on the stew- pan, and stew them gently at the side of the fire, or over a very slow fire. Cut about a dozen small peeled turnips into the shape of olives, blanch and drain them, put them in a stewpan with 4 teacupful of white stock and 1 tea- spoonful of sugar, and place over a very brisk fire until all the moisture has reduced and the turnips are nicely glazed; they should be constantly tossed about. Move the stewpan to the side of the fire, pour over the turnips 1 teacupful of bechamel sauce and \ teacupful of thick cream, season with a small quantity of salt, and let them simmer gently. When the cutlets are tender, take them out of the pan, strain their cooking-liquor through a fine sieve, and boil quickly until reduced to a glaze, then put in the cutlets, and cover them with the glaze on both sides. Arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce of turnips in the centre, and serve while very hot. Hashed Mutton.—(1) Chop an onion, put it in a stewpan with a lump of butter and fry until nicely browned, then mix in 1 heaped table spoonful of flour and stir in about £ pint of clear stock, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of mixed spices. Stir the sauce over the fire until boiling, then strain it through a gravy-strainer and leave until cold. Cut some cold Mutton into thin slices, trimming off' the skin and not leaving too much fat; put them into a stewpan with a few sliced pickled gherkins, pour in the sauce, and leave it to heat gradually at the edge of the fire. When ready, turn the hash on to a hot dish, garnish it with sippets Fig. 1224. Hashed Muiton. of toast or croutons of bread fried a golden brown in butter (see Fig. 1224), and serve with a dish of mashed potatoes. (2) Cut the remains of some cold roast Mutton into neat thin slices without much fat; peel and slice two or three onions, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry until nicely browned. Drain the butter off the onions, pour over them about 1 breakfast-cupful of clear gravy freed of fat, and boil gently for a few minutes. Next put in the meat with some lemon pickle and a moderate quan- tity of walnut ketchup: colour the gravy with browning, season to taste with salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and let the whole* simmer at the side of the lire for five minutes. When ready, turn the hash on to a hot dish, garnish with red cabbage, and serve. (3) Peel and slice two moderate-sized onions, put them in a stewpan with two or three thin rashers of bacon, and fry until well browned. Dredge in some flour, mix in982 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. gradually about l pint of cold water, and stir it over the lire until boiling and thickened. Strain the liquor into a clean stewpan, put in the pieces of Mutton, which should have been prepared, pour in a small quantity of Harvey’s sauce, season to taste with salt and pepper, and let it simmer at the side of the fire. Serve the hash on a hot dish garnished with sippets of toast. (4) Cut some slices of the lean of roast Mutton, trim off all the skin and fat, season with pepper and salt, and lay them in a pie-dish, scattering among them 4oz. of sifted breadcrumbs and a small quantity of chopped parsley and onion. Pour over them 1 table-spoonful of walnut liquor or ketchup and 4 table-spoonfuls of good gravy; cut loz. of butter into small bits and scatter them over it, cover with sifted breadcrumbs, and place more little bits of butter over the top. Brown it in front of the lire or in the oven, and serve hot. (5) Cut some thin slices of Mutton, trim them nicely, put them into a saucepan with 1 pint of broth or less according to the quantity of meat, let it barely simmer for a-quarter-of-an-hour, and then skim off' the fat. Add a seasoning of pepper, salt, and mushroom ketchup, also a small quantity of vinegar or strained lemon-juice, thicken it with butter and flour, and serve hot. (6) Cut some cold cooked Mutton into nice slices, trim off" all the fat and skin, ami flour each slice on both sides. Select some nice large mushrooms, trim and cut each one into four pieces ; melt 2oz. of butter in a stewpan, put in the mushrooms with a little stock, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stew them gently. When the mush- rooms are cooked, put in the pieces of meat and stir them at the side of the tire until well heated, but do not boil them. Turn the hash on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast, and serve. Hashed Mutton au Gratin.—Proceed as for Hashed Mutton a la Zingara, omitting the tomatoes and garlic. Place the hash on a baking-dish, sprinkle with a few breadcrumbs, spread a very little butter on top, and put in the oven until of a good golden colour (it will take from eight to ten minutes). Hashed Mutton a la Zingara.-—Chop up two onions, and fry them in a saucepan with loz. of butter for three minutes, adding Hlb. of cooked and hashed Mutton, also one fourth the quantity of chopped cooked potatoes. Season with 1 table-spoonful of salt, the same of pepper, and h saltspoonful of nutmeg. Also put in two raw tomatoes cut up, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a crushed clove of garlic. Add 1 gill each of Spanish sauce and broth ; mix all together, and cook for twenty minutes; then serve with 1 pinch of chopped parsley sprinkled over the whole. Hashed Mutton and Fried Eggs.—Cut some cold remains of Mutton into nice-shaped pieces, trimming off the fat and brown skin; put them in a stewpan with a little well- seasoned gravy, and warm. When very hot, stir some tinned tomatoes in with them, turn the hash on to a hot dish, garnish round with fried eggs and small crofitons of bread that have been fried in butter, and serve. Hashed Mutton with Poached Eggs.—Cut lib. or so of meat from a cooked leg or loin of Mutton, trim off the fat, and chop it into small pieces; put them into a sauce- pan with one dozen cooked mushrooms cut into dice, sprinkle in a little salt and pepper to taste, cover over the pan, and cook gently at the side of the fire. Put two or three chopped shallots into a saucepan with l wineglassful of Madeira, and add a bunch of parsley and fine herbs and a few peppercorns. Put the pan on the lire, cover it, and reduce the liquor to half its original bulk. Mix in double its quantity of brown sauce and reduce again, then add a little melted glaze, and pass the whole through a very fine sieve. Pour it over the meat, warm the hash up without letting it boil, turn it out on to a dish, and garnish with eight or nine poached eggs, putting a piece of fried bread cut in the form of a crescent between the eggs. Hung Mutton.—Place a leg of Mutton with the knuckle end downwards, and cover the thick end with coarse brown Mutton—continued. sugar. Rub it well in and repeat it every day. so long as it is required to hang, taking care to have it always well covered with the sugar. If well hung it will last for several days and can be roasted in the usual way. Leg of Mutton a la Frovenqale.—Cut about twelve cloves of garlic and twelve anchovies into fillets and lard a leg of Mutton with them; roast the Mutton in front of a clear lire, keeping it well basted. Boil several cloves of garlic, changing the water constantly, and when nearly done, drain, and refresh them with cold water. Drain the garlic again, put it into a stewpan with 1 breakfast-cupful each of stock, gravy, and cullis, and boil until reduced to a thick creamy consistency. When cooked, place the Mutton on a hot dish, pour the sauce round it, garnish with vegetables (see Fig. 1225), and serve. Loin of Mutton en Papillote.—Saw the chine-bone off the neck end of a loin of Mutton, trim it to a nice shape, removing all the gristle and superfluous fat; lay it in a deep dish with plenty of finely-sliced carrots and onions, some peppercorns, cloves, sweet herbs, and two or three bay-leaves; season with salt and chopped parsley, moisten well with the best olive oil, and leave the meat in the marinade for one day. Afterwards spread the marinading vegetables and oil over a large sheet of paper, lay the meat on them, and wrap the paper well round, binding it in position with tape. Roast the meat in front of a rather slow fire; when nearly cooked, remove the paper and vege- tables, and brown the meat. Peel some potatoes and cut them into slices; put a good-sized lump of butter in a saute-pan, melt it, then put in the pot;]toes with some finely-chopped parsley, and toss them over the fire until lightly and equally browned. When cooked, place the Mutton on a hot dish, and serve it with the potatoes. Malayan Curried Mutton.—Wash a cauliflower, and pull it into small branches. Put 2oz. of butter into a stewpan with 1 heaped table-spoonful of curry powder, and stir them over the fire until mixed, then put in two peeled and chopped onions and one chopped sour apple. Fry them until tender, then pui in the pieces of cauliflower with 1 pint of fresh picked boiled shrimps, and stew them gently at the side the fire for an-hour-and-a-half, shaking the saucepan con- stantly and adding more butter if necessary. Put in some slices of Mutton, allowing time for them to get hot through. When ready, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, arrange the slices in a circle on a hot dish, turn the cauliflower and other ingredients in the middle, and serve very hot with boiled rice on a separate dish. Marinaded Leg of Mutton.—It is usual on the Continent to cook Ardennes Mutton in the following manner, the joints being small, and the flesh fine, delicate, dark, and fragrant: Remove the sinew from a leg of Mutton by pulling it, and put the leg into a deep oval dish. Pour over 1 pint of cold, cooked marinade, and let it remain for six hours to macerate, turning frequently. Take it out, drain, put it into a roasting-pan with some lard, and place it in a moderate oven to give a good colour to its surface. Remove all the fat from the marinade stock, strain it, and pour it over; cover the leg with paper and complete the cook- ing, basting frequently. When it is quite done, take out the leg, drain it, put a ruffle on the end, and place it on a dish. Strain the stock into a saucepan, remove all the fat, reduce it quickly to half-glaze, and thicken withTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OE PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Sic., referred to, see tinder their special heads. Mutton—co ntinued. brown sauce. Let it remain on the fire for a few minutes, add 1 table-spoonful of red-currant jelly, and when it lias dissolved remove it from the fire, pour it over the leg of Mutton, and serve. Minced Mutton.—(1) Remove all the fat, skin, and gristle from some cold cooked Mutton, chop it up very line, and pour over Italian sauce, in the proportion of 1 pint to every pound of meat. Put the saucepan containing this over a clear fire, and warm up thoroughly without boiling. Turn it out on to a dish, and garnish with poached eggs or pieces of fried bread. It should he served very hot. (2) Remove the fat and hard parts from a piece of cooked leg, cut it into slices, and put them into a small saucepan. In the meantime, put a little vinegar in a saucepan with a few peppercorns and cloves and a hunch of sweet herbs, place the pan over the lire, and reduce the liquor quickly to one-third its original hulk, then add 1 teacupful of gravy, boil for two minutes longer, thicken with a piece of butter rolled in flour, pass it through a fine sieve into the saucepan with the slices of Mutton, warm them thoroughly without boiling, and turn the whole out on to a dish. (3) Trim off all the skin, fat, and gristle from about lib. of cold Mutton, and mince the meat finely; put 2oz. of butter into a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir them over the fire until browned; next pour in gradually 1 pint of stock, and add the meat with powdered sweet herbs, salt, and pepper to taste. Stir the mixture over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side and stir in quickly the beaten yolks of two eggs, the strained juice of half a lemon, and 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of finely- minced parsley. Prepare a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, turn the mince into the centre, anil serve. (4) Cut some slices off a cold roasted leg of Mutton, and mince them finely. Put loz. of butter into a stewpan with 1 heaped table-spoonful of Hour, and stir them over the fire until mixed and browned ; then put in the mince with about 1 breakfast-cupful of good stock, season with salt and pepper, and let it simmer gently for lifteen minutes, stirring at the same time. Next put in a few sliced pickled gherkins and a lump of butter. When cooked, turn the mince on to a hot dish, garnish it with sippets of toast or crofttons of fried bread, and serve. (5) Skin and chop very fine 6oz. of suet; cut lib. of meat from a cold roasted leg of Mutton, mince it very fine, and add it to the chopped suet. Mix with this 1 breakfast-cupful of fine breadcrumbs, one chopped anchovy, the beaten yolks of four eggs, a little pepper and salt, and l pint of port wine; when mixed, put the mixture into a caul of veal, place it in a quick oven, and bake. When done, turn it out of the caul on to a dish, pour brown gravy over, and serve venison sauce with it. (6) Put lib. or more of finely-minced Mutton in a sauce- pan with 4oz. of butter, and stir it over the fire until nicely browned; then put in lib. of well-washed rice, season with salt and pepper, pour in about lqt. of hot water, put the lid on the saucepan, and let the contents simmer until all the moisture is absorbed. Move the sauce- pan to the side of the fire, and leave it for twenty minutes or more with the lid on. Turn the pilau in the shape of a dome on to a hot dish, and serve. (7) Chop fine some slices of lean of a roast leg of Mutton, add 1 breakfast-cupful of sifted breadcrumbs, 1 dessert-spoon- ful of chopped parsley, a small quantity of chopped onion and pepper, and salt to taste; mix all well together and moisten with \ pint of good gravy and 1 table-spoonful of vinegar. Put the mince into a baking-disli, cut loz. of butter up small and scatter it over the top, add a layer of sifted breadcrumbs, stick little bits of butter all over them, and brown in front of the fire or in the oven. Minced Mutton with Egg-Plant Fruit.—Cut about 21b. of raw Mutton into small pieces, and finely mince them. Peel and chop three onions very small, put them in a frying-pan with 2oz. of butter, and fry for a few minutes ; then put in the minced meat, season with salt, and con- tinue the frying until the mixture is nicely browned, stirring it occasionally. When almost done, add 2 table- Mutton—continued. spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley. Slice four egg-plant fruit lengthwise, dust salt over them, and leave them for ten minutes, or until the bitter juice is extiacted, then put a layer of them at the bottom of a stewpan; next put in a layer of the mince, then a layer of egg-plant fruit, and so on until all are used. Pour in about 2In- break fast-cupfuls of clear broth, put the lid on the saucepan, and place it over the fire till the liquor boils ; then move it to the side and let it simmer till the egg-plant fruit are tender. When cooked, turn the mince over on to a hot dish, being careful not to disturb the order in which it is placed, and serve while very hot. Minced Mutton Patties.—Line some buttered patty pans with thin paste; fill them up with Hour or rice, put them in a moderate oven, and bake. \\ hen done take them out, remove the flour or rice, turn them out of the pans, and fill up with minced cooked lean Mutton ; moisten with a little gravy, warm them up in the oven, and when hot put them on a napkin on a dish and serve with a garnish of parsley. Minced-Mutton Pies (Turkish Style).—Mince finely lib. or 2lb. of raw Mutton, flavour it with salt, pepper, and powdered cinnamon, or any other kind of spice, and if liked with some finely-minced onions. Place a lump of butter in a frying-pan, put in the minced meat when the butter has melted, and fry it. When nicely browned, keep it hot at the side of the fire. Put 21b. of Hour on a table, make a well in the centre, put in a small quantity of salt, then work in gradually sufficient water to make a smooth paste, kneading it well with the hands. Divide the paste into small portions, and roll them out very thin, making them evenly round. Rutter a baking-sheet, lay the pieces of paste on it, and bake them soft over a hot stove; brush half of the pieces over with a paste brush dipped in warm butter, and sprinkle them with egg that has been beaten up together with a small quantity of clear broth; spread the fried minced meat all over these rounds, cover with the remaining pieces of paste, brush them over with Fig. 1226. Minced-Mutton Pies (Turkish Style). warmed butter, sprinkle with more beaten egg, and bake in a quick oven till nicely browned. When done, arrange the pastry on a folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish with parsley (see Fig. 1226), and serve. Minced Mutton with Poached Eggs.—Trim off all the fat and skin from some rather underdone Mutton, mince it finely, put it in a stewpan with some strong clear gravy perfectly free from fat, and season to taste with salt and pepper and a moderate quantity of sweet herbs and spices. Put the mince over a gentle fire, stirring it occasionally until boiling, then move it to the side and stir in loz. of butter that has been kneaded with a small quantity of Hour. Poach the required quantity of eggs in boiling salted water, and trim them neatly. Turn the mince on to a hot dish, lay the eggs on the top, garnish with sippets of toast or small crofttons of fried bread, and serve. Mutton Balls (Turkish).—(1) Trim off the fat and skin from some of the best parts of raw Mutton ; mince the lean finely, mix with it a small quantity of powdered cinnamon, salt, pepper, and onion-juice, work the mixture with the hands until quite smooth, then divide and roll it into small balls. Place 4oz. of fresh butter in a basin,984 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. put in the balls, and baste them with 1 teacupful of water. Stand the basin in a saucepan, pour round it some hot water, taking care that it does not enter the basin, put the lid on the saucepan, solder round the edges with paste to keep it air-tight, and place it over a smothered lire. In about two or three hours’ time the balls will be ready, then turn them on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Finely mince about 21b. or 31b. of leg of Mutton, peel and chop four onions, put them in a mortar, and pound them to extract their juice. Mix the onion-juice and 1 teacupful of ground rice with the minced meat, knead it well, season with salt and pepper, and divide it into small portions, which roll into balls. Cover well with finely-chopped parsley, and lay them side by side in a saucepan. Moisten with 1 teacupful of clear broth and the juice of a lemon, place the lid on, and cook slowly at the side of the fire. When the moisture has some- what evaporated, more broth should be added. When the balls are cooked, arrange them tastefully on a hot dish, and serve with as little delay as possible. Mutton en Brochettes.—Cut a leg or some loin of Mutton into small equal-sized pieces, rub them over with finely- chopped onion, salt, pepper, and powdered cinnamon, lay them on a plate, placing another one on the top, and leave them for a few hours. Cut lib. of tomatoes into halves, put them in a mortar, and press them to extract their juice, which pass through a fine hair sieve. Place the pieces of meat on skewers, put them in front of a brisk fire, and turn them often so as to brown equally, basting them with the tomato-juice. When they are cooked, put them on a hot dish, and serve while very hot. If fresh tomatoes are not in season, take about 1 tea- cupful of the liquor of preserved ones, strain it through a fine hair sieve to free it of all pips, and mix it with 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Mutton en Masquerade.—Take a half roasted shoulder of Mutton, cut the skin off, and mince the meat, adding to it a seasoning of pepper and salt and a few chopped oysters. Mix a little good gravy with it, and put it back on the bone in its original shape. Cover with sifted breadcrumbs and brown well. Mutton a la Prince of Wales.—Bone a shoulder of Mutton, lay it on a deep dish, and sprinkle over 1 teaspoon- ful each of bruised cloves, cardamoms, allspice, coriander- seeds, and long peppers; baste it with 1 breakfast-cupful of common claret and 4 breakfast-cupful of white wine vinegar, and 2 or 3 table spoonfuls of salad-oil. Leave the shoulder in the pickle for twenty-four hours. Put the bones and trimmings in a saucepan with 2qts. of white stock, and stew gently at the edge of the fire for several hours until all the goodness is extracted, then strain the stock, which should have been reduced to about half its former quantity, into a basin, and when cold skim off all the fat. When sufficiently pickled, drain the meat, roll it, fasten with a skewer, put it into a saucepan with a few pieces of carrot, turnip, and leek, and four or five dried champig- nons, pour the stock of the bones over the meat, and stew gently until tender. Soak |oz. of gelatine in red wine ; when cooked, drain the meat and put it on a hot dish, strain its cooking-liquor into a small saucepan, stir the gelatine into it, and boil until reduced to a demi-glaze. Cut into rings some boiled carrots and turnips, saut6 them in butter, sprinkle over some chopped parsley, arrange them in al- ternate order round the meat, pour the glaze over the shoulder, and serve. Mutton Broth. —(1) Wash 21b. of the scrag end of a neck of Mutton, wipe it with a cloth, cut off the fat and skin, scrape the meat off the bones, and chop it into small squares. Put the meat into a saucepan with 3 pints of water, and the broken bones into another pan with 1 pint of water. Place the pan containing the bones at the side of the fire, and let its contents simmer gently until wanted. In the meantime put the pan with the meat over a quick fire, boil it up, skimming frequently, and when the scum comes up quite white put in 1 pint of pearl bai ley and skim again. Cut a carrot, turnip, and an equal quantity of celery into small pieces, and fry them in 1 table-spoonful of butter Mutton—continued. for five minutes; add them to the meat, and simmer gently for about four hours, when the meat and barley should be quite tender. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour into a sauce- pan with 1 table-spoonful of butter, place the pan over the fire, and when the flour is smooth add the strained broth from the bones and pour it into the meat broth. Add 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, 1 salt- spoonful of pepper, and 2 table-spoonfuls of salt' Simmer gently for ten minutes longer, and serve without straining. In most cases the meat is preferred strained from the broth, but if the skin and fat are caiefully removed the strong disagreeable flavour will be prevented. A larger quantity of vegetables may be added, if desired, or rice can be used instead of barley, or the meat may be cut into dice and fried for a few minutes in butter. If the carrots are grated they will give the broth a fine colour. (2) Cut into dice lib. of the lean meat from the neck or loin chops, or even from a leg of Mutton, and put it into a saucepan with lqt. of water; add one minced carrot, onion, and turnip, a little celery-seed tied in a bag, and three or four white peppercorns. Put the pan on the fire and boil for an hour, or until the water is reduced to 1 pint, if it is required very good, but if not, more water should be added occasionally to keep it up to its original quantity. When done, put the meat on a dish, with a garnish of the carrots, &c., strain the brjth, let it cool, skim it well of fat, warm up, and serve in a tureen or basin. (3) Chop lib. of lean, juicy Mutton into very small pieces, put it into a saucepan, pour over 1 pint of cold water, and let it stand until the meat is very red. Put the pan at the side of the fire to heat slowly, simmer the contents gently for ten minutes, strain well, remove all the fat, and serve. The Mutton may be used for a mince. (4) Cut lib. of lean Mutton into small pieces, break the bones, and put the whole into a saucepan with suffi- cient water to cover it, and boil slowly. Add a slice each of onion and turnip, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and a little pepper. Simmer gently until the meat is in shreds; strain, and when it is quite cool remove all the fat. Pour it back into the saucepan, boil it up, and adl 1 table-spoonful of rice to every pint of broth; simmer gently until the rice is tender, being careful not to let the liquor boil away. Season with a little curry powder used in the same way as cayenne would be, or a few leaves of mint or a little celery-salt may be added instead. (5) Put 31b. of the scrag end of neck of Mutton into a saucepan with 3qts. of water, and add two turnips cut in slices and 1 table-spoonful of rice or pearl barley. Put the pan on the fire, and boil slowly for three hours, skimming frequently. When done strain it into a tureen, and serve with pieces of toasted bread. (6) Take about 5lb. or 61b. of neck of Mutton, have the bones well chopped, and put it over the fire in about 5qts. of water with 1 heaped teaspoonful of salt. Be careful that it only simmers, and let it simmer for an hour; then skim oil all the fat, add to it two or three medium-sized onions, two turnips, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, 3oz. of rice, a seasoning of pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of Hour blended with some of the liquor so that it may be stirred quite smo >thly into the soup. Let all simmer together for two hours. The meat may be put on a hot dish and served with turnips and caper or nasturtium sauce. Serve the soup in a tureen. (7) Peel four or five rather large onions, slice them, and put them in a stewpan with a lump of beef-dripping and fry until brown. Take the onions out, fry in the dripping a few sliced carrots and turnips, and dust them over with salt. Chop the best end ofl' a large scrag of Mutton and cut it into slices, making 2qts. of nicely-flavoured stock with the remainder. Fry the slices of Mutton; put a layer of the fried vegetables at the bottom of a large stewpan, then a layer of the Mutton, next vegetables, and so on until all are in. Cover the stewpan, place it over a gentle fire, and leave it for three-quarters-of-an-hour, shaking the contents occasionally to prevent them burning. Afterwards strain in the stock made from the bones, &c.,985 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. and let it simmer very gently until the meat is tender. When cooked, pick out the best pieces of meat and vege- tables, put them in a soup-tureen, and pass the remainder with the liquor through a fine hair sieve over them, nibbing them through to form a kind of puree. Serve while very hot. (8) Cut in small squares Jib. of lean Mutton and half an onion, and brown them in a saucepan with a little fat on the hot range. Moisten with 3 pints of white broth, and season with J pinch each of salt and pepper; add J pint of finely-chopped vegetables, a little celery cut up, and 1 table-spoonful of well-washed barley. Boil well together for forty minutes, pour into a hot soup-tureen, and serve. (9) Cut Jib. of Mutton into small bits, carefully re- moving all fat and skin, add a very small quantity of salt, put the meat into a bowl, pour over J pint of warm water (not boiling), cover it, and let it stand near the fire for half-an-hour; then turn it into a saucepan, put it over the fire, and let it just come to the boil. As soon as it boils, skim it well, cover the saucepan, draw it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for an hour. Strain through a hair sieve and put it into a cool place till required for use. In cold weather it will keep for about two days. (10) Scotch.—The same as for No. 8, substituting J breakfast-cupful of oatmeal for the barley ten minutes before serving. Mutton Cakes.—Trim off the fat and skin from 31b. or 41b. of raw Mutton and chop, the lean, then put it in a mortar and pound. Peel and finely mince three onions and mince a small bunch of well-washed parsley, and mix them with the pounded meat, working it until quite smooth. Divide the mixture into small equal quantities, and shape them into round cakes; put a lump of fresh butter in a frying- pan, dissolve it, put in the cakes, and fry them till nicely browned. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of Hour in a saucepan, then stir in gradually 1J breakfast-cupfuls of brown gravy ; season with salt, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and con- tinue stirring it over the fire until thick. Put the meat cakes on a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve. Mutton Chops Breaded and Sautes.—Flatten six thick Mutton chops, pare nicely, .and season with 1 table-spoon- ful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Dip them in beaten egg, roll in sifted breadcrumbs, and place in a saute-pan with loz. of clarified butter. Cook for four minutes on each side, and serve with J pint of any hot sauce or garnishing required. Mutton Chops a la Maintenon.—Cut off some Mutton chops of equal thickness, and butter them well. Chop very fine some parsley, sweet herbs, and eschalots, mix them well together, and cover the chops with them. Put the chops in a pan and fry until three-parts done, take them out, brush over with egg, and sprinkle over some breadcrumbs and more herbs if there are not sufficient adhering to them. Wrap each chop up in buttered or oiled paper, put them in a pan, and broil until quite done. Whole capers with a little of their vinegar seasoned with cayenne may be served with them, or some of the liquor from the chops, skimmed, and an equal quantity of veal gravy added and made hot, and then seasoned with a little lemon-juice or vinegar, may be served in a tureen. Mutton Coquilles.—These, if nicely made, are most delicious. Open a tin of Mutton, turn the meat out, scrape off the fat, then cut the meat into small dice-shaped bits, and fill some scallop shells or large oyster shells with it. Warm some butter till melted, pour a little over the meat in the shells, cover this pretty thickly with breadcrumbs mixed with grated Parmesan cheese, then pour on a little more of the melted butter; put the shells in a quick oven, and bake till the tops are brown. If the oven is not hot enough to brown them, make the coquilles hot hi the oven and then brown the tops with a red-hot salamander. A little chopped parsley may be mixed with the meat when filling the shells, and is considered an improvement. Mutton Cromeskies.—(1) Trim off the skin and fat from some cold Mutton, and finely mince the lean; put loz. of Mutton—continued. butter hi a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir them over the fire until well mixed, then pour in gradually a good J breakfast-cupful of nicely-flavoured stock. Stir it until boiling, then put hi the mince with a moderate quantity each of chopped thyme and parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Let it heat gradually at the side of the fire, then stir in the beaten yolk of an egg. Cut some slices of Mutton- fat about 2Jin. long and 2in. wide, put a small quantity of the mince on each, and roll them up tightly, tying them round with fine twine. In about an hour’s time, dip each of the cromeskies in a good frying-batter, put them into a stewpan with plenty of boiling fat, and fry until lightly browned. Drain the cromeskies as free from fat as possible, pile them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with a border of filed parsley, and serve. (2) Cut some slices of bacon very thin, about 1 Jin. wide by 2m. long, put them on a board with a little minced Mutton on each, roll them up tightly so that none of the mince can escape, dip them into batter, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry till lightly browned. Take them out, drain them, arrange on a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with mashed potatoes. Mutton Croquettes.—(1) Finely chop some raw leg of Mutton, and mix with it 4 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced onions and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of well-washed rice; season the mixture with salt and pepper, work it well with the hands, form into cork shapes, and plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water. When three-parts cooked, drain, and leave them till cold. Beat the yolks of four eggs, melt a good- sized lump of butter in a frying-pan, dip the croquettes in the beaten egg and then in breadcrumbs, and fry them in the butter. When nicely browned, drain, and arrange them in a pile upon a folded table-napkin on a hot dish, garnish with filed parsley, and serve. (2) Chop some cold Mutton as finely as possible and mix with it about a third of the quantity of minced oysters. Put loz. of liutter in a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, mix them well over the fire without browning, then pour in gradually about 1 pint of stock. Stir it over the fire until reduced to a rather thick sauce, season to taste, put in the minced ingredients, and continue stirring for a few minutes, then turn out on to a dish and let it get quite cold. Divide the mixture into small quantities and mould them into egg-shaped balls. Dip them in beaten yolk of egg and breadcrumbs, then egg and breadcrumbs again; put a lump of butter or clarified fat into a flat stewpan, and when it boils put hi the croquettes and fry them until a pale golden brown all over. When cooked, take them out of the pan and drain off as much of the fat as possible on a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire. Arrange them hi a circle on a hot dish, with a small bunch of fried parsley between each, fill the centre with a puree of peas or any other kind of vegetable preferred, and serve. (3) Take the lean of a cold roasted joint of Mutton, mince it carefully, removing all skin and fat, and add to it a small quantity of very finely-minced bacon and calf’s udder; season with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and a little chopped parsley, and add two or three chopped mush- rooms and a little mashed potatoes or fine breadcrumbs. Mix all well together, and make it into a paste with beaten yolk of egg. Form this paste into balls, flatten them a little, dip them in beaten egg, and roll them in a paper of breadcrumbs ; let them stand ten minutes, then roll them again in the breadcrumbs, and fry hi boiling lard or clarified fat or butter. When they are of a golden brown, drain them on paper, and serve with tomato sauce. (4) Cut oft about 1 Jib. of Mutton and mince it very fine. Put 1 pint of poulette sauce into a saucepan and reduce it to J pint, thicken with the yolks of three eggs, stir hi the minced meat, and add 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Mix thoroughly and spread it out on a dish to about 1 Jin. in thickness, and when it is firm and cold divide it into sixteen equal parts. Lay the sixteen portions of meat about 2in. apart on a board sprinkled over with breadcrumbs to about Ain. thick,THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 98 6 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. cover with more breadcrumbs to about the same thickness (viz., -Jg-in.), and roll them up into a cork shape, keeping them as nearly as possible of uniform size. Beat the whites of three eggs so as to mix them without frothing, and stir in 1 table-spoonful each of oil and water and sufficient salt and pepper to taste. Dip the croquettes in this, roll them in more breadcrumbs, and lay them on a plate to dry ; then place them in a frying-basket in a pan of boiling fat, and when they are nearly done turn them over so as to have them coloured evenly a light brown. When they are done and crisp, sprinkle them over with salt, put them on a dish, and serve with a garnish of parsley. (5) Chop some Mutton very line, roll it into little balls with egg, brush over with egg, cover them with breadcrumbs, and plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling lard and fry until done a- light brown. Take them out, put them on a napkin on a dish, and serve with a garnish of parsley. (6) Partially boil ‘21b. or 31b. of French beans in salted water, drain and chop finely, then dredge some Hour over them, and put them in a basin. Finely mince lib. of Mutton, season it with pepper and salt, and fry it in butter. Mix the minced meat with the beans, add four or five eggs, beat them well together, and season the mixture with salt and pepper. Melt a lump of fresh butter in a frying-pan, then put in I table-spoonful at the time of the minced mixture, turn it to fry on both sides, and brown them nicely. When cooked, arrange the cakes on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fri >d parsley, and serve very hot . Mutton Cup Pie. Make Hlb. of paste, divide it into eight pieces, each of which roll out as thin as possible. Partially boil four or live onions, then drain, and chop them finely. Chop a small quantity of mushrooms, and put them, together with the onions and a lump of butter, into a frying-pan, and fry till brown. Finely mince a piece of Mutton, fry it for a few minutes in butter, and add to the ab >ve. Place four of the Hats of paste over each other, moistening between them with 1 spoonful of warmed butter, then put the mince mixture over in small quantities, a short distance from each other. Moisten the paste round the mincemeat with a paste-brush dipped in water, then cover with the remaining pieces of paste; press over each lot of mincemeat with a teacup, and cut round. Butter a baking-tin, lay the pies on it, baste them with warmed butter, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked and nicely coloured, arrange on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve. Mutton Custard for Consumptive Invalids. Skin and chop 2 >z. of Mutton-suet, put it into 1 pint of fresh milk, together with l drachm of cinnamon or a little grated nutmeg. Set it over the fire and let it boil, then draw it to the side till the scum rises, and skim it care- fully. Half a teacupful of this may be taken either warm or cold three or four times a day. Mutton Cutlets (Italian Style).—Take the cutlets off the best end of two necks of Mutton which have been hung until very tender, and trim off a little of the fat. Season them on both sides with salt and pepper, brush over with a paste brush dipped in beaten egg, and roll them in fine stale breadcrumbs. Egg and breadcrumb them again, then roll them in warmed butter and more breadcrumbs; beat them between the hands, and trim round carefully with a knife. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan or Hat stewpan on the fire, and when melted and spread put in the cutlets and fry until nicely browned on both sides; there must be a brisk fire, or they will lie too much browned before they are cooked through. When taken out of the fat, drain them a minute or two on a sheet of kitchen-paper, lay them on a hot dish, pour a thin Italian sauce over them, and serve. Mutton Cutlets a la Finan^iere. Trim the cutlets, and lard them with strips of bacon. Line a stewpan with the trimmings of bacon and a few slices of vegetables, put in the cutlets together with a bunch of sweet herbs, cover them with two or three slices of bacon, and moisten with a little stock. Stand them over a moderate fire, put hot Mutton—continued. ashes on the lid of the stewpan, and braise them slowly. Put 2oz. of chopped raw ham into a saucepan with some trimmings of truffles and mushrooms, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a few peppercorns. Pour in h pint of -white wine and h pint of stock, and boil until tlie liquor is reduced to half its original quantity. Stir loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in a small saucepan over the fire until browned, then mix in gradually 1 teacupful of stock, and stir it until boiling and thickened. Strain the reduced liquor through a fine hair sieve, mix it with the thickened stock, and boil up again. When cooked, drain the cutlets, and arrange them on a hot dish. Pour the sauce over, and serve while very hot. Mutton Cutlets a l’lnciienne. (1) Procure chops cut from the best end of a neck of Mutton, trim off most of the fat, make the bones as (dean as possible by scraping them, and dust them over on both sides with salt and pepper. Smoothly mash some cold boiled potatoes, moisten them very slightly with milk, spread a layer of them over both sides of each cutlet, smo (thing them carefully with the Hat part of the blade of a knife, completely covering the me it, and brush over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg. Put a rather large lump of lard or butter into a Hat stewpan, place it on the fire, and when blue smoke rises put in the cutlets and fry them until deli- cately browned on both sides. Drain them as they are cooked on a sheet of paper, arrange them in a circle lean- ing against a fried bread crouton on a hot dish over which has been laid an ornamental dish-paper with the edge turned up, put a group of fried parsley in the centre (see Fig. 1227), and serve. (2) Peel and boil ‘21b. or 31b. of potatoes, mash them when cooked but not too much done, mix with them half their bulk of Hour, and work the whole into a smooth paste with fat. Cut some cold Mutton into small pieces, put it in the centre of the paste together with a sprinkling of finely-minced onions, and roll the paste up round it, shaping it like a ball, and then flattening it slightly. Put a go >d supply of clarified fat or lard in a Hat stewpan over the lire, and when blue smoke rises carefully drop in the cutlet and fry it gently until veil done and evenly browned; then put it on paper for a minute to drain, and serve on a dish covered with a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper, and garnish with a few neat sprigs of parsley. Mutton Cutlets a la Jardiniere.—(1) Peel three or four young carrots and turnips and cut them into small balls with a vegetal de-cutter ; boil these as well as a few button- mushrooms, French beans (cut into pieces about lin. long), and green peas separately in stock. Put loz. of butter into a stewpan with 1 go id table-spoonful of Hour and stir it over the fire until browned, then pour in gradually 1 pint of stock and continue stirring until boiling. Drain the vegetables when three-parts cooked, put them into the thickened stock, and let them simmer gently until quite tender. Boil a firm white head of cauliflower in clear water with a small lump of salt in it, trim the cutlets neatly, beat them slightly with a cutlet-bat, and season with salt and pepper. Put 2oz. of butter into a frying- pan on the fire, and when hot lay in the cutlets and fryTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 987 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. them until nicely browned, turning when done on one side. When cooked drain the cutlets and place them in a circle on a hot dish, put the cauliflower in the centre, garnish round with the vegetables, and serve. (2) Trim the cutlets and put them into a saucepan; cover with slices of bacon, moisten with stock, and stew until tender, then take them out, and keep hot. Prepare some carrots, turnips, salsify, and artichoke-bottoms, cutting them into small pieces, and put them in the cooking- stock of the cutlets. Boil gently over a moderate lire until tender and the moisture lias entirely reduced. Arrange the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish, pour the vegetables in the centre, and serve. Mutton Cutlets a la Maitre d'Hotel.—Prepare the cutlets from a neck of Mutton, by trimming them neatly, cutting the bones off rather short, and removing most of the fat; then beat them with a cutlet-bat, season on both sides with salt and pepper, and keep them in a cool larder for an hour or two. Work together with the blade of a knife ljoz. of butter, J table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Melt a lump of butter in a frying-pan, put in the cutlets, and fry them until nicely browned on both sides. When cooked, put the cutlets on a hot dish, put small pieces of the parsley butter over each, garnish with fried parsley, and serve very hot. Mutton Cutlets a la Marechal. Chop finely 2oz. of veal and pound it in a mortar together with 1 dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley; add to it less than h saltspoonful each of salt and pepper and 1 saltspoonful of nutmeg, mix, and then stir in 1 table-spoonful of cream. Take five Mutton cutlets, trim then neatly, leaving on part of the fat; beat an egg, dip them in it, and roll them in a mixture of 3 table-spoonfuls of breadcrumbs and rather more than h saltspoonful each of salt and pepper laid on a sheet of paper. Put some clarified fat in a frying-pan, and when quite hot fry the cutlets in it for eight minutes, turning them once. When fried, take them out of the pan, divide the veal mixture in the mortar into live equal portions, and spread one on each cutlet; sprinkle some finely-chopped mush- rooms over the veal mixture, and bake in a rather hot oven for ten minutes. Serve on a hot dish garnished with fried parsley. Mutton Cutlets la Minute. --Procure some cutlets from the best part of a neck of Mutton, trim them to a nice shape, and dust them over with salt and pepper, seasoning on both sides. Dissolve a lump of butter on a plate near the fire, roll the cutlets in it, and lay them on a broiler over a clear, brisk fire, turning them when cooked on one side. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, place the cutlets on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Mutton Cutlets a la Polonaise. —Cut off all the fat from about six cutlets, put them in a stewpan together with a sliced carrot and turnip and two onions, add also a bunch of sweet herbs, salt and pepper to taste, and sufficient broth to moisten. Set the pan on the side of the fire, and simmer gently until the meat is quite tender. Now take out the cutlets, and keep them hot. Strain the gravy into another saucepan, reduce it to glaze, mask the cutlets with it, and serve hot with a tureenful of tomato sauce. Mutton Cutlets a la Rachel. Chop three or four slices of fat bacon, fry them for two or three minutes, then put in the pan ilb. of chopped calf’s liver, and fry until the liver is cooked. Season to taste, pound all to a smooth paste in a mortar, then pass it through a fine wire sieve. Neatly trim some Mutton cutlets that have been cut ofl the best end of a neck, and fry them. When cooked, drain the cutlets as free from fat as possible, put them between two plates with a weight on the top, and leave them until cold. When ready, trim the cutlets again, and spread a layer of the pounded mixture over one side of each of them. Wrap them in a piece of caul, and put them in the oven until hot. Brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze, arrange in a circle on a hot dish, with a border of mashed potatoes round them, and serve very hot, with a sauceboatful of demi-glaze. Mutton—continued. Mutton Cutlets a la Reform.—Trim the cutlets neatly; mix a few table-spoonfuls of finelv-minced ham with some breadcrumbs, and season them with salt and pepper. Roll the cutlets in beaten egg and in the breadcrumbs. Melt a large lump of butter in a flat stewpan, put in the cutlets, and fry them until nicely browned on both sides. Arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with chopped and cooked mushrooms, truffles, gherkins, and boiled white of egg; pour a reform sauce round them, and serve. Mutton Cutlets a la Soubise. -Cut the best end of a neck of Mutton into cutlets, saw oil' the upper rib-bones, leaving the bones of the cutlets about 3in. long, and scrape about Jin. at the top of each bone clean. Trim the cutlets to a nice shape, lay them in a buttered saute-pan, dust over with salt and pepper, and fry over a brisk fire, turning them to cook equally on both sides. Peel and cut into slices lib. of large onions, put them into a saucepan with J pint of milk, and boil until tender; drain, pass them through a fine hair sieve, return them to the saucepan with If, breakfast-cupfuls of white sauce, and boil. When the sauce is reduced to about half its original quantity, mix with it 1 teacupful of cream, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of moist sugar, and keep it on the fire till it begins to bubble again, then move it to the side. When cooked, drain the cutlets, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce in the centre, and serve. Mutton Cutlets a la Venetienne. -Use the cutlets from the best end of a neck of Mutton, trim them neatly, scraping clean about tin. of the top of each bone, and braise them. When cooked, drain, and press them between two plates until cold. Prepare a sufficient quantity of quenelle forcemeat to spread over one side of each cutlet, and mix with it a small quantity each of chopped truffles and tongue. Trim the cutlets again, spread the forcemeat over, and lay them in a stewpan, the forcemeat side up- wards; pour about 1 J breakfast-cupfuls of brown sauce round, cover them with a sheet of buttered paper, and stew gently at the edge of the fire for a-quarter-of-an- liour. Cut some cooked tongue and gherkins into strips, arrange the cutlets in a circle round the dish, put the strips of tongue and gherkin in the centre, pour the sauce round, and serve. Mutton Cutlets in Aspic Jelly. Procure some cutlets from a neck of Mutton, saw off the chine-bones, leave the Fig. 1228. Mutton Cutlets in Aspic Jelly. rib-bones about 3in. long, and trim off about Jin. of the meat from each. Season the cutlets with salt and pepper on both sides, and fry them in butter until nicely cooked. Drain off as much of the fat as possible, and pour J tea-988 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. cupful of rich gravy and a few drops of lemon-juice over the cutlets ; put in a small piece of glaze, simmer for a few minutes, then hake. Boil the gravy until reduced to a glaze, dip the cutlets in it, coating them well, and leave them until cold. Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of clear stock into a stewpan together with 1 wineglassful of sherry and j wineglassful of tarragon vinegar; add J2oz. of gelatine which has been steeped in cold water for about lialf-an- liour, and boil the whole for a few minutes. Clarify the jelly with white of egg, and strain it through a jelly-bag until quite clear. Pour a layer of the jelly into a plain round mould, and leave it until cold and set. Then take the cutlets and stick them in, in such a way that they overlap each other, but without touching the sides of the mould. Fill up the mould with the remainder of the jelly, which should have been kept in a liquid state, and keep it in a cool larder, until cold and firm. When ready to serve, dip the mould into warm water to loosen the jelly at the sides, turn the contents out on to a dish over which has been spread a fancy-edged dish-paper, and garnish with neat sprigs of parsley (see Fig. 1228). Mutton Cutlets Sautes served with a Macedoine of Vegetables.—Take a dozen cutlets, sprinkle salt over, and cut them to an equal shape. Put them in a stewpan with some clarified butter, place a little butter on each, and surround them with buttered paper. Fry them until done, then drain and glaze. Take a croustade, fill it with a macedoine of vegetables, place the cutlets round, and it is ready for table. Mutton Cutlets Sautes with Potatoes.—Take twelve cutlets, trim them to an equal size, and dust them with salt. Put some butter into a saute-pan, lay in the cutlets, with a little butter on each and covered round with buttered paper. Fry them until done, then take them out, drain and glaze them, and put them on a dish in a circle. Take some good potatoes and cut them into jin. balls, and fry in butter until done. Place them in the centre of the circle of cutlets, pour over some Chateau- briand sauce, and serve. Mutton Doopiaja. —Put 3oz. of fat into a frying-pan, warm it, add ten or twelve large onions cut up into thin slices, fry them, remove them from the pan, and add a curry composed of the following ingredients: 4 teaspoonfuls of ground onions, 1 teaspoonful each of ground chillies and turmeric, j teaspoonful of ground ginger, and 1 tea- spoonful of ground garlic ; brown these slightly, put in 2lb. of the meat from a shoulder of Mutton cut up into thin slices and 14 teaspoonfuls of salt, pour over 1 break- fast-cupful of water, and simmer gently over a slow fire for an-hour-and-a-lialf. Turn the Mutton on to a dish, and serve with the onions spread over. Mutton Duck.—Choose a fore-quarter of Mutton without any of the leg-bone chopped off, and cut well from the backbone and ribs and high up over the shoulder, so as Fig. 1229. Mutton Duck. to take in the whole of the shoulder-blade, bone, and gristle. Scrape the meat from the shoulder-blade and separate the blade at the joint. Remove the meat from the leg-bone, roll it over as it is cut, taking care not to cut through the skin, and when within 3in. of the lower joint saw off Mutton—continued. the bone and trim the bone below the joint into the shape of a duck’s bill. Bind the joint carefully without breaking the skin, wipe the meat with a cloth, and rub it inside with a little salt. Put a little forcemeat stuffing in between the layers of meat, and with a needle and string pull the edges of the meat together, fill the inside with a little more stuffing, and form the meat into the shape of the body of a duck (see Fig. 1229), bending the leg at the lower joint to look like the head, keeping it in place with skewers. Put a skewer through the side at the top of the body and one into the body on each side of the neck, and fasten the bill in its place with string tied to the skewers. Scrape the shoulder-blade perfectly clean, sharpen the bony end to a point, notch the gristle at the bony end, and put it into the body to represent the tail, fastening it in its place with string. Put all the pieces of bone and meat into a saucepan of water and place the dish containing the imita- tion duck in a steamer over it and steam for an hour over a quick fire. Take it out, sprinkle over flour, salt, and pepper, and put it iuto an oven on a baking-dish to bake for an hour, by which time it should be quite brown, basting it with a little of the liquor out of the saucepan. Before putting this into the oven, cover the head and tail with pieces of paper to prevent them burning. When done take it out, place it on a dish, garnish with forcemeat balls and parsley or potato croquettes, and serve. Mutton Fritters.—(1) Rub 3oz. of butter into 6oz. of flour, add a little salt, and make it all into a paste with the white of an egg and the yolks of two. Roll it out to about rin. in thickness, put some minced Mutton upon it at distances apart, brush it lightly over with egg, cover it with a similar flat of the paste, cement the edges together, and cut it into shapes with a fluted biscuit-cutter; brush them over with egg, cover with breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry until done a light brown; put them on a dish covered with a folded napkin, and serve hot. (2) Cut off as many slices of cold cooked Mutton as required, dust them copiously with salt and pepper, plunge them into a frying-pan with sufficient boiling fat to cover, and fry. When done, drain, and serve. Mutton Ham.—(1) Cut off the six best chops from a hind- quarter of Mutton and shape the rest like a ham ; mix together 2oz. each of coarse brown sugar and common salt and 1 teaspoonful of saltpetre, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, make the mixture hot over the fire, then rub the Mutton well with it. Keep the Mutton in a cool larder until the following day, when it should be again rubbed with the mixture. Boil in lgall. of water lib. of salt, jib. of bay-salt, jib. of treacle, jib. of the coarsest brown sugar, 3oz. of salpetre, and 2oz. of salprunella. Skim the liquor when boiling, then put in 3oz. of juniper-berries. When cold, pour the liquor over the ham, press it down with a heavy weight, and leave it for three weeks, turn- ing it' every three days. At the end of that time, take the Mutton out and dry it on a cloth. Press it under a heavy weight for two days and nights, when it should he hung up and smoked in the same manner as hams. When ready to cook the Mutton, put it in a saucepan of water and boil for about two hours. When cooked, leave it in the water until cold. (2) Procure a hind-quarter of Mutton that has been hung for three days and trim it to the shape of a ham. Putin a mortar jib. each of common salt, bay-salt, and coarse brown sugar, and 2oz. of saltpetre ; pound well, and sift them through a fine sieve on to a sheet of paper, which put into a cool oven for a minute just to get warm. Rub the meat well over with this mixture and leave it for twelve days, turning and rubbing it well, and after the first three days putting over it 2oz. more of common salt. At the end of that time drain it from the pickle, wipe it on a dry cloth, then smoke it over wood smoke for seven days. (3) Take a Mutton ham weighing 201b. or 251b. ; mix together 2oz. each of black pepper and saltpetre, and jib. of coarse sugar. The second day after the killing rub this mixture well into every part of the ham for ten minutes, lay it on a Hat dish or deep stone trough, and cover withTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 989 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. 2Alb. of salt. Let it remain for three weeks or a month, hasting it with the brine every day. When taken from the brine dip it in cold water and hang it up. Mutton to Imitate Venison.—(1) The best Mutton to use for this purpose is the cold remains of a well-liung and rather underdone joint. Cut the meat into thin slices with a little fat attached to each if possible. Stick a few cloves in a moderate-sized onion, put it in a stewpan with two or three bay-leaves, half a blade of mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few allspice, and 1 pint of clear gravy, and let it boil gently for an hour. At the end of that time put into a stewpan 2oz. of butter and 1 heaped table-spoon- ful of flour. Stir them over the fire with a wooden spoon until nicely browned, strain in a small quantity of the prepared gravy, mix it smoothly, then strain in the re- mainder, and continue stirring until boiling and thickened. Put the meat in the sauce with 2 wineglassfuls of port wine, \ wineglassful each of mushroom ketchup and Worcestershire sauce, £ table-spoonful of red-currant jelly, and salt to taste; keep the stewpan at the side of the fire, and let the meat heat gently but do not let the gravy boil again. Have ready boiled plenty of well-washed spinach, and when tender drain it thoroughly and chop it up, mix- ing a few lumps of butter with it; make a wall with the spinach round a hot dish, pile the meat in the centre, pour the sauce round, and serve. (2) Bone and trim a loin of Mutton the day before it is wanted; put a chopped onion in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry it until nicely browned, then put in a few finely-minced trimmings of lean ham, and two or three sprigs of parsley. Pour in J2 pint of clear stock, season to taste with salt and pepper and a few drops of Worcester- shire sauce, boil it for ten minutes, then strain it into a basin. Rub the meat over with coarse brown sugar and a few table-spoonfuls of port wine. On the following morning, cover the Mutton with a fiour-and-water paste, and roast it like venison. Skim the gravy and boil it up ; when the meat is cooked, remove the paste, put it on a hot dish, and serve without delay with red-currant jelly and the gravy in a sauceboat. (3) Bone a loin of Mutton, trim it, removing all the skin, and put it into a stewpan with an onion stuck with ten cloves, a few sprigs of thyme and parsley, 1 table-spoon- ful of vinegar, A pint of port wine, and 1 pint of water; season to taste with salt and pepper, and when boiling move the stewpan to the edge of the lire and let the con- tents simmer for nearly three hours, turning the meat over occasionally. If getting too dry, pour in now and again a little clear Mutton broth. When cooked, place the Mutton on to a hot dish, strain the gravy over it, and serve. (4) Take a large fat loin of Mutton and let it hang for several days. Then take oft' all the kidney-fat, bone the Mutton, take the skin off the upper fat, and rub the joint well with loz. of ground black pepper and 2oz. of sugar mixed together; lay it on a large deep dish, pour over 1 gill dr 1A gills of port wine, cover it with the skin, and let it remain for five days, rubbing and turning it every day, always covering it again with the skin. It may then be roasted covered with the skin, and paper over that. (5) The following is a capital receipt to make a haunch or leg of Mutton eat like venison: The joint should be hung as long as it can be with safety, and dressed exactly like a haunch of venison; to make the taste more perfectly resemble that of venison, it should, after having been hung to the turn, be skinned, and laid in a pan with vinegar and water (two parts of the former to one of the latter, but not enough to cover it), and seasoned with a faggot of herbs, a clove of garlic, 1 table-spoonful of whole pepper, and a couple of onions cut in slices; let it soak for three days, dry it well, hang it for a day, and roast as venison. It may also be put into a stewpan with A- pint of gravy, simmered for four hours, and served with sauce usually prepared with venison. Mutton Kabobs.—(1) Remove all the fat and skin from a loin of Mutton, and cut through each joint. Put half a grated nutmeg in a basin and mix it up with a little breadcrumbs, line herbs, and salt and pepper to taste. Dip Mutton—continued. the pieces of meat into yolks of eggs in a basin, and sprinkle them over with the mixture, taking care to cover them. Afterwards, put them together again in their original positions, tie them round with twine, and put them on a spit in front of a quick fire to roast, placing a dish under- neath to catch the fat. Baste frequently with a little butter and the liquor from the Mutton, sprinkle over a little more of the mixture, and when the Mutton is done put it on a dish and remove the string. Put 1 breakfast- cupful of gravy mixed with 2 table-spoonfuls of ketchup and thickened with 1 teaspoonful of flour together with the gravy that is in the basting-disli into a saucepan, boil it, skim well, pour it over the Mutton, and serve hot. (2) Select a small shoulder of Mutton and bone it, being very careful not to break the skin. Put in a mortar a little more than A table-spoonful of coriander-seeds, 1 tea- spoonful each of cayenne pepper and ginger, a clove of garlic, four or five cardamoms, and a few cloves; moisten with onion-juice, and pound the whole to a smooth paste. Rub the Mutton well over with this mixture, and roll it up tightly. Put 6oz. of lard or butter in a braising-pan, place it over the fire until melted, then put in the Mutton with some salt, and cook it over a gentle fire until nicely browned. When cooked, place the meat on a hot dish, thicken the liquor in the pan with a small quantity of flour, pour it over the meat, and serve while very hot. (3) Turkish.—Cut some lean Mutton into small squares, dust them over with salt, pepper, and powdered cinnamon, nibbing it well in with the fingers, and leave them for an hour or two. Put the pieces of Mutton in a sauce- pan, cover them with milk, set it over the fire till boiling, then take the pieces of meat out and leave them till cold. Put some skewers through the pieces, put them in front of a clear moderate fire, and turn them occasionally so as to cook evenly. Keep the milk in which they were scalded hot by the fire and baste the meat with it while cooking, using a quill for the nurpose. When nearly done dredge Fig. 1230. Mutton Kabobs (Turkish). a small quantity of flour over the meat. When nicely cooked and browned, put them on a hot dish, dust a smail quantity of powdered cinnamon over them, and serve without delay. See Fig. 1230. (4) Cut some slices of lean raw Mutton into pieces about the size of a penny, put them on a dish, dust them over with salt and pepper, baste them with a few table-spoon- fuls of raw onion-juice, and leave them for two or three hours. Put the pieces of meat on to skewers, and roast in front of a clear fire, turning them frequently. As they begin to brown, dredge flour over them occasionally. When cooked, put the meat on a hot dish, dust powdered cinnamon and cumin over, and serve while very hot. (5) Cut some lean Mutton into small squares, season with salt, pepper, powdered cinnamon, and finely-minced onions, and leave them for an hour or so to become incor- porated with the flavours. Put the pieces of meat on skewers, wrap some thin caul-fat round them, and roast in front of a gentle fire, turning them frequently. When be- ginning to brown, baste the meat with the dripping in the pan. When cooked, arrange them on a hot dish, and serve immediately. Mutton Mulligatawny.—Cut off the lean part from 41b. of the scrag end of a neck of Mutton, which cut into small pieces ; put the remainder with the bones into a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, parsley, a small piece of mace, and two onions. Pour in 3qts. of cold water, and boil it slowly for three or four hours. Afterwards strain the990 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, sfcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. liquor and skim off all the fat. Put the pieces of lean meat into a stewpan with | teacupful of curry powder, loz. of butter, and salt and pepper to taste; place the lid on and stand it near the fire until the gravy is drawn from the meat, then pour in the strained liquor from the hones Stew the meat gently until tender ; mix 2 table- spoonfuls of ground rice smoothly with a little cold water, pour it into the soup, and stir it over the fire until boil- ing, then move it to the side and boil gently for half-an- liour. Turn the soup into a so up-tureen and serve it with a dish of plain boiled rice. Mutton Omelet. -Chop the requisite quantity of raw lean Mutton, mix with it a little finely-chopped onion and parsley, season with salt and pepper, put it in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry for a few minutes. Beat a sufii- cient quantity of eggs with a fork, then add the mince- meat and heat them well together. Put a rather large lump of fresh butter in a frying-pan, place it over the fire until hot, then pour in the omelet mixture and fry it until lightly browned on both sides, stirring at the same time until nicely set. liaise the pan and slip the omelet to the side to give it an elongated shape. When cooked, turn it on to a hot dish covered with an ornamental dish- paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Mutton Pie.--(l) Large.—Cut up the required quantity of lean Mutton into small pieces, season well with salt and pepper, put it with the fat into a stewpan, and cook until tender. Let it get cold, then separate the lean from the fat, putting the former into a dish ; pour over a gravy made from the bones, added to the fat from the cooked meat, and 1 wineglassful of port wine. Now add a few button- mushrooms and a little minced shallot, cover over with a crust, and bake. (2) Take 31b. of loin or neck of Mutton chops and trim the fat from them. Mix together salt, white pepper, powdered allspice, and a little powdered mace, and rub this seasoning well into the chops, l’ut them into a saucepan with a little chopped shallot or onion and a few pickled mushrooms, add 2oz. of butter, put the lid on the sauce- pan, set it beside the lire, and let the meat simmer or stew gently in its own steam till it begins to shrink ; then take it from the lire, and when cold put it into a pie-dish or into a raised crust. If the meat is put into a pie-dish add slices of hard-boiled eggs, two or three forcemeat balls, and a little more seasoning and gravy; but if it is put in a raised crust add forcemeat balls, slices of hard-boiled eggs, and more seasoning, but do not add gravy till the pic is baked ; it can then be put in through a hole made in the paste for the purpose and covered with an ornament made of the paste. If made in a pie-dish the pie may either he covered with short-crust or puff paste. (3) Cut into fdlets or small pieces the meat from three or four necks of Mutton, and dust them over with salt and pepper. Put Alb. of butter into a saucepan, warm it, and add to it 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, a head of shallot, and 4 table spoonfuls each of chopped mushrooms and till I lies.; cook them for a few minutes, and let them cool. Line a dish with paste, dip the fillets of Mutton into the butter and cooked line herbs, place them in the centre of the dish, filling up the cavities with lamb or other forcemeat mixed up with mushrooms and truffles, pour over the butter in which the vegetables were cooked, cover the pie with more paste, put it into a quick oven, and bake for about an-hour-and-a-half. Take it out when done, and serve cold. (4) Take a loin of Mutton, strip off all the meat with- out dividing it, cut it into thin slices, and sprinkle them over with salt and pepper. Put a small layer of puff paste round the edge of a pie-dish, place a layer of the Mutton at the bottom, then a layer of forcemeat, then another layer of Mutton, with four halves of kidneys put at equal distance from one another, and pour in some gravy made from the bones and well skimmed of fat. Damp the edge of the paste, cover the dish with a crust Ain. in thickness, ornament it according to taste, make a hole in the top for the steam to escape, and bake in a moderate oven for from an-hour-and-a-half to two hours. When done, take it out, and serve. Mutton—continued. (5) Cut slices £in. thick from some cold cooked roasted or boiled Mutton, and put them in a pie-dish; cover with a layer of boiled onions, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and pour in a little gravy to cover the meat. Fill up the dish with mashed boiled potatoes, smoothing it over with a knife, put it in an oven, and bake for forty-five minutes or so. When done, take it out, and serve very hot. (6) Peel 21h. of potatoes, put them in boiling water for five minutes, then drain them; cut three of the potatoes into halves, and the remainder into slices. Trim off the fat and skin from about 21b. of Mutton, cut the lean into small pieces, roll them in flour, and season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Cover the bottom of a pie-dish with a layer of the potatoes, dust a small quantity of salt over them, then put in a layer of the meat. Continue in this way until the dish is full, then put the halves of the potatoes on the top, standing them on the cut sides, and brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in warmed butter. Mix 1 table-spoonful of ketchup in 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water, pour it carefully into the dish, and bake in a moderate oven for an-hour-and-a- half. If the potatoes seem likely to get too dry on the top, baste them occasionally with warmed butter. When cooked, stand the pie-dish on a flat dish, and serve while very hot. (7) Make a good short-paste of flour, butter, and eggs, then divide it into twenty pieces, and roll them out on a floured table fill as thin as a wafer. Butter the interior of a shallow dome-shaped mould, and lay in carefully half of the pieces of paste like fish scales one over the other, allowing them to reach up to the brim of the mould. Finely chop some raw Mutton and peel and chop three onions; put them into a deep.frying-pan with a lump of butter, season with salt and pepper, and fry them over the fire till beginning to brown. Blanch and peel 2 table-spoon- fuls of sweet almonds and 2 table-spoonfuls of pistachios; put them with the fried mixture, dust it over with powdered cinnamon, and stir till well mixed with a wooden spoon. Fill the mould with the mixture, then cover it with the remaining pieces of paste, moistening between each with warmed butter. Butter a baking-tin and turn it over on to the pie, and then turn back again, so that the mould is, so to speak, upside-down. Bake the pie in a quick oven. When cooked and nicely browned, turn the pie out of the mould on to a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. (8) Select a fat loin of Mutton, let it hang for several days, then beat well with a rolling-pin; next rub it well with 4oz. of sugar, put it in a bowl, and pour over 1 pint each of port wine and vinegar. Leave it in this marinade for five or six days, take it out, wash it well, wipe it with a cloth, season highly with salt, pepper, allspice, and nutmeg, put it in a dish with 12oz. of butter, cover with a thick crust, and bake. The meat must be boned before hanging it up; put these bones into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, also 1 wineglassful of port wine, season with salt and pepper, and boil until all the goodness is extracted. When the pie is done, lift up the crust, pour in the gravy, and serve. % (9) Sift lAlb. of Hour upon a paste board, make a bay in the centre, and put into that four beaten eggs and 1 teaspoonful of salt; work the ingredients till well mixed, then stir in sufficient water to form a soft flexible paste. Knead it well, dipping the hands occasionally in warmed butter. Cut the paste into pieces about the size of a small egg, dust them with wheat-starch, then roll them out with a rolling-pin until as thin as possible. Select a round baking-tin of the same size as the pieces of paste, about 9in. in diameter, butter it, lay in a piece of paste, brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in warmed butter, then lay another piece of paste on to that; proceed in this way until half of the pieces of paste are used, brushing butter over the top of every five. Finely chop some Mutton and half the quantity of mushrooms and onions, put them in a frying-pan with butter, and fry till nicely browned. Spread the minced mixture over the paste, then cover it with the remaining pieces of paste, proceeding as before. Cut the pie into four pieces crosswise, baste the top with991 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, 6cc., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, put it in a quick oven, and bake. When cooked and nicely browned, put the pie on a hot dish, and serve. (10) Small.—Cut some Mutton into slices (without any bone), sprinkle over with salt and pepper, put them in a saucepan, and stew over a moderate fire with some fat also cut into slices. When they are quite tender, remove the pan from the fire, put it in a very slow oven, and let the slices of meat remain in it until they are quite cold. Skim off all the fat, add a little gravy made from the bones, and 1 wineglassful of port wine. A few small onions and a little minced shallot may be added if desired. Have ready some patty-pans lined with puff paste, put the meat, &c., in, and bake in a moderate oven until done. They may be served either hot or cold as desired. (11) Remove the skin and discoloured parts from Jib. of beef-suet; chop) it finely, put it into a basin, pour J teacupful of boiling milk over, and stir well. Mix Jib. of flour and 1 saltspoonful of salt in with the suet and milk. Dredge flour over a paste-board, put the dough on it, and knead well, then roll it out to about Jin. in thick- ness. Butter three large patty-pans and line them with the dough. Fill each with chopped and well-seasoned Mutton, brush the edges of the dough with a paste-brush dipped in milk, and cover each pie with a round of the dough. Press them together at the edges, make a small hole in the centre of each, brush them over with millc, put them into a moderate oven, and bake for three-quarters- of-an-liour. When cooked, take the pies out of their tins, put them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a dish, garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve either hot or cold. Mutton Pilau.—(1) Cut Jib. of boiled Mutton into small pieces and fry them in butter. Boil 2 breakfast-cupfuls of rice; when the meat is well coloured add part of the rice, also a few cloves, cardamoms, and a little cinnamon, and simmer gently at the side of the fire for half-an-hour or so. Arrange a little of the boiled rice on a dish, pour over the mince, prinkle with more rice, and serve. (2) Cut a leg of Mutton into small slices, put them into a saucepan containing sufficient boiling water to cover, and simmer slowly until the meat is done. In the mean- time put 1 breakfast-cupful of washed rice into a saucepan and cover it with gravy well-seasoned with onions, green ginger, and salt, and boil until soft. Then put the pieces of meat in the centre of a dish, pour over the rice mixture, Fig. 1231. Mutton Pilau. garnish the dish with fried onions, pieces of fried bacon, and slices of hard-boiled eggs (see Fig. 1231). Cold cooked meat can lie served as above, or the raw slices may lie first set in a frying-pan before boiling. (3) Cut out a square piece of Mutton with the saddle part attached to it; cut oil' the fillet to the bones, remove all the fat and sinews, and divide it transversely into thin slices; sprinkle with chopped mint, spices, anil salt and pepper to taste. Put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan with a little water, and boil over a moderate fire for about two hours. Wash and drain lib. of rice, turn it into a sieve, and let it diy for about an hour. Put a chopped onion into a saucepan with a little butter and fry lightly; mix in the rice, fry for a few minutes longer, pour in broth (not skimmed) to three times its height, cover the pan, and boil ; when all the moisture has evaporated, put the pan at the side of the fire to keep hot. In the meantime, put the slices of Mutton on a skewer alter- nately with slices of ham or bacon, roll them in slices of fat bacon, and broil over a clear fire for eight minutes. Mutton—continued. Put the pilau on a dish with the skewers sticking in it, and serve very hot. Mutton Pilau a la Sultane.—Wash lib. of rice, put it in a cloth, and tie up, leaving room for the rice to swell. Cut Jib. of the best part of Mutton into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with lqt. of water, and place over the fire till boiling. Then skim the liquor, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and keep the con- tents simmering for half-an-hour. Strain the liquor off the meat into a basin, put 4oz. of butter in with the meat, and fry it till nicely browned. Return the liquor to the saucepan, with 2 table-spoonfuls of skinned pistachios and 1 table-spoonful of washed currants, and dust in a small quantity of mixed spices. Mince 2oz. of Mutton and fry it in butter till browned, then put it in with the other in- gredients. When the liquid boils, put in the rice, move to the side of the fire, and simmer until soft. When cooked, arrange the pilau tastefully on a hot dish, and serve imme- diately. Mutton Pudding.—(1) Take some chops from a neck or loin of Mutton, trim the fat from them, season with chopped onion, pepper, and salt, lay one half of them at the bottom of a baking-dish, and pour over a batter made of potatoes boiled till floury, rubbed through a colander, and mixed with beaten egg-and-milk. Then put in the rest of the chops, fill up the dish with the potato flatter, and bake. (2) Make a common suet crust, roll it out, line a basin with some of it, then lay in some slices of an underdone leg of Mutton, season with pepper, salt, and finely-chopped onion, pour in a little gravy, lay a cover of the suet crust over it, pinch the edges together, tie a floured cloth over, and boil. (3) Remove all the fat from about 21b. of scrag of Mutton and put it into a saucepan meat downwards with lqt. of water, two onions, salt and pepper to taste, and boil gently for two hours. Take out the meat, remove all the bones, and let the broth cool so as to take off' the fat. In the meantime make a crust with the fat or mutton- or beef-suet, using 2oz. to every Jib. of flour. Line a buttered pudding- basin with this, place two cooked potatoes cut in slices at the bottom, and sprinkle with salt and pepper; next put in a layer of the onions, then the meat, with a sheep’s kidney cut in slices. Sprinkle with a little more salt and pepper, and cover with two potatoes cut in slices. Four in a little of the mutton broth, cover the top with a round of the paste, tie a cloth over, put it in a saucepan of water, and boil over a moderate fire for two hours. Put all the bones into the pan with the broth, add one onion cut in slices, and boil until the pudding is cooked. Turn it out on a dish when done, and serve with the broth in a sauce- boat. If a richer crust is required equal quantities of suet and flour may be used. The paste should be rolled out to Jin. in thickness. Mutton Puffs.—Pound some cooked potatoes to a smooth paste in a mortar, work in an equal weight of flour, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and add sufficient eggs to make into a paste. Put the mixture on to a board, roll it out thin, and cut it into 4in. squares. Put some slices of cold cooked Mutton and bacon on each, add a little more salt, fold the paste over cornerwise, pressing the edges together, and put them into a frying-pan with a little fat and fry, turning over so as to cook both sides. Place them on a dish when done, and serve very hot. See Fig. 1232. Mutton Ragofit.—(1) Put 3 table-spoonfuls each of flour and butter into a saucepan over a clear fire, and when hot992 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. add 31b. of Mutton cut into small pieces. Stir Avell until of a rich brown colour, add Iqt. of water, and remove the pan to the side of the fire where the contents will simmer well. In the meantime, put 3 table spoonfuls of butter into a frying-pan, make it bot, and add a few small onions (or a large one cut up in slices), a large turnip cut into small squares, and 1 teaspoonful of Hour. Stir well over the lire, and when of a golden colour a id it to the meat; simmer for an-hour-and-a-lialf longer, and serve very hot with a garnish of rice, mashed potatoes, boiled macaroni, &c. (2) Chop about 21b. of the neck or breast of Mutton into small pieces and put them into a saucepan with a little warmed butter and flour, a small quantity of sugar, suffi- cient water to nearly cover, a few sprigs of parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Place tbe pan over the lire and stir the contents vigorously until the liquor boils, then remove the pan to the side, and simmer the meat gently until done. Add three cooked turnips cut into small pieces, simmer for a few minutes longer, take out the parsley, and put the turnips in the centre of a dish with the pieces of meat round it. Remove all the fat from the liquor, pour it over, and serve. (3) Cut off as many Mutton cutlets as are required, trim off all the fat, and dust over with flour. Put the fat into a stewpan, melt it, add a bunch of sweet herbs and twro finely-minced shallots, brown them over a moderate fire, strain off the liquor, thicken it with flour, pour in 1 wineglassful each of white wine and Worcestersliire sauce, put in the cutlets, and cook them until tender; then arrange them on a hot dish, pour over the gravy, garnish with the minced shallots, and serve. (4) Peel five or six onions, cut them into thin slices, put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter, and cook over a gentle lire until soft but not browned; dredge in about 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir it until cooked, then put in 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, l wineglassful of wine, and f pint of broth; season with salt and pepper and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Roil the liquor gently till reduced to a thick creamy sauce, then strain it through a line hair sieve. Remove all the skin and sinew's from some cold cooked Mutton, cut it into slices, then chop it into small squares; put them in a saucepan, pour over the sauce, and place them on the fire until hot, but without boiling. Turn the ragoftt on to a hot dish, garnish with poached eggs, and serve. (5) Trim away the skin and a little of the fat from the breast or shoulder pieces of Mutton, and cut it into middling-sized pieces without removing the bone. Put them with some good toppings into a saucepan over a brisk fire and fry for a few' minutes, turning frequently. Add a little sugar to soften tbe meat and assist it to colour, sprinkle with salt, and put in a few small onions. When the onions are a light brown, drain off all tbe fat, sprinkle over a handful of flour, cook for a couple of minutes longer, and pour in sufficient broth to cover. Stir well until the liquor boils, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and add a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley. Simmer gently for an hour, when the meat will be about three- parts done; put a coarse sieve over another saucepan, pour the meat, &c., into it, and with a fork remove the bones, putting the meat into the saucepan with the liquor and onions. Drop in a few uncooked potatoes cut into small rounds, boil up again, basting frequently with the liquor, remove the pan to the side of the fire with hot ashes on the lid, and cook until the potatoes and meat are done (which they should be at the same time). Put the meat in the centre of a dish, garnish with the potatoes, pour over the liquor and onions, and serve very hot. Mutton Rissoles.—(1) Mince some raw Mutton until quite fine, and season it with salt and pepper; then divide it into small equal-sized quantities and roll them into balls; put 2oz. of butter in a frying-pan, make it hot, then put in the balls, and fry them till nicely browned. Drain tbe balls, and put into the remainder of the butter three thinly-sliced onions and 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley and fry them for a few minutes. Put the onions and parsley at the bottom of a stewpan, place in the balls, laying them side by side, pour in 3 table-spoonfuls of malt vinegar and Mutton—continued. sufficient clear broth to cover, and keep them boiling gently at the side of the lire for lralf-an-hour. When cooked, Fig. 1233. Mutton Rissoles. place the balls on a hot dish, pour their cooking-liquor round them, place a cover over, and serve. See Fig. 1233. (2) Cut some cold Mutton into small pieces and mix with them in moderate quantities some finely-minced parsley and onions and a small quantity of finely-minced garlic ; add half the quantity of fine breadcrumbs, season to taste with salt and pepper, and moisten with a little thick cream. Divide the mixture into small equal-sized portions, mould them round, brush over with beaten egg, and strew with grated breadcrumb. Place a large piece of butter in a stewpan over the fire, and when boiling put in the rissoles and fry them a golden brown. Serve on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper, and garnish with parsley. (3) Cut some cold Mutton into small dice, season to taste, and moisten well with nicely-seasoned gravy or stock. Take some very small round rolls, cut the tops off them, and scoop out the inside crumb. Fill the hollowed-out rolls with the Mutton, fit the tops on again, and tie thread round to keep them in their places. Dip them in an egg beaten up in a table-spoonful of cream, dredge with sifted breadcrumbs, and fry in butter. Serve hot garnished with fried parsley. (4) Remove the skin and gristle from about ,21b. of cold cooked Mutton, chop it up very fine, and mix it with about a quarter its weight of breadcrumbs. Have ready an onion boiled until quite tender, chop it up, mix it in with the meat, and add a few drops of essence of anchovy ; season with salt and pepper to taste, and work up with enough egg to make it into a stiff paste. Roll it into balls, brush over with egg, cover with breadcrumbs, and fry in a pan with a little butter until of a light brown colour. Remove the fat from the frying-pan and add a little gravy made of the trimmings and liquor in which the onion was cooked, boil it up, thicken with a little flour, stir in a little vinegar or sharp sauce, put the' rissoles on a dish, pour it round them, and serve. Mutton Sausage.—(1) Procure some well-cleaned intestines of sheep ; finely chop lib. or 2lb. of raw Mutton, mix with it 1 breakfast-cupful of well-washed rice, and season with salt and pepper and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon if liked. Stir the ingredients in sufficient water to form a stiffish paste. Tie one end of the sheep’s intestine, then stuff it with the minced mixture, passing it in through a funnel. Tie securely round the top, and prick it all over with a needle. Plunge the sausage into a saucepan of boiling salted water. When three-parts cooked, take the sausage out, drain, twist it round and round like a coil, and leave it till cold, when it will remain in this shape. Cut the sausage into thin slices and dip them in beaten egg; put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, place in the slices of sausage, and fry them till nicely browned. Drain, arrange them on a hot dish over 'which has been placed a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve.993 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Mutton—continued. This is a very novel manner of serving freshly-made sausages. (2) Finely chop lib. or so of uncooked or underdone Mutton and season with crushed mace, salt, and pepper. Chop also illi. of beef-suet, two anchovies, 2 breakfast-cup- fuls of bearded oysters, and a boiled onion; mix with these Jib. of grated bread and the minced Mutton, form it into a mass by adding the liquor from the oysters and two or three eggs, then shape it into balls or cakes, or put it into skins, plunge into boiling fat, and fry. When done, arrange them on a folded napkin spread over a dish, and serve. (3) Chop as finely as possible 61b. of Mutton and ljlb. of fresh pork, season with 2Joz. of salt, Joz. of freshly-ground black pepper, J table-spoonful of finely-minced or powdered sage or marjoram, and 1 heaped teaspoonful of grated ginger. Procure, if possible, about 1J pints of sheep’s blood, caught at the time of killing. Put the mince into a basin with the blood (which is used to give it a rich dark colour), and stir it until well mixed. Fill some well-cleaned sheep’s entrail skins with the mixture, and tie it into sausages about 4in. long. Put the sausages into a saucepan, cover with cold water, place them over a slow fire until the water is on the point of boiling, then remove the sauce- pan and leave the sausages in the water until half cold. Drain the sausages, dry them on a cloth, and hang them up in a cool dry place. Fry the sausages when ready to serve. (4) Chop finely lib. of underdone cold roasted leg of Mutton, season highly with mace, salt, and pepper, and mix with it 6oz. of finely-minced beef-suet, a little sweet mar- joram, thyme, and parsley, two anchovies, and 1 pint of oysters. Grate Jib. of bread very fine, add a little essence of anchovies, and work it into a paste with two eggs. Add this to the Mutton mixture, and when thoroughly incor- porated put it into pots or jars until wanted for use. It may be made into small balls or sausage-like rolls and fried, or put into skins. (5) Chop very fine fib. of beef-suet free from skin, also 1 Jib. of lean of Mutton free from skin and sinew, and add 1J pints of oysters bearded and washed in their own liquor, 6oz. of sifted breadcrumbs, and Joz. each of black pepper and salt. Mix all thoroughly together and then stir into them the strained liquor of the oysters and the beaten yolks of three eggs. Beat the whites of the three eggs to a stiff froth and mix them in last. Put the mixture into well-cleaned skins, tie them at intervals with fine string, and hang them up until wanted to fry. Prick them with a fork before frying. Mutton Saute.—Sprinkle a little salt and pepper over a few slices of cold cooked Mutton, put them into a frying- pan with a little butter or bacon-fat, and heat them tho- roughly but slowly. Turn them frequently, and when they are almost done, sprinkle over a little finely-chopped parsley, put them on a dish, and serve with the fat from the pan poured over. Mutton Scalloped.—(1) Mince some Mutton, chop up also some mixed pickles with it, moisten well with good gravy seasoned with walnut ketchup and a small quantity of W orcestershire sauce, and add pepper and salt to taste. Put the mixture into scallop shells, strew it thickly with sifted breadcrumbs, brown them nicely, and serve very hot. (2) Cut some cold Mutton into small neat pieces, and trim them nicely; melt loz. of butter in a stewpan, stir in J table-spoonful of flour, and when smoothly mixed pour in slowly 1 teacupful of clear nicely-flavoured stock. Stir it until boiling, then put in the meat, add a seasoning of chopped thyme and parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Stir the meat over the fire for a few minutes, then move it to the side, and stir in the beaten yolk of an egg. Fill some scallop shells with the meat and sauce, strew finely-grated breadcrumbs over them, pour in each 1 table-spoonful of warmed butter, and brown under a salamander. Spread a folded napkin or a fancy-edged dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the scallop shells on it, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. (3) Finely mince lib. of cooked Mutton with one cooked onion, season to taste with salt and pepper, and mix a For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Mutton—continued. small quantity of good gravy with it. Put the mince into scallop shells, each of which should be three-parts full. Mash 2 or 3 breakfast-cupfuls of boiled potatoes, moisten- ing them with a little cream, spread them over the top of the mince in the shells, and mark them over with the prongs of a fork. Put a piece of butter on the top of each, and place them in a brisk oven until nicely browned. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental disli-paper over a hot dish, arrange the scallops on it, leaving them in the shells, garnish with neat groups of parsley, and serve. (4) Take some cold roast Mutton, cut it up into slices, remove the skin and fat, and season with salt and pepper. Put first a layer of bread or cracker-crumbs on the bottom of a well-buttered, shallow dish, next a layer of meat, then a layer of oysters strained and seasoned, then a little tomato or brown gravy, then more crumbs, meat, &c., until all are used up, having a thicker layer of crumbs moistened with 3oz. of melted butter at the top. (5) Cut some slices, about Jin. thick, off a boiled or roast leg of Mutton, and trim them neatly, making them all one size. Season some finely-grated breadcrumbs with pepper, salt, and powdered sweet herbs; dip the slices of Mutton in beaten egg, then in the prepared breadcrumbs, and leave them for an hour or two; afterwards egg-and-breadcrumb them again. Put a good-sized lump of lard or clarified fat into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when blue smoke rises put in the scallops and fry them until of a delicate brown. Have ready prepared a puree of any kind of vegetables liked, place it in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the scallops round, and serve. Mutton Soubise.—Peel two large Spanish onions, two carrots, and two small turnips, and cut the carrots and turnips into small balls with a vegetable-cutter. Boil the vege- tables separately in salted water until tender. Trim off the fat from five or six Mutton chops, dip them into well- beaten egg and then into breadcrumbs that have been seasoned with salt and pepper; put a lump of clarified fat into a frying-pan, place it over the fire until blue smoke rises, then put in the chops and fry them, turning them when browned on one side and brown the other. Drain the boiled vegetables, chop the onions, put them in a saucepan, dredge them with flour and a small quantity of salt and pepper, pour in gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and stir it over the fire until thickened and boiling, then put in 2oz. of butter. When the cutlets are cooked, drain, and arrange them in a circle upon a hot dish, put the carrots and turnips in the centre, pour the onion sauce round, and serve while very hot. Mutton Soup.—(1) Take fib. of lean Mutton, a cutlet or steak from the leg is best, and cut it into small bits about Jin. square. Have Jib. each of turnips, carrots, and onions, and cut them as small as the meat. Put the meat in a soup-kettle with lgall. of cold water, and let it come slowly to the boil. When it boils, throw in the vegetables together with 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, Jib. of pearl barley, J saltspoonful of pepper, and 1 level table- spoonful qf salt, and let the soup simmer till both meat and vegetables are quite tender and the pearl barley well cooked. This soup should not be skimmed. (2) Take the remnants of a cold leg of Mutton, break the bone into moderate-sized pieces, and put them in a saucepan with a few carrots, turnips, and onions, say two of each, that have been peeled and cut up; put in also a bay- leaf, a few sprigs of thyme, parsley, and marjoram. Pour in 2qts. of water, add J table-spoonful each of peppercorns and allspice, eight or ten cloves, and salt to taste. Place the saucepan over the fire with the lid off until the water boils, then skim well, and move it to the side, where it may simmer for four or five hours. At the end of that time, strain the liquor into one basin, and pass the vegetables through a fine hair sieve into another basin, keeping back the parsley, &e. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan with 2 table- spoonfuls of flour, and stir them over the fire until mixed; skim the fat off the liquor, stir it in with the flour and butter, and when it boils mix in the puree of vegetables. Pour the boiling soup into a soup-tureen, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast or crotitons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter. uses, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. 4 cTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKER I 904 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. (3) Put a sheep’s head (with the skin remaining on) into warm water and let it soak. Remove the tongue and hrains, and carefully break all the thin hones inside the cheek. Wash it well in several waters and put it in a saucepan with lqt. of water and 1 teaspoonful of salt, and hoil it for ten minutes. Pour off the water, add ftgall. more, and lib. of the scrag end of a neck of Mutton, two carrots and turnips, six onions, a sprig of parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Put the pan over a slow fire and boil gently for about live hours; strain off the broth and let it cool in order to remove the fat. Take all the vege- tables, rub them through a fine sieve, mix in 1 table-spoon- ful of cornflour rubbed smoothly into 1 gill of milk, boil the soup, and stir them in. In the meantime boil the tongue until it is quite tender, skin it, and trim off all the superfluous fat, chop it very fine, add the brains also cooked, and mix in an equal bulk (of the brains and tongue to- gether) of breadcrumbs, one egg, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and salt and pepper to taste; roll the mixture into balls, using a little flour if it is too thin. Plunge the balls into a frying-pan with loz. of butter, fry them to a light brown colour, and drain off all the fat from them. Pour the soup into a tureen, add the balls, and serve with some parsley, scalded and chopped, on a dish. If the skin is removed from the head before being cooked, much of the nourishment is lost. The neck and head after cooking may be used for other purposes. (4) Pour 7 pints of water into a saucepan over 71b. of the scrag end of a neck of Mutton, and add three carrots, the same of turnips, one onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, and salt and pepper to taste. Put the pan on the side of the fire and simmer gently for about ten hours, taking care to stir it frequently. Let it remain in the saucepan for a day; boil it up, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for three hours longer. Take out the meat, put it on a dish with the vegetables for a garnish, and serve. Strain the soup through a fine sieve into another saucepan, let it get cold, remove all the fat, and add gradu- ally 6 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot mixed to a smooth paste with water, and salt and pepper to taste,, stirring well until it thicken -. When done, turn it out into a tureen, and serve. Mutton Steak a la Florentine. -Cut the meat off a leg of Mutton into thick steaks or slices, and nib each slice over on both sides with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Season some breadcrumbs with thyme, savory, cloves, mace, salt, and pepper, and bind them with beaten yolks of eggs, then divide and mould the mixture into small balls ; butter the edges of a pie-dish, line them with paste, and put in the slices of Mutton, together with the balls, four chopped shallots, a dusting of powdered sweet herbs, and two or three anchovies. Moisten with 4 pint each of claret and water, and put on the top 41b. of butter broken in small pieces. Cover with puff paste, and trim round the edges, moistening and pressing them together. Bake the pie in a good oven, and serve while hot. Mutton Tea.—This is used and made like beef tea. Chop off all the fat from lib. of Mutton, and cut it into slices, put it into a saucepan, pour over 14 pints of boiling- water, boil for an-liour-and-a-half, and it is ready for use. It may be served with loz. of pearl barley, washed and macerated in boiling water for an hour, and boiled with the slices of Mutton. The barley must be well strained before being used, so that all that is not dis- solved will be separated. Neck of Mutton a la Bohemienne.—Trim a neck of Mutton, beat it well, lay it on a deep dish, and cover with slices of onions, carrots, turnips, leeks, and pieces of celery. Pour lqt. of vinegar and 1 pint of broth into a saucepan, stand it over the fire until boiling, then put in two blades of mace, 1 teaspoonful each of cloves and peppercorns, three bay-leaves, a small bunch of sweet herbs, |lb. of moist sugar, and a small lump of salt. Boil the liquor for twenty minutes, then move it off the fire. When cold, pour the pickle over the vegetables and meat, and let it marinade for three days, turning it each day. At the end of that time, make a stiff flour-and- Mutton—continued. water paste, drain the meat from the marinade, and wrap it in the paste, covering it well; then cover it with thick paper, and tie it round securely. Roast the Mutton for two or three hours, according to the size. When cooked, take it out of the paste, glaze it, and brown under a salamander. Strain 4 pint of the marinading liquor into a saucepan, pour in lqt. of brown sauce, and boil it quickly until reduced to a creamy thickness; skim it, mix with it half a small pot of red-currant jelly, two dozen blan- ched mushrooms, about eighteen pickled onions, and the same of stoned French olives. Stir the sauce over the lire until these latter ingredients are thoroughly heated through. Put the neck of Mutton on to a hot dish, pour the sauce round, and serve. Neck of Mutton a la Bretonne.—Chop oft' the chine bones and scrags of two necks of Mutton, trim them to a nice shape, and roast in front of a clear fire, keeping them well basted. A pint of French haricot beans should have been put in water the night before, and well soaked. Drain the beans, put them in a saucepan with fresh water, loz. of butter, and a lump of salt, and boil until tender. As the beans will require much longer cooking than the Mutton, they should lie put over the fire some time before the Mutton goes down. Peel and thinly slice three large onions, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter or clarified fat, and fry until nicely browned ; dredge a small quantity of flour over them, and pour in 2 breakfast- cupfuls of clear gravy. Stir the sauce over the fire until boiling, put in the beans, with a small piece of glaze about the size of a walnut, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stir until the glaze has dissolved. When cooked, put the Mutton on a hot dish, pour the sauce round, and serve. Neck of Mutton a la Charte.—Chop off the chine-bones and scrag of a neck of Mutton, and trim it neatly; lard it with thin strips of bacon, put it into a stewpan with slices of bacon and vegetables, moisten with broth, and braise it. Peel and wash about half-a-dozen young turnips, and cut them into balls with a vegetable-scoop; put 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar in a stewpan, place it over a brisk fire, and when it begins to brown put in 2oz. of butter and the turnips; toss them about until they are nicely glazed, then pour in 3 breakfast-cupfuls of brown sauce and 1 breakfast-cupful of broth. Boil the turnips gently until tender, then take them out of the liquor, skim it, and boil it quickly until reduced to a creamy consistency. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve, return it to the stewpan with the turnips, and keep them hot at the side of the fire. Peel and trim a dozen small turnips to a pear shape, and boil them in stock until tender. When cooked, put the Mutton on a hot dish, pour the balls of turnips and sauce over it, pile the pear-shaped turnips at each end in pyramids, and serve immediately. Neck of Mutton a la Provenpale.—Remove the scrag and chine-bones from a neck of Mutton, trim it to a nice shape, and lard it with thin strips of bacon. Put it in a saucepan with two onions with three cloves stuck in each, one carrot and turnip cut into slices, a bunch of sweet herbs, two bay-leaves, and a blade of mace. Moisten the meat to height with white broth, put the lid on the sauce- pan, and place it over the fire until the broth boils, then move it to the side and let it simmer for two hours. Peel and chop four large onions, put them in a stewpan with a few drops of salad-oil, and stir them over a moderate fire until lightly browned; dredge them over with flour, stir in gradually l breakfast-cupful of white sauce and 4 break- fast-cupful of stock, and simmer gently at the side of the fire until the onions are tender. Season the sauce to taste with pepper, salt, and 1 scant teaspoonful of moist sugar, and stir in quickly the beaten yolks of two eggs. The sauce must not boil after the eggs are added. When cooked, lay the Mutton on a dish, spread the sauce over it, brush the top over with beaten egg, and strew fine bread- crumbs over it; brown under a salamander or in a brisk oven. Put 14 breakfast-cupfuls of brown sauce in a stew- pan with 1 breakfast-cupful of broth and a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, and boil until reduced to a creamy995 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. consistency, keeping it well -skimmed and seasoning with a very small quantity of scraped garlic. Pour the sauce round the Mutton, and serve. The garlic may he omitted. Necks of Mutton with Vegetables.—Trim the scrags off two necks of Mutton, remove the chine-hones, and lard the lean meat with hacon. Cover some thick sheets of paper with slices of onions, carrots, and turnips, also a few sprigs of thyme and parsley and three or four hay-leaves, place the necks on the vegetables, and wrap the paper round them. Fix them on a spit and roast in front of a clear lire, hasting continually. When nearly cooked, remove the paper and vegetables from the necks. In the meantime, prepare and boil separately in white stock a sufficient quantity of small onions, carrots, turnips, a cauliflower, and a small hunch of asparagus; boil and mash a few pounds of potatoes, fill a border-mould with some, and keep it hot in a bain-marie. Place the necks of Mutton on a hot dish, fill up the gaps between them with mashed potatoes, and turn the border of potatoes round the dish. Break the branches of the cauliflower apart, and arrange them tastefully with the other vegetables on the dish. Glaze the Mutton, pour a thin glaze over the vegetables, and serve. If arranged carefully and with taste, this dish can be made to look very pretty; the vegetables should be placed so that the colours form. a good contrast. Oxford John.—Select a leg of Mutton that is well hung and rather high; cut it into eollops as thin as possible, removing all the sinews. Sprinkle them over with mace, minced shallots, parsley, and thyme, salt and pepper to taste, and put them in a saucepan with 3oz. of butter. Stir them well over a slow fire until done, and add the juice of a lemon, 1 breakfast-cupful of gravy, and thicken with a little butter Fig. 1234. Oxford John. rolled in flour. Put the pan at the side of the fire and simmer gently for five minutes or so. Take them out, put them on a dish, and serve with a garnish of pieces of fried bread. See Fig. 1234. Pot-Pourri of Mutton.—Bone a leg of Mutton without cutting it open, and lard it inside with small strips of fat bacon and ham. Sew it up to form a round, put it in a basin, sprinkle over salt and pepper, add a few sweet herbs, peppercorns, and cloves, and pour over 1 pint of burgundy wine; cover the basin with a cloth and let it remain in a cool place for four hours or so. Cover the bottom of an earthenware stockpot with a few layers of bacon, put the leg of Mutton on them, and surround it with a few onions, four large carrots cut in pieces, and lib. of pork-rinds blanched and cut in squares. Pour over the liquor, &c., from the marinade, cover over the pot with a piece of paper first and then a plate half-full of water, put the pot on tiie fire, boil up the contents, and then remove it to some hot ashes, surrounding it to half its height. It requires to boil gently and keep at the same temperature while cooking. When it is done, take it out, drain, and put it on a dish with the vegetables, &c., placed round it. Skim off all the fat from the cooking- stock, strain it, pour it over, and serve. Potted Mutton. — Chop up some cold cooked Mutton, remove all the skin and sinew, and pound it in a mortar with half its bulk of cooked bacon. Sprinkle over a little allspice, salt and pepper to taste, and put it into a jar in a sauce- pan of water and boil until the mass is warmed quite through. Take out the jar, stir frequently until the meat is nearly cold, squeeze it into small pots, let them remain Mutton—continued. for a day, then cover with clarified butter or hot mutton- suet so as to exclude all air. Rechauffe of Mutton.—(1) Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter into a frying-pan over the lire, and when it is melted add 1 table-spoonful of flour: stir continually until it is smooth, and add gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of stock and 2 table- spoonfuls of glaze. Boil gently for a minute and add the yolks of two eggs, season with salt and pepper, add 1 table- spoonful of lemon-juice, and remove it at once from the fire. Cut some cold cooked Mutton into slices about 4in. thick, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and when the mixture is cool dip them in it so as to cover both sides; roll them in breadcrumbs, and then dip them into the whites of three eggs and the yolk of one well beaten together, and lastly into breadcrumbs again. Put them into a frying-pan of boiling fat and fry for two minutes. Drain them well on paper, put them on a dish, pour some tomato or hollandaise sauce over, and serve. A little of the fat should lie cut off if there is too much. (2) Cut any cold Mutton into slices, rub a dish over with garlic, butter it thickly, lay. the slices of meat on it, sprinkle over a few finely-chopped mushrooms, moisten with a little white wine arid stock in equal quantities, season with salt and pepper, strew thickly with finely- grated breadcrumb, place a few pieces of butter about on the top, and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. When ready, serve the meat in the dish in which it was cooked, while very hot. (3) Cut any cold Mutton into slices about 4in. thick, and trim them as near as possible to the same shape. Season some grated breadcrumb with powdered sweet herbs, salt, and pepper; dip the pieces of meat first in well-beaten egg and then in the seasoned crumbs, giving them a good coating, leave them for an hour or two, then egg-and- breadcrumb them again. Melt a large lump of lard or clarified fat in a flat stewpan, put in the pieces of meat, and fry them until nicely browned; then drain, place them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of tomato or any other sauce. (4) Peel and slice as thinly as possible a moderate-sized onion, and fry it in butter until nicely browned; dredge over with flour, and pour in 4 pint of warm water. Stir over the fire until boiling and thickened, flavour with Worcestershire or any sauce liked, and colour with burnt- sugar colouring. Cut the cold Mutton into nice-shaped pieces, put them in a stewpan, and strain the sauce over them. Stew very gently at the edge of the fire until the meat is very hot, then turn the hash on to a hot dish, garnish with crofttons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. Red Mutton Stew (Turkish).—Cut some leg of Mutton into small pieces; wash them, put them into a saucepan with salt and pepper and sufficient water to cover, and boil till tender. Scald 1 breakfast-cupful of chick-peas, put them in with the meat, skimming the liquor, and boil them till tender. Slice three onions, fry them in butter till brown, then add them to the stew. Put some slices of toast at the bottom of a hot dish, pour the stew over, and serve. Roasted, Boned, and Stuffed Leg of Mutton.—(1) The principal difficulty in accomplishing this dish is the boning; this must be done with a very sharp knife. Commence on the under-side of the joint, passing the knife under the skin until exactly over the bone, then cut down to it; pass the knife round close to the bone right up to the socket, remove the large bone of the thickest end of the leg, seeing the meat is clear of the bone, draw out the remaining bones which will come away easily, and stuff the cavity with highly-seasoned forcemeat. Fasten the knuckle end tightly over, replace the bone at the base of the joint, and sew it in. Put it in front of a clear fire, baste well until done, and serve with gravy. (2) Take a leg of Mutton weighing about 71b., bone it, and fill the cavity with some veal stuffing mixed with about 3oz. of ham or bacon. Sew up the hole to prevent the forcemeat coming out, tie the leg round with string, and put it before a clear fire to roast. When done (it 4 C 2996 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. will take about three hours), take oft' the string, put it on a dish with some brown gravy poured round it, and serve hot. Roasted, Boned, and Stuffed Shoulder of Mutton.—Bone the shoulder, but leave the knuckle-bone in ; flatten the meat out on the table, and season it interiorly with salt and pepper. Mince Mb. of cold boiled bacon, and mix with it half its weight of grated breadcrumb, a small quantity each of grated nutmeg and powdered thyme, the grated peel of half a lemon, and salt and pepper to taste. Bind the mixture with beaten yolk of egg, and spread it over the Mutton, leaving a clear margin all round the edge of the meat. Roll the shoulder up tightly, and bind it round with tape. Fix the joint in front of a clear but not fierce fire, and roast it slowly for two hours, keeping it well basted. While it is being cooked, prepare a nicely - flavoured gravy with the bones. When cooked, place the meat on a hot dish, pour some of the gravy round it, and serve with the remainder in a sauceboat. Roasted Fillet of Mutton.—-Cut off the chump end of a loin of Mutton, cover with paper, and put it in front of a clear fire to roast. Let i,t remain for two hours, taking- care that it does not brown in the slightest, and glaze it. Put some well-drained boiled French beans in the gravy, warm them up, turn them out on to a dish, place the meat on the top, and serve. Roasted Fore-quarter of Mutton.—Select a young and tender forequarter of Mutton, wrap it up in sheets of well- buttered paper, and put it on the spit in front of a clear fire to roast. When done, remove it, put it on a dish over a pur tie of haricot beans, and serve very hot. Roasted Haunch of Mutton.—(1) Select a haunch of Mutton that has been hanging for about a fortnight, remove all the skin that covers the fat, take out the shank- bone, cover it with well-buttered paper, and put it in front of a clear fire to roast. Baste frequently, and when it has been cooking for about two hours put it nearer the Fig. 1235. Roasted Haunch of Mutton. fire so as to brown ; dust it over with salt and a little flour, and baste with butter. When quite done, place it on a dish, put a paper frill on the shank-bone (see Fig. 1235), pour over 1 wineglassful of port wine mixed with some gravy, and serve with red-currant jelly sauce. (2) Wash a haunch of Mutton with vinegar, wipe it dry, and let it hang. Repeat this washing every day for a fortnight. Stick a few cloves in the knuckle, put the haunch in a saucepan, pour over it 1 pint of port wine, and let it remain for a day, basting frequently with the wine. Re- move the knuckle rather close to the joint of the leg, cut off the skin that covers the fat, cover the haunch with pieces of buttered paper, put it on a spit at a little distance from the lire, and cook until it is thoroughly warmed through. Then put it a little nearer the fire, and continue in this way until it is thoroughly done, basting well. When it is nearly done, remove the paper, sprinkle it over with flour, and brown it well. Put it on a dish, with a frill of paper round the bone, pour over 1 pint of gravy mixed with a little port wine, and serve with red-currant jelly. (3) Trim a haunch of Mutton, wrap it in a sheet of buttered paper, fix it on the spit, and roast; ten minutes before taking it from the fire remove the paper to brown Mutton—continued. it nicely. Peel about 21b. of young carrots, put them in a pan of boiling water for five minutes, then drain them, and leave till cool. Cut the carrots into slices, put them in a saucepan with a lump of butter, 1 saltspoonful of salt, | teaspoonful of moist sugar, and a little more than \ tea- cupful of water. Stand the saucepan over the fire till the water begins to boil, then move it to the side and let it simmer for twenty minutes. When the carrots are tender, mix the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten together with 2 table-spoonfuls of cream with them, add Joz. of butter, and a small quantity of chopped parsley, stir till thick, but do not boil after the eggs are added. When cooked, take the meat off the spit, place it on a hot dish, put the carrots round, and serve it with a sauceboatful of rich gravy. (4) Wrap a sheet of oiled or buttered paper round the haunch, fix it on the spit, and roast it in front of a clear, even fire; fifteen minutes before removing the meat from the fire, take off the paper so that it may get a good brown colour. Peel some small, equal-sized onions, blanch them for five minutes in boiling water, then refresh them in cold water, and leave till cool. Put the onions in a stewpan with a lump of butter, season with a small quantity of salt and sugar, and fry till browned. Pour Iqt. of Spanish sauce over, and boil them till the sauce has reduced to 1 i pints. Boil some white haricot beans in water with butter, salt, one onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs, and when soft strain them, pass the onions and sauce through a fine hair sieve, return the puree to the saucepan, mix the beans with it, also a small lump of butter, and some meat glaze. When the meat is cooked, put it on a hot dish, glaze it, and place a paper frill round the knuckle. Serve the haunch with the purde and beans in a separate dish. (5) Cut oft' the knuckle rather close to the joint, notch the cramp-bone so as to allow the thick part or cushion to draw up and give the haunch a plump appearance; trim off the thick skin at the flank and round oft' the corner of the fat so as to give the joint a neat shape. Cover the fat with oiled paper, and roast before a good clear fire. About fifteen minutes before the joint is cooked remove the paper, so as to brown the fat; put it when cooked on a dish, and serve with red-currant jelly and rich wine sauce in a sauceboat. A haunch weighing from 141b. to 161b. will take from three hours to three-hours- and-a-half to roast, but if required to be very well done it should be left a little longer. Roasted Larded Heck of Mutton.—Remove the chine- bone from a neck of Mutton, and cut the sides straight and rather short; then trim the fillet of meat close, remov- ing some of the fat covering the ribs, but without making them bare. Lard this fillet with pieces of fat bacon, wrap it up in a piece of oiled or buttered paper, fasten on to the spit with a skewer, and roast gently in front of a clear fire. Baste frequently with butter, and when it has been cook- ing for forty-five minutes, remove the paper so that it may brown, and then take it from the spit. Put it on a dish, sprinkle over salt, and serve with gravy poured over and a garnish of mashed potatoes. Roasted Leg of Mutton.—(1) Take a leg of Mutton, wipe it dry, sprinkle it over with pepper and flour, chop off the knuckle-bone, remove the thick skin, and trim the flank. Put the leg in the oven (or before the fire) in a roasting-dish, add a little water and salt, and baste the leg frequently. Allow about fifteen minutes for every pound if the oven is very quick, but if the oven is slow about twenty minutes. When done, put it on a dish, pour the gravy round, and serve with some currant jelly on a separate dish. If the leg is too large for roasting, it can be divided, and the knuckle end either boiled or the cut end covered with paste made of flour and water and boiled. (2) Take a fat, plump leg of Mutton and beat it with a cutlet-bat to bruise the fibres; round the top part, break up the knuckle sinew by doubling over the leg, and saw off the thin end bone. Put it in a roasting-pan or dish, dust- over with salt, smear over a little butter or lard, and cover it with a piece of well-greased paper. Put it into997 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see tinder their special heads. Mutton—continued. the oven or before the fire and cook it until done, basting frequently. For a leg weighing 61b. about an hour will be quite sufficient to cook it. When done put it on a dish, remove the paper, and pour over h pint of gravy mixed with its stock, boiled, strained, and skimmed of its fat, and serve. (3) Take a leg of Mutton that has been hung until it is quite tender; lard it with fillets of anchovies, bacon, and garlic, and wrap it round in a sheet of greased paper. Put it to roast in front of the fire, and when done put it on a dish, remove the paper, and serve very hot with a garnish of cooked vegetables. (4) Carefully remove the thick skin from a leg of Mutton, trim off the piece of flank that adheres to the fat, and flatten the fat with a cutlet-bat. Chop off the knuckle, and nick the cramp-bone so as to allow the thick part to draw up and give the leg a plump appearance. Set the Mutton in a roasting-pan, and roast it until done, basting with its own liquor seasoned with salt. Serve hot with red-currant jelly separate. Roasted Leg of Mutton a la Portugaise.—Take a medium- sized leg of Mutton, cut off the shank-bone, trim well, and make an incision at the first joint. Season with 2 pinches of salt and h pinch of pepper; rub 4oz. of butter over it, and roast for one hour in a pan, basting occasion- ally with the gravy, and turning it once in a while. Remove from the oven, dress on a hot dish, and serve with three stuffed tomatoes and three timbales of cooked rice, straining the gravy over, or it may be garnished with red or white beans cooked in gravy. Roasted Leg of Mutton a la Russe. -Select a young and tender leg, beat it a little with a cutlet-bat in order to bruise it, and put it in front of a clear fire to roast, basting frequently. When nearly done, remove it from the fire, put it in a shallow pan, pour in 1 pint of brandy, put the pan over the fire, and when the brandy is quite hot set fire to it, turning the leg round until the brandy has burnt out. Pour in a little veal stock, simmer gently for a few minutes, put the leg on a dish, skim off the fat from the liquor, pour it over, and serve. Roasted Mutton a la Turke.—In Turkey this is called Shaslii-kebassi, which means “ roast of the street,” and is prepared as follows: Cut the meat of a leg or loin of Mutton into large squares, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and baste with onion-juice. Put the pieces of meat on long skewers, and broil them over a clear fire until done. Place them on a dish, remove the skewers, pour some cream (yaour) over them, and serve. Roasted Leg of Mutton like Game. -Trim off the skin and beat a leg of Mutton that has been well hung; rub it over well with pepper, salt, and powdered cloves or all- spice, lard the meat, dredge it with flour, and roast it in front of a clear fire, dredging occasionally with flour, and basting it with milk. When cooked and richly browned, put the meat on a hot dish, garnish it with cut lemons, i and serve with a sauceboatful of rich piquant sauce. Roasted Leg of Mutton with Oysters.—Rub a leg of Mutton all over with salt, and put it on the spit in front of a clear fire to roast, basting frequently. When about three-parts done, remove it from the fire, and with a sharp knife make cuts all over. Stuff an oyster into each hole or incision, put it back again, and finish roasting. Put the leg on a dish, add 1 wineglassful of red wine to the gravy, boil it up, pour it over the leg, and serve. Roasted Neck of Mutton.—Cut oft' the fat from 41b. of the middle or best end of a neck of Mutton, chop the bones short, and disjoint them. Put the Mutton before a clear fire, dust it over with flour, and baste frequently. When it is nearly done, put it closer to the fire, sprinkle it over with salt, and finish the cooking. When done, put it on a dish, pour the dripping from the pan, add a little boiling water to the sediment, stir it well, strain it, | pour it over the meat, and serve with a little red-currant jelly. Roasted Rolled Loin of Mutton.—Remove all the bones from a loin of Mutton weighing about 31b., take out the Mutton—continued. fillet, and mince it very fine. Add to the mince an equal quantity of breadcrumbs, one minced shallot, a little chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and sufficient egg to make it into a stiff paste. Put this on the Mutton, tie it over tightly with string, rub it well with Hour, sprinkle over some salt and pepper, and place it in a slow oven to roast. Put a few onions into a frying-pan with the Fig. 1236. Roasted Rolled Loin of Mutton. bones, fry them until they are brown, pour in a little stock, and thicken with flour. Put the meat, when done, on a dish, pour the gravy round, and serve with a garnish of glazed onions (see Fig. 1236). Roasted Stuffed Loin of Mutton.—Bone a loin of Mutton, trim off some of the fat, and then beat it with a rolling- pin to flatten it as much as possible. Mix together \oz. of sweet almonds, blanched, boiled for ten minutes, and pounded to a paste, ^lb. of Mutton-suet skinned and chopped fine, loz. of sifted breadcrumbs, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 4 teaspoonful of mixed herbs powdered or chopped fine, a seasoning of pepper and salt, a very little cayenne, a little grated nutmeg and grated lemon-peel, the yolks of two eggs, and the white of one. When this stuffing is thoroughly mixed, spread it evenly over the inner side of the Mutton, roll it neatly, skewer it, tie it, and then roast it in front of a good fire, keeping it well basted. Put the bones in a pan over the fire with half a head of celery, half a carrot, an onion, a shallot, and a very small piece of garlic; pour over them about 1 pint of water, and let them stew for three hours. Strain the liquor and add to it a little salt, 1 teaspoonful of soy, 1 dessert-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and 1 table- spoonful of flour blended smooth with a little of the liquor before mixing it with the whole quantity. Stir it till it boils, and boil for ten minutes, stirring occasionally, then mix in 1 glass of port wine. When the Mutton is dished, pour the gravy over it, and serve very hot. Roasted. Saddle of Mutton.—(1) Take out the kidneys from a saddle of Mutton, remove the skin covering the fat, and tie it round with string. Put it into a baking-dish, mask it with vegetables and a little fat, pour over a little warmed water, and put it into a hot oven to roast. Baste frequently, and in about forty-five minutes’ time (when it should lie done) sprinkle with salt and pepper, put it on a dish, garnish with small balls of potatoes fried in butter, and serve with a sauceboatful of gravy. (2) Remove all the skin from a saddle of Mutton, cover it with a piece of well-buttered paper, and put it in front of a clear fire to roast. When nearly done, remove the paper, sprinkle with flour and salt, and pour over it a little warmed butter. When done, put it on a dish, skim off the fat from the liquor, pour it over, and serve. Red- currant jelly should be served separately. (3) Pare and trim a fine saddle of Mutton weighing about 61b.; lift off the upper skin, make one slight incision in the middle, also three on each side; tie it firmly together with three strings so that it retains its shape, season with a good pinch of salt, and it will then be ready to roast. Place the saddle in a roasting-pan, add 1 gill of cold water, put it in a moderate oven, and let it cook for about an hour, basting it fre- quently with its own gravy, and serve on a very hot dish. Skim off all the fat, strain the gravy into a sauce-bowl, and serve separately. Should the saddle be of heavier weight, say 12lb. to 14lb., about two hours will be ne- cessary to cook it. Red-currant jelly should be served separately.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 998 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. Roasted Saddle of Mutton with Chestnut Puree.—Trim both fillets of a saddle of Southdown Mutton, lard them, fix them on a spit, and roast in front of a clear fire, hasting constantly. When cooked (it will take about three -quarters- of-an-hour) remove the saddle from the spit, dust some salt over, and cut the fillets in slices, in rather a slanting direction, letting them adhere to a small part of the fat. Cut off the sides of the saddle, place them on a remove- dish, forming with them a kind of support, on which arrange the carved fillets of the saddle. Serve it with a separate dish of chestnut puree and a sauceboatful of melted half-glaze. Rolled Neck of Mutton.—With a sharp knife remove the skin from a piece of the best cr.d of neck of Mutton, saw off the hones, reserving the cutlets for another time. Take the pieces of meat that were left on the bones and trimmings, lay some on the skin with a few pieces of bacon, and put the rest in a mortar with any trim- mings of either cooked or uncooked meat that may he handy, half a chopped onion, and about 2oz. of butter ; pound the mixture until smooth, and season it to taste with salt, pepper and powdered sweet herbs. Pass the pounded mixture through a fine hair sieve, and spread it on the skin over the pieces of bacon, &c. Fold the skin over about bin. at each side, then roll it up tightly lengthwise, completely enclosing the meat; bind it round several times with thread. Peel and slice an onion, put it in a stewpan with a piece of bacon-fat, and fry it; next put in the meat, turn it about two or three times over the fire until it has slightly browned, then moisten to about half its height with nicely-flavoured stock, and let it boil gently at the edge of the fire until cooked. When ready remove the thread, place the meat on a hot dish, strain its cooking-liquor over, and serve. Rolled Shoulder of Mutton.—(1) Take out the bone from a shoulder of Mutton, and with a sharp knife cut out all the lean, leaving the fat and skin intact; finely mince the lean, season it highly with pepper, salt, finely-chopped parsley, lemon-thyme, spring-onions, lemon-peel, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg ; make the whole into a mass by adding a well-beaten egg or two, put all back again into the skin, roll it up as tightly as possible, and bake for two-hours-and-a-half in a moderate oven. Pre- pare a gravy with the bones and trimmings well seasoned with pepper and salt, add also one onion, 1 table-spoonful or so each of vinegar and soy, and 1 wineglassful of port wine; when hot, pour it over the Mutton on a dish, and serve. (2) Mix with 1 teacupful of grated stale breadcrumb 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped suet and 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley; season them with salt and pepper, and bind the mixture with beaten egg. Stuff a boned shoulder of Mutton with the dressing, roll it, and tie it loosely with twine. Put Jib. of butter into a saucepan over the fire, and when it lias melted put in the shoulder and place the lid over. Turn the meat occasionally and baste it well. In about an-hour-and-three-quarters’ time, put the meat on a hot dish; drain the butter out of the saucepan, and pour in 1 teacupful of water, stir it well to mix in the browning at the bottom of the pan, season with a small quantity of salt and pepper, boil it, then pour it over the Mutton, and serve. (3) Select a shoulder that is not too fat, and bone it carefully as far as the first joint from the knuckle, season- ing it well with salt and pepper. Finely chop Jib. of beef- suet, and mix it with ill), of grated breadcrumb, one finely-chopped onion, 1 table-spoonful each of chopped thyme and parsley, The grated peel of half a lemon, and sa.lt, pepper, and grated nutmeg in moderate quantities. Bind the mixture with a beaten egg, stuff the boned shoulder with it, and tie it tightly round with string; put plenty of clarified butter in a flat stewpan, and when boiling put in the Mutton and fry it a pale golden brown all over. Put the Mutton into another stewpan, with a few slices of carrots, onions, and any other kind of vege- table that may be handy, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few cloves and peppercorns, and 1 h pints of common stock. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, Mutton—continued. and stew gently for two hours. At the end of that time, strain the gravy off from the Mutton into a smaller sauce- pan, skim off all the fat, and boil it quickly until reduced to a glaze. Put the Mutton on a hot dish, pour the glaze over, and serve. (4) Put into a small saucepan two bay-leaves, one onion, a few sprigs of parsley and lemon-thyme, a small piece of ginger, 1 teaspoonful each of peppercorns and pimento-berries, a few cloves, 4 table-spoonfuls of brown sugar, 1 teacupful of claret, 4 teacupful of vinegar, and 1 pint of water. Stir the mixture over the fire until on the point of boiling, then move it away and leave until cold. Having selected a nice fresh shoulder of Mutton, put it into a shallow pan, pour the abjve marinade over, and leave it for four or five days, turning and basting well every day. When ready, bone the shoulder carefully and prepare the following mixture for it: Mix with about fib. of sausage-meat 1 table-spoonful of finely-grated breadcrumb, 2 table-spoonfuls of truffles cut into small pieces, salt and pepper to taste, and sufficient beaten egg to bind it without making it too soft. Stuff the shoulder with the mixture, shape it nicely and tie it round with tape; dredge it plentifully with flour, and roast it in front of a clear fire, basting frequently. Put the bones of the shoulder into a saucepan with 1 pint of water and \ teacupful of the marinade mixture, and boil it until reduced to 4 pint. Put lib. of French plums into a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of loaf sugar and sufficient water and claret in equal quantities to moisten them to height; stew them gently until tender. Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in a small stewpan and stir it over the fire until browned, then strain hi the liquor from the bones and all the gravy that has dripped from the meat; stir it over the fire until boiling. Place the Mutton on a hot dish, pour the prunes and their liquor round it, and serve with the gravy in a sauceboat. Rolled Under-cut of Shoulder of Mutton.—Season the meat well with salt and pepper; prepare a savoury force- meat of herbs with plenty of parsley, but without eggs, and fill the inside of the meat with it, rolling up tightly to an oval shape and binding round with tape. Put it in a stewpan with two or three carrots and onions, a bay-leaf, and a bunch of herbs ; season with salt and pepper, moisten with a small quantity of cold water, cover with the lid, and stew over a slow fire, keeping it well basted. When nearly cooked, remove the cover from the pan, and brown the meat in the oven. When ready, place the meat on a hot dish and carefully remove the bindings. Strain what remains of the cooking-liquor, skim off all the fat, and boil down until reduced to a strong glaze. Pour the glaze over the meat, and serve with a sauceboatful of cucumber sauce. Saddle of Mutton a la Portugaise.—(1) Put 2qts. of port wine into a saucepan with 1 pint each of vinegar and stock, add a seasoning of cloves, allspice, and bay-leaves, also six chopped shallots, three onions, and two carrots, and boil. Trim off the tail part of a saddle of Mutton and cut away the superfluous fat, pour over the boiling marinade, and leave it for four or five days, turning it frequently. Fix it on a spit, tie it up in paper, and roast for about three hours in front of a clear fire. When nearly done, remove the paper, and put the joint on a dish; strain some of the liquor, add to it a little red-currant jelly and rich gravy, boil for a few minutes, and pour it over the meat. The saddle will be quite black in appearance, but the taste will be superb. (2) To make this dish look well, the saddle should be so carved as to leave the sides. When cold, put the under-cut and surplus meat cut up small into a stewpan with a few drops of mushroom ketchup, a minced pickled gherkin, and a small quantity of thickened gravy, but not sufficient to be too liquid. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and keep at the side of the fire until very hot, but without allowing it to boil. Spread the mixture on the saddle, in the space from which the meat has been cut, level it at the sides, strew grated breadcrumb over, and place it in the oven. When hot, if not sufficiently browned, pass the salamander over the breadcrumbs, place the saddle on a hot dish, and serve with a dish of red-currant jelly.999 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads• Mutton—continued. (3) Trim off the fat from the top and flaps of a saddle of Mutton, and chop off the tail. Put Jgall. of port or other red wine into a saucepan with 1 pint of vinegar, two carrots, three or four onions, eight or nine turnips, and three shallots, all exit very fine; add ten cloves and three hay-leaves and boil over a clear fire. Pour the port wine liquor over the meat and let it soak for five or six days, turning it frequently. Take it out, drain, cover it over with a piece of well-buttered paper, and roast for about three hours in front of a clear fire. When done, take off the paper, dish up, and pour over 1 teacupful of the liquor in which it was soaked, well strained and having 2 table-spoonfuls of red-currant jelly beaten and mixed in. Serve very hot. Saddle of Mutton en Surprise.—Scoop out the meat from a cold saddle of Mutton, cutting it close to the bone, and leaving an outside thickness of about 1 fin. wide. Mince the meat finely with a little of the fat, and mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped onions fried in a little butter for a minute ; dust over 1 table-spoonful of flour and 1 salt- spoonful each of salt and pepper, and add one bay-leaf and a little cayenne. Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of broth into a saucepan, stir in the meat mixture, cook gently for ten minutes, and add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Work two pounds of boiled potatoes into a stiff paste in a basin, roll out, and form into an edging round the saddle of Mutton, filling the cavity scooped out of the joint with the meat mixture. Brash all over with egg, cover with breadcrumbs, and brown in a quick oven on a baking-sheet for a few minutes. Take it out, and serve on a dish with Spanish sauce poured round. Saddle of Mutton in German Style.—Select a saddle of Mutton without ribs, take off all the skin and fat, but re-cover the tun fillets. Cut the skirt part square, fold it underneath, and tie round; lard the two loins with strips of fat bacon, sprinkle over with salt, and either roast in Fig. 1237. Saddle of Mutton in German Style. the oven or on a spit in front of a clear fire, basting frequently. When done, remove the string, dish up with a garnish of potato croquettes piled in small heaps (see Fig. 1237), and serve with some good gravy in a sauceboat. Sausartees or Sasatijs (A Cape Dish).—Cut the best part of a leg of Mutton into small squares; peel and chop three or four large onions, put them into a flat stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry until tender. Mix the onions with 1 table-spoonful of the best curry powder, and 1 breakfast-cupful of tamarind water, or, failing that, the same quantity of vinegar ; put the meat into this, stir up well, and let it stand all night. Thread the meat on very thin wooden skewers, alternating the fat and lean, and grill on a gridiron over a clear but not too fierce fire. Put the flavouring mixture into a small saucepan and make it very hot. When the meat is cooked, lay it, still on the skewers, on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, garnish with plain boiled rice, and serve. Scotch Mutton Broth.—Put 41b. of Mutton into a sauce- pan with two carrots, one turnip, and one onion all chopped small and well washed; add \ peck of green peas, a little parsley, 8oz. of pearl barley, and 1 teaspoonful each of salt and pepper. Pour over about 5qts. of water, put the pan over the fire, and boil the contents, skimming fre- quently ; or the meat may be put in first and boiled, and skimmed until no more scum rises: then the vegetables can be added, and boiled until done. Strain the broth into a soup-tureen, and serve. Oatmeal may be substituted for the pearl barley. Mutton—continued. Scotch Soup.—Take 51b. or 61b. of the scrag end of a neck of Mutton, chop the bones, and put it in a saucepan over the fire with Jib. of barley and 5qts. of cold water. Bring slowly to the boil, and simmer for half-an-hour. Add three turnips, two leeks, and a carrot all cut small, a small stick of celery, a little pepper and salt, and J pint of dried green peas, and let all simmer together for two-hours-and-a-half or three hours. The peas should be steeped in cold soft water the whole of the previous night, and the soup should be carefully and constantly skimmed all the time it is boiling. Serve the meat on a dish with a few boiled turnips, and the soup in a tureen. Scrag of Mutton a la Russe.—Put ljlb. of scrag of Mutton into a saucepan with lqt. of water, a turnip, two onions, one carrot, and a little salt and pepper, and boil gently for three hours or so. When done and perfectly tender so that the bones can' be easily removed, brush it over with egg, and cover with a mixture of breadcrumbs, flour, finely-minced parsley, salt, and pepper. Put it in a baking-dish in a Dutch oven, baste it frequently with a little butter, and when quite done put it on a dish, and pour round good gravy or brown caper sauce. Scrag of Mutton ii, la St. Menehould. -Select the narrow part of a neck of Mutton, having the two scrags united. Put it iuto a bowl of water, leave it for a day or so, then drain, and hang it up in a cool place for two days. Next put it into a stewpan with slices of fat bacon both under and over it, add also about 21b. of scrag of veal, three large carrots and onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, two or three bay-leaves, 1 table-spoonful of peppercorns, and sufficient beef broth to cover. Set the pan on the side of the fire, and simmer gently for four hours. Strain off the liquor, cover the meat with well-seasoned bread- crumbs and brown them with a salamander; reduce the gravy, pour it round the Mutton on a dish, and serve with tomato sauce, or with stewed spinach or endive round the dish for garnish. Shoulder of Mutton with Mushroom Puree.--Bono the Mutton with the exception of the shank, which should be left in, lard it with strips of bacon that have been seasoned with pepper and salt, and tie it up to a round shape, but do not roll it. Put it in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and place it over the fire until nicely browned, turning it occasionally. Next put in with it three or four moderate- sized onions, two carrots, and a clove of garlic; moisten Fig. 1238. Shoulder of Mutton with Mushroom Puree. with water, and let it simmer gently for five hours. At the end of that time, skim the sauce well, boil it until reduced, and glaze the Mutton. Place it on a hot dish, and serve with a puree of mushrooms underneath. See Fig. 1238. Spiced Shoulder of Mutton. -Bone a shoulder of Mutton, and rub it well with a mixture of 2oz. of sugar, 1 tea- spoonful each of ground mace and pepper, 1 saltspoonful of powdered cloves, and 1 pinch of pepper. Continue to do this for a week or so, letting it remain in the pickle ; then roll it up, tie it round with string, and put it into a saucepan with some good beef broth, and stew gently until done. Put it on a dish, add a little piquant sauce to the broth, pour it over, and serve. Squab Pie. (1) Trim off the skin and inside fat from a loin of Mutton and cut it into thin chops; peel and core a few large baking apples, and cut them into slices. Butter a pie-dish, line it with a thin crust, put in a layer of the Mutton, then a layer of apples, and next a layer of onions ; cover these with another layer of meat, and proceed asTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 1000 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. before until the dish is full, moistening with about 1 pint of water; cover the pie with a rather thick ilat of puff paste, trim it off' round the edges, moisten them with water, and press together. Make a small hole in the top of the cover, roll out the trimmings of the paste, cut out some imitation leaves, damp them underneath with a paste- brush dipped in a little water, and arrange them taste- fully on the top of the pie. Bake the pie for two-hours- and-a-half in a good oven. (2) Cut the best end of a neck of Mutton into chops, and remove all the fat. Pare eight apples, cut out the cores, slice them, put a layer of them at the bottom of a dish with a little chopped onion interspersed, place a layer of the chops on these, and so on until the dish is quite full; mix with the apples 2oz. of sugar, and salt and pepper with the meat. Cover the dish with a crust made of light paste, put it in the oven, and bake until done; take it out and serve hot. Stewed Breast of Mutton.—Bone and score a breast of Mutton, season it well with cayenne, black pepper, and salt, and put it into a saucepan with a good supply of gravy that has had the fat skimmed off; boil until tender, and place on a dish. Slice a few gherkins, and add them, together with 1 dessert-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, to the gravy; boil up again, and pour over the Mutton when ready. Stewed Leg of Mutton in Gravy.—Select a small leg of Mutton and put it into a saucepan with a calf’s foot, eight carrots and twelve onions cut in slices, and a little salt (a knuckle of veal may be used instead of the calf’s foot if desired). Pour in sufficient water to cover, put the pan over a slow lire, and let it simmer gently. When the Mutton is about half-done and the meat begins to shrink from the bone, take it out and put it on a dish to keep hot. Put the pan on a quick fire, boil until the liquor is reduced to about 3 pints, then strain it through a sieve, squeezing the veal and vegetables to extract as much as possible. Let it cool, remove the fat, pour it back into the saucepan, and put hi the Mutton; place the cover over the pan and boil (not too quickly) for two hours, taking care to prevent it sticking to the bottom or burning. When done, put it on a deep dish, pour the gravy over, and serve very hot. Stewed Loin of Mutton.—(1) Remove the bone from a loin of Mutton which should have been hanging for some time, cut off the skin and all the fat from the inside, then put it into a stewpan with sufficient rich broth to cover, and stew gently until done and of a good brown colour. Now add 1 wineglassful of port wine, 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, a few vegetables cut up, and cook until all are hot. Serve the loin on a dish with the vege- tables for garnish and some of the liquor poured over, and the remainder in a tureen. (2) Remove the skin from a loin of Mutton, bone it, and roll it; put it in a stewpan with li pints of water, a piece of butter, sweet herbs, and an onion or two; when it has stewed for nearly four hours, strain the gravy, add 2 table- spoonfuls of red wine, and serve very hot, with jelly sauce. Stewed Marinaded Under-Fillets of Mutton.—Cut a dozen under-fillets of Mutton, flatten them with a cutlet- bat, and remove all the skin and gristle. Cut them into long shapes like pears, lard them with pieces of fat bacon, and put them in a marinade for a day or so. Take them out, drain on a cloth, and put them in a buttered saute- pan ; pour over some veal stock or mirepoix, cook them thoroughly, and glaze, l’ut a few sliced mushrooms in the centre of a dish, place the fillets round, pour over them a little poivrade sauce, and serve with more sauce in a sauceboat. Stewed Mutton.—(1) Remove the bone from a leg of Mutton, cut the meat into large squares, put them into a basin, sprinkle with salt and pepper, add a bunch of sweet herbs, pour in 1 wineglassful of vinegar, and let them remain for a few hours to soak. Take them out, drain them, put them into a stockpot with lOoz. of fat bacon chopped small and melted, cook gently for twenty minutes, pour over the marinade liquor, and add two bay-leaves and a few cloves Mutton—continued. of garlic. Let it cook for five minutes longer, then draw the pot to the side of the fire, cover it with a piece of paper with a plate on the top, and stew gently until the meat is done. When ready, take out the meat, put it on a dish, skim off the fat from the liquor, add 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce, boil it up once, pour it through a fine sieve over the meat, and serve with a dish of rice. The fat from a sheep’s tail, which is used by the Turks instead of lard or butter, can be substituted for the bacon-fat. (2) China Chiloe.—Finely chop sufficient meat from the neck or from a leg of Mutton to fill 2 breakfast-cups ; put it into a stewpan with two onions, one lettuce, 2 break- fast-cupfuls of green peas, salt and pepper to taste, and about 1 teacupful of cold water; bring to the boil, add 2oz. or 3oz. of butter, and simmer gently for about two hours. Serve hot with boiled rice for garnish. Stewed Mutton a la Fermiere.—Put into a saucepan 31b. of breast or shoulder of Mutton cut into square pieces, with loz. of butter, and six small onions. Cook for ten minutes or until a good golden colour. Add 3 table-spoon- fuls of flour, mix well together, and moisten with 3 pints of light broth or water, stirring continually while boiling. Season with 1 good table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and J teaspoonful of nutmeg, adding two carrots and two turnips, cut in square pieces, a bouquet of sweet herbs, and one crushed clove of garlic. Cook over a moderate fire for thirty minutes; put in J pint of cooked Lima or haricot beans, and let the whole cook again for fifteen minutes. Skim off' the fat well, remove the bouquet, and serve. Stewed Mutton a la Jardiniere.—(1) Wash and peel two turnips, scrape and wash one carrot, wash and trim one head of celery, and divide it lengthwise ; peel one onion, and lay all these, together with five or six sprigs of cauli- flower,' in cold water while the meat is being prepared. Take about 51b. of neck of Mutton in one piece and fry it in some good dripping till lightly browned on both sides. Then put it with the vegetables into a good deep saucepan, barely cover with cold water, and let it stew for one hour, reckon- ing from the time that the water first begins to simmer. At the end of the hour take out the vegetables, and put them away to cool. If the water in the saucepan does not cover the meat, add enough boiling water to cover it, and let it stew gently for two hours longer. Pour oft' all the gravy but i pint, put on the saucepan-lid, and place it where it will keep hot. Strain the gravy that has been poured off into a basin, and set it in a pan of cold water to make the fat rise. When the fat has risen to the top, skim the gravy, pour it into a saucepan with 1 pint of tinned tomatoes, and let it boil fast, skimming occasionally. When it is reduced to half its original quantity, season with salt and pepper to taste. Blend 1 dessert-spoon- ful of cornflour to a smooth paste with a little cold water, and pour this into the gravy and tomatoes. Keep stirring till it boils, then pour all into the saucepan with the meat and let it simmer. Cut the vegetables that were laid aside .to cool into very small pieces. Put loz. of dripping into a saucepan over the fire, and when it .is quite hot put the pieces of vegetables in on top of it. Shake them together till veiy hot, take up the meat, put it on a large hot dish, pour the gravy and tomatoes over it, arrange the vegetables round, and serve. (2) Cut the Mutton from the loin into small pieces, and lay them in an earthen stewpan that has a closely-fitting lid. Cut two or three egg-plant fruits into thick slices, nib them with salt, and let them remain until the bitter juice, is extracted, then drain and lay them over the meat. String and cut the ends off two or three dozen okras, also a small quantity of French beans, peel and slice a vegetable marrow, half-a-dozen onions, and cut four green tomatoes in four crosswise. Lay the vegetables in alternate order over, the meat, squeeze in the juice of two lemons, extract the juice from lib. of tomatoes, strain, and pour it over the other ingredients; season with salt and pepper, and if the meat is not very fat a small quantity of dissolved butter can be added. Put the lid on the pan, solder round the edges with flour-and-water paste to keep it air-tight, and place1001 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. it in a moderate oven. In about three hours’ time, take the pan out of the oven, shake it well, then turn the contents on to a hot dish, dust a small quantity of pow- dered cinnamon over, and serve. Stewed Mutton a la Marseillaise.—Proceed as directed for Stewed Mutton a la Fermiere, hut instead of the other garnishings add 1 pint of stewed tomatoes, four cloves of crushed garlic, two chopped onions, and twelve minced mushrooms. Let this cook for thirty minutes, and serve with chopped parsley sprinkled over all. Stewed Mutton a la Portugaise. -Proceed the same as for Stewed Mutton a la Fermiere, replacing the garnish- ing with three stuffed tomatoes and three timbales of cooked ric^, nicely arranged round the dish. Stewed Muto n a la Sultane. Cut 31b. of Mutton into slices, put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to nearly cover, adding a few sliced onions, a small quantity of butter, and a good flavouring of green ginger, crashed coriander-seeds, and salt. Boil well until the meat is perfectly tender, strain off the gravy into a vessel, take out the meat, put it into another saucepan with butter, and warm it up, adding a few cloves and other spices. Parboil lib. of rice in water, put it into a saucepan with the gravy, add a little cinnamon, and cook until done. Colour half of this rice with saffron ground in a small quantity of water, and leave the remaining half white. Put the meat into another saucepan with the coloured rice on one side and the plain on the other, pour over melted butter, cover the pan, and set it at the side of the fire where it will keep warm. Chop up lib. of uncooked meat, put it into a saucepan with melted butter and a few onions cut into slices, add a flavouring of green ginger, salt, and coriander- seeds, pour in sufficient water to keep the meat from burning, and simmer gently until done. Take out the meat, put it into a mortar together with 2oz. of suet, a few finely-chopped onions, the whites of two eggs, and salt and pepper to taste. Work the whole into a paste, shape it into small halls, roll them well in flour, make them warm in a saucepan with butter and a few cloves, add 4oz. of pounded blanched almonds and more spices as desired, and continue to cook until the meat halls are well done. Put the meat and rice on a hot dish, arrange the meat balls round, and serve. Stewed Mutton a la Turque.—(1) Trim off' the fat from the Mutton, and cut the lean into small, equal-sized pieces; put them in a saucepan, season with salt and pepper, pom- in sufficient water to cover, and boil them for twenty minutes. Scald 1 breakfast-cupful of chick-peas, skim the meat liquor, then put in the peas, with two sliced onions. Keep the liquor simmering till the peas are tender and it has reduced to a thick consistency. Line the bottom of a hot dish with thin slices of toast, pour the stew over them, and serve while hot. (2) Cut 31b. of the fillets of Mutton into middling-sized square pieces, and put them in an earthenware vegetable- dish ; add a little clarified butter, sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, cover the pan, put it on the fire, and cook the contents for ten or twelve minutes. Take out the meat, add some fresh and young mixed vegetables to the liquor, sprinkle with salt and pepper to taste, and cook them for ten minutes. Take the pan off' the fire, make a hole in the centre of the vegetables, put the meat in this, cover the pan, put it into a moderate oven, and cook the contents for an-hour-and-a-half. Take it out when done, remove all the fat from the liquor, place the pan on a flat dish, and serve very hot. Any vegetables such as green peas, onions, pumpkins, beans (kidney or French), and carrots may be used. Stewed Mutton Chops.—(1) Take some good chops cut from the middle of the loin and trim off nearly all the fat. Then put them into a pot or pan with 1 pinch each of salt and pepper and an onion finely chopped. The onion can be dispensed with if objected to. Put in sufficient water to cover the chops, cover the pan, and put it into a saucepan with water. Place it over a good fire, and let it boil gently for an-hour-and-a-half or until the chops are Mutton—continued. quite tender. When quite done, take out the chops, strain the gravy into a basin, put the basin into cold water, and skim off' the fat, which will rise quickly. Then put the gravy back in a stewpan, add 1 teaspoonful of flour (mixed to a smooth paste with water) to thicken, and boil it up. Put the chops back into the stewing-pot or pan, pour the gravy over, place the pot back into the saucepan, and simmer for ten minutes longer, when it will be ready to serve. (2) The meat of the chops may be minced if preferred, and put into a saucepan with some beef stock previously warmed and seasoned with vegetables, and put at the side of the fire where it may simmer gently for a-quarter-of-an- hour. Stewed Mutton Chops with Tomatoes.—Take some lean chops, broil them before the fire, and put them into a stewpan ; cover the pan with the lid, put it on the fire, and let the chops simmer for a-quarter-of-an-liour, then take them out, put them on a dish, spread butter over, and sprinkle with a little salt and pepper. Cover each one with tomatoes peeled, chopped finely, and seasoned with butter, sugar, salt, and pepper. Stewed Mutton Cutlets.—(1) Take eight or ten cutlets from the best end of a neck of Mutton, trim off all the fat, leaving l£in. of bone bare at the end of each, or if the cutlets are very small lin. will do. Put them in a fry- ing-pan, slice over them one carrot, one turnip, one onion, and a small piece of celery. Shake over them 1 teaspoon- ful of salt and 1 saltspoonful of pepper, pour over them 1 teacupful of stock, and put the pan over a slow fire. Let the cutlets cook in this for twenty minutes, turning them occasionally so that they may be done evenly. While they are cooking, rub through a sieve lib. of cold mashed potatoes, put them into a saucepan, drop the yolks of two eggs into them, and stir over the fire till dry. When the cutlets are ready, divide this potato paste into as many equal portions as there are cutlets. Flatten each portion on a paste-board with a knife to the thickness of about lin. and roll the cutlets in them, using the piece of bone left bare as a handle. When they are all done, lay them on a lightly-greased baking-tin, brush over with a little milk or beaten egg, and brown them quickly in a hot oven. While they are in the oven, stir into the pan they were cooked in loz. of butter and |oz. of flour, add to tliis by degrees teacupfuls of cold water, and stir Fig. 1239. Stewed Mutton Cutlets. till it boils, then add 6 drops of caramel, 1 dessert-spoonful of ketchup, and 1 dessert spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, and let it boil for two minutes longer. Now arrange the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with boiled green peas (see Fig. 1239), and pour over the whole of the strained brown sauce from the frying-pan. Serve at once. (2) Cut rather thick cutlets off a neck of Mutton, and lard them with thin fillets of bacon ; put them in a brais- ing-pan with a sliced carrot, one onion, a few cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; pour in sufficient gravy to cover, and stew them gently until quite tender. When cooked, take the cutlets out, strain and skim the gravy, and boil it until somewhat reduced. When cold, trim the cutlets neatly, put them in the reduced gravy, and heat them gradually. Cut a block of bread the shape of a pyramid, and fry it a pale golden brown in butter. Partially boil some new carrots and turnips, then cut them into small pieces ; put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes. Place the block of bread in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the cutlets round it, garnish with the carrots and turnips, pour the gravy round, and serve.1002 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. (3) Trim some lean loin of Mutton cutlets to a neat shape, put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them until lightly browned, turning to do both sides equally. Drain the cutlets, and put them in a stewpan with a few sliced pickled cucumbers and sufficient rich broth or gravy to cover; season to taste with salt and pepper and any other kind of seasoning liked, and stew them very gently at the side of the lire for nearly two hours. At the end of that time, if the cutlets are suffi- ciently tender, turn them on to a hot dish, and serve. (4) Trim the cutlets to a nice shape, leaving very little fat on them, dust over with salt and pepper, and fry them in butter until just beginning to brown. Drain the cutlets, put them in a stewpan with an equal quantity of carrots, turnips, and potatoes that have been peeled and cut into small equal-sized pieces, a bunch of sweet herbs, about 2 breakfast-cupfuls of clear stoek, entirely freed from fat, ami h teacupful of French tomato sauce. Let the stew simmer gently at the edge of the lire until the meat is tender, then remove the bunch of sweet herbs, and put in a small piece of glaze about the size of a walnut, and loz. of butter that has been worked up with 1 table-spoonful of flour. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and let it stew a few minutes longer. Turn the stew on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast, or small crofttons of fried bread, and serve. It is better to put in the turnips and potatoes after the meat has stewed a little, as they do not require so much cooking. (5) Make a forcemeat of 3oz. each of veal and suet chopped very fine, an onion peeled and chopped fine, 2oz. of sifted breadcrumbs, a small quantity of thyme, sweet marjoram, and grated nutmeg, pepper and salt to taste, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, and the beaten yolks of two eggs. Take some nicely-trimmed cutlets of loin of Mutton, cover them thickly with the forcemeat, wrap each one in a buttered piece of writing-paper, lay them in a baking-tin, and bake. Or they may be stewed in a little gravy till they begin to get tender, then place each cutlet separately in a sheet of buttered writing-paper, fold the edges of the paper upwards, and twist the corners. Finish cooking on a hot gridiron over a clear fire. Serve the cutlets very hot in the papers they were cooked in. (6) Take some cutlets from a neck of Mutton, trim of! some of the fat, and put them in a saute-pan with 2oz. of butter and cover with one onion cut in slices; dust over with pepper and salt, and pour 1 breakfast-cupful of stock, 2 table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, and the same of vinegar over them. Place the pan on a moderate fire and stew gently for thirty minutes; take them out, glaze, strain the liquor, and reduce it. Put the cutlets on a dish, garnish with mashed potatoes, and put some finely-chopped mushrooms in the centre, pour the sauce round, and serve. (7) Cut some cutlets 4in. long from a neck of Mutton, leaving two bones in each cutlet; saw off the chine-bone, and remove one rib-bone. Lard through the lean part of the cutlet with seasoned strips of fat bacon and tongue, each lardoon being about lin. long and Jin. thick. Put the cutlets in a stewpan, cover with mirepoix and veal stock, and let them simmer gently at the side of the fire; when the cutlets are done, take them out of the stock, and press them between two plates till they are cold; in the meantime skim the fat off the gravy and strain and reduce it. Put the cold cutlets in the reduced stock till hot, then arrange the cutlets in a circle round a croustade, and fill this with an onion puree made in the following manner: Cook some onions, previously peeled, in water, drain them, put them in a stewpan, cover with chicken consomnffi, boil gently for a few minutes, reduce with an equal quantity of bechamel sauce, and strain and finish with butter and chicken glaze. Pour the gravy in which the cutlets were cooked over them, and serve while hot. (8) Cut off the cutlets from a neck of Mutton, trim them nicely, taking off some of the Hat bone at the end, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry till nicely browned. Put loz. of butter in a saucepan with 1 table spoonful of Hour, and stir it over the fire till nicely browned, then pour in gradually some well- jseasoned veal gravy, and continue stirring it over the fire Mutton—continued. till boiling. Put the cutlets in the sauce with some trimmings of turnips, a bunch of green onions, parsley, and sweet herbs, and let them boil gently at the side of the fire till nearly done. Cut some turnips into shapes, not too small, and put them in a stewpan; take the chops out of the sauce and put them in with the turnips. Strain the cooking-liquor over the cutlets and turnips, add a small piece of sugar, and stew them gently till tender, and keep the sauce well skimmed. When cooked, turn the cutlets and turnips on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. Stewed Mutton with Garlic (Turkish).—Cut some lean Mutton into rather small pieces, put a few peeled cloves of garlic at the bottom of a stewpan, then sprinkle in some salt, pepper, and cumin; on that lay a few of the pieces of meat, then more garlic and seasoning, and so on until all is used. Cut two onions into thin slices, fry them in butter till browned, and lay them on the meat. Moisten with f pint of water, § breakfast-cupful of wine vinegar, put the lid on the pan, and keep it at the side of the fire till the meat is tender. If it boils fast the meat will be tough. When cooked turn the stew on to a hot dish and serve. Stewed Mutton with Haricot Beans.—Cut a shoulder or breast of (Mutton in small pieces, put them into a stewpan with a little butter, cook until they brown a little, and add gradually some Mutton broth, stirring frequently. Put in the required quantity of haricots, and season with a bay-leaf, a little each of thyme, salt, and pepper, and a very small quantity of garlic. Place the pan at the side of the fire and simmer gently for about four horn's. Turn it out on a dish when done, and serve hot. Stewed Mutton with Okra Gumbos.—(1) Cut the Mutton into small pieces and put them in a deep frying-pan with loz. of butter, teacupful of water, and a small quantity of salt. When boiling, stir the meat until the moisture has somewhat reduced, but without browning it. Peel and trim several young okras ; lay the pieces of meat in a round, rather deep baking-tin ; peel and cut into slices four onions, fry them till brown in butter, then lay them, with the okras, on the top of the meat. Pour over H pints of clear Mutton broth, the juice of two lemons, and the gravy out of the frying-pan ; dust over a small quantity of salt and pepper, and put it in a hot oven. When cooked, and the okras are well browned, turn the stew carefully over on to a hot dish, dust powdered cinnamon over, garnish with crohtons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve while very hot. (2) Wash the Mutton and cut it into pieces about the size of walnuts; put them in a saucepan with a lump of salt, cover with water, and place them over the fire. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, skim the liquor, and let it simmer till the meat is three- parts done. Peel a few onions, cut them into thin slices, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry till beginning to brown. Peel the stalky parts and cut off the ends of several okras. Tinned okras will do nicely. Put a layer of the pieces of meat in a stewpan, then a layer of onions, next a layer of okras, and so on until all are used; pour in the liquor in which the meat was boiled, adding more broth if required, and a lump of salt. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire and let the contents simmer gently until tender and the liquor has reduced to a thick consistency. Squeeze the juice of two lemons into the stew, boil it for five minutes longer, then turn it on to a hot dish ; dust pepper and powdered cin- namon over, garnish with sippets of toast or crotttons of fried bread, and serve while very hot. Stewed Mutton with Parsley (Turkish).—Cut somcr Mutton into small pieces of an equal size, put them in a saucepan with water to cover and a lump of salt, and boil gently for thirty minutes. Cut two or three onions into thin slices and fry them in butter till browned, then drain, and put them in with the meat; boil for a short time longer, then put in a few pieces of picked and washed parsley, and continue boiling till the meat is cooked. Beat1003 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£•<:., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. the yolks of four eggs with the juice of two lemons, put them in a small saucepan, and stir over the hre till thick without letting them boil, or they will curdle. "VV hen the meat is tender, turn the stew on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of bread fried brown in butter, and serve. Stewed Mutton with Peas.—Wash a lettuce nicely, cut the heart and best leaves in pieces, and put them in a stewpan with an onion peeled and sliced ; shell § peck of green peas not too young and put them also into the stew- pan together with the Mutton cut in pieces. Add \ pint of stock in which a turnip has been boiled, and simmer very gently for three hours; thicken with Hour and butter, add a little Worcestershire sauce, and serve hot. If the Mutton has been cooked before it should not lie put into the stewpan till the peas have been stewing for an-hour- and-a half. Stewed Mutton in Persian Style.—Chop the flesh of a leg of Mutton into equal-sized pieces, sprinkle over salt and pepper, put them in a basin or pan, cover with onions cut in slices and the juice of three or four lemons, and let them soak for a couple of hours. Take them out, drain, put them into a saucepan with some fat, and cook briskly for a few minutes over a clear fire, to set the flesh. Pour in sufficient broth to about three-parts the height of the meat, cover the pan, put it over a slow fire with hot ashes on the lid, and let it cook slowly until done. Put the meat on a dish, skim off the fat from the liquor, add 1 handful of dried and shred sweet almonds, and two or three dozen prunes, boiled and drained, and warm it up without boil- ing. Put the prunes and almonds round the meat, thicken the liquor with a little syrup of stewed raisins, add the juice of two or three lemons, pour it over the meat, and serve. See Fig. 1240. Stewed Mutton with. Potatoes.—Exactly the same as for Stewed Mutton a la Fermiere, replacing the garnish- ing with 1 pint of small potatoes cut in quarters, trimming the edges a little, also six small onions. Let this cook for thirty minutes, and then serve. Stewed Mutton with Rice.—Trim off all the fat from the short bones of a neck of Mutton and put them in a stew- pan with 4oz. of rice ; fry in butter a few sliced onions, two carrots and turnips, and a stick or two of celery cut into short lengths; when they are nicely browned, put them in the stewpan with the Mutton, dredge over flour, salt, and pepper, moisten with sufficient cold brown stock to just cover, leave the stewpan over the fire until the contents boil, then move it to the side and let them simmer gently until very tender, and the rice has absorbed nearly all the moisture. When cooked, turn the Mutton on to a hot dish, garnish with small carrots and turnips that have been stewed separately in brown stock and glazed, and serve very hot. Stewed Mutton Steak.—Cut off two steaks from a leg of Mutton, and put them into a frying-pan to brown slightly. Place them in a saucepan, and add a few turnips and carrots cut in slices, a head of celery chopped small, some green peas, and a few sprigs of parsley and sorrel. Pour over 1 gill of Mutton broth and 4 wineglassful of red wine. Cover the pan closely and put it at the side of the fire where the contents will simmer gently, tossing the pan frequently to prevent any of the vegetables sticking to the bottom. When done, turn the meat on to a dish, put the vegetables round, and serve. Mutton—continued. Stewed Mutton with Tomatoes.—Trim some Mutton, re- moving most of the fat and the skin, and cut it into small equal-sized pieces; wash and dry them, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry till nicely browned; take them out, and fry in the same pan, adding more butter if required, two or three sliced onions. When the onions are browned, drain, and put them with the meat into a stewpan, adding green tomatoes cut into quarters. Put 31b. or 41b. of ripe tomatoes in a basin and press them to extract the juice, which pass through a line hair sieve ; pour the juice over the meat, &c., with sufficient water to cover, and stew them at the side of the fire. When the meat is tender and the liquor reduced till thick, pile the meat in the centre of a hot dish, pour the gravy round, and serve while very hot. Stewed Mutton with Vegetable Marrows a la Turque.— (1) Separate the meat and bones from 41b. of loin of Mutton, and cut the meat into small pieces. Peel six onions, cut them into thin slices, and put them with the meat; dust over salt and pepper, and rub them together. Peel four vegetable marrows, cut them into slices, and scoop out the seeds. Put the bones of the Mutton in a saucepan, cover with slices of vegetable marrow, then a layer of the meat and onions, next a layer of the slices of vegetable marrow, and so on until all are used. Pour in sufficient water to cover, squeeze in the juice of two lemons, add a lump of salt, and let them simmer at the side of the lire till tender. Peel four cloves of garlic, put them in a mortar, pound them very fine, then mix them together with 3 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar with the stew. Boil it gently for ten minutes longer, then turn it, on to a hot dish, dredge 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped mint over, and serve. (2) Trim off the skin and fat of 21b. of Muttcn, and cut the lean into small equal-sized pieces, put them in a saucepan with a lump of salt and water to cover, and simmer gently until the meat is nearly tender, removing the scum as it rises to the top. Peel four onions, cut them into slices, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry till browned. Peel the requisite quantity of vegetable marrows, cut them into halves, scoop out the seeds, then cut them into slices fin. thick ; drain the pieces of meat, lay some of them at the bottom of a saucepan, then put in a layer of the sliced marrows and onions, next meat, and so on until all are used. Season with salt, and pour in the water in which the Mutton was first stewed; a small quantity of broth can be added if there is not enough of the liquor. When boiling move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently until the vegetable marrow is tender. Squeeze the juice of two lemons into the stew, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped mint, boil it for two minutes longer, then turn it on to a hot dish, dust some powdered cinnamon over it, and serve. Stewed Neck of Mutton. -(1) Trim off the fat from a neck of Mutton weighing about 5lb. and put the neck into a saucepan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water and a little salt and pepper, and simmer gently for twenty minutes. Put the meat on a dish, skim the fat from the broth, add a little cayenne and chopped parsley, boil for twenty minutes longer, and thicken with a little butter rolled in flour ; pour it over the meat, and serve. (2) Cut off a little of the fat from a neck of Mutton, and chop it up into well-shaped cutlets. Put them into a saucepan with a little salt and pepper, cover with a layer of green peas and onions cut in slices, then put another layer of meat, cover again with green peas and onions, and add a few slices of cucumber. Pour in 1 pint of water, put the pan over the fire, and cook the meat gently until done. If the liquor evaporates, add a little more water. Put the meat, &c., on a dish, skim off the fat from the gravy, pour it over, and serve. The cucumbers only require a little cooking, therefore they should be taken out as soon as done, and returned to the pan just before serving the meat. Stewed Neck of Mutton a la Duchesse.—Select a whole neck of Mutton with the scrag end attached weighing about 31b.TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 1004 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. Wash it well, sprinkle with flour, put it into a frying-pan, and fry until well browned. Put it into a saucepan with sufficient stock to cover, and add a carrot, two turnips, and six small onions. Put the pot on the side of the fire, cover closely, and simmer the contents gently for an-hour- and-a-half, or until the vegetables are thoroughly done. Take out the vegetables, put them on a dish to keep warm, and continue to cook the Mutton until done, which will take from four to five hours altogether, and when done, take it out of the pan, and keep it hot. Put the pan with the gravy on one side to cool, remove the fat, and then reduce it quickly to about 1 pint; thicken with 1 table-spoonful of flour mixed smooth with 2 table-spoonfuls of stock. Put in the meat again and cook slowly for thirty minutes. Chop up the vegetables, put them into a saucepan with a little butter, toss over the fire until they are quite hot, and arrange on a dish in small piles round the Mutton. Other cooked vegetables may also be used as a garnish if desired. Stewed Rolled Loin of Mutton.—Remove all the bones from a loin of Mutton that has hung until tender, and sprinkle with a little pepper, powdered allspice, cloves, and grated nutmeg, and let it remain for twenty-four hours. Beat with a cutlet-bat to flatten it, cover with hare stuffing, roll it round tightly, and tie it. Put it in a baking-dish in a slow oven, and when half done, take it out, and let it get cold. Skim off the fat from the gravy, put it into a saucepan, flour the meat well, put it in, and stew gently over a moderate fire until almost done. Pour in 1 wineglassful of port wine, 1 table-spoonful of mush- room ketchup, and add a little lemon pickle and an anchovy. Stew for thirty minutes longer, put it on a dish, strain the gravy, and pour it over. Serve with jelly sauce in a boat. Stewed Shoulder of Mutton.—(1) Put a boned shoulder of Mutton into a saucepan with a little broth, parsley, cloves, bay-leaf, a small clove of garlic, a few carrots, turnips, and onions, with salt and pepper to taste, and stew gently until thoroughly cooked. Take it out, drain well, put it on a dish, pour over a little thick gravy, and sprinkle it with breadcrumbs. Mix the yolks of three eggs in a basin with a little oiled butter, spread it over the Mutton, and then cover again with breadcrumbs. Put it into a quick oven to brown, basting frequently with hot butter, take it out, put it on a dish, and serve with a little of the gravy strained and reduced. (2) Trim off all the skin and superfluous fat of a shoulder of Mutton, beat the shoulder flat and rub it with salt and pepper. Put it in a stewpan with 1 pint of water and stew over a slow fire until the moisture has reduced, then brown the meat well over a brisk fire. Peel two cucumbers, cut them into small pieces, and remove all the seeds ; peel and finely mince an onion. Drain the fat off the meat, dredge it over with flour, and pour in a little more than \ pint of water. Put the cucumbers and onions in Fig. 1241. Stewed Shoulder of Mutton. with the meat and boil them gently until tender. Then mix 1 wineglassful of vinegar with the meat and boil for a few minutes longer. Put the meat on a hot dish, garnish it with the pieces of cucumbers (see Fig. 1241), pour the gravy over, and serve. (3) Put a shoulder of Mutton into a saucepan with a little water and parboil it. Take out, and put it into another saucepan with 2qts. of veal gravy, Jib. of rice, l teaspoonful of mushroom powder, and a blade of ground mace. Put the pan over a clear fire and stew the contents gently for an hour, when the rice should lie thoroughly done. Take out the Mutton and put it in a warm place to keep Mutton—continued. hot; pour 1 breakfast-cupful of cream into the saucepan with the rice, and add a small piece of butter rolled in flour. Mix thoroughly, toss the pan over the fire, and cook the rice gently for eight minutes or so. Put the Mutton on a dish and serve with the gravy and rice poured over it. (4) STUFFED.—Remove the bone from a shoulder of Mutton, taking care not to break the skin. Prepare a forcemeat with Jib. each of ham, pork, and bacon. Stuff the shoulder with it, dust it over witli salt and pepper, and sew it up in a round shape. Put it into a gallon saucepan with 2oz. of butter, and cook quickly over a brisk fire for fifteen minutes, turning so as to cook both sides. Pour in 1 teacup- ful of brandy and lqt. of water, boil up quickly, skim off the fat, and add one onion stuck with two cloves, a small carrot, a faggot of herbs, and salt and pepper to taste. Simmer gently for an-hour-and-a-lialf, baste frequently, cover the pan, put some hot ashes on the top, and let it braise for thirty minutes. Take out the meat, put it on a dish, remove the string, and pour over the liquor which has been strained and reduced to half its original bulk. Garnish the dish with glazed turnips or onions, and serve. Stump Pie.—Cut the meat off a leg of Mutton and chop it finely. Mince ljlb. of beef-suet and mix it with the Mutton ; add also 1 table-spoonful each of finely-minced thyme and parsley, Jib. of sugar, a small quantity of mace and cloves, and salt and pepper to taste. Bind the mixture with six eggs ; butter a pie-dish, line it with a good paste, and put in the mixture; place a layer of currants, raisins, and dates on the top, cover with a flat of the paste, trim off neatly round the edges, and moisten and press them together. Bake the pie in a good oven ; when cooked lift off the cover, pour in 1 teacupful of white wine vinegar, strew brown sugar over the top, and serve. Timbale of Mutton.—Put some macaroni into a stewpan with a small lump of butter and milk and water to cover, and boil for a few minutes; then strain off the liquid. Pour over the macaroni a small quantity of clear stock, and stew gently until tender. Chop some cold Mutton, also one or two rashers of bacon, put them in the stewpan with the macaroni, add the grated peel of half a lemon, and season highly. Grate in loz. of cheese, and toss the whole over the fire until hot. Turn the mixture on to a plate and let it cool. Butter a mould, strew grated bread- crumb in it, and line it with puff paste. When the mixture is quite cold, put it in the mould, cover with paste, trimming off neatly round the edges; press them together, and bake the timbale in a rather slow oven. When cooked, turn it out of the mould on to a dish, cut off the top, and glaze the timbale. Arrange in the opening left by the removal of the top some freshly-prepared and chopped salad; garnish round the dish with parsley, slices of cucumber, and red radishes, and serve very cold. Tuginar (Turkish).-Cut about lib. of Mutton into small pieces; melt Jib. of butter in a stewpan, put in the meat, and fry until lightly browned, when pour in H pints of water and simmer gently for fifteen minutes with the lid on the pan. Season the meat to taste, put in a chopped onion and eight or nine artichoke-bottoms cut in quarters, and simmer gently until the whole is cooked; then turn the ragoftt on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croft tons of bread fried brown in butter, and serve. Tinned Mutton.—The introduction of Mutton pre- served in tins (see Australian Meat) appears to. be subject to considerable prejudice. This is certainly aggravated by those using this meat forgetting to observe that it is cooked before tinning, and therefore merely requires to be warmed up, or rechauffe, as a French cook would call it. The following receipts are worth trying: Baked Tinned Mutton.—(1) Take the meat out of a tin of Mutton, remove all the fat and gravy, and season well with finely-powdered dried basil and marjoram, giated nutmeg, salt, and a small quantity of cayenne peppei. Bind round carefully with broad tape, to keep it together, lay it on a baking-dish, and put it in the oven, basting occasionally with warmed butter. W hen the meat is hot through, remove the bindings, and place it on a hot dish.1005 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. Mix with any gravy that may have run into the baking- dish 1 wineglassful of port wine, 1 table-spoonful of mush- room ketchup, and a small quantity of Harvey sauce; dust in a very small quantity of cayenne pepper, then pour it over the meat, and serve. (2) Open a tin of Mutton, turn out the contents, and remove all the fat and gravy. Bind the meat round with tape to prevent it falling to pieces, and dust it well with curry powder and dried sage. Peel and slice eight or ten parboiled potatoes, lay them at the bottom of a baking-dish, strew finely-chopped sage and onions over them, and put the meat on the top, flavouring with a few drops of mush- room ketchup. Bake it in a moderate oven, and baste it occasionally with some of the fat melted that was scraped off. When cooked, remove the bindings from the meat, place it on a hot dish, arrange the potatoes round it, pour over a small quantity of rich gravy, and serve. Baked Tinned Mutton in Batter.—Beat up the yolk of an egg in 1 pint of milk, and stir in smoothly sufficient flour to bring it to the consistency of ordinary batter, adding 1 saltspoonful of salt. Melt a small lump of drip- ping in a baking-dish, pour in half of the batter, lay in slices of tinned Mutton, over them strew finely-chopped parsley and onion, season with salt and pepper, pour in carefully the remainder of the batter, baste it with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of warmed dripping, and bake in a brisk oven. Serve the meat while very hot in the dish in which it was cooked. Croquettes of Tinned Mutton.—Open a tin of Mutton, turn out the meat, scrape off all the fat and jelly, and cut and roll the meat into cone- or pear-shaped pieces; then egg-and-breadcrumb them, and fry in hot lard or dripping. To dish them lay a dish-paper or a folded napkin in the dish, place the croquettes on it with the thick end down- wards, stick into the top of each a tiny sprig of fried parsley, and serve immediately. Pried Cannelons of Tinned Mutton.—Open a tin of Mutton, turn out the meat, and scrape off all the fat and jelly. Lay on the paste-board 2 handfuls of flour, break in two eggs, add the yolk of another, about loz. of butter, J saltspoonful of salt, and 2 teaspoonfuls of milk; mix to a paste, and work it out as thin as possible with the hands. Cut and roll the meat into lengths about 3in. long, like thin sausages, enclose these pieces in the paste, dip them in beaten egg and then in breadcrumbs, and fry in hot lard or dripping. Serve with fried parsley. Pried Tinned Mutton with Onion Sauce.—Cut some Australian Tinned Mutton into slices, trim them to a nice shape, dip them in beaten egg, and then in plenty of finely-grated breadcrumb seasoned with salt and pepper. Put a large lump of lard in a flat stewpan over the fire, and when it boils put in the Mutton and fry it until nicely browned. When ready, drain the pieces of meat, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pour a thick onion sauce in the centre, and serve. Minced Tinned Mutton.—(1) Mince lib. of Australian Tinned Mutton and season it with a small quantity each of chopped parsley, drives, and thyme, and salt and pepper to taste. Put the mince into a stewpan with about R breakfast cupfuls of rich gravy, and simmer gently at the edge of the fire. Afterwards pour the mince into a gratin- dish, strew a thick layer of grated breadcrumbs over the top, and baste with a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter. Brown either under a salamander or in the oven, and serve in the dish in which it was cooked. (2) Free the contents of a tin of Mutton from all fat and jelly, and chop it very finely; peel and slice an onion, put it in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry it a golden brown. Dredge a small quantity of flour over the onion, add some of the jelly from the meat and 1 or 2 table spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley, season to taste with salt, pepper, and spices, and stir the whole over the fire until very hot, then move the stewpan to the side, put in the minced meat, and let it simmer gently for a few minutes. Peel and slice the required quantity of potatoes ; put a large lump of lard or clarified fat in a flat stewpan, place it over the Mutton—continued. fire, and when blue smoke rises put in the slices of potatoes and fry them a golden brown. Turn the mince into the middle of a hot dish, garnish with the fried potatoes and some neat sprigs of fried parsley, and serve. (3) Wash 1 teacupful of rice, put it in a stewpan with sufficient cold water to cook it, and boil to a pulp; finely chop about lib. of Australian Mutton, mix it with the rice, add 1 teacupful of gravy that has been strongly flavoured with onion, and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until the meat is thoroughly hot. Partially boil, in separate saucepans, a few carrots, turnips, and onions, then drain them, cut the turnips into small squares, slice the carrots and onions, and fry all in butter until browned. Turn the meat and rice on to a hot dish, garnish with the vegetables, and serve. Portugal Stew.—Peel two or three large Portugal onions, cut them into thin slices, put them into a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry until nicely browned. Drain the onions, put them into a stewpan with R breakfast- cupfuls of clear gravy, and boil slowly for lialf-an-hour. Finely chop 21b. of Australian Mutton, season it with salt and pepper, and mix it in with the onions. Knead h<>'/.. of butter together with | table-spoonful of cornflour, put it into the stew, add a small quantity of burnt-sugar colouring, and stir it over the fire until thickened. When ready, turn the stew on to a hot dish, garnish it with sippets of toast or small crofttons of bread fried a delicate brown in butter, and serve. Rissoles of Tinned Mutton.—Finely chop some Tinned Mutton and mix with it half its quantity of finely-grated breadcrumb, season to taste with chopped parsley, lemon- peel, sweet herbs, salt and pepper, and bind with beaten egg. Divide it into small portions, and with floured hands roll them into balls. Melt a lump of butter or lard in a frying-pan, put in the balls, and fry them until nicely browned. Drain for a few minutes on a sheet of paper, then arrange them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. Soup made with Tinned Mutton.—Empty the contents of a 4lb. tin of Australian Mutton on to a rather fine hair sieve, and pour lqt. of boiling water over it; prepare and cut into small pieces the required quantity of carrots, turnips, onions, and celery, put them in a frying-pan with some butter, and toss them about over the fire until tender. Turn the liquor that was poured over the meat into a stewpan, put in the vegetables, season to taste with salt and pepper and a small quantity of Worcestershire or Harvey sauce, and simmer gently for ten minutes. Pour the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve very hot with a plate of sippets of toast or crodtons of fried bread. Stewed Tinned Mutton with Celery.—Cut lib. or 21b. of Tinned Australian Mutton into slices, dip them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, and leave them for an hour. Wash two or three large white heads of celery and cut them into pieces about 3in. long. Put them in a stewpan with loz. of butter and milk to cover, and boil gently. When the celery is tender, mix in with it 1 scant table-spoonful of cornflour that has been smoothly mixed with a small quantity of cold milk, season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and stir it over the fire until thickened, then move it to the side. Dip the slices of Mutton again in beaten egg and breadcrumbs; put a large lump of lard or clarified fat into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when boiling put in the Mutton and fry until nicely browned. Drain the slices, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pile the celery in the centre, pour over the sauce from the celery, and serve. Tinned-Mutton Cakes.—(1) Take the meat out of a tin of Mutton and free it as much as possible from fat and jelly, mix with it boned and finely-chopped anchovies, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Divide the mixture into small equal-sized cakes, and roll them in flour; put a lump of clarified fat or butter into a frying-pan, place it over the fire, and when very hot put in the cakes, and fry them until nicely browned all over. Place the1006 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Mutton—continued. cakes on a piece of paper in front of the fire to drain, then arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with watercress or parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of clear brown gravy. (2) Prepare the Mutton mixture as described for No. 1, and shape it into flat cakes the size of Mutton cutlets; wrap these in heart-shaped pieces of well-floured paper, turn- ing the edges and twisting them together. Broil the cakes over a grill, and when the paper browns remove them and Fig. 1242. Tinned-Mutton Cakes. lay them round on a hot metal dish with a sauceboatful of Tartar sauce in the centre. Garnish with fried parsley. See Fig. 1242. Tinned-Mutton Pie.—(1) Put \ teacupful of the best Scotch oatmeal in a saucepan with It pints of water and boil it until reduced to a jelly, then move it from the fire and leave until cold. Peel and partially boil a large onion, then chop it small. Open a tin of Australian Mutton and cut the meat into slices; spread a layer of the oatmeal over the bottom of a pie-dish, over that place a layer of the meat, and strew on it some of the chopped onion and minced parsley and sage, using only a small quantity of this latter ingredient; season to taste with salt and pepper, and cover with another layer of oatmeal. Fill the dish with alternate layers of the above ingredients, seasoning as before, and making the last layer of oatmeal. Dredge a small quantity of flour over the top of the pie, and bake it for an-hour-and-a-lialf in a moderate oven. Serve the pie while hot. (2) Cut the required quantity of Tinned Mutton into thin slices, and half that quantity of bacon ; put them in alternate layers in a pie-dish, strewing over each layer some finely-minced boiled onion, apple, and a moderate quantity of chopped sage. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and moisten with a few table-spoonfuls of rich gravy. Butter the edges of the pie-dish, lay a strip of paste round, wet it, and cover with a flat of paste ; trim it off evenly round the edges, press them together, and bake the pie in a moderate oven. When cooked, it may be served either hot or cold. (3) Finely mince some Australian Tinned Mutton, and mix with it a quarter of its bulk of grated breadcrumb; season to taste with salt, pepper, a moderate quantity each of chopped parsley, marjoram, and lemon-thyme, and moisten, without making it too liquid, with beaten eggs and milk. Butter a pie-dish, turn the mixture into it, strew grated breadcrumb thickly over the top, put a few small lumps of butter about, and bake for half-an-hour in a moderate oven. When nicely browned stand the pie- dish on a flat one, and serve with a sauceboatful of clear brown gravy. Tinned-Mutton-and-Fotato Pie.—Peel and boil in salted water 2lb. or 31b. of potatoes, and when cooked, drain and mash them smoothly with 2oz. or 3oz. of butter, and season with salt. Procure a tin of Mutton, scrape off all the jelly, which put into a small stewpan, mix with it an equal Mutton—continued. quantity of clear broth, season with salt and pepper and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and put it over the fire to boil. Chop the meat coarsely. Spread half of the mashed potatoes on the bottom of a dish that will bear the heat of the oven, as the pie will have to be served on the same dish; over the potatoes put the meat, then pour in the gravy, and cover all with the remainder of the potatoes. Place the dish in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes, then take it out, brown the top of the potatoes under a salamander, and serve. Tinned-Mutton Pudding.—(1) Finely mince about lib. of Australian Tinned Mutton, mix with it a quarter of its quantity of minced bacon and two finely-chopped shallots, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Chop 41b. of beef-suet, mix it with 111), of flour, add 1 heaped teaspoon- ful of baking-powder, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and stir in suffi- cient water to make it into a paste. When ready, lay the paste on a floured table, roll it out, spread over the mince, roll it up into a long roll, moisten the ends, and press them firmly together to prevent the mince coming out. Rinse a stout pudding-cloth in hot water, wring it, flour well, lay the pudding on it, roll it up, and tie at each end. Put the pudding into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for two hours. When cooked, turn it carefully out of the doth on to a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of rich gravy. (2) Cut about lib. or 141b. of Australian Tinned Mutton into small rather thick squares, and cut Jib. of beef kidney into slices. Butter a pudding-basin, line it with a good suet crust, and fill it with alternate layers of Mutton and kidney, seasoning each layer moderately with salt and pepper. Pour in a few drops of mushroom ketchup, and cover the pudding with a round of paste, moistening and pinching the edges together. Tie a floured pudding-cloth over the top, put the pudding into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for two-liours-and-a-half, pouring in more water as it boils away to keep the pudding well covered. When cooked, turn it out of the basin on to a hot dish, and serve. Tinned-Mutton Sandwiches.—Take the meat out of a tin of Mutton, remove all the fat and jelly, and cut the meat into small square pieces. Put 2oz. of butter into a stew- pan, melt it, add two small finely-chopped onions, and fry them until browned, then dredge in 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir in about 1 teacupful of gravy. Season with 4 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and any other kind of spices liked, and let it simmer gently at the side of the fire until the liquor has thickly reduced, then put in the meat. Stir the mixture well, and leave it at the side of the fire. Cut off some thin slices of bread from the bottom part of a household loaf, and fry them in dripping until of a golden brown. Drain the slices, spread a layer of the meat mixture over half of them, and cover with the remaining slices. Cut the sandwiches into halves, quarters, or strips, whichever may be preferred, and arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve while very hot. The meat mixture should be reduced almost to a stiff paste, or it will not keep in between the bread. Tinned-Mutton Vinaigrette.—Cut the required quantity of Australian Mutton into thin slices, and lay them on a dish; stir oil and vinegar together, the former predominat- ing ; mix with it in moderate quantities chopped celery, parsley, and potatoes, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Pour the sauce over the meat, garnish with slices of cucumber, or if that is not available, slices of beetroot, and serve. MUZZLES.—See Ox-muzzles. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cfcc., referred to, see under their special heads. END OF VOLUME I.A DINNER TABLE IN POMPADOUR STYLE.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Abbreviations used: Eng., English; Fr., French; Ger., German; Find., Hindoostanee; Ital., Italian; Sp., Spanish. Quantities and measurements are abbreviated in the usual manner: lb., pound; oz., ounce; gall., gallon, qt., quart; ft., foot; in., inch. Note.—For further information upon any subject mentioned in the following articles, refer to that name in its alphabetical order. NANTES SALAD.—See Salads. NAPKINS.—See Serviettes. NAPLES BISCUITS—See Biscuits. NAPOLEON CAKE.—See Cakes. NASCA.—An amber-coloured wine made in Sardinia. It has an agreeable bouquet, and stands very high in native estimation. NASSAU PUDDING—See Puddings. NASTURTIUM.—Popular names are often very misleading, and none more so than that of Nasturtium, or Indian cress. The watercress alone is a true Nas- turtium, and the term Indian cress is quite a misnomer, seeing that the plants of this kind (Tropseolum) are all natives of South America, and are not of the cress family. Writing of the Nasturtium (see Fig. 1) as we call it, an eminent horticulturist tells us that it is useful as well as ornamental, both the seeds and young shoots making capital pickles, not even second to capers. The leaves and flowers can be used in preparing exceedingly orna- mental salads. See Fig. 2. The following receipts give some very good notions of the preparations to which the garden Nasturtium, either dwarf or climber, lends itself. Nasturtium-Flower Vinegar.—Pick sufficient full-blown Nasturtium-flowers to fill a quart bottle, add half a clove of garlic and a chopped shallot, and fill up the bottle with vinegar; leave this for two months, then rub the whole through a very fine sieve. Season with cayenne and salt, and bottle. Nasturtium Salad.—Pick the required quantity of Nas- turtium-flowers, put them in a salad-bowl, and sprinkle over them 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped chervil and a VOL. II. N asturtium—continued. small quantity of salt. Squeeze the juice of two lemons in 3 taide-spoonfuls of salad-oil, stir it until well mixed, Fig. 1. Nasturtium-plant (Trop.eolum majus). then pour it over the salad ; toss it about with a wooden spoon, then serve without delay. B2 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. N asturtium—continued. Nasturtium Sauce.—(1) Add to \ pint of well-boiled melted-butter sauce 1 dessert-spoonful of vinegar or strained lemon-juice and some pickled Nasturtiums, gherkins, green peas, or French beans cut to the size of capers. Let the sauce get quite hot and serve in a tureen. Fig. 2. Nasturtium Salad. (2) Stir 3 table-spoonfuls of pickled Nasturtium-seeds into 1 teacupful of drawn butter in a saucepan, and add a little salt and pepper. Place the pan at the side of the fire, simmer gently, and it is then ready for use. (3) Put loz. of butter into a saucepan, melt it slightly, and add gradually foz. of flour, giving the pan a shake every now and then as it is added. When the flour has lost all its taste by shaking the pan well at a little distance from the fire, pour in gradually \ pint of boiling gravy. Mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of Nasturtium-seeds, and add 1 teaspoonful of the liquor from them and the same quantity of chilli vinegar. Put the pan on the fire and stir well until the sauce boils, when it will be ready for use. (4) Put some freshly-gathered Nasturtium-blossoms into a jar, and for about 1 pint of the flowers pour in lqt. of vinegar ; add half-a-dozen shall its, f table-spoonful of salt, and \ table-spoonful of cayenne. Cover the jar, and leave it for seven or eight days. Next, strain oft' the liquor, and mix with it J pint each of soy and essence of anchovies. When well mixed, pour the sauce into small bottles, cork them tightly, and store for use. Pickled Nasturtium-Buds.—Gather the buds on a dry day and leave them for three days; then put them into a jar, pour spiced boiling vinegar over them, and when cold tie over the jar. They must be left for several months before being used. Pickled Nasturtium-Seeds.—(1) Put some Nasturtium- seeds in a basin and pour over some strong boiling brine, straining, boiling it again, and pouring it over fre- quently for three weeks or so. Then put the seeds into some clear water, changing it repeatedly in order to ex- tract the salt. Put them into bottles, and pour over them boiling vinegar mixed with cloves, allspice, ginger, mace, and sugar, using h pint of these together to every gallon of vinegar. When cold, tie down the bottles and put them in a cool place until wanted. (2) Select seeds that have been gathered within seven days from the time the blossoms fell off; put Jgall. of them into salted water, changing the water daily, and let them remain for three days. Then drain them through a sieve, and dry on a cloth. Put Jgall. of white-wine vinegar into a saucepan with two shallots cut into slices, 2oz. of salt, loz. of white peppercorns, and Joz. each of mace and nutmeg. Boil over a clear fire for ten minutes or so, skim well, and then let it cool. Put the seeds into jars, pour over the liquor, cover, and tie them down ; in a few days the pickle will be ready for use. (3) Gather the seeds while young, as they should be quite green, and wash them in plenty of cold water. Drain the seeds, lay them on a dish, strew plenty of salt over, and leave until the next day. Dry the seeds on a cloth, and pack them in jars with plenty of horseradish, tarragon-leaves, whole peppers, and a few cloves. Pour in sufficient cold vinegar to cover the pickles; cover the jars Nasturtium—contimted. with stout paper or parchment, and keep them in a dry store-cupboard for use. NAVARIN.—A French word signifying a mutton stew, but having no apparent reason for its existence. NEAPOLITAN CAKE.—Nee Cakes. NEAPOLITAN CHARLOTTE.—See Charlottes. NEAPOLITAN CREAM ICE.-Nee Cream. NEAPOLITAN ICES.—These are made in solid cakes, being frozen in a square box made specially for this purpose. They may be coloured, plain, or in layers of different colours, and may consist of any simple fruit or cream-ice. NEAPOLITAN PASTRY.—Nee Pastry. NEAPOLITAN PUDDING.—Nee Puddings. NEAPOLITAN SOUP.—Nee Soups. NEAT’S PEET.—See Cow-heels. NEAT’S TONGUE—Nee Ox -TONGUES. NECK—This is the name given to that part of the animal which intervenes between the shoulders and the head, supporting the latter, and being therefore proportionately muscular and ligamentous. Although not considered a choice part for culinary purposes, it can be utilised with good effect. See Mutton, &c. NECTAR.—The fabled drink of the mythological deities, substantiality having been imparted to it by sweetening wine with honey and giving it that name. It has various existences now, as the following receipts will show. A cheap aerated drink is also sold under this name. (1) Nearly fill a pint bottle with cold filtered water, drop in 2oz. of crushed loaf sugar and 2 scruples of bicarbonate of potash, let them dissolve, then add 2 draclims of citric acid in crystals; cork immediately, shake the bottle vigorously, and as soon as the acid is dissolved the Nectar is fit for use, but will keep good for a time if put in a cool place. (2) Finely chop 21b. of stoned raisins, put them into a pot with 41b. of loaf sugar, and pour over 2galls. of boiling water. Leave it till cold, then - add two lemons cut in slices; leave it for five days, stirring daily, then leave it for another similar period so that it will get clear. Bottle off into small bottles, and in ten days it will be fit to drink. (3) Three-parts fill a pint bottle with water, and add 1 scruple of bicarbonate of potash, loz. of sugar, and lastly 1 drachm of citric acid. Cork up the bottle, shake it well, and when the acid is dissolved the drink will be ready for use. It is like lemonade flavoured with essence of pine-apple. Nectar Cream.—Put in a sugar-boiler or lined pan 61b. of refined sugar and 4oz. of tartaric acid; pour in 2qts. of water and stir over the fire until warm, then add the beaten whites of four eggs. Continue stirring until the liquor begins to bubble, then take the boiler off immedi- ately before it boils. When cool, strain the Nectar through a fine sieve or piece of muslin. Put 1 teaspoonful of the cream in a glass of cold water with a very small quantity of bicarbonate of soda, and stir until it effervesces. Nectar Syrup.—(1) Mix loz. each of the extracts of bitter almonds, rose, vanilla, and lemon, and add them to lgall. of syrup with a little cochineal for colouring; it is then fit for use. Or the syrup may be made by mixing one-fifth each of lemon and pine-apple syrups to three-fifths of vanilla syrup. (2) Put .3Ub. of sugar into a saucepan with a very little cream of tartar and stir over the fire until the sugar is3 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. N ectar—continued. all dissolved. Remove the pan from the fire and add foz. each of the extracts of lemon, almond, rose, and vanilla, and lastly the same quantity of tartaric acid. Put the liquid into bottles, cork them down, and it is ready for use. (3) Nectar syrup may be made by mixing 5 pints of vanilla syrup with 1 pint of pine-apple syrup, and double the quantity of raspberry or strawberry syrup. Bottle, cork, and it is fit for use. (4) Mix into 1 pint of syrup made from loaf sugar 2 drachms each of the extracts of rose, lemon, and vanilla, and 1 drachm of extract of bitter almonds. Colour a pretty pink with some vegetable colouring, bottle, cork well, and keep in a cool place. (5) Mix together J pint of lemon syrup, £ pint of orange syrup, £ pint of pine-apple syrup, and 2 table-spoonfuls of extract of vanilla. Bottle, cork well, and keep in a cool place. NECTARINES (Fr. Brugnons; Ger. Psirsiche; Ital. Prugnole; Sp. Ciruelas).—The Nectarine (see Fig. 3) is a smooth-skinned variety of the peach (Persica vul- garis). Although allied to the almond, the covering of the stone differs entirely. Nectarines are better suited Fig. 3. Nectarine. for culinary purposes than peaches. The name is evi- dently derived from nectar, probably in consequence of the delicate flavour of the fruit. The Spanish Nec- tarine or cocoa plum is quite distinct. Nectarines are not so often met with in this country as they used to be, and then only as a hot-house production; but as they are sufficiently plentiful in other parts, the following receipts should be found useful: Candied Nectarines. -Cut the Nectarines to extract the stones, and put the fruit in a pan with half their weight of crashed loaf sugar and 1 gill of water to each pound of sugar; boil over a bright fire until the syrup is clear, carefully removing the scum as it rises. Take out the Nectarines, using a skimmer to do so, put them on Hat dishes, cover them, and let them remain for a day. Put the pan with the sugar over the fire and boil until ‘it is thick; then add the fruit and boil si >wly until quite hot. Take them out again, put them on a dish, cover, and let them remain for one day longer. Boil the syrup again, add the fruit, and let them remain for a short time longer. Put them out on a sieve to dry, sprinkle them over with caster sugar, turning frequently until dry and candied, when they will be fit for use. Candied Nectarines will keep for some time. Green-Nectarine Pickle. Put a thin layer of salt on a dish, over this put a layer of green Nectarines, then salt and more fruit, and continue in this way until as much is used as required. Cover over with a thick coating of salt, and let the fruit remain for four or five days. Care- fully take out the fruit, wipe them dry, and place in the sun for two or three days, turning frequently; then pack away in jars. In the meantime have ready a mixture sufficient to cover tire fruit, composed of loz. each of white ginger, long peppers, allspice, and cloves, ^oz. of sugar, one shallot, and six chillies to each quart of vinegar. Let the vinegar boil for ten or fifteen minutes, remove from the fire, add and dissolve in it a very small quantity of alum, which will assist to make the fruit crisp; when cold, Nectarines—continued. pour this over the fruit, then cover the jars, and pack away for future use. Nectarine Compote.—Peel and stone some Nectarines, cut them in halves, and put them in a saucepan with some syrup at the small-thread degree (see Sugar-boiling), and Fig. 4. Nectarine Compote. cook them until quite tender. When cold they should be served in a compote-dish (see Fig. 4) and the syrup poured over. A little spinach-green added to the syrup improves the effect. Nectarine Fritters.—Split the fruit in halves and remove the stones; put the fruit on a dish, strew caster sugar over, and moisten with a few table-spoonfuls of brandy. Let the Nectarines steep for an hour or two. Meantime prepare a good frying-batter, put a large lump of lard or butter into a flat stewpan, and put it on the fire. Dip the halves of Nectarines in the batter, then put them in the fat, and fry a bright golden brown. Drain, arrange on a dish garnished with a fancy dish-paper, dust lightly with caster sugar, and serve. Nectarine Jam.—Peel the Nectarines, cut them in halves, crack the stones, then blanch and cut the kernels into small pieces. Put the peels and broken stones into a saucepan with 4 pint of water for every pound of the fruit, and boil until reduced to half its former quantity; then strain the liquor. Place the fruit in a preserving- pan, and put in with it for each pound lib. of coarsely- crashed loaf sugar. Add the liquor from the stones and the kernels, with eight blanched and chopped bitter almonds for each Jib. of kernels. Place the pan over a slow fire, and stir the contents with a wooden spoon until reduced to a stiff consistency. Turn the jam into jars, and leave for several hours until quite cold ; then sift a small quan- tity of caster sugar over the top of each, cover with rounds of white paper that have been dipped in beaten egg, tie round the jars with twine, and pack them away for use. Nectarine Pulp for Ices.—Cut some Nectarines in halves, remove the stones, and take out the kernels. Blanch the fruit, and put them in a copper pan with a little water, well stirring with a wooden spoon until they are reduced to a pulp. To every pound of pulp add 4oz. of crashed loaf sugar, mix well together, put into bottles, cork and tie them down, and place them in a deep pan with hay between to prevent them from breaking; fill up to about half their height with water, and steam gently over a moderate fire for twenty minutes. Let the jars remain in the water until cold, take them out, wax over the corks, and the pulp will be ready for use. Preserved Nectarines. (1) Pare some Nectarines, cut them in halves to remove the stones, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and cook gently at the side of the fire. As soon as the fruit floats on the top take them out, and put on a strainer to drain. Weigh them, and to every pound add fib. of clarified sugar ; put the fruit and sugar into a preserving-pan, boil until the syrup is nearly clear, then put them with the syrup on one side to cool. Let the whole remain for a day, then drain oft' the syrup, and boil until it becomes quite thick; add the fruit, and boil for a short time. Repeat this once more, and lastly pour the whole into a deep dish and let it remain for a couple of days. Put it into pots or jars, cover them tightly, and the preserves are ready for use. (2) Split open the required quantity of fruit, take out the stones, and put the fruit into clarified sugar until well saturated. Now skim the liquor, cover with paper, For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. B 24 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Nectarines—continued. and leave for a day. Take out the Nectarines, add more sugar to the syrup, boil up again, put in the fruit, and give them a boil also; skim well, cover again, and leave them at the side of the fire or stove until the next day. Take the fruit out, dust over with powdered sugar, leave them for a day longer, then dry them in the hot closet. NEEDLES.—See Larding and Trussing. NEGUS.—This well-known drink was named after its inventor, one Colonel Negus, who lias doubtless con- tributed in a great degree to the happiness of liis fellow creatures by preparing an alcoholic or wine beverage possessing a minimum of intoxicating qualities. There are numerous receipts for its preparation, but the following are authentic: (1) Mix a bottle of port or sherry with twice its bulk of hot water sweetened with Jib. of lump sugar. Flavour this with the juice of a lemon and a grated nutmeg, and let float therein the thin peel of a lemon. Ten drops of essence of ambergris and 1 teaspoonful of essence of vanilla will greatly improve the flavour. (2) Put 2qts. of claret or Iqt. of port wine into a basin, add 1 wineglassful of brandy, two limes cut up into thin slices, 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, two or three cloves, a few cardamoms, and one or two small sticks of cinnamon. Pour over these 1 breakfast- cupful of boiling water, and the Negus is then ready for serving. (3) Thinly pare the rind off a large lemon, and pound in a mortar. Put the pounded rind into a jug with two thinly-sliced lemons and 1 breakfast-cupful of liquid calf’s- foot jelly; add in small equal quantities some pounded mace, cloves, and allspice. Pour lqt. of boiling water over these ingredients, put a plate over the top of the jug, and let the contents infuse for twenty minutes. Heat 1 bottle of white wine, add it to the contents of the jug, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and grate in a small nutmeg. Well stir the Negus, and serve. NELSON CAKE.—See Cakes. NELSON PUDDING.—See Fuddings. NERVE-FOOD.—This misleading term is so fre- quently used now that it requires some notice. All foods that are digestible may be classed as Nerve-foods, so also are they foods for all other parts and organs of the human system. There is no food specially adapted for supplying nerves only with nutriment, and those foods for which such a special duty is claimed are therefore miscalled, nor could any special advantage be gained by such a food if it could be found, for the waste by wear and tear of nerve tissue is almost imper- ceptible even under the greatest strain. The nerves are best served, not by special feeding, but by care and attention to the general health of the body. NESSELRODE PUDDING.—This remarkable dish requires special notice. It was invented by Mony, chef to the famous Russian Count Nesselrode, and is con- sidered to be the most perfect of all iced puddings. Gareme pronounced it to be an imitation of a chestnut pudding constructed by himself, but Jules Gouffe has set the minds of cooks at ease on the matter by publishing the receipt given to him by Mony, which runs as follows: Peel forty chestnuts, blanch them in boiling water for five minutes, peel off the second skin, and put them hi a stewpan with lqt. of syrup at 16deg. (see Sugar-boiling) and a stick of vanilla. Simmer gently till the chestnuts are done, then drain and press them through a fine hair sieve. Put the yolks of eight eggs in a stewpan with Jib. of pounded sugar and lqt. of boiled cream; stir over the fire without boiling till the egg begins to thicken. Add the chestnut puree, press the whole through a tammy- Nesselrode Pudding—continued. cloth into a basin, and add 1 gill of maraschino. Stone Jib. of raisins, and wash and pick Jib. of currants ; cook both together in \ gill of syrup at 30deg. and 1 gill of water, then drain, and let them cool. Put a freezing-pot in the ice, pour in the chestnut cream, and work it with the spatula. When it is partly frozen, add 3 gills of whipped cream, and continue working with the spatula until the cream is frozen ; then add the currants and raisins, and put the pudding into an ice mould. Close the mould, and put some butter on the opening to prevent any salt or water from pene- trating inside ; embed the mould in ice and let it remain there for two hours. Make the sauce as follows : Put 3 gills of boiled cream in a stewpan with eight yolks of eggs and Jib. of pounded sugar, stir over the fire without boiling till the egg begins to thicken, then take it off the fire and stir for three minutes more. Strain the custard through a tammy-cloth and add J gill of maraschino. Put the sauce on the ice until it is very cold, without freezing. Turn the pudding out of the mould on to a napkin on a dish, and serve with the sauce in a boat. The quantities given in the above are large, but can be taken at half, one-third, or one-fourth. Other receipts of an imitative character and dubbed Nesselrode Puddings will be found under Puddings. NESTS.—See Birds’-Nest Soup. NETTLES.—Plants of the genus Urtica are known by this name, and although commonly shunned by human beings on account of their stinging propensities, have been converted by the magic wand of the cook into valuable vegetables, that is, if gathered when young and tender. Those of March and April alone are reliable, for after the flower appears the stalks become stringy and the leaves strong flavoured. See Fig. 5. Boiled Nettles.—Procure the Nettles when very young and tender, and wash them thoroughly. Then chop them finely, put them in a stewpan with a small quantity of water, and steam until tender. Toast two or three slices of bread, trim off the crusts, and lay on a hot dish. Drain the Nettles well, spread them over the toast, and dust them over with salt and pepper. Warm 2oz. or 3oz. of butter until almost oiled, pour it over the Nettles, squeeze a few drops of lemon-juice over the whole, and serve quickly. Nettle Beer.—(1) Procure a large bunch of freshly-gathered Nettles, put them in a pan with 2galls. of water, and boil for fifteen or twenty minutes. Put 21b. of loaf sugar and lfoz. of cream of tartar in a large tub, strainTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 5 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dkc., referred to, see under their special heads. Nettles—continued. the water from the Nettles over them, and stir it with a wooden spoon until the sugar has dissolved. When nearly cold put in with the liquor 2 scant table-spoonfuls of fresh brewers’ yeast, cover the top of the tub with a board, and let the beer work for twenty-four hours. At the end of that time skim the yeast off the beer and bottle it. Great care must be taken against disturbing the sediment at the bottom. Cork the bottles with corks that ha\ e been soaked in boiling water for a few minutes, and tie down with string. In two days the beer will be fit for drinking. (2) Infuse 4qts. of green Nettles and a little dandelion and coltsfoot in ljgalls. of boiling water; let it get cold, strain off the liquor into a bowl, and add lib. of moist sugar and loz. of cream of tartar; let these dissolve, and then add £oz. each of crushed ginger and yeast, feet the bowl in a moderately-warm place where it will work for a day or so, skim carefully, and bottle. Cork securely, tie down, and in a few days the beer will be fit for use. Nettle Wine—Put 2|galls. of soft or river water into a saucepan with 6Jlb. of sugar, and boil; add the whites of two well-beaten eggs, and continue to boil for an hour, skimming frequently. Slightly bruise about 9qts. of the young tops of Nettles, put them in a bowl, pour over them the hot liquor, cover with a weighted cloth to exclude the air, and leave to cool. Then add 2 table-spoonfuls of yeast, stir well and frequently for three days, strain the liquor into a cask prepared to receive it, first putting at the bottom 2oz. of cream of tartar, lib. of stoned raisins, the thin rinds of two lemons, and lAoz. of broken white sugar candy ; let it remain with the bung out until fermentation has ceased. The cask should be of such a size that it will exactly hold the liquor, and it must be kept full during fermenta- tion. Pour in f pint of brandy, bung up securely, put the cask in a cool place for ten or twelve months, bottle oil, and in six or seven months the wine will be lit for use. Stewed Nettles.—Procure a quantity of green tops and leaves of young Nettles, wash thoroughly in water in which a little soda and salt have been dissolved, and dry them as much as possible; mince finely. Put the mince into a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped onion, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of moist sugar; moisten the whole with a little stock or water. Stew gently at the side of the fire until tender. When cooked, put in the sauce- pan a small lump of butter that has been kneaded with flour and \ table-spoonful of thick cream. Put some slices of toast on a hot dish, turn the Nettles on to them, garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs, and serve. NEWARK PUDDING.—See Puddings. NEW COLLEGE PUDDING.—See Puddings. NEW ENGLAND PANCAKES.—See Pancakes. NEW JERSEY TEA.—A pleasant aromatic beverage under this name is prepared from the leaves of Cean- othus americanus. It does not possess the exhilarating properties of China or Ceylon teas. NEWMARKET PUDDING.—See Puddings. NEWPORT WHIPPED CREAM.—See Cream. NEW-YEAR CAKES.—See Cakes. NEW ZEALAND MEAT. — See Australian Meat. NIBS—See Cocoa. NIGHTCAPS.—Although famous enough at one time when the custom was to settle down for a quiet hour after supper, the fashion of keeping late hours and the thirst for more active entertainment have placed our grandparents’ comforters at a discount. Nevertheless the two following are appended for the sake of those who prefer to follow the habits of our forefathers. See also Oxford Nightcaps. Nightcaps—continued. Grandfather’s Nightcap.—Beat the yolk of an egg with \ teaspoonful of porter spice, then stir in 1 gill of rum. Melt 1 dessert-spoonful of loaf sugar in 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling water, and add this to the rum and egg, whisk- ing with a fork. Strain it into a large hot glass. Whip the white of the egg to a froth, and pour it on the top of the rum mixture. Serve with a spoon and stir smartly before drinking. Grandmother’s Nightcap.—The same as Grandfather’s Nightcap, substituting gin for the rum. NOCKEN.—A kind of dumpling made in various parts of Germany and very highly esteemed by the people. The following receipts have been contributed by a German chef. They are sometimes known as Noques, and are mostly served in soup. (1) Slightly warm 4oz. of butter, and beat it until creamy; then beat in gradually the yolks of six eggs and continue beating for twenty minutes. Stir in gradually with the beaten eggs sufficient flour to make a still' batter. Put in a stewpan 1A pints of milk, loz. of butter, 1 table- spoonful of sugar, and a small quantity of grated lemon- peel. When boiling, put in the mixture in table spoonfuls, but not too many at a time, as they must not touch each other in cooking. Put the lid on the stewpan, and boil the contents until the milk has almost entirely evaporated. Remove the lid, put caster sugar over the Nucken, and place in a brisk oven until they are nicely browned. When cooked arrange the Nocken on a hot dish over a folded napkin or dish-paper, and serve. (2) Slightly warm 2oz. of butter and beat it until1 creamy, then work in the yolks of four eggs, whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and mix the whole. Gradually stir in sufficient flour to make a thick batter, add a small quantity of salt, and spread the mixture out on a dish. In about an hour or less cut it into small oval-shaped pieces, using a table-spoon, and dipping it con- stantly in hot soup. Put the pieces in a saucepan of boiling soup and leave them until they rise to the top. When cooked, put the Nocken into a soup-tureen, pour the soup over them, and serve. (3) Put 2 handfuls of sifted breadcrumbs into a basin, pour over sufficient milk to moisten, squeeze dry, and beat well with a spoon. Put 6oz. of butter into a basin, warm it, beat to a cream, and gradually add the yolks of six or seven eggs. Work these well until quite frothy, then turn into the damp breadcrumbs and mix in a very small quantity of flour, salt, and grated nutmeg. When of the required consistency take up pieces with a table-spoon and drop them into slightly-salted boiling water. Boil the Nocken up once, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, put on the lid, and let it stand for about ten minutes. When the Nocken are firm, take them out, drain them, cover with breadcrumbs fried dry in butter, put on a dish, and serve. (4) Put 8oz. of butter into a basin, warm it, and work to a cream, gradually adding the yolks of eight eggs. When it has a frothy appearance, sprinkle in C table- spoonfuls of flour and the well-whipped whites of six eggs. Put 1 pint of milk into a saucepan on the fire, sweeten it, and flavour slightly with vanilla; when boil- ing drop in the mixture in the form of quenelles and poach them. Take the Nocken out, drain them, put them on a dish, dust over with caster sugar, glaze with a salamander or in the oven, and serve with a little vanilla cream poured over them. (5) Put All), of thin slices of uncooked ham in a mortar, pound it well, and add 5oz. of butter; rub this mix- ture through a fine sieve back into the mortar, season with salt and pepper, add about 9oz. of chou-paste finished with eggs, and grate over a little Parmesan. Pound the whole well, and drop it a little at a time into a saucepan containing Agall. of hot consomme. Boil the liquor up once, then remove the saucepan to the side of the fire and let it remain for two or three minutes. Take out the Nocken, put them in a tureen, pour the soup over, and serve.6 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. N ocken—continued. (6) Put 2oz. or 3 >z. of butter into a saucepan, warm it, and mix in an equal quantity of flour. Stir well until it becomes like a gold roux, then put the saucepan on the fire, pour in 3qts. of broth, and let it remain until it boils, stirring all the time. Remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and keep the liquor hot. Put Jib. of butter into a basin, warm it, beat to a cream, and gradually add the yolks of five eggs and the whites of two. Work until the mixture is light and frothy, add 6oz. of flour, the well- whipped whites of two eggs, and a little salt and grated nutmeg. Drop a small quantity into a saucepan of water to test its thickness, adding a little more flour if too thin and a little more butter if too thick. Take up the mixture with a teaspoon, push it out with the finger, and let it drop into a saucepan of boiling salted water. When all the Nocken are in, boil the water up once, remove it back again to the side, and let them remain in it until quite firm When done put them into a soup-tureen, skim off all the scum from the broth, thicken with a liaison of the yolks of four eggs moistened with cream, pour through a fine sieve into the tureen over the Nocken, and serve. NOGGIN.—A small measure equivalent to a gill. It is derived from the Irish noigin, or Gaelic noigean. NONPAREILS.—Fr. for the coloured sweets com- monly known in this country as “hundreds and thousands.” Mr. E. Skuse, the famous practical con- fectioner, thus describes the mode of their manufacture: First sift some powdered loaf sugar through a wire sieve (forty holes to the inch), again sift what comes through in a lawn sieve, which will take all the very fine sugar dust from it. Put, say, 41b. of granulated, left in the lawn sieve into the steam-pan, set the pan in motion, and turn on a little steam to heat them; allow the sugar to remain in the pan for a little until it is warmed right through, then put on a little thin syrup, not much, just to avet them, and while the pan is in motion put your hands in and rub them about so as to keep the particles from sticking together while Mret. When they get quite dry and free give them a little more syrup, and use your hands again to part them and rub them about. When they get dry again repeat the dose, still keeping your hands in motion. When the syrup has been added, should you happen to get them to stick together or double, it M’ould be almost impossible to part these little things, and when they M'ere being brought up large they would show very irregular in shape and out of all proportion in size; to prevent this, see that each coat is dried before another is added, do not let the syrup be too thick, nor put on too much at a time. Rub them well with the hands until they are the required size. If they are wanted various colours, when you have brought them up to the size you Mrant, take out, say, three parts of them and stand them aside. Melt some loaf sugar to a thin syrup, adding a small pinch of blue. Give those in the pan one or two wettings with this best syrup, and gradually turn the steam off the pan until it resolves quite cold, adding a small portion of this syrup at intervals. When the pan has ran cold for some little time do not put on any more syrup; when they are quite dry, stop the pan, take them out, they having been finished white, put in another portion of the Nonpareils, start the pan, turn on the steam, and when the goods are warm colour part of the syrup yellow M'ith saffron, and put on a few coatings at intervals; then turn the steam off and finish with another coat or so of this yellow syrup. When they are dry they will be a nice yellow. Take them out of the pan and put them with the vdiite ones already finished. Put in another lot of the unfinished Nonpareils and colour some syrup red, and proceed in exactly the same way till finished; then if you Mrant any more colours you must part the lot according to the number of colours you require, and finish them in the same way as the yellow. NONPAREIL BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. NONPAREIL BITTERS.—See Bitters. NONPAREIL PUDDING.—See Puddings. NONPAREIL SAUCE.—See Sauces. NOQUES. —See Nocken. NORFOLK CAKES.—See Cakes. NORFOLK DUMPLINGS.—See Dumplings. NORFOLK PUDDING —See Puddings. NORMANDY PIPPINS.—Apples that have been peeled, cored, and dried under pressure. (See Biffins.) They form a nice dessert dish when stewed as follows: Soak 111), of Normandy Pippins in water for twelve or fourteen hours, and put them into a stewpan with lqt. of water, add jib. of moist sugar, twelve cloves, and a little fresh lemon-peel. Set the pan at the side of the fire and Fig. 6. Stewed Normandy Pippins. simmer gently until the contents are quite tender. Leave them till cold, arrange in a glass dish (see Fig. 6), pour over as much of the syrup as is required, and serve. NORMANDY SAUCE.—See Sauces. NORTHUMBERLAND PUDDING.—See Pud- dings. NORWEGIAN NEST.—This is the name given to a culinary contrivance which consists of a box con- structed like a refrigerator, the only difference being that it keeps the heat in instead of out. It is padded inside with a non-conducting material, with a space in the centre for receiving the vessel in which the process of cooking is carried on. If the vessel is filled with water, and this by the aid of heat is kept at the boiling-point for a few minutes, and then placed in the box and shut in by the closure of the lid, the process of cooking goes on away from the fire no matter in what situation the box may he placed. On the score of economy this box recommends itself to every household. The Norwegian pot was introduced into the French Navy in 1869, and the results have been very satisfactory. NOTTINGHAM PUDDING.—See Puddings. NOUGAT—This is described as a cake, confection,' or sweetmeat made of almonds or other nuts. When freshly prepared it is so elastic that it can be moulded into baskets, cups, or any other shapes. The following receipts give a variety of favourite modes of preparing and using Nougat. See Marzipan. (1) Put 8oz. of caster sugar into a copper egg-whipping bowl and mix in the whites of three eggs, whipping con- tinually over a clear fire until the paste is of the consistency of thick batter. Add Jib. of almonds blanched and cut into small pieces, 2oz. of chopped candied orange-peel, 1 table- spoonful of vanilla sugar, and a few drops of prepared cochineal. Mix thoroughly, and spread it out upon two pieces of w'afer-paper to about lin. hi thickness; cover with two more pieces of paper, using a flat plate or board with a small weight on the top to keep them level. Put them in an oven of very moderate heat, and bake for a few minutes. Take them out, and when nearly dry cut them up into narrow oblong squares; they are then ready for use. (2) Put Jib. of caster sugar into a copper egg-bovd, and add the whites of two eggs and 1 table-spoonful of orange- flower M'ater. Set the pan over a slow fire, and whisk well until the mixture is of the consistency of stiff batter. Mix in Jib. of filberts, blanched and shred very finely, stir7 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. N ougat—continued. well, and put the paste on sheets of wafer-paper spread over a baking-sheet in the form of small ovals. Put them into a very moderate oven, and dry them steadily. They will be ready for use when firm. Take care to keep them as white as possible. (3) Put a little orange-flower water into a saucepan with 14oz. of honey, and boil to the ball degree (see SUGAR- BOILING). In the meantime, whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and add 21b. of blanched and finely-chopped sweet almonds and jib. of caster sugar, and beat them together with the honey into a smooth paste. Put a sheet of wafer-paper on a board, spread the paste over to .about tin. thick, cover it with another sheet of wafer-paper, and put another board on the top with a weight on it. When quite cold, cut into shapes, and it is ready for use. (4) Blanch about 12oz. of filberts, halve them, put them on a baking-sheet, and slightly colour them. Put 6oz. of sugar into a boiler, and boil to the caramel (see Sugar-boiling), then stir in the halves of filberts, taking care not to break them, and having them equally covered. Turn the whole out on to a well-buttered baking- sheet, spreading it out quickly, and dust over with sugar and chopped and dried pistachios. When cool, cut into any desired shape, and use as required. The Nougat may be flavoured with melted chocolate if liked. (5) Blanch 5oz. of sweet almonds, and cut them into fine threads. Roast the kernels of 3oz. of Spanish nuts, and peel them. Chop the nuts and Hoz. of candied lemon- peel, then mix them with the almonds and fib. of caster sugar. Whip the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, stir them into the other ingredients, anti work all to a paste. Spread the Nougat on a sheet of wafer-paper, cover with another sheet of the same paper, press well between two sheets of iron or tin, and put the paste in the oven for thirty minutes. Leave the Nougat till cold before cutting it up. (6) Put 14oz. of honey into a saucepan with a small quantity of orange-flower water and boil to the ball degree (see Sugar-boiling). Whip the whites of two eggs to a stitt' foam, mix them in with the honey, add 21b. of blanched and chopped sweet almonds and 5 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and colour with a few drops of cochineal. Spread the Nougat on a sheet of wafer-paper, lay a sheet of wafer-paper on top, and press into a solid block between two sheets of tin or iron. When cold, cut the Nougat into any desired shape. (7) Have ready 4oz. of peeled and dried almonds. Cut each almond into four slices, and lay them in a tin pan with a sheet of paper under them. Put the pan in a warm place but not on the stove. Take a copper sugar- pan, or dropper, put into it 6oz. of powdered sugar, and place it on a hot stove ; then with a dry wooden spatula stir continually until the sugar is dissolved, being careful to avoid browning it. Remove from the fire, add 1 drop of lemon-juice, and let it cool slightly for three minutes, stirring constantly. Add the almonds, and mix all gently with the spatula for two minutes. The Nougat is then ready for use. (8) Blanch 4lb. of almonds, and put them in a cool oven where they will dry and keep slightly warm. Put 21b. of caster sugar into a copper pan, pour in lib. of white honey, put the pan on the fire, skimming frequently, and as soon as it begins to boil add 4 table-spoonfuls of wheat syrup and a few drops of citric acid. When the sugar is at the crack degree (see SUGAR-BOILING), remove the pan to the side of the fire, add a few drops of extract of roses or orange-flower water, and a very little vegetable carmine; turn the whole out on to a well-oiled marble slab, and with a flat spoon scrape it all into the centre until it forms a mass that can be easily worked. Take it up in the bands, and work it on a hook in the same way as for twisted sugar (see SUGAR), but without allow- ing it to get cold, and working in the almonds and 2 handfuls of soaked pistachio-kernels. Have ready a low square-shaped wooden case spread with large slips of wafer-paper, put the mixture in, smoothing it over on the top so as to give it an equal thickness of about 2in., and cover over with more wafer-paper. Put the lid on N ougat—continued. the case with a heavy weight on the top so as to push the Nougat close down, let it remain for about ten minutes, turn it out of the case, divide it into long squares, cutting it in pieces with the aid of a crescent-shaped cleaving-knife. This kind of Nougat is largely made in Provence and is prepared there to perfection. Nougat -with. Apricots.^Roll out £lb. of puff paste to -Jjin. in thickness, and bake it in the oven until done. Take it out, and when quite cold spread over apricot jam to about lin. in thickness. In the meantime put 1,11*. of well-chopped and dried sweet almonds into a basin with 8oz. of caster sugar and the whites of three eggs beaten to a snow, mix them thoroughly, and spread the mixture over the jam. Put the sheet of paste, &c., into a moderate oven, and let it remain until firm and slightly browned. Take it out, and when quite cold cut them into pieces or squares; put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. Nougat Baskets.—(1) Blanch 141b. of almonds, cut them into shavings, and place them near the fire to thoroughly dry and to be warmed through. Put fib. of the best confectioners’ sugar over a moderate fire with just enough water to keep it from burning, keep stirring it till the sugar begins to bubble, then stir in the almonds, mixing them well into the sugar. Have ready some well-oiled shallow moulds, line them with the Nougat, nicely trim the edges with a good-sized pair of scissors, notch the edges, and when the Nougat is quite cold take them out of the shapes, and fill up with whipped Fig. 7. Nougat Baskets. cream, laying a strawberry on top. Small handles made of candy may be put across each. See Fig. 7. (2) Blanch If lb. of sweet almonds, cut them into long strips, and dry thoroughly in a warm oven for five or six hours. Take half the weight of the almonds (when they are dry) of sugar, put it into a sugar-pan, add the juice of two lemons, and stir well over the fire until the sugar is all dissolved. Boil quickly for a few minutes, but without letting it take colour ; remove the pan to the side of the fire, and add the almonds. Have ready a basket-mould in three parts, oil well, and spread the mixture quickly over, thinly but evenly, seeing that it is quite cool before taking it off the mould. Spread a charlotte-mould over with the remainder of the paste, and fix it firmly upside down on a dish. Fix the bottom part of the basket on the charlotte- mould, and adorn the upper edge of the basket first with a border of puff paste baked lightly and then with a circle of preserved greengages glazed with sugar, fixing two rings of gum paste for handles. Surround the base of the mould with a circle of small cakes, fill the hollow of the basket with vanilla ice cream, and it is ready for use. This makes a handsome table ornament, but requires great experience to prepare. Nougat Cream-Ice.—Put the Nougat in a mortar with 2 table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water and pound it. Put the yolks of eight eggs in a saucepan with 14 pints of cream and 12 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and heat them. Mix the bruised Nougat and three drops of essence of peach-kernels with the milk and eggs, and stir the whole over the fire till on the point of thickening. Pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve into a basin and leave till cooled. When ready, turn the Nougat cream into the freezer, and freeze it. The cream can lie served as it is, or may be turned into a mould and packed in ice for about two hours. Before serving, the mould should be dipped in warm water, wiped, and the contents turned out on to a fancy dish. Nougatinas.—Blanch and finely chop 111*, of sweet almonds. Put 21b. of powdered white sugar and the strained juiceTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 8 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. N ougat—continu ed. of a lemon in a sugar-boiler over a moderate fire and stir till the sugar is melted and boiling; then add the almonds, stir them well in, and pour the nougatina paste on a well- oiled marble slab, forming it into an oblong cake lin. thick. Cut it in squares, and when cold dip these in melted chocolate. NOUXLEES, or NUDEXiS.—These are virtually the same, the former being a French adaptation of the ori- ginal German paste; but national tastes have served in a measure to modify the shapes and applications, as will be seen in the following receipts, which are classified, in order to avoid confusion, into Nouilles, Nudels, and Dampf-Nudels. The paste is similar in all cases, con- sisting essentially of eggs and flour. Nouilles.—The best paste for these is made by working together eggs and flour in the proportion of five or six eggs to lib. of sifted flour. It is then manufactured into Nouilles, and applied to various rises. Nouilles au Gratin.—(1) Boil a sufficient quantity of Nouilles in water, drain thoroughly, and put them in a stew pan with enough cold milk to cover them, 2oz. of butter, about 4oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and pepper and grated nutmeg to taste. Toss the Nouilles about over the fire for several minutes, then pile them on a hot dish, strew plenty of grated breadcrumb over, and brown them in a brisk oven. Serve very hot. (2) Put lib. or 1 Jib. of shred Nouilles into a saucepan of salted water and boil them; take them out, drain, put them into a saucepan with a seasoning of salt and pepper, and warm them. Remove the pan from the fire, and stir in 6oz. of butter broken into small bits, 11b. of grated Parmesan cheese, and 4 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce. Put this mixture in layers in a gratin-disli with more grated Parmesan between them, cover the top with a little warmed butter, set the dish in a very slow oven with the door open, and let it remain for ten minutes. Take it out, glaze the surface to a good colour with a salamander, and serve. Nouilles a l’ltalienne.—Sift lOoz. of flour on to a board, spread it, and make a cavity in the centre. Sprinkle in a little salt, and add a few table-spoonfuls of warm water and five or six eggs. Well mb the eggs with the hand, gradually working them into the flour until a smooth paste is obtained and every particle of Hour worked in. Roll the paste into a ball, cover it with a basin, and let it remain for six or seven minutes. Then cut it in halves, roll both pieces out very thinly, put each on a cloth, and let them dry for fifteen or sixteen minutes. Cut them into strips about 2in. wide, dredge over a little flour, put the pieces one over the other, and cut them transversely into shreds. Spread these shreds out on sheets of paper, at a little distance apart, and let them diy. When wanted for use take them up, after they have been drying for about an hour, plunge into a saucepan of slightly-salted boiling water, and boil them quickly for two minutes. Remove the pan from the lire, let them remain for two minutes longer, and then turn them out on to a sieve. Put them, when dry, back into the saucepan, and mix them up with 41b. of butter pulled into little bits; add, while stirring, a little grated Parmesan cheese and a seasoning of pepper and grated nutmeg. Put the Nouilles in layers in a dish, masking each one with tomato sauce reduced with a small quantity of warm meat glaze or gravy, and serve. This paste is common in all the States of Italy, and is used in preference to macaroni in all except Naples. Nouille Cake.—Prepare a Nouille paste with the yolks of six eggs; cut it up into equal-sized pieces, put these into a saucepan with lqt. of boiling milk, and cook until done; then add 8oz. of butter and 6oz. of orange sugar. Stir well over a slow fire for about half-an-hour, so that the Nouilles may become soft and swell considerably. Stir in a little salt and the yolks of eight eggs so as to give a body to the paste; put it into a well-buttered mould, bake for two hours hi a moderate oven, turn out, and use as required, either hot or cold. Nouilles or Nudels—continued. Nouille Cake with Fruits.—Sprinkle the sides of a buttered plain border mould with minced uncooked Nouilles and afterwards line it thinly with short-paste. Put lqt. of milk into a saucepan on the fire, and as soon as it boils plunge in 6oz. of minced Nouilles; let them remain for two or three minutes, take out, drain, put into a sauce- pan with 2 table spoonfuls of cream, set the pan at the side of the fire with a cover over it, and let the Nouilles remain until they have absorbed all the moisture. Turn them out into a basin, and when they are cold stir in two eggs, a lump of butter, and a flavouring of grated lemon- zest. Put this mixture into the cavity in the mould, place in the oven, and bake gently for from thirty-five to forty minutes. Take the mould out, turn the border cake Fig. 8. Nouille Cake with Fruit. out on to a dish, fill the centre with preserved fruits cut in pieces, and then pile up cherries to form a dome. Slightly cover the border with a little apricot sauce, put a circle of greengages on the top of it (see Fig. 8), and serve. Nouille Cake with Sabayon.—Prepare a Nouille paste with the yolks of five eggs and a sufficient quantity of flour. Divide the paste into equal-sized portions, roll them out, and cut into very thin fillets. Put 1 pint of milk into a saucepan, and when on the point of boiling put in the Nouilles, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, and lib. of butter. Stir the mixture over the fire for two or three minutes, then move it to the side, add 4 table-spoonfuls of lemon or orange sugar, and let the whole simmer gently till of a thick, creamy consistency. Move the Nouilles away from the fire, and stir in gradually the beaten yolks of seven eggs; pour the mixture on to a buttered baking-sheet, level it off with the blade of a knife to £in. in thickness, and bake in a moderate oven. When partly baked, turn the cake over on to another buttered baking-sheet, and bake for ten minutes longer. When cooked, cut the paste into rounds with a tin cutter 14in. in diameter, arrange the pieces in a circle on a hot dish, and keep them warm. Beat the yolks of five eggs with 5 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, turn the mixture into a saucepan, add 1 breakfast- cupful of v7liite wine and a small piece of lemon-peel, and whip over a slow fire till thick, on no account letting it boil; move to the side, and continue whisking it for ten minutes. Pour half of the sabayon in the circle of the cakes, and serve them with the remainder in a sauceboat. Nouille Croquettes.—Put 1 Jib. of shred Nouille paste (called Nouilles) into a saucepan of salted water and boil for a few minutes. Take them out, drain, and put into a saucepan, with a slight seasoning of grated nutmeg and pepper; add 8oz. of butter pulled in pieces, 3 or 4 tea- cupfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, and lastly 2 table- spoonfuls of reduced bechamel sauce to thicken. Turn the whole out on to a well-buttered square baking-sheet, smooth the top over with a knife, making it about fin. thick, cover with a sheet of well-buttered paper, and let theTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 9 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Nouilles, or Nudels—continued. preparation cool. Cut up into 2in. squares, cover the squares with grated Parmesan cheese, dip them into beaten egg and then breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling lard or other fat, and fry a light brown. Take them out, drain, put them on a napkin folded on a dish, arranging them in the form of a pyramid, and serve. Nouille Croustades.—Put the required quantity of Nouilles into a saucepan of salted water and boil them for about three minutes. Take them out, drain, put into a sauce- pan on the stove, and add a seasoning of pepper and grated nutmeg, a good supply of grated Parmesan cheese, and some butter. Mix all thoroughly, turn the preparation out on to a buttered baking-sheet to about 2in. in thickness, cover with paper, put a slight weight on top, and let it cool. When quite cold cut into shapes with a tin cutter .about 1 Jin. in diameter, dip the pieces first into breadcrumbs, then into egg, and lastly into breadcrumbs again. Make an incision on the top of each with a tin cutter lin. in diameter to form the lid ; fry them in boiling fat, take out, drain, take off the lids, scoop out the insides and they are ready for use. They may be filled with a puree of any kind or with forcemeat, replacing the lids when filled. Nouilles with Lemon Cream.—Sift 6 >z. of flour on to a table or board, make a hole in the centre, and put in it 5 or 6 table-spoonfuls of brandy, a small quantity of salt, 1 table-spoonful of sifted crushed loaf sugar, and the yolks of three eggs. Work this into a smooth paste, give it five turns (the same as for puff paste), roll out very thin, and cut into strips 4in. or 5m. in length and Jin. in width. Fry a small qu uitity of these strips at a time in boiling fat, take them out, drain, and arrange lengthwise in a deep dish. In the meantime put the yolks of six eggs into a saucepan, beat them well, and add gradually 9oz. of finely- crushed loaf sugar. When well incorporated, place the saucepan on the fire, and stir in 3 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, taking care not to let it boil. Add a little lemon- zest, remove the pan from the fire, and as soon as the mixture is of the required consistency pour it through a sieve into a basin to cool. When quite cold pour it over the Nouilles, and serve. Nouilles with Parmesan Cheese.—Put 2 >z. of butter into a saucepan placed on a hot stove, and when melted mix in ljoz. of flour, 1 pinch of salt, a very little cayenne, and 1 teacupful of milk. Work these to a firm paste and add three eggs and 4oz. of grated Parmesan cheese. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, take the preparation up in small quantities with a spoon, drop them in the boil- ing water, and boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Take the Nouilles out, drain, put them on a napkin on a dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of rich brown sauce. Nouille Pudding.—Mince a Nouille paste made with four eggs, put it into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil for a few minutes. Turn out on to a sieve, drain, Nouilles, or Nudels—continued. few minutes, then add the yolks of seven eggs and the white of one, the thin rind of half a lemon very finely chopped, half a-dozen crushed macaroons, 8oz. of candied citron-peel cut into small squares, a lump of butter, and 2 table spoonfuls of well-whipped cream. Butter a timbale-mould, sprinkle it with sugar, and glaze it; pour the mixture into the mould, put a piece of buttered paper on the top, place it on a baking-sheet in a slack oven, and bake for about forty-five minutes. When done turn the pudding out on to a dish, and serve with almond cream poured over it. See Fig. 9. Nouille Soup.—(1) Well beat up the yolks of four eggs in 2 table-spoonfuls of water and 1 saltspoonful of salt; whip the white of one egg separately, add it to the rest, and sift in gradually, stirring at the same time, a sufficient quantity of finely-sifted flour to make a stiff paste. When quite smooth, lay the paste on a floured table or paste- board, and roll out very thinly. Cut the paste into diamond- shaped pieces, put them on a cloth, and keep them in a warm place until dry. Prepare some nicely-flavoured clear soup, and when it is boiling fast throw in the pieces of paste and boil them for ten or fifteen minutes. Pour the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve while very hot with a plate of grated Parmesan cheese. (2) Put Jgall. of rich jelly-broth into a saucepan on the fire and keep it boiling. Add a few table-spoonfuls of shred Nouilles cut up into rather small pieces and blanched and drained, let them remain for five minutes, then add a liaison of the yolks of five eggs diluted with cream and the breast of a cooked fowl cut up into small pieces; boil for a few minutes longer, turn the soup into a tureen, and serve. Nouille Turnovers.—Make a soft Nouille paste with one beaten egg, a small quantity of water, J saltspoonful of salt, and a sufficient quantity of flour. When well kneaded divide the paste into pieces about as large as a fowl’s egg and roll them out into thin oval shapes. Finely chop some pears or apples, sweeten to taste with sugar, and flavour moderately with powdered cinnamon ; soak an equal quantity of bread- crumbs in cream, anil when soft mix all together. Put 1 table-spoonful of the mixture on each Nouille and fold them over, pinching the edges well together to completely enclose it. Lay the Nouilles side by side in a stewpan, pour a small quantity of boiling water over, and steam them for Fig. 9. Nouille Pudding. put it back into the saucepan, and mix in 4oz. or 5oz. of crushed loaf sugar and a small quantity of butter. Put the lid on the pan and keep the preparation warm for a an hour. When cooked, drain the Nouilles as dry as pos- sible, place them on a hot dish garnished with a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper, dust over with caster sugar, and serve. See Fig. 10. Timbales of Nouille. (1) Sift 41b. of flour on to a board, sprinkle over it a little salt, make a cavity in the centre, pour in a little water, and add sufficient eggs to form the paste. With the hands gently rub the eggs into the flour, mixing a little at a time, and when the paste is smooth cover it with a basin and let it remain for a couple of minutes. Then cut it into five or six equal parts, roll them out very thin, and let them dry for a few minutes. Flour them slightly to prevent sticking, pack one on top of another, and cut them into shreds; then put them into a saucepan of salted water and parboil. Turn them out on to a sieve to drain, put into another saucepan, sprinkle over a little pepper and grated nutmeg, and mix in 5oz. of butter pulled into small pieces. Arrange them in layers about 2in. thick in a well-buttered saute-pan, place a slight weight on them, and let them cool. Cut them with10 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Nouilles or Nudels—continued. a tin cutter into the shape of timbales, dipping them first into egg and then into finely-sifted breadcrumbs; make a small cut on the top of each to mark out the cover, plunge them into boiling lard, and fry a light colour. Take them out, drain, remove the cover, and scoop out the inside. They can now be filled with a puree of any game, afterwards glazed, put on a napkin on a dish, and served. (2) Genoese Style—Sprinkle the insides of six well- but'ered timbale-moulds with grated fresh breadcrumb, line them with thin tart-paste, and fill with finely-shred boiled Nouilles, adding loz. of butter, and seasoning with J pinch each of salt and pepper, J pinch of nutmeg, and Joz. of grated Parmesan cheese. Thicken with 1 gill of strong Madeira sauce. Cover the moulds with pieces of tart-paste, and put into a brisk oven for six minutes. Turn the contents out of the moulds, arrange on a hot dish contain- ing 1 gill of hot Madeira sauce, and serve. Timbales of Nouilles flavoured -with Orange. With 6jz. of flour, the yolks of eight eggs, and a little salt, prepare a Nouille paste. Roll it out, and cut into strips abjut 2in. wide; flour the strips well, put them one upon another, and cut into shreds. Put these into a sauce-pan with lcjt. of boiling milk, and boil for a few minutes; then put in 6 >z. of orange sugar, 4oz. of butter, and a very little salt, and simmer gently until the Nouilles become soft and swollen. Now stir in the yolks of six eggs and the whites of two; remove the saucepan from the tire, add the whites of two eggs and 4 table-spoonfuls of cream, both well whipped, and thoroughly incorporate them. Line a timbale-mould with puff paste, fill it with the mixture, and bake in a quick oven; turn out carefully when done, and serve. This may be flavoured with vanilla or any similar ingredient. Nudels.—Although made with the same kind of paste as the Nouilles, the peculiarity of these, according to German ideas, is that they are cut into shreds or thin strips. (1) Mix in a basin 1 teaspoonful of salt with Jib. of flour, then mix in four beaten eggs and work the dough until sinoDth. Dredge flour over a paste-board, turn the dough on to it, and knead well. Roll the dough very thinly, then twist it up like a rolled jelly-cake. Cut half the roll into strips a little le\;s than Jin. thick, and the remaining half into strips about Jin. thick. Put the broader strips of paste into a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt, and boil for a-quarter-of-an-liour. Put Jib. of butter into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire until blue smoke rises, then throw in the narrow strips of paste, and fry until lightly browned. When cooked, turn the boiled strips of paste on to a sieve, drain well, and put them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper. Next drain the other strips as free from fat as possible, and joile on the top of the boiled ones. Strew caster sugar over the Nudels, and serve with cream. (2) Put 6 >z. of sifted Hour on to a board, make a bay, and work in a little salt and the yolks of seven or eight eggs to form a stiff paste, which must be worked five times. Cut the paste into quarters, and roll these out as thinly as possible. Cut them into strips about 2in. wide, then into very thin pieces; put them into boiling broth, and cook for a few minutes, when they will be ready for use. Should the strips of paste, be required for sweetmeats they may be poached in boiling cream. (3) Put lib. of Nudels into a saucepan of salted water and boil; take them out, drain, put them into a basin, and mix in 5oz. each of grated Parmesan cheese and butter. Put in a little pepper and grated nutmeg, and 4 table- spoonfuls of bechamel sauce ; turn the mixture on to a plate, and smooth it over ■with a knife. Put 5oz. of butter into a saucepan, warm it, sprinkle in 2 teacupfuls of sifted bread- crumbs, cook them gently for four or five minutes, turn out over the Nudels, and serve. Nudel-and-Ham Pudding.—Sift 1 pint of flour on a paste- [ board or table, make a hole in the centre, in which break three eggs; add a small quantity of salt, and work the I Nouilles or Nudels—continued. whole well together. Divide the paste into four equal portions, and roll each one out as thinly as possible; cover with a cloth, and leave until somewhat dry. Afterwards roll the paste out again and cut into thin strips. Put the Nudels into a stewpan of boiling salted water, and boil them for eight minutes, stirring constantly. At the end of that time turn them on to a fine sieve, pour plenty of cold water over, and let them drain until quite cold. Finely chop about 6oz. of lean boiled ham thickly butter the interior of a tin mould, strew in plenty of finely-grated breadcrumb, then fill the mould with alternate layers of the paste and ham, putting Nudels for the first and last layers. Well beat four eggs with 1 teacupful of cream and pour it over the contents of the mould, which then Fig. 11. Nudel-and-Ham Pudding. put into a moderate oven and bake for about an hour, or until it is nicely browned. When conked, turn the contents of the mould on to a hot dish and serve. See Fig. 11. Nuclei Pudding.—(1) Well beat an egg with J saltspoonful of salt, stir in sufficient flour to make a stiff paste, and knead into a smooth dough. Divide into moderate-sized portions, mould them into balls, and roll out as thinly as possible. Cut into very thin strips, and when dry throw the strips into a stewpan with boiling water and a small quantity of salt, and let them simmer until soft. When cooked, drain, and put in a small lump of butter. Separate the whites and yolks of two eggs, and well beat the yolks with 2oz. of butter that has been warmed; pour in with the Nudels, then whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff snow and stir in at the last; sweeten to taste. Butter a mould, strew some raspings thickly over the inside, pour the Nudels into it, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Make some Nuclei paste with two eggs, sufficient flour to stiffen, and a small quantity of salt; divide the paste into moderate-sized poitions, mould them into balls, and roll them out as thinly as possible. Cut the paste into very fine strips, put them into boiling, slightly-salted water, and boil slowly until soft. Drain them, put them into a lined stewpan with 3oz. of butter, 1 breakfast-cupful of sour cream, four well-beaten eggs, and 3 table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese ; season to taste with salt, and stir the whole over a slow fire until well mixed but not boiling. Butter a mould, turn the mixture into it, and bake until lightly browned. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve quickly. Stewed Nudels.—Make a sufficient quantity of fresh Nudels, drain them dry, and cut into thin strips. Put a lump of butter in a stewpan, and when it has melted put in the Nudels; toss them over the fire until nicely browned, being careful not to burn them. Moisten the Nudels with milk, and stew them gently until soft. When cooked, move them to the side of the fire, stir in two well-beaten eggs, and sweeten to taste; let them simmer at the edge of the lire for a minute or two without boiling, then turn on to a hot dish, and serve.TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 11 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Nouilles, or Nudels—continued. Dampf-Nudels.—These are made of Nridel paste to which yeast has been added, so that in the cooking they swell up, and are of much lighter consistence. Dampf-Nudels (Polish Style).—Put 1 ill*, of Damjf Nudel paste into a basin, and set in a warm place to rise. Then turn out on to a floured hoard, and work it well with the hands for a few minutes; let it get quite cold, roll out very thin, and with a small tin cutter cut it into rounds. Have ready some apple marmalade reduced and mixed with rum, put a little of this on each of the rounds, fold over the paste, and turn them upside down on a buttered baking-sheet. Let them remain for forty-five minutes to rise, then brush over with warmed butter ; put them with the baking-sheet into a moderate oven and bake until done. | Pull out the baking-sheet, dredge a little caster sugar over the Dampf-Nudels, glaze slightly, put on a napkin over a dish, in a pyramid or heap, and serve. Dampf-Nudel Cake (Munich Fashion). — Sift lib. of flour, keep it in a warm place for a time, and make a bay in the centre. Mix loz. of German yeast with 1 teacup- ful of warm milk, pour it in the bay, mix about a quarter of the flour with it, cover, and let it rise in a warm temperature. When double its original size, knead all the flour together with Jib. of melted butter, the yolks of five eggs, and sufficient tepid milk to form a soft paste. After this has been well worked, sift in Jib. of caster sugar and 1 teaspoonful of chopped citron-peel, and set it to rise again. Sift flour on a table, roll out the paste, let it remain for two or three minutes, and then divide it in rounds with a tin cutter about 1 Jin. in diameter. Flour a cloth, lay the rounds on it, cover them with paper, and leave them for a few minutes; then brush each one with c ay fish butter, and arrange them in circles in a plain cylinder-mould. When the circles reach to three-quarters the height of the mould, let the paste rise till it reaches Fig. 12. Dampf-Nudel Cake. the brim ; wrap the mould round with strips oi buttered paper, and bake for forty minutes in a moderate oven. When done, turn it out on to a dish (see Fig. 12), and serve with vanilla-flavoured cream in a separate dish. Dampf-Nudels with. Cream.—Put 31b. of sifted flour into a basin, and place it in the oven to warm. Take it out, and make into a very stiff paste by adding Joz. of German yeast dissolved hi warm milk; cover the basin, and put it into a warm place. 11'lien the dough has risen to double its original size, work it well with the hand, and mix in Jib. of warm butter, 4 table-spoonfuls of sifted crashed loaf sugar, a very small quantity of salt, and, gradually, the yolks of four or five eggs. Should the paste be too light or thin, add a little more flour, or if too thick a little more yolk of egg. Set it again to rise, then turn it out on to a table or board. When it is quite cool, flatten it and cut into strips about the thickness of a finger; cut these again transversely, having the pieces of such dimensions that when rolled up they will be the size of filberts. Roll them up, put them at the bottom of a well-buttered flat Nouilles, or Nudels—continued. saucepan—close together, but without allowing them to touch—and let them remain for an hour to rise. When well risen, brush the Nudels over with l teacupful of sweet milk flavoured with vanilla, pour in sufficient warm milk to slightly cover them, put the lid on the saucepan, place it in a quick oven, and bake for about twelve minutes, by which time all the liquor should have evaporated. On no account must the lid of the pan be taken oft while they are cooking. Remove the Dampf-Nudels, which should be quite dry and of a delicate yellow colour, by placing the blade of a knife under them ; put them on a dish in the form of a pyramid, and serve with a little cream poured over them, and some more in a sauceboat. NOURMAHAL CAKE. -See Cakes. NOYAU or, NOYEAU.—The meaning of this word is the stone of a fruit. Some very famous liqueurs have been made from the kernels of various fruit-stones, to which the name has been extended, and in spite of the fact that these kernels are reputed to contain large quantities of prussic acid, Noyau continues to he a prime favourite, especially in France. It can be prepared from any of the following receipts, and adapted to various purposes as shown hereunder. (1) This cordial requires to be very sweet, and is made by dissolving Joz. of oil of cinnamon, Joz. of oil of orange, and loz. of oil of bitter almonds, in 2galls. of pure spirit, adding lgall. of syrup. When thoroughly mixed it is ready for use. (2) Pour Jgall. of brandy over the young sprouts of the peach-tree, and let them remain for three days in order to extract the flavour of the leaves. Strain off the liquor, and add Jgall. of clarified sugar and 4oz. of almonds, blanched and chopped up small. Let the whole remain for about six weeks, then pass through a strainer, pour into bottles, cork, and it is ready for use. (3) Put 1 pint of syrup into a basin, pour in 1 pint of the best brandy, and add a little extract of almonds and a little less of extract of lemon. Pour it into a bottle, shake well, and it is then ready for use. The syrup and almond extract must be very clear, otherwise, after the liqueur is made, it will have to be filtered. (4) Put lib. of caster sugar into a basin with 4oz. each of sweet and bitter almonds, blanched and chopped fine, and pour over these lqt. of strong gin. Put the basin in a warm place, stirring at intervals for about two weeks. Pass it through a very fine sieve or filter through paper, pour into bottles, cork, and put it by ready for use. (5) Blanch and pound 3oz. each of sweet and bitter almonds, and put them into a bottle with the thin rind of two lemons ; pour over lqt. of gin and leave for three days in a moderately warm place, giving the bottle a shake every three or four hours. Dissolve 14oz. of sugar in 1 breakfast- cupful of boiling water, add it to the other ingredients, and leave it for twenty-four hours longer, giving the bottle an occasional shake. Strain the liquor, then filter it, bottle in small bottles, and in six months’ time it will be fit for use, but it is improved by keeping. (6) Blanch lib. of bitter almonds and pound them until smooth; put them in a large earthenware jar with lib. of loaf sugar, Joz. of mace, and a small grated nutmeg or half a large one. Pour over these ingredients lgall. of brandy, and leave them for a fortnight, stirring well every day. At the end of that time cover the jar, and leave the con- tents untouched for six weeks. Afterwards bottle it and leave for some months longer before using. (7) Take 31b. of powdered white sugar, lib. of bitter almonds, and Jib. of sweet almonds; blanch the almonds and pound them to a paste with some of the sugar. Put this paste and the rest of the sugar into lgall. of gin, and let it stand for ten days, then filter it through paper, bottle, and cork well. (8) Blanch 4oz. of sweet almonds, put them into a mortar, and pound to a paste with 1 dessert-spoonful of rose-water ; put this paste into a jar, together with lib. of loaf sugar and J pint of the best brandy, cover the jar well, and let it stand for two days, shaking frequently, then add the grated peel of half a lemon, the strained juice of a lemon,12 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£c., referred to, see under their special heads. Noyau, or Noyeau—continued. 4 table-spoonful of strained honey, and H teaspoonfuls of essence of bitter almonds. Let the liquor stand a week longer, shaking it every day. After it has stood for ten days in all, strain it through fine muslin, bottle, cork, and seal the corks. This is a nice flavouring for custards and puddings; it also makes a refreshing summer drink if mixed with ice water. (9) Take a hundred kernels of either peaches or apricots, blanch and bruise them, and put them hi a bottle with a piece of stick cinnamon, 1 teacupful of orange-flower water, and lqt. of brandy. Keep the bottle in a warm temperature for seven or eight days, removing the cork occasionally, and shaking the contents of the bottle. At the end of that time place the bottle in a cool temperature and leave it for three months. Put lib. of loaf sugar in a small lined saucepan with 2 pints of water and the juice of one lemon. Beat the white of an egg with the shell, put it in the saucepan with the sugar, and boil the whole until reduced to a thick syrup. Skim the syrup and pour it into the bottle of Noyau. The syrup must not be made and mixed with the Noyau until the expiration of the three months. Strain the whole, pour it into small bottles, and keep them tightly corked till wanted for use. (10) Put into a bottle lqt. of spirits of wine of 62deg. over proof, 4 drops of oil of aniseed, 1 of tincture of vanilla, 3 of oil of roses, and 15 of the essential oil of bitter almonds. Well shake the bottle to thoroughly incorporate, pour in lqt. of syrup, and add sufficient pink colouring to give it the required tint. Filter into small bottles, put in a cool place, ami keep until wanted for use. Noyau Cream.—Blanch about Jib. of Jordan and loz. of bitter almonds, and throw them into cold water; rinse them well, and pound in a mortar with 2oz. of sugar and 1 gill of cream. Mix well together and rub through a hair sieve into a basin; also add nearly 1 pint of whipped cream flavoured with Noyau, and loz. of dissolved isinglass; sweeten to taste, mix well together, and pour into a mould. When set and wanted for use, turn out in the usual way. Noyau Cream Ice.—Stir into 1 pint of cream 3 wineglass- fuls of Noyau, and add a little sugar and a few drops of lemon-juice. When thoroughly incorporated, put the cream into moulds, and place them in the freezer; then turn out and serve. Noyau Honey.—Blanch Jib. of sweet and 2oz. of bitter almonds, and pound them in a mortar with 21b. of caster sugar. Mix them with 1 pint of cold milk that has been boiled, and add the rinds of three lemons, tgall. of gin, and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of honey. Put all into a large bottle or jar, shake daily for ten days, then filter the liquor through filtering-paper; pour it into bottles, cork and seal them, and the honey is ready for use. Noyau Jelly.—(1) Put loz. of isinglass into \ pint of luke- warm water and stir over the fire until dissolved. In the meantime put over the fire lib. of loaf sugar, the juice of half a lemon, and 4 pint of cold water, and boil without stirring until a thick syrup is formed ; mix the syrup and 1 wineglassful of Noyau liqueur, with the dissolved isin- glass, strain the jelly into a mould set in cold water, and allow it to harden before turning it out. Garnish round with preserved peaches and apricots alternately with points of angelica between them. See Fig. 13. (2) Put 2oz. of gelatine into 1 breakfast-cupful of water and let it soak for ten minutes. Take it out, put it into a saucepan with lqt. of water, and dissolve it over a clear fire, stirring continually. When quite dissolved, put in the strained juice of eight lemons, the peel of a lemon cut very thin, 1 gill each of Noyau, brandy, and sberry, and sufficient loaf sugar to sweeten. Stir in the whites and shells of four eggs. Put the pan over a clear fire, and as soon as it boils remove it to the side, cover it over, and let it remain for five minutes longer. In the meantime blanch 3oz. of sweet almonds and put them into cold water to preserve the colour, take them out, wipe them dry, and cut up into long shreds. Pass the jelly through a jelly- bag, continue to strain it until quite clear, and then mix Noyau, or Noyeau—continued. in the pieces of almonds. Fill up a mould with the mixture, set it on ice or in a cool place, and when the jelly is quite firm turn it out on to a dish, garnish with well-whipped cream, and serve. Noyau Jelly with Apricots.—Put 12oz. of sugar into a saucepan with 2oz. of gelatine, and pour over the whites of three eggs moistened with lqt. of water and the juice of a lemon. Put the pan over the fire, stirring it well with a whisk until it boils. Then remove it from the fire, and when it has cooled a little strain it through a jelly-bag into a basin; then pour it back, and strain again until quite clear. Let it get quite cold, and then mix in 1 breakfast- cupful of Noyau. In the meantime put some halves of apricots in a saucepan with a little syrup, cook them, take them out, and put on a sieve to drain. Take the kernels from the stones of the apricots, blanch and peel them, and divide in halves. Set a plain cylinder-mould on ice, fill it with the jelly and apricots put in alternate layers, and sprinkle the halves of kernels round the sides of the mould. Cover the mould with a baking-sheet, pack ice on the top, and when the jelly has remained thus for two hours turn it out and serve. NUDELS.—See Nouilles. NUN’S CAKES.—Nee Cakes. NURSERY BISCUITS.—Nee Biscuits. NUTS (Fr. Noisettes; Ger. Niisse; Ital. Noce; Sp. Nuez). — Although it is said that the kernels of Nuts require the stomach of an ostrich to digest, it is certain that they are general favourites, and are devoured with comparative impunity by all classes. Nuts may be de- scribed as the fruit of certain trees and shrubs, containing within a hard case a kernel more or less pleasing tc the taste, the number of Nuts answering this de- scription is very great. They will be found described under their various headings. The following receipts apply to almost any kind of Nuts, from cocoa-nuts down to those of the hazel. Candied or Crystallised Nuts.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar into a sugar-boiler with 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and boil to the crack degree (see Sugar-boiling). Put the boiler into a saucepan of boiling water to keep the syrup hot, and dip in the required quantity of blanched Nuts, sticking them on the point of a needle or thin skewer to do so; then put them on a slightly-buttered dish, and let them cool. If they are not sufficiently coated with the syrup, dip them again. When diy, the Nuts are ready for use. Nut Cake.—Put 1 teacupful of butter into a basin, warm it, beat to a cream, and add gradually 1 breakfast-cupfulTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 13 For details respectin'l Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ibe., referred to, see under their special heads. Nuts—continued. of sugar. When the mixture is quite light and frothy, stir in two well-beaten eggs, then 1 teacupful of milk, and next 2 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, with 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar and half the quantity of bicarbonate of soda. Now work in quickly 1 breakfast-cupful each of stoned raisins and blanched Nuts, very finely chopped; turn the mixture into well-greased, deep baking-pans, and hake in a moderate oven for thirty-five minutes. Turn it out when done, and serve cold. If preferred, 1 J teaspoon- fuls of baking-powder may he substituted for the cream of tartar and soda. Nut Candy.—Put 3 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar into a sugar- boiler with 1 teacupful each of vinegar and water and the strained juice of a lemon. Set the boiler on the fire, and stir until boiled to the crack (see Sugar boiling). Drop it in small quantities on a well-buttered baking- sheet, put half a blanched kernel on each, and when nearly cold cover the Nuts with more of the syrup. When the required number is done, dry the sweets on a sieve over the fire, and they are ready for use. Nut Comfits.—Remove the shells from about 81b. of Nuts; pick the kernels clean, put on a stove or on a baking- sheet in the oven, and dry for two or three days. Then put them in a pan of boiling water to blanch, nibbing them well with the fingers to remove any pieces of the skin that may remain. Take them out, drain, and dry thoroughly in front of the fire. Have ready a sufficient quantity of gum Arabic dissolved in hot water and passed through a fine sieve. Put 4|lb. of clarified sugar into a sugar-boiler, boil it to the thread degree (see SUGAR BOILING), and mix in a little of the dissolved gum to make it of the required consistency; then place the pan at the side of the fire so that the syrup will keep hot, but without boiling. Put the Nuts into the comfit-pan, pour over about 2 table-spoonfuls of the dissolved gum, spreading it over as much as possible so as to give them all a slight coating. When they are dry, give a second coating, taking care not to put in too much or it will make the Nuts too damp. When the gum is quite dry, pour over a little of the syrup to give them another coating, and continue in this way live or six times, increasing the quantity of syrup every time, but taking care to see that one coating is quite dry before another is added. The Nuts will now have had six or seven coatings, and the next one must be of syrup and gum in equal proportions, stirring them with the hand to prevent their sticking together; this will also make them smooth. Care must be taken not to have too violent a heat under them, or they will colour and spoil the effect. Sift them well in a sieve to remove any sugar-dust that may stick to them, put them back in the comfit-pan, and continue the coatings of syrup until the Nuts are of the required size. Take them out when done, and dry on a sieve in front of the fire for a day. Boil some double-refined sugar to the thread degree (see SUGAR- boiling), and give the comfits eight coatings of it, put- ting a little gum in the first and last. Dry the comfits again, and the next day give them eight or ten coatings with sugar boiled to the little pearl degree (see SUGAR- BOILING), reducing the quantity of syrup put in every time, and when each of these coatings is given reduce the heat under the pan and swing it for thirty or forty minutes before giving another coating. Let the Comfits diy for another day, then put them back in the comfit-pan with- out any heat under it, and give them three coatings with sugar boiled to the small thread degree, to give them a glossy appearance. Put them on a sieve over a slow fire, dry again, put into boxes or tins, and they are ready for use. Nut Cream-Ice.—Put the yolks of seven or eight eggs into a saucepan, beat them well, and add gradually about 12oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, working it to a froth with a wooden spoon, then pour in 1 pint of boiling milk, and adjl a stick of vanilla to flavour. Pour the cream into a basin, and add 6 table-spoonfuls of Nuts blanched and pounded to a paste with a few blanched sweet almonds. Let the prepara- tion cool, pass it through a fine sieve into a freezer, and it is ready for use. Nuts—continued. Nut Liqueur.—Put eight or ten green Nuts into a jar, and pour over them lqt. of brandy at 22deg. strength; place a cover over the jar, and for about three weeks put it in the sun during the day time. Next add lib. of crushed loaf sugar; let this remain for another three weeks, then filter the liqueur into bottles, cork down, and it is ready for use. This is a very digestive liqueur. Nut Pudding.—(1) Blanch about four dozen fresh Nuts, pound half of them with a few blanched sweet almonds, and put the paste into a saucepan with 1J pints of hot vanilla cream. Stir well over the fire until the mixture is thick, then let it cool, and pass it through a fine sieve into a basin ; pour a little of it at the bottom of a dome-shaped mould packed in salted ice, sprinkle over a few of the remaining Nuts cut in halves, and fill up the mould in this way. Put a round of paper on the top, then the lid of the mould, cementing it all round with a paste of flour and water, cover the mould with ice, and let it remain for an hour or so; then take it out, turn the pudding quickly on to a napkin folded on a dish, and serve. (2) Steep about ill), of small Nuts in cold water all night; on the following morning drain, and pound them in a mortar. Grate the crumb of two penny rolls and mix with the Nuts, also Jib. of chopped suet and marrow, Jib. of caster sugar, a small quantity of finely-chopped citron and orange-peel, a little grated nutmeg, and 1 pinch of salt. Beat the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of four, mix them with 1J pints of cream, and stir the whole in with the other ingredients. Line a buttered dish with puff paste, pour in the above mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for an-hour-and-a-half. The pudding may be served either hot or cold. NUT-CRACKERS.—Very useful instruments (see Fig. 14) upon a dessert-table when nuts are supplied. There should be several pairs if the guests are numerous, one pair being allowed to every two or three. NUTMEGS (Ft. Muscades; Ger. Muskatenusse ; It at. Noces Moscada; Sp. Nuez Moscadas).—The shelled seeds of the Myristica fragrans, or Nutmeg-tree. Lindley tells us that the Nutmeg-tree is largely cultivated in the Molucca Islands, Java, Sumatra, Bengal, &c. It is a tree from 20ft. to 25ft. in height, with oblong aromatic leaves, and fruit something like a peach (see Fig. 15), having a longitudinal groove on one side, and bursting into two pieces, when the enclosed seed, covered by the mace, is exposed. The seed itself has a thick hard outer shell, which may be removed when dry, and which encloses the nucleus of the seed, the Nutmeg of the shop. Several kinds of Nutmegs are met with in commerce, those known as Penang being the most valuable. Next to these come the Dutch or Batavian kind, and after these, those from Singapore. Dutch Nutmegs are marked on the outsides by white furrows caused by dusting them over with lime to keep away the Nutmeg-insect, which eats its way into them and destroys their aromatic principles. Besides those described above there are other Nutmegs of an infei’ior character known as the long or wild Nutmeg. These are frequently met with in the shell, or in the mace without the shell. Kettner observes of Nutmegs, that in olden times there was scarcely ever a dish that was not flavoured with Nutmeg, but now we have gone to the other extreme,14 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. N utmegs—continued. and it is rarely ever used except for sweet dishes. See Mace. Candied Nutmegs.—Soak the Nutmegs to be candied in water, and afterwards lay them in an earthenware pan. Boil Hlb. of powdered white sugar, ^ gill of rose-water, and a very little gum Arabic, to candy \see Sugar-boiling), and pour it over the Nutmegs. Set the pan in a warm place, cover it closely, let it stand for three weeks, and the Nutmegs will be like rock candy. Extract of Nutmegs.—Put a couple of dozen Nutmegs into a mortar, pound them well, or they may be grated if more convenient, and put them into a bottle with 1 pint of strong gin. Shake the bottle frequently for a month or so; then strain off the liquor into smaller bottles, and it will be ready for use. Nutmeg Flavouring.—(1) Put 1 drachm of Nutmeg oil and \oz. of powdered mace into 1 pint of spirits of wine, and let it macerate for about twelve hours. Pass the liquor through filtering-paper, put it into bottles, and it is then ready for use. (2) Mix 2 drachms of oil of Nutmeg and loz. of finely- powdered sugar with 2 pints of alcohol, and in a few days strain the liquor for use. Nutmeg Lozenges.—Put 21b. of caster sugar on a marble slab, make a cavity in the centre, and pour in sufficient dissolved gum Arabic or gum dragon to make it into a paste. (The gum is generally dissolved in the proportion of 2£lb. of gum Arabic to '2-h pints of water, or loz. of i gum dragon in i pint of water). Mix in Joz. of oil of Nutmeg, and roll out the paste on the slab until it is about gin. in thickness. Dust it, as well as the slab, with starch powder and sugar, rubbing them well over the surface with the palm of the hand. Cut out the lozenges with a tin cutter, and put them on trays in a cool oven or on the stove to dry. When dry, they are ready for use. Surprise Nutmegs. Pour \ gill of cold water on 1 break- fast-cupful of the best sugar, add J saltspoonful of cream of tartar, and let it stand for a short time, then stir it well, put it in a pan over a moderate fire, and let it boil till a little of it tried in cold water forms a thin jelly. Take it off' the fire then, and let it stand for a few minutes, keep- ing the pan closely covered. Beat it to a smooth cream with a wooden spoon. Take l breakfast-cupful of grated or pounded hickory nuts with a little powdered cinnamon, grated Nutmeg, and 1 or 2 drops of clove oil mixed with N utmegs—continued. them, and work these into the creamed syrup. Get some Nutmegs, with the mace on them whole, remove them from the mace, taking great care not to break it more than is necessary, and fill the mace with the mixture. OATCAKES.—See Oatmeal. OATMEAL (Fr. Gruau d’avoine ; Ger. Hafermehl: Ital. Farina di vena; Sp. Harina de avena).—“ A Scotchman is never in greater peril,” says a contemporary, “than when the subject of Oatmeal gets uppermost. It is the condiment which, in a little water, makes the drink of the frugal harvester; as porridge, or in some kindred form, it is his breakfast; as cake, it forms with cheese his dinner; and on high days and holidays, made into fancy dishes, it is the material wherewith he feasts his family, and regales himself and friends.” That Oatmeal is exceedingly nutritious is shown by Letheby, who gives the following as its analysis : Nitrogenous matter Carbo-hydrates Fatty matter Saline matter Water 12-6 638 56 30 150 100 Oatmeal is the grain of the oat (Avena sativa) deprived of the skin, kiln-dried, and afterwards ground in a mill. It is remarkably rich in oily or fatty matter, and as a flesh-former it holds a high rank. There are three kinds of Oatmeal, coarse, fine, and groats, the latter being unground, and the coarse or fine depending upon the grinding. In England, Oatmeal has unfortunately ac- quired rather a bad name through adulterations Several inferior starches, such as rice and maize, are added; and sometimes whitening, plaster of Paris, and ground bones are utilised, to make up the bulk. 3roch.au.—This Scottish dish is prepared with Oatmeal known as medium ground. Put 1 pint of water into a saucepan on the fire, bring it to the boil, add 1 dessert- spoonful of the Oatmeal, mix in 1 teacupful of cream to- gether with sufficient salt to taste, and boil for about an hour. Have ready some cups or small basins, pour in the mixture, stir in a little golden syrup, or if preferred thin slices of cheese, and serve immediately. Paris.—See Oatmeal Cakes. Oatmeal Biscuits.—Mix with lib. of medium Oatmeal |lb. of flour and l table-spoonful of baking-powder; mb in lib. of butter, and when quite smooth stir in sufficient warm milk to knead the whole into a paste; turn it on to a table15 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Oatmeal—continued. and roll out very thin. With a round tin cutter about 2in. in diameter cut the paste into rounds, lay them on baking-sheets, and bake quickly in a brisk oven. When cooked, leave the biscuits until cold, then pack them in biscuit-tins, and keep them in a dry cupboard. A few served on a plate at luncheon are general favourites. See Fig. 16. Oatmeal Bread.—Rub Jib. of butter into l^lb. of flour, and when smooth mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of brown sugar, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and |lb. of Oatmeal. When thoroughly mixed make a well in the centre, in which put 2 table- spoonful;-; of brewers' yeast; cover with a cloth, and stand it in a warm temperature for an hour to rise. Afterwards work the mixture up with sufficient warm milk to form a dough, divide it into equal-sized portions, and mould them into flat round cakes (see Fig. 17); lay them on baking- dishes, a short space between each, and bake them. When cooked, split the cakes open, butter them well, then close them again; put them on a hot dish, and serve quickly. Oatmeal Cakes (Large).—(1) Rub 17,lb. of lard into 71b. of Oatmeal mixed with lilb. of flour and lioz. each of cream of tartar, bicarbonate of soda, and salt. Turn the mixture on to a board or table, make a hollow in the centre, and pour in sufficient cold water to make it into a stiff" dough. Take about £lb. of it, form it into a cake, cut it into quarters, put it on a baking-tin, and bake in a sharp oven until quite done. (2) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Oatmeal into a basin and stir in with it 1 teaspoonful of salt and sufficient water to make it into a stiff' paste. Strew a small quantity of Oatmeal over a paste-board, put the paste on it, and mould it well with the hands, shaping it into a thin, round cake. Make an iron griddle hot, lay the cake on it, and place it over a clear fire. When one side of the cake is browned, turn it over quickly and brown the other side. (3) Mix well together 3oz. of Oatmeal, 7oz. of flour, 1 table spoonful of salt, and J saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda; melt 3 >z. of lard over the fire in a saucepan, and stir it well into the mixture together with an egg beaten up with 1 table-spoonful of water. Roll the paste out very thin, lay it on a greased baking-tin, and bake it for twenty minutes in a hot oven. The temperature at the oven door should be 240deg. (4) Small.—Mix a little bicarbonate of soda and salt in with lib. of Oatmeal, and rub in 4oz. of lard, dripping, or butter, whichever is prefefred. Add 1 teacupful of water to make it into a dough, turn it out on to a board well sprinkled with meal, and knead it slightly. Roll it out to the thick- ness of a penny piece, cut it into rounds with a biscuit- cutter, put them on the hot stove or griddle, and when they are done on one side hang them in front of the fire to brown the other side. They are then ready for use or may be put away in boxes and kept in a dry place; in the latter case they should again be made crisp by holding them in front of the fire for a few minutes before serving. (5) Put lib. of Oatmeal in a basin, pour over it 1 pint of sour butter-milk, cover the basin with a cloth, and leave it until the following day. Mix 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda and 1 teaspoonful of salt with lib. of flour, then work it well in with the Oatmeal. Roll the paste out to the desired thickness, divide it into small | Oatmeal—continued. cakes, and bake them in a moderate oven. When cooked and cold, the cakes should be put in tins. (6) Mix 1 saltspoonful of salt with h teacupful of Oatmeal, moisten it to a stirt' paste with cold water, and knead it lightly; strew Oatmeal over a paste-board, put the mixture on it, roll it out as thinly as possible, and bake over a clear fire, turning it with a slice when done on one side. When cooked, dry the cake in front of the fire for a minute, and proceed to make others in like manner, the paste being made in small quantities on account of its drying quickly. Keep the cakes in biscuit-tins. Oatmeal Cake with Cheese (American).—Cut an Oatmeal cake into quarters, put a thin slice of any kind of cheese on each part, and toast in a very slow oven; on the top of each place a poached egg, dust over with pepper, and serve hot. Oatmeal Cocoa.—Mix smoothly |lb. of the finest Scotch Oatmeal and fib. of cocoa separately, with a small quantity of boiling water; stir these together, and pour in gradually 3galls. of boiling water. Add half a lemon cut in slices, leave it until cold, then mix with the liquor a moderate quantity of milk, sweeten to taste, and it is ready for serving. Oatmeal Cream.—This is a refreshing and stomachic cream. Pour lqt. of water into a saucepan and put in 8oz. of fine Oatmeal and a little salt; set the sauce- pan on the lire, and boil gently for three hours. Strain the liquor through a cloth or very fine sieve into another saucepan, add 3 pints of white broth and a little sugar, boil it up again, then remove the pan to the side, anti keep it hot. Let it remain for an hour, then acid a little raw cream and a small lump of butter, turn the cream out on to a dish, and serve with small pieces of fried bread. Oatmeal Drink.—Put 2oz. of the coarsest Oatmeal into 2qts. of cold water and boil it for half-an-hour; next strain the liquor and sweeten to taste with moist sugar. If served hot, flavour with cloves or lemon-peel boiled in it; if served cold, flavour with lemon-juice. Oatmeal Dumpling.—Make a paste of Oatmeal and butter, mixed together with cold water, form it into a dumpling, put in a haddock’s liver well seasoned with salt and pepper, tie it in a floured cloth, and boil. Oatmeal Gruel.—(1) Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of Oatmeal to a smooth paste by adding 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of water ; stir in 3 breakfast-cupfuls of milk or water, pour it into a saucepan over a slow fire, and cook gently for an hour, or a little more if required, stirring frequently and from the bottom of the pan. When done, turn it into a basin and serve. It may be strained if the thick sediment is objected to. (2) Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water over 2oz. of Oatmeal in a basin, stir it, let it stand for a minute or so, and then pour over a similar quantity of boiling water, stirring all the time. Strain it through a conical sieve into a saucepan and boil for ten minutes. Stir in a small piece of butter and 1 table-spoonful or so of sugar, and serve very hot. (3) Mix 3 teaspoonfuls of Oatmeal in a little cold milk, and add a very small quantity of salt—about | saltspoonful. Boil the thinly-pared rind of half a lemon in 4 pint of milk, and while it is boiling add by degrees the Oatmeal and milk, stirring all the time. Let it boil gently for ten minutes, add sugar to taste, stir in 14 table-spoonfuls of brandy and it is ready for use. Oatmeal Mush.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of coarse Oatmeal into the top part of a double boiler with 1 teaspoonful of salt and nearly lqt. of boiling water, and boil over the fire for ten minutes, stirring all the time with a wooden fork. At the end of that time place the upper boiler into the one containing hot water, and cook for an hour if preferred soft; but if liked very dry, cook for nearly three hours. Just before serving, remove the cover from the top boiler, stir the contents once, and leave it for a few minutes so that the steam may escape. Turn the mush on to a hot dish, andTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 16 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Oatmeal—continued. serve with sugar, cream, and baked apples in separate dishes. Oatmeal Pie.—(1) Put 1 gill of cold milk into a basin and sprinkle in 2oz. of fine Oatmeal. When thoroughly mixed, pour in 1 pint of boiling milk, turn it into a saucepan, add sufficient sugar to sweeten, and boil slowly for ten minutes. Stir in 2oz. of finely-grated breadcrumb, and when the mixture is still' add two well-whisked eggs, a little Jemon- or orange-peel for flavouring or a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and loz. of finely-shred suet. Pour the mixture into a well-buttered dish, and bake for an hour in a moderate oven. When it is done, take it out and serve hot. A linely- Fig. 13. Oatmeal Pie. chopped onion and 1 teaspoonful each of minced sage and marjoram may be added instead of the other flavourings, and it may be turned out and served on another dish (see Fig. 18) with some gravy in a sauceboat. (2) Put | teacupful of Scotch Oatmeal into a saucepan with I f jiints of water, and boil it until reduced to a jelly, then move it from the fire and let it get cold. Cut about lib. of Australian mutton into slices; spread some of the Oatmeal over the bottom of a small pie-dish, lay in the slices of mutton, strew over them chopped onion, parsley, .and a small quantity of sage, dust them over with salt and pepper, and cover with a layer of the Oatmeal. Fill the dish with alternate layers of Oatmeal and meat, season- ing as before, and making the last layer of Oatmeal. Dredge the pie lightly over with flour, and bake it for an-hour-and-a-half in a moderate oven. Serve while hot. Oatmeal Porridge.—(1) Stir 2oz. of Oilmeal gradually into a saucepan containing lqt. of boiling water, and add 1 teaspoonful of salt. When all is added, boil gently for thirty minutes, stirring constantly to prevent the mixture sticking to the pan. When it is done it should be like a light jelly but not stiff, although it will set. Turn it out into a bowl or basin, and serve hot with cream or milk. It is also eaten with sugar or treacle (golden syrup), and if it is boiled for an hour it will become lighter, adding a little more boiling water if it should thicken. (2) Let the water boil before the meal is put in ; then, without removing the pan from the fire, the meal should be poured regularly in from the band in a continuous stream, stirring all the time. Upon this depends the art of making porridge, and the success of the cook is shown in the smoothness of the porridge and entire absence of lumps. Allow the porridge to boil for ten minutes, and then add salt, but not before the ten minutes of boiling have fully expired, because salt has a tendency to harden the meal and prevent its swelling. After putting in the salt to taste, boil for ten minutes, and serve with new milk. The consistency of the porridge can be regulated by the amount of Oatmeal used. (3) A rather more fanciful dish claiming the same title is prepared by putting lqt. of water in a stewpan and letting it boil. Mix 1 table-spoonful of meal with h pint of cream; this is poured into the stewpan or saucepan of boiling water, and simmered for fifty or sixty minutes. Serve with golden syrup, thin slices of cheese, or crusts of bread. Oatmeal Pudding.—(1) Put 1 teacupful of Oatmeal and 1 breakfast-cupful of brown breadcrumbs in a basin and pour over them 1 pint of boiling milk. Cover the basin and leave the contents until cold, then stir in two well-beaten eggs, sweeten to taste, and add a smal 1 quantity of grated nutmeg. Butter a pudding-basin, pour the mixture into it, and tie a iloured pudding-cloth over the top. Put the pudding into Oatmeal—continued. a saucepan of boiling water and boil it for an hour. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) The night before the pudding is wanted put £ pint of fine Oatmeal into a basin of cold water ami let it soak until the following morning. Pour 1 pint of boiling milk over the Oatmeal, and add 1 teaspoonful of salt; butter thickly the interior of a pudding-basin (one that will just hold the Oatmeal should lie used), pour the Oatmeal into it, tie a well-lioured cloth tightly over the top, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil the pudding for an-hour- and-a-half. When cooked, turn it on to a hot dish, pour some cream round if, or some hot milk thickened with fl >ur, and serve. (3) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water into a basin, mix in gradually 4oz. of coarse Oatmeal, and then pour in double the quantity of boiling milk or water. Stir in two eggs, a little spice, loz. of finely-slued suet or fat, 2oz. of sultana raisins, and sufficient sugar to sweeten. Have ready a well-buttered basin, pour in the mixture, cover it with a cloth, and boil in a saucepan of water for about an-hour-and-a-half. In the meantime, put loz. of ripe currants into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and boil for five minutes. Mash the currants with a spoon against the side of the pan, and mix in 1 table- spoonful of Hour made into a smooth paste with water and spice and sugar to taste. When the pudding is done, turn it out on to a dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. Treacle may be served with this instead of currant sauce. (4) Put 1 heaped teacupful of Oatmeal into a basin, pour 1 pint of boiling milk over it, and let it stand for several hours, keeping the basin covered with a plate. Put the Oatmeal into a stewpan, and cook it gently at the side of the fire for an hour, giving it an occasional stir. Break four eggs in a basin, and beat them well with h table- spoonful of flour and h teacupful of treacle. Work the mixture into the Oatmeal, place it over the fire, and stir it quickly until on the point of boiling. Turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve. (5) Press a sufficient quantity of raspberries or red currants to make 1 pint of juice, strain it into a saucepan through a fine hair sieve, pour in 1 pint of red wine, sweeten with loaf sugar, and [dace over the fire until boil- ing. Sprinkle 4oz. of Oatmeal into the boiling wine, and • stir until thick. Rinse a mould with cold water, fill it with the mixture, and pack it in ice or set it in a cold place until firm. When ready to serve, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, and turn the pudding on to a dish, together with stewed fruit, or fruit sauce. Oatmeal Sandwich (Irish).—Work 2oz. of dripping or butter into 8oz. of fine Oatmeal, add a little less than 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, and stir in quickly 1 tea- cupful of warmed milk. Have ready a well-buttered York- shire-pudding baking-tin, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for about forty-five minutes, when it should be quite done. Turn it out on to a dish, mask with jam or marmalade, fold over, and serve hot. The marmalade or jam may be omitted. Oatmeal Scup.—(1) Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of water over loz. of Oatmeal in a basin, mix well, and let it remain for a minute or two ; then stir in an equal quantity of broth, strain it into a saucepan, and boil for ten minutes. Add any seasoning that may be preferred, and serve hot. (2) Put some groats into a saucepan of boiling water and add a small lump of butter. Let them remain for an hour or so, then strain into a basin and add lemon-peel and cinnamon to flavour, a little white wine, and sufficient moist sugar to sweeten. Put the saucepan containing the soup on the fire, boil up, strain into a soup-tureen, anil add some cream and yolks of eggs well beaten together. Put a few pieces of toasted bread on the top to float, and serve. Oatmeal Wafers.—Mix a small quantity of salt into 8oz. of Oatmeal flour, and make it into a dough by adding 1 tea- cupful of boiling water. Turn it out on to a board well sprinkled with meal, knead it slightly with the knuckles, roll it out as thin as possible, cut it with a biscuit- cutter into shapes, brown first one side and then the otherTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 17 Oatmeal—continued. on a griddle, and when they are crisp (see Fig. 19), they are done and ready for use. Fig. 19. Oatmeal Wafers. Oatmeal Water.—(1) Pour 1 pint of cold filtered or boiled water into a jar over a little more than 1 table-spoonful of coarse Oatmeal. Stir well from the bottom, and then let it stand until all the sediment has settled. Strain off the clear, and it is ready for use. It may he used for giving nourishing qualities to lemonade. (2) Put 4oz. of Oatmeal into a large jar or howl, and mix in 24galls. of water. Stir it well, pour it into a sauce- pan, and boil it slowly for thirty minutes; then strain it through a rather coarse sieve, and add sufficient brown sugar to sweeten. Half an ounce of tartaric acid, or Joz. of citric acid dissolved in it, is an improvement, especially if lemon- or orange-peel be boiled in it. OCHRA, or OCRA.—See Okra. OCTAVE.—A small cask of wine holding about 11 .(galls., originally the eighth part of a pipe. There are also half-octaves. OFFAL. (Fr. Abattis).— The technical name given to those parts of a slaughtered animal that are not supposed to be used for food; such as the hide, and internal parts. At one time the tail of the ox was included in the Offal, also the head, heart, and other organs; but most of these are now specially dressed by the Offal merchant and re-sold to the butcher. OFFICE PASTE.—See Gum Paste. OHM.—See Aum. OIL (Fr. Huile; Ger. Oel; Ital. Olio; Sp. Aceyte).—A sort of fluid grease, extracted from animal, vegetable, and mineral substances. The kind of Oil best known to cooks is Salad or Olive Oil; some others, such as Seed Oil, being occasionally used for frying. OKRA.—The name of this plant (Abelmoschus escu- lentus) is also spelled Ochra and Ocra. It is a native of the West Indies, but has been naturalised in India and America, where the pods are much used for thickening soup, being exceedingly mucilaginous and aromatic. The young green pods (see Fig. 20) are sometimes pickled and the older pods are preserved in tins for export. Soup or stew containing Okra-pods is called Gubbo or Gumbo. Boiled Okras.—(1) Put some young Okras into a saucepan of salted water, and boil them until quite tender. Take them out, drain, and put them into a saucepan with a little more than 1 table-spoonful of butter and h gill of cream. Boil the Okras up, turn them out on to a” dish, dust over with salt and pepper, and serve very hot. (2) Take twenty-four medium-sized Okras, and wash them well in cold water.. Drain thoroughly and pare both ends. Plunge the Okras into a saucepan containing boiling salted water,, and let them cook for fifteen minutes. Lift them out with a skimmer, and lay them on a cloth to drain. Use them for salad, or any other purpose desired. Dried Okra Soup.—(1) Put i pint of dried Okras into 3 pints of cold water, and let them soak all night; on the For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, VOL. II. Okra—continued. following morning put them with the water into a sauce- pan with as much stock as will make up the desired quantity of soup, and boil it for five hours. Next put in some American tomatoes, season to taste, and boil for two hours longer. Turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (2) Pick over lqt. of dried Okras, wash them in cold water, and soak overnight in 2qts. of cold water. Be sure that the Okras are tender, for if tough and full of woody fibre they will be unpalatable. The next morning, pluck and singe a tender fowl weighing about 31b., draw it with- out breaking the intestines, wipe with a wet towel, cut it in small joints as for fricassee, and roll the pieces in flour Fig. 20. Okiia-plant. seasoned with pepper and salt. Put a saucepan over the fire with h breakfast-cupful of lard, and when the fat is hot put in the chicken and fry it a light brown. When the chicken is brown, add to it the Okras and the water in which they have been soaking, together with enough water to make 4qts. of soup; season with salt and pepper, and cook gently until the chicken is tender. Meantime remove all bits of shell from lqt. of large oysters, and strain the liquor; mb to a fine powder 1 table-spoonful of dried sassafras-leaves, sift the powder through a very fine sieve, and put it into the soup. When the chicken is tender, put in the oysters together with their liquor, boil for two minutes, and serve very hot. In some of the large cities of America a powder made of sassafras- leaves and shoots is sold under the name of gumbo filet; when this is used, it is stirred into the soup just before serving. Okra-Gumbo.—Nee Okra Soun. Okra Salad.—Put about twelve Okra-pods in a saucepan with slightly-salted water and boil them; when cooked, drain the pods, and put them in cold water to cool. Prepare a Fig. 21. Okra Salad. bed of chicory in a salad-bowl; cut the Okras in quarters, and lay them on the chicory (see Fig. 21). Mix teacup- fuls of salad-oil with 1 teacupful of vinegar, season it with salt and pepper, add 1 teaspoonful of chopped herbs, pour the mixture over the salad, and serve. Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. C18 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, (be., referred to, see under their special heads. Okra—continued. Okras Sautes a la Creole.—Prepare twenty-four Okras as for Boiled Okras. Place in a sautd-pan loz. of butter, one minced medium-sized onion, and a minced medium-sized green pepper; put the pan on the stove for six minutes until the contents are of a golden colour, and add two raw peeled tomatoes cut into pieces, 3 table-spoonfuls of Spanish sauce, a pinch of salt, J pinch of pepper, and one crushed clove of garlic. Put in the Okras, cover with the lid, and cook slowly for fifteen minutes. Turn out on to a hot, deep dish, sprinkle over 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and seive. Okra Soup.—(1) Cut into slices Jib. of pork, put it into a frying-pan, fry gently for a few minutes, and add a sliced onion and lqt. of green Okra-pods cut into small pieces. Put the lid on the pan and fry the Okras for thirty minutes. In the meantime cut all the meat from a cold roast fowl, put the bones in a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil. Squeeze out all the pork-fat from the Okras and onion, and place these latter in the saucepan with the bones. Put 3 table-spoonfuls of flour into the pan with the pork-fat, and when it is a rich brown add it to the bones in the saucepan Place the cover over the pot and simmer the whole gently for three hours. Strain through a fine sieve into another saucepan, pour in 2qts. of stock, and add the fowl-meat cut in pieces and salt and pepper to taste. Simmer gently for twenty minutes, turn it out on to a dish, and serve with boiled lice. (2) Put Jib. of fat ham or bacon into a frying-pan and fry it, taking care not to let it burn. Cut 21b. of veal into small pieces, roll them well in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, fry them brown in the ham or bacon-fat, and place them in a saucepan. Put two sliced onions and a slice each of carrot and turnip into the pan with the fat, fry gently, put them into the saucepan with the veal, and add 1 pint of green Okras cut into small pieces, \ pint of shell beans, four sticks of celery, and lgall. of water. Place the pan at the side of the fire and simmer gently for two hours, then add two ripe tomatoes, 1 pint each of green peas and green corn cut from the cob, and salt and pepper to taste; simmer for thirty minutes longer, and serve. If the Okras used are dried, half the quantity will be quite sufficient. (3) Cut a peck of Okra-pods into very thin slices, not exceeding Jin. thick, but thinner if possible. In selecting the pods, choose those from 2in. to 3in. in length: they can be used as long as they remain tender, which can be ascertained by snapping off the ends; if too old they will only bend. Put a large piece of shin of beef into a stockpot or a digester with 2Jgalls. of water and a little salt. Boil for a few minutes, skim well, add the Okras, and about J peck of tomatoes, peeled and cut into pieces. The grains from three tender ears of green corn and \ pint of Lima beans may be added if desired, but they are not altogether neces- sary, as the excellency of the soup depends upon the cooking, for if not boiled enough it M ill have a very inferior flavour. An iron pot or saucepan should never be used, as it will turn the soup black instead of a green tinted with the orange of the tomatoes. When it has boiled briskly for five hours, being frequently stirred, it may be poured into the soup-tureen and served, as by that time all the meat will have separated from the bone and boiled to rags, and the soup will be of the consistence of thick porridge. (4) Cut up two chickens (either old or young may be used), put them in a saucepan with one small chopped onion, two or three slices of pickled pork, and a lump of lard, and fry them slightly. Put in with the chicken eighteen Okras, J peck of sliced tomatoes, and salt and pepper ; pour in 3qts. of boiling water, and boil it gently for thirty minutes. When ready to serve, turn the soup into a soup-tureen. Scalloped Okras and Tomatoes.—Cut lqt. of Okras and 1 pint of peeled tomatoes into slices as for Stewed Okras with Tomatoes, and after they have stewed for a-quarter- of-an-hour add 1 table-spoonful of butter and a little pepper, and turn them into a deep dish. Cover with cracker or breadcrumbs, put some small pieces of butter on the top, bake in a moderate oven for half-an-hour, and seive. Stewed Okras with Tomatoes. Cut lqt. of Okras into thin slices and put them into a saucepan with 1 pint of peeled and sliced tomatoes. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, Okra—continued. add a little water to prevent them burning, and simmer gently for thirty minutes. When done, mix in 1 table- spoonful of butter, and serve on a dish. OLIO.—A word taken from the Spanish olla, sig- nifying an earthenware pot, and hence the stew made in it, of which the following is a good example: Clean a couple of young rabbits and partially boil them ; next drain and cut the meat into small pieces about lin. square. Put them into a stewpan with twenty-four oysters, about 3 breakfast-cupfuls of clear rich gravy, three blades of mace, a moderate-sized nutmeg cut into small pieces, a bunch of sweet herbs, and salt and pepper in moderate quantities. Stew gently until the meat is quite tender, then take it out with the oysters and strain the gravy.. Put Jib. of butter and 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of flour into a stewpan, stir them over the fire with a wooden spoon until mixed, then pour in the strained gravy, and add a chopped boned anchovy and 1 wineglassful of white vine. Continue stirring the whole over the fire until boiling, then put in the meat and oysters, and warm them up again. When ready, turn the Olio on to a hot dish, garnish with quarters of lemons, fried parsley, and fried oysters, and serve. OLIVES (Fr. Olives; Ger. Oliven; Ital. Ulive; Sp. Olivas).—The fruit of the Olive-tree (Olea europcea), which is extensively cultivated in Italy, Spain, and the South of France. The unripe fruit is pickled in brine, and served at table to cleanse and prepare the palate for choice wines; the ripe fruit yields an excellent oil, which is highly valued for culinary purposes (sec Salad-oil). Olives are oval in shape with a smooth rind, resembling small green plums, and they grow in massive bunches on the trees (see Fig. 22). In our markets, Italian Olives rank high- est, being large and very fine flavoured ; French Olives are the next best, and Spanish Olives come last. When served at table it is usual to place here and there a few small glass dishes of Olives nice- ly arranged, and sur- rounded with their own liquor. Ingenious cooks have however discovered means of subjecting them to various culinary preparations, as will be seen by the following receipts: Mock Olives.—With the blade of a small sharp penknife loosen and work out the stones of as many green plums as required, put them into a jar over a few vine-leaves or tansy, sprinkle a little fennel-seed amongst them, a good supply of salt, and a little powdered alum ; pour over sufficient boiling oil to cover, and when cold, tie down. A small piece of anchovy or sardine put in the cavity left by the stone, and the fruit put in jars with a good vinegar pickle poured over them, will give the effect of stuffed Olives. Olive-and-Anchovy Butter.—Stone some French Olives, and wash and chop them. Skin and bone an equal quantity of anchovies, chop them also, and mix them with the Olives. Put the mixture in a mortar with half its bulk of fresh19 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Olives—continued. butter, and pound all together until perfectly smooth. Pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve, and shape it into small balls. Keep them on a dish placed over ice until ready to serve. This butter is very nice eaten with crisp toast. Olive-and-Anchovy Canapes.—Stone and peel some Olives, keeping their original shape as near as possible; well wash an equal number of anchovies, and coil an anchovy round each Olive. Cut as many rounds of bread 2in. in diameter as there are Olives, and toast them lightly on both sides; butter them while hot and put an Olive on each. Spread a lace-edged disli-paper over a hot dish, arrange the toast on it, garnish with a border of fresh well-washed water- cress, and serve. This makes a very simple dish for lunch. Olive-and-Caper Canapes.—Cut six slices of bread about ijin. thick, out of which cut twelve rounds. Melt a lump of butter in a flat stewpan, then put in the rounds of bread and fry them. When nicely browned, take them out of the fat, and put them on a piece of paper to drain. Skin and bone twelve anchovies, put them in a mortar, pound them, then pass them through a fine wire sieve. Spread the anchovy paste over the pieces of bread, strew finely-chopped capers and olives on the top, place them on a baking-dish, and put them in a brisk oven for ten minutes. Spread a folded napkin or a fancy-edged dish- paper over a hot dish, arrange the toasts on it, garnish with a few small pieces of parsley, and serve. Olive Custards.—Stone some Olives. Beat two eggs well, put them into a lined stewpan with 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and with a wooden spoon stir them over the fire until thickened, then remove the pan. Cut as many small rounds of bread as there are Olives, fry them in boiling butter until a bright golden brown, then drain ; spread them with a layer of anchovy paste, then a layer of the cheese mixture, and put an Olive on each. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the rounds on it, and serve. Olives and Eggs.—Remove the skins and stones from six Olives, and mince them together with a slice of cooked ham. Have ready five hard-boiled eggs, remove the shells and cut off a piece from each end so that they will stand. Cut them in halves, put the yolks into a mortar with the ham and Olives, and pound them to a smooth paste, adding hoz. of butter. Sprinkle over a little red pepper, and fill up the whites with the mixture; arrange them on an ornamental paper spread over a dish, decorate with pieces of toast and parsley (see Fig. 23), and serve. The half-eggs should have the appearance of cups, and they may be served (without the paper) with a little tartar sauce poured round them. Olives for Garnish..—Remove the stones from some large Olives by cutting them round and round in a spiral form, so that when the stones are out the Olives will retain their original form. But them into a saucepan, qiour in stock and Chablis wine in equal proportions to cover, and stew very slowly until done. Salmis of duck is usually garnished with this. Olive Ragout.—(1) With a sharp knife stone and peel some Olives; melt 2oz. of butter in a stewpan, then put in the Olives with a moderate quantity each of finely- chopped parsley and shallots, a few capers, a few drops of essence of anchovies, 1 wineglassful of white wine, and sufficient clear gravy to moisten nicely. Leave it on the fire until boiling, then thicken the ragout with Hour and Olives—continued. butter that have been browned over the fire. Let it simmer a little while at the edge of the fire. When ready, turn the ragoflt on to a hot dish, garnish it with sippets of toast or small crotltons of bread fried in butter, and serve. (2) Put a small lump of butter in a frying-pan, place it over the fire until melted, then put in the finely-chopped white part of a large leek and 1 scant dessert-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley. Fry them until beginning to brown, then squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and add 1 wineglass- ful of sherry, 2 table-spoonfuls of Olive oil, 1 table-spoon- ful of finely-chopped capers, and a small quantity of salt and pepper. Turn 1 breakfast-cupful of large green Olives, and remove the stones ; put them in with the other ingre- dients, and stew the whole gently at the side of the fire for forty minutes. When ccoked, turn the ragoflt on to a hot dish and serve. (3) Cut out the stones without spoiling the shape of eighteen or twenty Italian Olives, put them into a saucepan with sufficient rich stock to cover, add 1 wineglassful of sherry, put the lid on the pan, and stew gently at the side of the fire for half-an-hour. Turn it out when ready, and use as required for garnish or otherwise. Olive Sandwiches.— Stone the Olives and chop them up finely ; mix thoroughly with them about loz. of fresh butter and 1 pinch of cayenne pepper. Cut some thin slices of bread-and-butter, and spread them with the Olive mixture ; press another slice of bread-and-butter over each, cut them into fingers, arrange them on a folded table-napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a dish, and serve. Olive Sauce.—(1) Put twenty-four green Olives into a basin of hot water and let them remain for thirty minutes to extract all the salt. Put a small slice of onion into a sauce- pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, and as soon as the onion commences to colour add 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir well until the flour is perfectly smooth. Pour in 1 pint of rich stock, and remove the pan to the side of the fire where the stock can simmer gently. Remove the stones from the Olives by cutting the fruit as for OLIVES for Garnish, add them to the sauce, season with salt and pepper, and simmer for twenty minutes longer. Skim well, and when ready to serve squeeze in the juice of a lemon. If a thin sauce is desired, 1 teaspoonful of flour will be quite sufficient. (2) Put 3oz. of stoned Olives into a saucepan of boiling water, let them remain for five minutes, and then turn them into cold water to soak for an hour. Take them out, drain, place them in a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of rich stock, and cook slowly for a-quarter-of-an-hour ; when ready to serve, add the juice of half a lemon. (3) Stir 1 table-spoonful of flour into 4 table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, and mix in half-a-dozen chopped shallots, a bay-leaf, a little chopped lemon-peel, 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, J pint of stock, and salt and pepper to taste. Put the saucepan containing them over the fire, and boil for twenty minutes or so. Strain into another saucepan, add eight or so chopped stoned Olives, warm, and it is then ready for use. (4) Put some butter into a stewpan, and when melted add some finely-chopped parsley and scallions. Stir well until they colour, then add a small quantity each of gravy or broth, white wine, capers, and anchovies pounded with Olive oil. Add a few stoned Olives, boil up over a clear fire, with butter kneaded in flour, and the sauce is then ready for use. (5) Stone half a-dozen or more Olives, and cut them into small pieces ; finely mince five or six shallots and a small piece of thinly-pared lemon-peel. Put 1 table-spoon- ful of Hour into a stewpan, and mix 1 teacupful of salad- oil smoothly in with it; add the chopped shallots and lemon-peel, moisten with 1 wineglassful of vinegar and a moderate quantity of clear stock, season to taste with salt and pepper, and add a bay-leaf. Boil the sauce gently for twenty minutes; next strain and return it to the stewpan with the Olives, and let it simmer for two or three minutes longer. The sauce is then ready for serving, and makes a very nice accompaniment to minced mutton. For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, referred to, see under their special heads. C 2THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 20 For details respecting Culinary Processes, UtensilsfSauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Olives—continued. Olives Stuffed with. Anchovies.—Stone a dozen Spanish Olives, wash and hone five anchovies, chop them finely, put them in a mortar with a moderate quantity each of chopped onion and parsley, pound them smoothly, and season with a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Fill the hollows of the Oli es left by the stones with the pounded mixture. With a tin cutter cut rounds about 2in. in diameter out of slices of bread, and scoop a hollow in the centre of each round ; put a large piece of lard into a flat stewpan, place the pan on the fire, and when the lard boils put in the rounds of bread and fry them until nicely browned. After- Fig. 24. Olives Stuffed with Anchovies. wards drain them, leave them until cool, then put an Olive in the centre of each. Arrange them on a dish, pour over a small quantity of mayonnaise sauce, and serve. See Fig. 24. Olives Stuffed with Chestnuts.—Procure twelve Spanish Olives and six Spanish chestnuts. Put 2oz. of butter into an enamelled saucepan with 2oz. of ham cut into small pieces, a moderate-sized carrot and onion peeled and cut into thin slices, and fry them until they are brown; then add a bay-leaf, a blade of mace, four or five peppercorns, dredge in 1 table-spoonful of flour, and moisten with some of the liquor from the Olives. Stir the whole until mixed, then place the pan over the fire for an hour and stir occasion- ally. Boil the chestnuts, and when tender peel them, put them in a mortar with loz. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and pound until smooth. Peel the Olives, remove the stones, fill the hollows with the chestnuts, and lay them in a lined, rather shallow, stewpan; strain the above sauce carefully over them, and simmer at the edge of the fire until hot through. Cut a thick slice of bread, fry it in butter until nicely browned, then drain, and scoop out the centre, making a hollow large enough to hold the Olives. When ready, put the Olives on the bread, jilace it on a hot dish, garnish tastefully round with quarters of hard-boiled eggs, pour the sauce round the bread, and serve while very hot. OLIVE OIL.—When Olives are ripe they are gathered and gently pressed, by which means the best quality of oil is obtained. A stronger pressure is then applied, which breaks the kernels, producing a second quality oil. After settling, the bright oil is at once put into flasks guarded by a covering of rushes, and the inferior quality is exported in casks and jars. Italian Olive Oil, known in the trade as Florence. Lucca, or Gallipoli, is the best; but there can be no doubt that all retailed to us as Italian does not come from Italy. See Salad-oil. OLLA-FODKIDA.—The literal meaning of this Spanish compound word is olla—a pot, and podrida— rotten. It is applied to a kind of stew consisting of many things which it is supposed can only be obtained in Spain. Ford, in his “ Handbook of Spain,” says of it: “ The Olla is only well made in Andalusia, and there alone in careful, well-appointed houses; it is called a puchero in the rest of Spain, where it is but a poor affair.” He then gives the following directions for making it, to which two other receipts by famous cooks have been added: (1) It may be made in one pot. but two are better. They must be of earthenware, like the French pot-au-feu. Put them on separate stoves with water in them. Place in No. 1 garbangos (chick-peas) which have been soaked over- night. Add a gord piece of beef, a chicken, a large piece of bacon, and let it boil once and quickly; then let it simmer : it requires four or five hours to be well done. Meanwhile Olla-podrida—continued. place into No. 2, with water, whatever vegetables are to be had—lettuces, cabbage, a slice of gourd, carrots, beans, celery, endive, onions, and garlic, with beef and long peppers. These must be previously well washed and cut, as if they were destined to make a salad. Then add red sausages (chorizos), and half a pig’s face salted, which should have been soaked overnight. When all is sufficiently boiled strain off the water. Remember constantly to skim the scum off both saucepans. When all are ready, take a large dish, lay in the bottom the vegetables, the beef in the centre, flanked by the bacon, chicken, and pig’s face. The sausages should be arranged around en couronne. Pour over some of the soup of No. 1, and serve hot. (2) Put some lentils or haricot beans to soak overnight, and in the morning drain and put them in a large earthen- ware jar with 4lb. of beef, half that quantity of bacon, and an old fowl; pour in sufficient water to cover these ingre- dients, and simmer gently at the side of the fire for four hours. Prepare and wash a sufficient quantity of cabbages, lettuces, carrots, turnips, onions, and celery, put them in another large jar with half a salted and well-soaked pig’s head, and a few chillies; cover the vegetables with water and stew them the same time as the meats. When cooked, drain the vegetables, and place them round a very large hot dish ; put the pig’s head in the centre with the bacon, fowl, and meat, strain the meat liquor over them, and serve. (3) Put 1 pint of chick-peas in a basin of warm water and soak them for several hours ; blanch Alb. of raw ham and 41b. of smoked streaky bacon. When soft, drain the chick-peas and put them in an earthenware stockpot with the ham and bacon, 61b. of brisket of beef, and the knuckle end of a leg of mutton. Cover these ingredients well with cold water, place the stockpot over the lire until the liquid boils, then move it to the side ; skim well, and keep sim- mering gently. In two hours’ time add a small chicken, a partridge, three carrots, two onions, a snee of gourd, a bunch of parsley tied together with two bay-leaves, and cook for an hour longer; then put in small smoked sausages, and simmer for three hours longer, carefully taking out each piece of meat as it is cooked. At the end of that time, strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve into a stewpan, skim it well, put in 1 breakfast-cupful of rice, and boil until tender. Cut the beef into slices, place it on an oval-shaped dish, put the fowl at one end, the partridge at the other, aud the bacon and ham on each side; cut the sausages into slices, place them round the dish, and garnish with braised lettuces (see Fig. 25). Pour the sou]) into a tureen and serve with the meat. Tomato sauce can be eaten with the meats if liked. OMEIBiE.—A beverage prepared in some parts of Africa by fermenting milk. It is a thick, sub-acid, viscous fluid. OMELETS (Fr. Omelettes; Ger. Eierkuclien; Ital. Frittate; Sp. Tortillas).—Although every country has its representative for Omelets, it is doubtful if the dish is not better known throughout the Continent under its French name than it is in England. The derivation of the word, however, is wrapped in mystery, some etymologists inclining towards oeufs meles; but this is declared by others to be impracticable, the de- rivation given by them being if anything still more impracticable. Professor Skeat says the word Omelet is “ derived from the old French amelette, but this again was preceded by the forms alemette and alemelle. The senseTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 21 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Omelots—co ntinued. of alemelle was a thin plate (still preserved in the French alumelle) sheathing of a ship.” Roquefort gives the old French alemele—blade of a knife; thus the Omelet was named from its shape, that of a “thin plate, of metal.” Soyer says : “ Where is the man or woman cook but say they know how to make an Omelet, and that to perfection ?” But this is rarely the case. It is related of Sarah, Duchess of Marlborough, that no one could cook a “fraise,” as it was then called, for the great Duke but herself. The great point is, if an iron pan is used it should be very clean and free from damp, which sometimes comes out of the iron when placed on the fire. The best plan is to put it on the fire ] with a little fat, and let it get quite hot, or until the I fat burns; remove it, wipe it clean with a dry cloth, and then you will be able to make the Omelet to perfection. A small round frying-pan not larger than a pudding- plate is best for making an Omelet, and the bottom should be kept moist with butter, which is better than either lard or dripping. The batter should be mixed some hours before being wanted, and then just whisked up again. Many receipts will be found throughout this Encyclopaedia for different kinds of Omelets, savoury and sweet, as well as the following: (1) Beat eight eggs well in a basin with a little water, and season with pepper and salt. Melt a large piece of butter in a frying-pan, pour the beaten eggs in, and stand it at the side, but not on the fire, turning continually. When the edges are done, gather them together, and roll the Omelet over (the middle should be soft); dish up, and serve hot. (2) Beat eight eggs in a basin with a little milk until well frothed, and season with salt and pepper. Melt a good-sized piece of butter in an Omelet-pan, pour in the beaten eggs, and shake the pan while they are being cooked to prevent them sticking. When the Omelet is lightly coloured underneath, turn it quickly, adding a piece more butter, and when done both sides, roll tip and serve. (3) Crack twelve fresh eggs into a bowl, season them with 1 pinch of salt and h pinch of white pepper, and beat them well until the whites and yolks are thoroughly mixed, or for fully four minutes. Heat 2 table-spoonfuis of clarified butter in a small frying-pan on the hot range, and when it crackles pour in the eggs, and stir well with a fork for two minutes, then let it rest for half a minute. Fold it up with the fork—the side nearest the handle first, then the opposite side, so that both sides will meet in the centre of the Omelet, and let it rest for half-a-minute longer. Incline a hot dish with the left hand and the frying-pan with the right at an angle towards each other, then with a rapid turn of the wrist transfer the Omelet by inverting the pan over the centre of the dish, and send to table. The Omelet should be made on a very brisk range, without removing the pan ; and should the pan be very small it will require three minutes’ stirring, and one minute’s rest before and half a minute’s rest after folding. Devonshire Omelet.—Beat the yolks and whites of eight eggs separately till they turn almost white, and mix with the yolks, a little at a time, £ pint of milk and 1 table- spoonful of flour blended with a little milk; add also an ! onion peeled and cut in four, 1 dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, a little pepper and salt, and a few drops of lemon- juice. Then mix hi the whites and beat for five minutes. Cover the bottom of a frying pan with melted fat, and when it boils take the onion out of the Omelet and pour half of it in, holding the pan slanting over the fire. M hen the first Omelet is cooked, lay it on a hot dish, and proceed quickly with the second. roam Omelet.—Beat the yolks of six eggs well, and mix smoothly with them 1 table-spoonful of arrowroot; add 1 breakfast-cupful of milk and the well-whisked whites of two eggs, and season to taste with salt and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Melt about 2oz. of butter in an Omelet-pan, and put the Omelet mixture in it. Omelets—continued. Whisk the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth together with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and when the Omelet is cooked, pile the frothed eggs on the top of it (see Fig. 20), and serve. Friar’s Omelet.—(1) Peel and core some large apples, cut them into slices, and boil them in a small quantity of water. When soft, stir in 4oz. each of butter and caster sugar, turn all into a pie-dish, and leave till cold. Beat four eggs well, mix them with the apples, and cover the top with stale grated breadcrumb. Bake the Omelet in a good oven, and when nicely browned take it out, sift some caster sugar over, and serve. (2) Beat up four eggs thoroughly, mix with them 1 teacupful of thick cream, and season with a small quantity of salt and a few finely-minced chives. Melt about 2oz. of butter in an Omelet-pan, pour in the eggs, put the lid over with some hot coals on the top, and leave until well risen. When cooked, turn the Omelet on to a hot dish, and serve quickly. German Omelet.—(1) Put 1 teacupful of finely-sifted flour into a basin, and mix in gradually with it the beaten yolks of six eggs and | pint of cream or milk : season with a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff foam, then mix them with the above ingredients, pass the whole through a fine hair sieve, and add 1 teaspoonful of chopped chives. Put jib. of butter in an Omelet-pan, make it hot, then pour in half of the batter, spreading it out thinly over the bottom. Prick the Omelet in one or two places with a fork, and as soon as it is set on the one side turn it quickly, pour- ing in some more butter, which has first been melted. When cooked and nicely coloured, roll the Omelet round, and place it on a hot dish. Proceed as before with the remainder of tire batter, and when cooked place it on the dish beside the other, and serve. (2) Put the yolks of two eggs in a basin, together with 1 teaspoonful each of flour and potato-flour and 1 table- spoonful of milk or cream. Beat the ingredients together till well mixed, then pour in gradually 1 teacupful of boiling milk, taking care to keep the mixture smooth. Sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and flavour with a few drops of extract of vanilla. Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth and mix them with the Omelet batter. Lightly rub some plates over with butter, pour the mixture into them, put them in a brisk oven, and bake for about ten minutes or until set. When cooked, mask the Omelets with some preserve, fold them over, place them on a hot dish, and serve. The preserve may be omitted and caster sugar sifted over instead, after folding. Mexican Omelet. —Put 1 pint of veloute sauce into a sauce- pan, place it on a moderate fire, add a piece of lobster butter about the size of an egg, together with twenty-four cooked and skinned shrimps, and season with £ pinch of salt and a very little pepper. Cook for three minutes, stirring lightly, then add half a good-sized, emptied and peeled green pepper, finely hashed; cook for two minutes longer, then let it rest on the corner of the stove. Make an Omelet with twelve eggs, as described for Omelets, (No. 3), fold up the side farthest from the handle of the pan, pour half of the preparation in the centre, fold the other side over, and turn the Omelet on to a hot dish; garnish both sides with the rest of the shrimps, pouring the remainder of the sauce, &c., round the dish, and serve very hot. Omelet Celestine.—Pound six macaroons, put them in a bowl, adding 3 table-spoonfuls of apple jelly and 1 table-22 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, the., referred to, see under their special heads. Omelets—continued. spoonful of whipped cream, and mix well with the spatula. Make a sweet Omelet with twelve eggs, fold over the side opposite to the handle of the pan, pour the mixture into the centre, fold the other side over, and turn the Omelet out on to a hot dish. Sprinkle the top with 3 table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, glaze the Omelet with a hot shovel or Fig. 27. Omelet Celestine. salamander, and decorate it with some lady’s fingers cut into halves, also 1 teacupful of whipped cream, the latter poured into a paper funnel and piped over in any design. See Fig. 27. Omelet with. Fine Herbs.—Break two eggs into a basin, mix in a shallot, a little each of thyme, marjoram, basil, chervil, and parsley, and sprinkle in a very little pepper. Melt loz. of butter in a pan on the fire, tossing the latter so as to let the butter go all over it, and taking care that it does not burn; when it is at boiling-point, pour in the Omelet mixture and fry to a golden brown. Omelet Souffle.—(1) An Omelet sou file is one of the most delicious of hot sweets. It is not difficult to make when its principles are understood, and yet it is seldom well made by inexperienced cooks. The true Omelet souffle contains only eggs, sugar, and the chosen flavouring; and a tin-lined copper souffle-pan, or a thick enamelled metal dish, which will quickly heat and remain hot for some time after being taken from the oven, is required for cooking it. Spread the pan with cold butter, and see that the oven is quite hot before the Omelet is made. Put the yolks of three eggs, 6 piled table-spoonfuls of powdered loaf sugar, and 1 teaspoonful of any flavouring essence or cordial into a quart bowl, and beat them to a smooth cream ; then beat the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, and quickly and lightly add the yolks and sugar. This part of the operation requires a quick, deft hand. The yolks should be poured on the centre of the whites, and then cut down through, rather than beaten or stirred, by holding the spoon in the right hand with the bowl outward and cutting down into the whites with its edge; an inward and upward turn of the right wrist will bring the spoon out again on the top of the whites. Itepeat this cutting down and turning motion rapidly and lightly until the Omelet is mixed; then as rapidly and lightly put the Omelet into the pan in which it is to be baked, dust it over with powdered sugar, place it in the oven, and bake until it is delicately browned (it will take about ten minutes if the oven is moderately hot). Do not begin to make the souffle until about twenty minutes before it is needed. It Fig. 28. Omelet Souffle must not be allowed to stand after it is done, but must be sent to the table directly it is taken from the oven, slipping the souffle-pan on a hot dish covered with a folded napkin. See Fig. 28. (2) Separate the whites and yolks of six eggs, put the yolks into a bowl, add to them 1 table-spoonful of arrow- root or potato-flour, 6oz. of crushed loaf sugar, and a little Omelets—continued. each of grated lemon-peel and orange-flower water. Beat well until a batter is formed, and stir in the whites whipped to a stiff froth. Melt jib. of butter in an Omelet- pan, pour the batter into it, and stir very carefully with a spoon until it begins to set firm. Turn the Omelet on to an inverted dish or plate, put it into a moderately hot oven, and bake for from ten to fifteen minutes. It is then ready for serving, and should be quite light and puffy. (3) French.—Melt loz. of butter in a stewpan, stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and continue stirring over the fire until the flour is thoroughly cooked but not dis- coloured. Pour in slowly % teacupful of boiling cream, 2 teacupfuls of boiling milk, and work it until quite smooth; remove from the fire, add the yolks of four eggs, sugar to taste, 1 table-spoonful of orange-flower water, and a very little salt. Whisk the whites of eight eggs to a stiff froth, mix them lightly in with the batter, turn all into a souffle-dish, and bake for an hour. If is then ready for serving, and can be flavoured with maraschino, noyau, or any other desired flavouring. Omelet flavoured with Vanilla.—(1) Put the yolks of three eggs in one basin and the whites in another; mix in loz. of caster sugar and 3 or 4 drops of vanilla essence with the yolks, and whip the whites to a stiff froth. Put loz. of butter into an Omelet-pan, melt it, and make it quite hot; pour in the yolks, let them set, then put on the whipped whites, and continue to cook until the yolks are quite done. Serve hot with jam or any wine sauce. (2) Proceed as above, only masking the Omelet with jam before adding the whites. Savoury Omelet.—(1) Beat the yolks of six eggs till they are almost white, then beat the whites for the same length of time, and pour them over the yolks; add 1 dessert- spoonful of chopped mushrooms, 1 teaspoonful of mixed herbs, 1 dessert spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, pepper and salt to taste, a few drops of lemon-juice, 6 table- spoonfuls of milk, and 3 teaspoonfuls of flour, and beat all well together for at least five minutes. Peel a small onion, slice it into four, and fry it in butter; when the butter is boiling hot, take out the onion and pour in the Omelet. Hold the pan over a clear fire, in rather a slanting posi- tion, to keep the Omelet from spreading, and when fried a light brown fold it over with a slice, and serve very hot. A little grated tongue may be mixed with the Omelet if liked. (2) Beat five eggs thoroughly with a fork, and season them with salt and pepper. Put 2oz. of butter int > a frying- pan, put it over the fire until hot, then pour in the eggs, and stir them until set. Raise the pan slantwise so as to slip the Omelet to the edge and give it an elongated shape, turn in the edges, leave it a moment to set, then put it on a hot dish which has been embellished with an orna- mental dish-paper, and serve. (3) Chop a raw onion very fine, and put it in a saucepan with loz. each of butter and small squares of salted pork, and slightly ccok them, adding loz. each of scraps of very finely-minced, cooked, roasted beef and ham, two finely- chopped mushrooms, and 1 pinch of chopped parsley. Stir in well 1 table-spoonful each of tomato sauce and grated breadcrumb, and season with 1 pinch of pepper and £ pinch of salt. (Make a plain Omelet with twelve eggs as described under Omelets (No. 3), fold up the side opposite the handle towards the centre, fill with the above, fold the other side over, turn it out on a hot dish, and serve. Spanish Omelet.—Put a finely-slued onion, loz. of butter, a chopped green pepper, six minced mushrooms, and one large, finely cut up tomato into a stewpan on the stove; season with \ pinch of pepper and 1 pinch of salt, adding 1 spoonful of tomato sauce, and cook for fifteen minutes. Make a plain Omelet with twelve eggs as for Omelets (No. 3), fold the farther side towards the centre, put three-quarters of the stew inside of it, fold the other side over, turn out on to a long dish, pour the rest of the sauce round, and serve. Steamed Omelet.—Put the yolks of three eggs in one basin and the whites in another, and well whisk the latter. Mix loz. of sugar with the yolks, and about one-third the quantity with the whites. Well grease a basin, pour in the yolks and23 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jkc., referred to, see under their special heads. Onions —continued. Omelets—continued. whites, cover with oiled paper, set the basin in a saucepan with boiling water to half its height, put on the lid, and let it steam for two or three minutes and no longer. Flavour with 4 or 5 drops of essence of lemon, turn out on to a dish, and serve quickly. Wine liquor or syrup should accompany it. Sweet Omelet.—(1) Put the whites and yolks of six eggs into separate basins. Beat the yolks with 1 teacupful of cream and 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar; then heat the whites to a stiff froth, mix them with the yolks, and fry the Omelet in boiling butter. When done, spread a layer of any kind of jam over the top, fold one half of the Omelet over the other, sprinkle with caster sugar, and serve on a folded napkin on a dish. (2) Beat up eight eggs, and add a little finely-chopped lemon-peel and a little caster sugar. Melt a good-sized piece of butter in a flying- or Omelet-pan, pour the beaten egg inf and fry both sides a light brown. Have ready a hot dish well sprinkled with caster sugar, score the Omelet in lines like a herring-bone by holding a red hot poker close to it, dish, sprinkle caster sugar over, and serve. (3) Beat six eggs thoroughly with 2oz. of caster sugar, and when well frothed mix with them 2oz. of butter broken into small pieces. Put about 2oz. of butter into an Omelet- pan, place it on the fire, and when it boils pour in the mixture and stir until it sets. Next, turn the edges of the Omelet over till it forms an oval shape, and brown the top under a salamander. Put it on a hot dish, sift caster sugar over, and serve. of Onions known to horticulturists are exceedingly numerous. Spring Onions, or those which have merely begun to grow, are much favoured in salads. Sydney Smith wrote of these : Let Onion’s atoms lurk within the bowl. And, scarce suspected, animate the whole. ONIONS (Fr. Oignons; Ger. Zwiebeln; Ital. Cipolle : Sp. Cebollas).—Of all the seasonings or flavour- ings with which the cook is acquainted, there is not one, with the exception of salt, which holds so prominent a position; the object of the artistic cook being, whilst Fia. 31. James’s Keeping. Fig. 32. Naples Giant Rocca. When grown to bulbs, Onions form an indispensable component of such savouries as stews, soups, and sauces, which led Dean Swift to write : Fig. 29. Deep Blood-red Onions. accepting the flavour, to so conceal or disguise it that its extreme pungency is imperceptible. The Onion (Allium Cepa) belongs to the tribe of lilies, but is readily dis- tinguished from the sweet-scented flowers by the odour of the bulbs, which is so peculiar as to be almost Fig. 30. Early White Naples Onions. offensive until dealt with by culinary artists. To this tribe belong Chives, Garlic, Leeks, Rocambole of Denmark, and Shallots, all of which are treated under their special headings. In spite of this the varieties This is every cook’s opinion— No savoury dish without an Onion; But lest your kissing should be spoiled, Your Onions should be thoroughly boiled. Onions of a very small kind are much used for pickling; these are commonly known as Silver-skinned. Of other kinds not much used, we have the Underground or Potato Onion, supposed to be a variety of the Fig. 33. Queen Onions. common Onion, which has the singular property of multiplying itself by the formation of young bulbs on the parent root, producing a crop below the surface of the ground. As with all other Onions, their origin is uncertain, probably coming from the Bast, where they are very great favourites. In Canada there is an Onion known as the Bulb- bearing Tree Onion; it is very likely a variety of the common Tree Onion, which it resembles in appearance. “ It differs,” Lindley informs us, “ in its flower stem24 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respectinj Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Sic., referred to, see under their special heads. Onions—continued. Onions—continued. being surmounted by a cluster of small green bulbs instead of bearing flowers and seed. These bulbs are very similar to small Onions, and are said to be excel- lent in pickles, for which their diminutive size is a great recommendation.” The Welsh Onion, better known as the Rock Onion or Stone Leek, is not much used for culinary purposes. There are over twenty sorts of Onions that may be considered distinct, and forms of one or other of these are named as new kinds by growers almost indefinitely. The principal varieties are here enumerated. Brown Globe, medium size, skin dark reddish-brown; Deep Blood Red (see Fig. 29), medium-size, flattened, strong- flavoured, skin red ; Deptford, solid, flesh tinged red, skin dark reddish-brown; Early White Naples (see Fig. 30), small: Flat Tripoli, large, mild, flesh reddish ; Giant White Tripoli, large, flattened, skin silvery white ; Globe Tripoli, mild; James’s Keeping (see Fig. 31), one of the best and longest-keeping; Lisbon, useful for spring salads; Naples Fig. 35. White Spanish Onions. Giant Rocca (see Fig. 32), large, of good quality; Queen (see Fig. 33), small and very early, skin white; Silver- skin, useful for pickling; Trebons (see Fig. 34), very large, mild and excellent in quality; True-bladed, small, much used for pickling; Wethersfield Red, large, perhaps the best of all the red-skinned varieties; White Globe, medium size, much esteemed; White Spanish (see Fig. 35), Fig. 36. Yellow Danvers Onion. large, solid, of first rate quality, skin pale straw-colour; Yellow Danvers (see Fig. 36), medium size, very firm, of fine quality throughout. Baked Onions.—Put six large Onions into a saucepan of water or milk and water in equal proportions, sprinkle over salt .and pepper, and boil until tender. When they are done so that they can he easily mashed, work them up with butter into a paste, cover with breadcrumbs, and bake in a moderate oven. Or if preferred, they may be boiled whole, put into a baking-dish, covered with butter and breadcrumbs, and then baked. Baked Spanish Onions.—Wash some Onions, but do not remove their skins; put them in a saucepan of slightly- salted water, and boil for an hour, changing the water twice and adding the fresh water when it is boiling. Take them out, drain them, dry on a cloth, roll each one separately round with a piece of buttered tissue paper, and bake for an hour or so in a slow oven. Then remove the peel, and put them in a deep dish in the oven to brown, basting with butter. When done (they will take about fifteen minutes), put them in a vegetable-dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper, pour over some melted butter, and serve. Baked Stuffed Onions.—Select large Onions as nearly one size .as possible; peel them, put them in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for fifteen minutes; then drain, and scoop out a small quantity from the inside of each. Have ready prepared sufficient highly-seasoned beef forcemeat that has been mixed with a beaten egg to bind it, stuff' the Onions with it, arrange them side by side on a baking- dish, and bake in a brisk oven until nicely browned, bast- ing them occasionally with warmed butter. When cooked, place the Onions on a dish on which has been laid an ornamental dish-paper, and serve while hot. Baked Stuffed Spanish Onions.—Peel six medium-sized Spanish Onions, take out the centres with a vegetable- scoop, parboil them for three minutes, and turn them upside-down on a cloth to drain; when drained, fill the insides with sausage forcemeat. Line the bottom of a saute- pan with a piece of lard-skin and one carrot and Onion both cut up, lay the Onions on top, moisten with 4 pint of broth, and cover with buttered paper ; put it in the oven to glaze for forty minutes, taking care to baste frequently.Soups and Sauces Department, showing large Central Stove, Heated partly by Gas and partly hy Fuel, Stockpots, Stewpans, and Bain-marie; Hot-closets and Ovens at fad end, Lift on the Left, and Perpendicular Boiler for Steam Supply on the Right.25 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Satices, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Onions—continued. Place the Onions in a hot dish, strain the gravy over them, and serve. Boiled Onions.—(1) Put some Onions in a saucepan with sufficient milk and water in equal quantities to cover them, and boil until quite tender. Place them on a dish, pour over butter sauce, and serve; or they may be finely chopped, and stewed with milk, butter, and a little salt. (2) Remove the skin from some Onions, put them into a saucepan, and pour over sufficient water to cover. Put the pan on the fire, and boil quickly until they are soft; drain off the water, add sufficient milk to make a sauce, stir in a little butter, sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, put them on a dish, and serve hot. Boiled Onions ■with Cream.—Peel twelve medium-sized Onions, pare the roots without cutting them, and place them in a saucepan; cover with salted water, add a bouquet garni, and cook for forty-five minutes. Lift them from the saucepan, and lay them on a dish; cover with J pint of cream sauce mixed with 2 table-spoonfuls of the broth the Onions were cooked in, garnish with parsley (see Fig. | 37), and serve. Boiled Spanisli Onions.—Put the required number of Spanish Onions into a saucepan of salted water, boil them for thirty minutes, then' take them out, drain, and put them into another pan with a little butter or dripping; sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, and stew gently for about three hours, with the cover on the pan to prevent the steam escaping. They should be occasionally basted with the dripping, and care must be taken that they do not burn in cooking. Burnt Onions.—Peel til), of Onions, put them into a sauce- pan with 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and cook for five minutes. Add tlb. of moist sugar, and simmer gently until the mixture is almost black. Pour in 1 gill of boiling vinegar, stirring well with a wooden spoon, and it is then ready for use. It may be poured into bottles and kept if required. Dressed Raw Onions. —Peel some Onions, cut them in slices, chop them fine, put them into water with a very little salt, and let them soak for an hour or so. Take them out, drain, put them on a dish, and pour over a mixture of J gill of vinegar, 2 table-spoonfuls each of made mustard, chilli vinegar, and sugar, and 1 table- spoonful of salt. Put a lump of ice on the top, and garnish the dish with curled parsley. If the parsley is eaten after the onions, it is supposed to take the smeli from them. Fried Minced Onions.—Peel three medium-sized Spanish Onions, cut them in halves, and then into fine slices. Put them in a saute-pan with 4oz. of butter, and let them get a good golden colour on the stove for ten minutes, I tossing them briskly. Place them in a bowl, and use as required. Fried Onions.—(1) Peel, and slice into even rounds, four medium-sized Onions. Lay them first in milk, then in flour, and fry in very hot fat for eight minutes. Lift them up, and lay them on a cloth to dry. Serve on a dish with a folded napkin, with a little fried parsley. (2) Peel and wash some Onions, chop them small, put them in a frying-pan with sufficient water to cover, and cook gently until all the moisture has dried up. Then add a slice of fat pork and a little salt and pepper, and fry them until quite brown, when they are ready for use. Fried Onions with. Foached Eggs.—Peel six large Onions, slice them finely, dust over with cayenne, put them into a frying-pan with a small quantity of butter, and fry. Onions—continued. Take them out, drain them, dry before the fire, place in a dish, and squeeze over sufficient lemon-juice to saturate Fig. 38. Fried Onions with Poached Eggs. them and give them a very acid flavour. Poach six eggs, place them on the Onions (see Fig. 38), and serve hot. Fried Onions and Rice on Toast.—Wash lib. of rice, tie it loosely in a cloth, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil until tender, but not to a pulp. 5\ hen cooked, drain the rice well in a colander. Peel and slice three or four Onions, melt a lump of butter in a frying-pan, put in the Onions, fry them till beginning to brown, then put in the rice, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stir it about until very hot. Toast three or four slices of bread, butter them, and lay them on a hot dish; turn the rice mixture on to them, squeeze a small quantity of lemon-juice over, and serve. Fried Spanisli Onions.—Peel and slice 21b. of Spanish Onions, put them into a frying-pan containing 2 piled table- spoonfuls of butter made smoking hot over the fire, season with 1 table-spoonful of salt and J saltspoonful oi pepper, dust them very lightly with a little cayenne, and stir over the fire until they are tender. When done, servo them on toast, pouring the gravy they yield in cooking over them. Fried Stuffed Spanish Onions. —Peel and boil four Spanish Onions whole; when they are tender, scoop out the centres and fill them with forcemeat. Fry them a light brown, and serve with good brown gravy poured over them. Glazed Onions. -(1) Remove the skin from some Onions and put them into a saucepan with a little warmed butter; add sugar and salt to taste, and pour over a little stock. Place the pan over the fire and simmer gently until they are quite tender and the outside brown, then take them out and serve on a dish. A little of the liquor thickened with flour may be served as a sauce. (2) Take off the skins from some small Onions, having them as nearly as possible of a uniform size; arrange them in a saucepan with a little butter, putting them close together, sprinkle over a little salt, pepper, and sugar, and add sufficient water to moisten them. Cover the Onions over with a piece of well-buttered paper, and cook over a quick fire until the liquor is reduced to half its original quantity, and of a thick glaze. Put the Onions on a dish, add a little Spanish sauce to the liquor, skim off' all the fat, and strain it over the Onions. (3) Take forty young Onions, about the size of walnuts, remove the skins, put them into a saucepan, with loz. each of butter and sugar, and toss over the fire to give them a light coating. Pour in sufficient stock to cover, and cook gently until they are done and quite tender. Take them out, drain them on a cloth, and arrange on a border of mashed potatoes. Skim the liquor, reduce it to a glaze, stir in a little butter, pour it over them, and serve. Care must be taken that the skins do not burst in cooking. Onions au Gratin.-Peel some large Spanish Onions and cut them into rather thick slices ; butter a baking-dish, lay the slices of Onions on it, dust over with salt and pepper, baste with a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, and bake them in a brisk oven until lightly browned. When rather soft, cover the Onions with grated Parmesan cheese; put them again in the oven until the cheese has melted, then place them on a hot dish, and serve. Onion Cake.- Peel five or six large Onions, cut them into halves, boil them for fifteen minutes, drain, and chop them finely together with a small lump of 1 (utter. Beat two eggs and mix with them 4 table-spoonfuls of cold mashed potatoes, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of chopped ham, about 126 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Onions—continued. teaspoonful of caraway-seeds, and 1 teacupful of milk. Mix in the chopped Onions, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Butter a large shallow tin, line it with good short-paste, spread the mixture over it, and hake the cake in a brisk oven. When cooked, lift it out of the tin, put it on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve while hot. Onions with Cream.—(1) Select a dozen small sound Onions and cook them in salted water until quite tender. Mix 1 table-spoonful of butter with a little hour in a saucepan, put in the Onions, and dust over with salt and pepper. Pour in 1 gill of cream, and cook for a few minutes longer. Stir well, turn out on to a dish, and serve hot. (2) Boil twelve fine silver-skiuned Onions, changing the water several times in order to make the flavour milder. Take them up when sufficiently cooked and peel them ; then dry in a cloth, and when sufficiently cool to touch, cut them in slices, put them into a baking-dish, mixing with them lib. of sifted breadcrumbs, a seasoning of salt and pepper, 4oz. of butter, and lastly i pint of cream or milk. Put the dish into a moderate oven, and bake for three- quarfcers-of-an-hour. Serve very hot. Onion Farfel.—Beat an egg in 1 teacupful of water, then stir in rapidly with a fork Jib. of flour and a small quantity of salt. Peel and cut into thin slices the required quantity of Onions, put them into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them until soft and browned. Stir the farfel paste in with the Onions, and continue stirring it over the fire for five or six minutes. Put a handful of parsley and a lump of salt into a saucepan of boiling water, turn the farfel into it, and boil for ten minutes. When cooked, drain through a sieve, turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Onion Garnish for Fricassee.—Chop off a thin slice from both ends of a couple of dozen large Onions, put them into lqt. of boiling water, and blanch for ten minutes. Take them out, drain, and when they are cold remove the yellow and first white skins. Put them into a saucepan with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of water and 1 teaspoonful each of salt and sugar; boil gently until done, take them out, drain, and they are ready for use. They should be put into the fricassee at least five minutes before serving. Onion Gruel.—Put four large Onions cut into slices in a saucepan with 2oz. of fine oatmeal, and pour over lqt. of cold water. Place the pan over a clear fire and boil the Onions gently for about five hours. Stir frequently, and add a little more water now and then, so as to keep up the original quantity. Strain the liquor through a fine sieve into a bowl or basin, sprinkle in a little sauce, and serve with pieces of toasted bread. The yolk of an egg well beaten and stirred in is an improvement. Onion Juice.—(1) This is obtained by removing the outer skin from Onions, grating them on a coarse grater, and using strong pressure to squeeze out the juice, which can be collected and strained, or clarified. (2) Pound the Onions in a mortar together with a little water, squeeze out the juice through muslin into bottles, and cork down tightly. The addition of a little fresh garlic is considered an improvement. Onion Fickle.—(1) Take large white Onions, skin and trim them, and then pour boiling salted water over and let them stand for three days. At the end of this time strain oft' the brine, pour fresh over them, boiling as before, and let them stand for another three days. Put 2qts. of vinegar over the fire in a lined pan with loz. of turmeric tied in thin muslin, let it scald for a few minutes, and pour it over the Onions boiling hot. Cover them close, and let them stand for ten days or a fortnight, then take them out and drop them into a jar or jars containing the following mixture: Pound well together i pint of black mustard-seed well beaten, 2oz. of white ginger, ljoz. each of black pepper and allspice, loz. each of cloves and mace, and put them into a large jar, together with 1 table-spoon- ful of scraped horseradish, 1 dessert-spoonful of garlic, lib. of sugar, Aoz. of celery-seed bruised, and a lemon and a half cut in thin slices and the pips picked out; pour over this lgall. of vinegar. Onions—continued. (2) Bombay.—Take off the outer peel from as many small round Onions as required, dry them well, put them into a saucepan, cover with vinegar, and parboil them. Take out the Onions with a skimmer, put them into wide- mouthed bottles in layers, alternating with finely-sliced green ginger, fresh red chillies, black peppercorns, and a little salt. Fill up with fresh vinegar, cork down securely, and the pickle is then ready for use. Onion Pie.—Peel and chop six large Onions, put them in a saucepan with a lump of salt and water to cover them, and boil for a few minutes. Drain the Onions, chop them, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and stir about over the fire until the moisture has somewhat evaporated. Beat four eggs; move the Onions off the fire, mix in the eggs, then place them over the fire again, and stir for two or three minutes with a wooden spoon, but without allowing them to boil. Sift 1 Jib. of flour on to a paste-board and mix in 1 teaspoonful of salt, then stir in four beaten eggs and sufficient water to make a soft, flexible paste. Knead the mixture well with the hands, dipping them now and then in warmed butter. Divide the paste into pieces the size of a small egg, dust them over with wheat-starch, and roll them out as thin as possible. Butter a baking-tin, the same in diameter as the pieces of paste, lay in five, one over the other, baste them with a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, then place over those five more, which also baste with butter, and proceed thus until half of the pieces are used. Spread the Onion mixture over the paste, then lay the remaining pieces of paste on the top, baste the pie well with butter, and bake it in a moderate oven. When cooked and nicely browned, cut the pie in four crosswise, and serve. Onion Puree.—(1) Boil the required quantity of Onions for a few minutes in salted water, then drain and chop them. Melt a large lump of butter in a stewpan, put in the Onions with plenty of caster sugar, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stir them over the fire until nicely browned. Next dredge in a little flour, and add a small quantity of clear stock, being careful not to make it too liquid, and stew gently until quite tender. When very soft, mash the Onions through a fine hair sieve, return them to the stewpan, and stir over the fire until hot again. Turn them on to a dish, and serve. (2) Peel some Onions and boil them in salted water for ten minutes, then drain, and chop them. Put 2oz. of butter in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and mix them over the fire. Put in the Onions, season them to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of sugar, and moisten with a few table-spoonfuls of milk. Stew the Onions gently until quite tender, but do not let them brown at all. When ready, pass the Onions through a fine hair sieve, return them to the saucepan, and mix with them a small piece of butter. Stir over the fire for a few minutes, then turn them on to a hot dish, and serve. Onion Puree a la Bretonne. Peel and blanch the required quantity of Onions, putting them into cold water to cool, so that they will retain their colour. Drain, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, dust them over with salt and sugar, place the pan over a clear fire, and fry until they are of a light red colour; pour in some Spanish sauce and reduce. Pass the whole through a fine sieve, mix in with it a little warmed butter and meat glaze, and serve. Onion Puree d. la Soubise—(1) Remove the peel from a dozen Onions, blanch and drain them, put them into a saucepan with enough chicken broth to cover, and simmer gently until the Onions are done, but without allowing them to take colour. Pour in t paint of bechamel sauce, reduce it, and pass the whole through a fine hair sieve. Stir in a little butter and chicken glaze, and serve. (2) Peel and chop about two dozen Onions and warm them in a frying-pan with a little butter, but without allowing them to take colour. Mix in 3 table spoonfuls of puree of white haricot beans and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Squeeze all through a fine sieve, and the puree is ready for use.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 27 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Onions—continued. Onion Puree with. Fish.—Chop up four or five large Onions, blanch them, and put them into a saucepan with Jib. of butter ; sprinkle over a little salt, pepper, and sugar, and fiy them till light brown. Work in a handful of flour and moisten with fish broth prepared as follows: Clean a couple of small fish such as tench, cut them in pieces, put them into a saucepan with vegetables cut in slices and a sprig of parsley, sprinkle with a little salt, and pour over 3<jts. of water and h pint of white wine. Boil for about ten minutes, and strain the broth. Put the pan contain- ing the Onions over a clear fire, boil up, remove it to the side of the fire to simmer gently for thirty minutes, then strain the liquor into another saucepan, thicken it with the yolks of three eggs, put in the fillets of the fish, make quite hot, pour all into a soup-tureen, and serve. The skin must be removed from the fish before putting them in. Onion Sauce.—(1) Peel the required number of Onions, and put them in a saucepan of cold water; when the water boils, pour it off and add more boiling water, so as to take the strength out of the Onions. Repeat this two or three times more, and the Onions will be quite mild ; chop them up, but not too small, and mix them with melted butter; or pound the Onions to a pulp, mix them with a little cream sauce, and they are ready. Onion sauce is used generally for roasted or boiled shoulder of mutton, tripe, ducks, or rabbits. (2) Peel some moderate-sized Onions, and partially boil them for a few minutes; drain and chop them, put them into a stewpan with a lump of butter, season with salt and pepper and a small quantity of sugar, and stew them over a gentle fire until tender but not browned. Dredge with 1 table spoonful of flour, and rub them through a fine wire sieve. Return the Onion pulp to the stewpan, stir in enough milk to make the required quantity of sauce, place it over the fire until boiling, then serve. (3) Peel and finely chop a large Onion, put it into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry until lightly browned; pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of water or common stock, season to taste with salt and pepper, and add a small quantity of finely-minced parsley. Boil up the sauce, put in a small piece of butter that has been kneaded with flour, and let it simmer at the edge of the fire for two or three minutes. It is then ready for serving. (4) Peel and slice a few large Onions, put them into a saucepan with a little butter, and stir over the fire until they are of a light brown. Dust them with flour, poui- over a little beef gravy, season with pepper and salt, reduce this until moderately thick, rub all through a fine sieve, squeeze hi a little lemon-juice, and the sauce is then . ready for use. It is generally served with any kind of roasted meats. (5) Boil loz. of rice in water for ten minutes, then drain it; peel and partially boil a few finely-chopped Onions, put them with the rice into a stewpan, add a large lump of butter, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of sugar. Toss the whole over a gentle fire until the Onions are quite tender but not browned, mix in loz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and pass the whole through a fine hair sieve. Put the mixture back in the stewpan,' add gradually sufficient milk or cream to make the sauce, and stir it over the fire until boiling, when it will be ready for serving. Onion Sauce with Bacon.—Cut two or three rashers of streaky bacon into small squares, put them in a stewpan, and fry slowly for a few minutes; then put in 4 table-spoon- fuls of finely-chopped Onions, sift in 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir the whole over the fire until the Onions are of a pale golden colour. Moisten the above ingredients with 1 wineglassful each of water and vinegar, season to taste with sal-t and pepper, stir it over the fire, and boil for ten minutes, then serve. Onion Sauce for Boiled Fowl.—Peel and slice 1 pint of Onions, put them in a saucepan over the fire with enough milk to cover, and stew until tender; then beat them to a pulp with a fork, add a seasoning of salt and white pepper, sufficient milk to form a sauce of the consistency of cream, and 1 table-spoonful of butter. Onions—continued. Onion Sauce flavoured with Caraway-seed0-.—Peel and cut into thin slices five or six moderate-sized Onions, put them in a saucepan with 1 pint of clear broth and a few caraway-seeds, and boil until tender. Work loz. of butter in 1 table-spoonful of flour, put it in the sauce, season to taste with salt, stir over the fire, and boil for a few minutes. The sauce is then ready for serving. Onion Sauce with Vinegar.—Peel three good-sized Onions, mince them finely, put them in a saucepan with a lump of butter, and fry over a brisk fire until brown. Sift 1 table-spoonful of flour over the Onions, pour in | pint of water, season to taste with salt, pepper, and mustard, and mix in sufficient vinegar to give it the desired acidity. Stir the sauce over the fire and boil until quite smooth. It is then ready for serving. Onion Seasoning. -Peel and chop very fine half a dozen Onions, put them into a saucepan with a very little cold water, and let them stew till quite soft; then rub them, liquor and all, through a hair sieve. It is then fit to season any sauces or made dishes in which Onion flavouring is desirable. Onion Soup.—(1) Mix 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of oatmeal in cold water until it is quite smooth, then pour in gradually 3 pints of the liquor in which a leg of mutton has been boiled, turn all into a stewpan with several peeled and chopped Onions, and cook until of the consistence of cream ; or leave out the oatmeal, substitute wheat-flour, and stir it into the soup while boiling; a few minutes before serving- add the yolks of two or three eggs, removing the pan from the fire before putting them in. (2) Peel a few Onions, chop them very fine, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry gently until they are slightly browned; sprinkle in a little flour, and fry until that is brown also. Pour in some stock or milk and water, with salt and pepper to taste, simmer for a few minutes longer, and serve with small pieces of toast. The flour may be omitted if desired, and rice or vermicelli added and cooked in the soup. (3) Cut half-a-dozen large mild Onions into slices, and put them in a saucepan with a pat of butter, salt, and sugar, and fry them to a light colour. Sprinkle over some flour, and pour in 3 pints of boiling water. Add a bay- leaf, a few sprigs of parsley, and a little more salt, and boil quickly for ten minutes. Put some slices of toasted bread at the bottom of a soup-tureen, sprinkle them over with pepper, thicken the soup with a liaison of the yolks of six eggs, warm it up without letting it boil, add a little butter in bits, take out the parsley and bay-leaf, pour it over, and serve. (4) German.—Peel and chop a sufficient quantity of large Onions, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and toss them over the fire until well browned. Pour in sufficient water to make the souji, season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and boil gently for ten or fifteen minutes. Break four eggs into a soup-tureen, beat them, and pour the soup quickly over them, stirring at the same time. Serve with a plate of sippets of toast. Onion Stuffing- for Fowls.—Put a dozen small Onions into a saucepan of water and boil them, changing the water two or three times. Finely chop a small piece of boiled pickled pork, and mince the Onions. Mix a few finely- chopped sweet herbs with 1 table-spoonful of boiling vinegar, add to this the well-beaten yolk of an egg, then work in the pork and Onions, and the stuffing is ready. It is usually employed for braised fowls. Onion-and-Tomato Salad.—Choose half-a-dozen firm ripe tomatoes of medium size, wipe them with a wet towel, and cut them in slices about Jin. thick; peel a medium- sized Spanish Onion, and slice it very thin. Arrange theTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 28 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces,'die., referred to, see under their special heads. Onions—continued. sliced Onion and tomatoes in layers in a salad-bowl, and pour over them a plain salad dressing made by mixing to- gether 1 teacupful of salad-oil, 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, £ teaspoonful of salt, and l saltspoonful of pepper. Use the salad as soon as it has been made. Young green Onions may be used for this salad. See Fig. 39. Pickled Onions.—(1) Put the desired quantity of small Onions into hot water, and then peel them ; when all are done, put them into fresh salted water with a small piece of alum in it, and leave them until the following day; drain oil the water, cover them with fresh, adding more salt and alum, and leave them a day longer. After- wards drain and put them into jars, placing in each jar one or two blades of mace, one or two chillies, a few white peppercorns, and a small quantity of horseradish. Pour in sufficient vinegar to cover the Onions well, cork the bottles, cover with parchment, tie them down, and keep in a dry store-cupboard. In a month’s time the Onions will be ready for eating. (2) Select small round Onions, peel, and steep them in strong salted water for four days, changing the water two or three times. Wipe them quite dry, lay them in a jar, pour scalding milk over them, and let them remain until the milk is cold. Drain the Onions, wipe each one separately on a dry cloth, put them into jars, and pour over as much white wine vinegar that has been boiled and mixed with white pepper as will cover them well. Tie them over first with wet bladder and then with leather, and keep the jars in a dry store-cupboard. (3) Remove the peels from lqt. of Onions, put them into a basin of salted water, let them remain for a day, and then change the water, adding a small quantity of alum to it. Take them out, drain, put them into jars with a little mace, chillies, white peppercorns, and horseradish, and cover well with vinegar. Let them remain for six months, pour off the vinegar, add fresh, and, if required, a few more peppercorns; tie the jars over with bladder, and in a few days’ time the pickle will be fit for use. (4) Peel lgall. of large Onions, cut them in slices, and sprinkle with salt; put them into jars, equally distribute over them twelve sliced dry or green capsicums, and loz. each of cloves, peppercorns, and allspice. Fill up the jars with vinegar, tie over with bladder, set them in a large sauce- pan with cold water up to their necks, and place a wet cloth over them to prevent the bladder bursting. Boil for an-liour-and-a-half, and the pickle will be ready for use. Pickled Onions and Cucumbers.—Peel twelve cucumbers and three large Onions, cut them all into thick slices, and dust over with salt. Leave them thus for a day, then drain them well, put them in a stone jar, pour over suffi- cient boiling vinegar to cover, and keep them in a warm place for a day. Drain off the vinegar again, and repeat the process until both Onions and cucumbers are quite green, adding a little pepper and ginger the last time of boiling. Tie down, and pack away in a cool place. Pickled Spanish Onions.—(1) Peel some Onions, cut a small round piece out of the bottom of each, and scoop out a little of the insides. Put them in a vessel with salt and water to cover, and let them remain for three days, chang- ing the water two or three times. Afterwards drain and stuff the Onions as follows: First put in a little ground mustard-seed, then some ginger cut small with a little mace and shallot, add more mustard, and fill up with scraped horseradish. Replace the bottom pieces, and bind the Onions round with string to keep them in place. Make a strong pickle of white vinegar, mace, ginger, nutmeg, sliced horseradish, and a little salt; put in the Onions and let them boil up two or three times, care being taken that they do not boil too much, for in that case they would lose their firmness and would not keep. Put them with the pickle into jars, leave them until the following day, then strain off the pickle, boil it up, and pour it over the Onions again. When the pickle is cold, tie the jars over first with wet bladder and then with leather, and keep them in a cool dry store-cupboard for use. (2) Peel and slice § peck of Spanish Onions, and slice four dozen large cucumbers, | peck of green tomatoes, and Onions—continued. four large green peppers; lay these ingredients in layers' in a bowl, strew plenty of salt over them, and leave them for one night. On the following morning, drain the ingre- dients from the salt and the juice that will have run from them, and put them in a preserving-pan with loz. each of mace, turmeric, white mustard-seed, and white pepper, loz. each of celery-seeds and cloves, 2oz. of dry mustard, and 1 fib. of raw sugar. Pour in sufficient vinegar to cover these ingredients, and boil them gently for an hour. Pack the pickle into stone jars, leave it until cold, then tie them over with stout paper, and put by in a cool dry store- cupboard. Roasted Onions.—Parboil the required number of large Onions, leaving their skins on, then drain them, put them in front of a clear fire, and roast; or roast them in a Dutch Fig. 40. Roasted Onions as a Garnish for Roasted Fowl. oven, taking care to turn them occasionally. They are then ready for use, and can be served as a garnish to roasted fowl. See Fig. 40. Scalloped Spanish Onions.—Peel 21b. of large sound Spanish Onions, put them in a lined pan over the fire with sufficient boiling water to cover them, add 1 teaspoonful of salt, and boil them until tender. Meantime grate an equal quantity of breadcrumb, and just moisten them with cold milk. When the Onions are tender, pull them apart with two forks, and put them into a buttered earthenware baking-dish in layers with the moistened breadcrumbs ; season each layer lightly with salt and pepper, having a layer of bread- crumbs at the top ; put over it 1 table-spoonful of butter in small pieces, place the dish in a hot oven until the breadcrumbs are brown, and serve hot. Spanish-Onion Cake.—Peel three or four large Spanish Onions, and chop them into small pieces; put them into a stewpan with 3oz. of butter, and stir over a slow fire for fifteen minutes, without letting them brown. Beat three eggs together with 1 breakfast-cupful of sour cream, and mix with them 3 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped ham and a small quantity of caraway-seeds. When the Onions are cool, add them to the .above ingredients. Roll out a thin round of tart paste, put it on a buttered baking-dish, spread the Onion mixture over it, and dust with salt. Bake the cake in a brisk oven, and serve while hot. Spanish-Onion Posset.—Peel a large Spanish Onion and boil it for five hours, then drain it as free of water as possible, and beat it to a pulp. Make a sufficient quantity of gruel with groats and milk, and when cooked move it to the side of the fire and put in the mashed Onion. Beat the yolk of an egg well and stir it into the posset; season to taste with salt and pepper, and serve while veiy hot. Spanish-Onion-and-Potato Croquettes.—Peel and boil a large Spanish Onion, and when very tender drain and beat it well. Mix the Onion with three times its quantity of hot mashed potatoes, work in 2oz. of butter, season with salt and plenty of black pepper, and mould the mixture into small balls. Put a large lump of butter into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when boiling put in the balls and fry them until of a nice brown. Drain the balls for a second or so on a sheet of kitchen-paper, then pile them up high on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 41), and serve. Spanish-Onion Salad.—Soak some large Spanish Onions for a few hours, changing the water several times, for theTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 29 For details raspectiny Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Onions—continued. purpose of reducing their flavour. Slice the Onions, put them in a salad-howl with 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, about 1 teacupful of vinegar, and R- teacupfuls of salad-oil; season with pepper and salt, toss the salad about to mix it, then serve with toasted crackers. Fig. 41. Spanish-Onion-and-Potato Croquettes. Spanish-Onion Sauce.—Remove the peel and first skin from about half-a-dozen large Spanish Onions, cut them nearly through, put them into a saucepan with 4qts. of water, and boil until they are tender. The water should be changed when they are about half done, which will be in about thirty minutes. Take them out, drain, chop them very fine, put them into a saucepan with 4oz. of butter, sprinkle over a little flour and salt, and cook gently until the butter is melted. Stir well; add \ teacupful of cream, warm, and serve in a sauceboat. Spanish-Onion Soup.—(1) Peel half-a-dozen large Spanish Onions, cut and separate them into rings, and fry in a little butter until they are of a light brown colour, and quite tender. Take them out, drain them on a fine sieve, and put them into a saucepan with 5qts. of water. Put the pan on the fire, boil for an hour, stirring frequently, and add salt and pepper to taste. Add the finely-sifted crumb of a roll, and stir well in order to thoroughly in- corporate it. Boil for two hours longer, and just before serving add the yolks of two eggs beaten into 2 table- spoonfuls of vinegar and a small quantity of the soup. Mix this in, stirring one way, pour it into a tureen, and serve. Soup prepared in this way will keep for four or five days. (2) Put ten Spanish Onions into a saucepan with suffi- cient milk and water in equal proportions to cover, and boil them until they are quite soft. The milk and water should be changed once or twice during the process. Rub them through a fine sieve and keep them warm in another saucepan. In the meantime put 2lb. of veal (or a fowl cut into pieces) into a saucepan with ^ gall, of water and a blade of mace, and simmer gently at the side of the fire for an-hour-and-a-half. Strain the liquor into the pan with the Onions and add the grated crumb of a roll mixed into 1 breakfast-cupful of cream. Sprinkle in a little cayenne and salt, pour it into a tureen, and serve. A few asparagus-heads or spinach, if added, are a great improvement to the flavour of the soup. (3) Peel some moderate-sized Spanish Onions, put them into a saucepan with plenty of water, and boil until nearly tender, then drain off the water, and replace it with suffi- cient milk and clear stock to make the soup; continue boiling them until quite tender, when pass the whole through a fine sieve. Return the soup to the saucepan, season it to taste with salt and pepper, and boil it up again. Move it off the fire, put in loz. of butter broken into small pieces, turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve with sippets of toast or small crohtons of bread that have been fried in butter. (4) Put 61b. of knuckle of veal in a saucepan over the fire with a little salt, 1 dessert-spoonful of white pepper, a few blades of mace, and lgall. of water. Let it boil till the meat separates from the bone, then strain off the stock and let it stand all night, skimming it the next day. Boil nine or ten large Spanish Onions in milk and water till quite soft, rub them through a sieve, and put them over the fire with the strained and skimmed stock; let it boil up, add about 4oz. of butter with 2 table-spoonfuls of Onions—continued. ground rice, and let it simmer for half-an-hour, stirring continually. A few minutes before taking it from the fire, add and stir in \ pint of cream, let it get very hot, pour it into a tureen, and serve. Spanish-Onion Soup a la Parisienne.—Chop up four large Onions and fry them in a little butter. Add a small quantity of sugar, and when the Onions are of a light golden colour put them into a saucepan with Jgall. of warmed broth, a little parsley, and a bay-leaf, and boil for eight minutes. Put some thin slices of toast in a tureen, arranging them in layers, sprinkle with pepper, pour the soup over them, and serve. Spanish-Onion-and-Tomato Salad.—Put some parboiled Spanish Onions and tomatoes that have been peeled and scalded into a salad-bowl, and mix in some parsley, chervil, and tarragon, with salt and pepper to taste. Stir these up and mix thoroughly with a little olive oil and sufficient vinegar to taste. This salad should be prepared at least five hours before it is required for use, so that the taste of the Onions will be thoroughly incorporated. Steamed Stuffed Onions—(1) Peel eight large Onions and boil them for ten minutes in a saucepan of very slightly salted water. Take them out, drain them quite dry, and push out about half the insides. Chop the part taken out very small together with a little sausage-meat, and add 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, one egg, and a little salt and pepper to taste. Put this mixture into the cavity of the Onions, piling it a little on the top and bottom so that none of it shall be left. Arrange them in a deep pan, put it in a steamer over a saucepan of water, and steam gently for an-hour-and-a-half. Put the pan into the oven to brown the tops of the Onions, adding 1 breakfast- cupful of gravy to prevent them burning. Arrange them tastefully on a dish, and serve very hot. Stewed Onions.—(1) Peel and wash twelve Onions, chop- ping off' the tops and bottoms ; cut them in halves, mince them very fine, blanch them to give them a sweeter taste and remove the green colour, put them in a stewpan with a little butter, and cook them. When quite done and all the moisture evaporated, mix in 4 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce (see SAUCES). Sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, rub them through a fine sieve, and keep hot in a saucepan without letting them boil. A small lump of sugar may be added if desired. If a highly- flavoured sauce is required, the Onions should be put in a stewpan with a little ham, mace, and bay-leaf, and cooked gently for an hour. (2) Peel, wash, and mince twelve Onions, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, anil fry them brown. Add a little Spanish sauce to moisten them, strain through a fine sieve, and they are then ready for use. (3) Peel the required quantity of Onions, flour them well, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them, but not enough to blacken them. Put them into a stewpan with a small quantity of gravy, season to taste with salt and pepper, cover over the pan, and stew for two hours. They are then ready for serving. (4) Peel a dozen small Onions, boil them for fifteen minutes in salted water, then drain them. Put 1 table- spoonful each of flour and butter into a frying-pan, and when the flour is well browned pour in 1 wineglassful of red wine and 1 pint of broth (see Broths). Warm this, piit in the Onions, together with a small quantity of parsley, thyme, cloves, and bay-leaf, and simmer gently at the side of the fire until the Onions are quite done. Take them out, put them on a dish, and pour over the reduced sauce through a strainer. Stewed Onions and Eggs.—Peel six or eight very large sound Onions. Melt a small quantity of butter in a stew- pan, stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and cook; then put in the Onions, moisten with milk, cream, or water, and stew until done, taking care that the Onions do not brown, and that the butter is not discoloured. Season with salt and pepper, then add eight hard-boiled eggs cut in slices, warm up without boiling, turn out on to a dish, arrange the slices of egg round, and serve. See Fig. 42.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 30 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c:, referred to, see under their special heads. Onions—continued. Stewed Spanish Onions.—(1) Peel two or three Spanish Onions, partially boil them in salted water for ten minutes, drain, and wipe them on a cloth. Put one or two slices of bacon into a stewpan with a hunch of sweet herbs, and a few cloves and peppercorns; cut the Onions into halves, put them in, cover with clear stock, and boil them gently for two hours, or until quite tender. When cooked, strain the liquor through a line sieve, pour it into a smaller saucepan, skim off all the fat, and boil it until thickly reduced, meanwhile keeping the Onions hot at the side of the fire. When ready, place the Onions on a hot dish, pour the reduced sauce over them, and serve. (2) Put 1 pint of veal or mutton stock into a stewpan together with a seasoning of salt and pepper and about |oz. of butter rolled in flour. Peel and put into this eight or nine Spanish Onions, stew them for an-hour-and-a-half, or according to their size, and just before taking them from the stewpan stir in 3 table-spoonfuls of cream. If the Onions are to be stewed in brown sauce, brown a small quantity of flour and butter in the stewpan, and add 1 pint of good gravy and a little pepper and salt; put in the Onions, and let them stew about an-hour-and-a-half according to size. (3) Peel half-a-dozen large Spanish Onions, roast them in a Dutch oven before the fire, turning them frequently till they are nicely browned; then put them into a saucepan with a bone, a rasher of bacon, a little pepper and salt, and J pint of water. Put the lid on closely, let the Onions stew till quite tender, take out the bacon and the bone, and thicken the liquor with about £oz. of butter rolled in flour. Stewed Spanish Onions with Hard-boiled Eggs.—Peel and boil six Spanish Onions in salted water until about half cooked; drain them, put them into a stewpan together with a small lump of butter, and fry them. When nicely browned, dredge over with Horn-, pour in 2 breakfast- cupfuls of nicely-flavoured stock, and boil gently for fifteen minutes. Boil six eggs hard, peel and slice them, put them in with the Onions, and simmer for a minute or two longer. Turn them on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or small crohtons of bread nicely fried in butter, and serve. Stewed Stuffed Onions.—(1) Peel and blanch some large Onions, drain them perfectly dry, scoop out the insides, and fill them with chicken forcemeat; put them at the bottom of a deep saucepan, cover them over with slices of fat bacon, and sprinkle with salt and sugar. Set the pan over a clear fire, and when the Onions are quite cooked and tender, take them out and arrange them on a dish. Reduce the liquor quickly over a sharp fire, pour it over the Onions, and serve. (2) German Style.—Peel about half a-dozen large white Onions, put them in a saucepan with a lump of salt and plenty of water, and boil until tender. Finely chop an equal quantity of lean and fat cooked pork, seasoning it to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of sage. Drain the Onions, scoop out the centre, and fill the hollows with the minced meat, j>iling it high in the middle. Dissolve 4oz. of butter in a lined saucepan, then put in the Onions, and fry them until nicely browned. Mix b table-spoonful of flour smoothly in \ pint of rich gravy, then pour it over the Onions, and Onions—continued. stew < them gently for fifteen minutes. When cooked, arrange on a hot dish, pour the cooking-liquor over, and serve very hot. Stewed Stuffed Onions with Tomato Sauce.—Peel the Onions, put them into a saucepan of water with a lump of salt, and boil them for ten minutes. Drain them, and scoop out a hollow place in the centre of each. Grate a sufficient quantity of stale crumb of bread to fill the Onions, and mix with it a small quantity of minced ham, some thick tomato sauce, and the beaten yolks of two raw eggs. Season the mixture to taste with salt and pepper and a moderate quantity of powdered spices, and stuff the Onions with it. Put them into a stewpan in which has been laid one or two slices of bacon, add a bunch of sweet herbs, and moisten them with tomato sauce ; put the lid on the stewpan, and stew until tender. When cooked, take them carefully out of the stewpan, and lay them on a hot dish; skim the fat off the sauce, remove the herbs and bacon, and pour over the Onions. Serve while hot. Stewed Stuffed Spanish Onions.—(1) Peel anti partially boil in salted water for ten minutes some large Spanish Onions, then drain them and scoop out some of the inside, but without going right through the bottom. Moisten some breadcrumbs with pure tomato sauce, and mix with them half their quantity of finely-minced ham; season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of spices, put the mixture into a stewpan, stir it over the fire until hot, then move it to the side, and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs. Put one or two slices of bacon into a stewpan together with the Onions and a bunch of sweet herbs, moisten them to height with tomato sauce, and stew gently until tender. When cooked, place the Onions on a hot dish, skim the sauce, pour it over them, and serve. (2) Peel some large Spanish Onions and partially boil them in salted water for ten minutes. Drain them and remove the cores with a vegetable-scoop, but without cutting right through the bottom. Wash about half-a-dozen anchovies, cut them into small pieces, and mix them with plenty of finely-grated breadcrumb, a moderate quantity of chopped capers, and salt and pepper to taste. Stuff the Onions with the mixture. Mix loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in a stewpan over the fire, and stir in gradually a sufficient quantity of equal parts of broth and claret to cover; put in the Onions with a bunch of sweet herbs and four or five cloves, and stew slowly until tender. When cooked, place them on a hot dish, strain their gravy over them, and serve. (3) Select large Spanish Onions, as near one size as possible, peel, and partially boil t hem in salted water for ten minutes; drain them, and with a vegetable-scoop, a little more than J-in. in diameter, cut out the cores, but without cutting right through the bottom. Make a sufficient quantity of stuffing for the Onions with breadcrumbs, tomato sauce, and a small quantity of finely-minced ham ; season to taste with salt, pepper, and powdered spices, and bind the whole with beaten egg. Fill the cavity in the Onions with the mixture, pressing it down tightly'; put them in a stewpan with a bunch of sweet herbs and one or two slices of bacon, moisten to about two-thirds their height with tomato sauce, and simmer gently until quite tender. When cooked, place the Onions on a hot dish, skim the sauce, remove the bunch of herbs, and pour over the Onions. Serve very hot. OOPACK.—A kind of black tea, grown in a district of China from which it takes its name. OPAH.—The name of a large sea-fisli (Lampris gut- tatus), found principally in the Atlantic Ocean. It is remarkable for its brilliant colours, which are red, green, and blue, with tints of purple and gold, covered with round silvery spots; commonly known as the “ king of the herrings.” Its flesh is coarse, and therefore is not much used for culinary purposes. ORANGES (Fr. Orange; Ger. Orangen; Ital. Ar- ancie; Sp. Aar an j as).—The extensive family (Aurantiacese) to which this wonderful fruit (Citrus Aurantium) gives its name, includes the lemon, the lime, the citron, theTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 31 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, See., referred to, see under their special heads. Oranges—continued. bergamot, and the shaddock, all of which differ in many particulars from the Orange. This fruit, which derives its title from the golden colour of its rind, finds its way into our markets as varieties of two special kinds— the one sweet, and the other bitter; the first being known as the Portugal or China Orange, and the other as the Seville, Spanish, or Bigarade Orange. Both of these are believed to be natives of Northern India, taking their parentage from a tree that grows wild in Sikkim, Ghurwal, and Khashya; however that may be, the fruit is now commonly grown throughout the tropics of both hemispheres. In Europe its limit crosses the northern part of Spain and the extreme south of Provence, traverses Italy a little above Florence, descends nearly to Greece, I and, passing Cyprus, enters Asia. Throughout the Medi- terranean basin and the Azores, Orange-culture flourishes, j Western Africa has recently taken up the industry. China and Japan produce some of the choicer varieties, amongst which the Mandarin is found. In several of the Australian Colonies, and in Fiji, the culture is well established; the West Indies are now producing very large quantities; and the Gulf States, California, Mexico, and Brazil, are rapidly pushing the industry. Oranges were unknown in Europe in the eleventh century, but were shortly afterwards introduced westward by the Moors. The Crusaders in the thirteenth century found citrons, Oranges, and lemons very abundant in Palestine, and after that these fruits became common in Europe. Of the varieties of the Sweet Orange (see Fig. 43), the best known to us is the China or ordinary Orange, which needs no description. The Blood-red or Malta Orange Fig. 43. Sweet Orange. has the fruit round, rough, red, or reddish-yellow out- side, with a pulp irregularly mottled with crimson. The St. Michael’s Orange has the fruit rather small, pale yellow, and seedless, with a thin rind and a very sweet pulp; it is one of the most delicious kinds known. The Noble or Mandarin Orange (see Fig. 44) is small, flattened, and deep orange, with a thin rind, which separates spontaneously from the pulp, so that when quite ripe the latter may be shaken about inside; it is exceedingly rich and sweet. In China, where this delicious variety has been raised, the fruit is chiefly consumed in presents to the Mandarins, hence its name. It is now, however, very successfully cultivated in Malta and in the Azores. The Tangerine of America is a descendant of the Mandarin. The sweet-skinned Orange is the Pomme d’Adam, or “Forbidden Fruit” of the shops of Paris, but not of Oranges—continued. London; its skin is smooth, deep yellow, with a thick, sweet, soft rind. “ The common Seville, or Bitter Orange, or Bigarade {Citrus Bigaradia),” says Lindley, “has a round dark fruit with an uneven, rugged, extremely bitter rind. This sort is largely imported for the manufacture of bitter tinctures, and the preparation of the candied Orange-peel. To this Fig. 44. Mandarin Oranges. section are referred the various kinds of Bigarades, among which may be named the Horned, Curled-leaved, Purple, Double-flowered, and Myrtle-leaved. These, especially the Horned and Curled-leaved, are cultivated chiefly for their flowers, which are powerfully fragrant. Oranges are capable of being adapted to many culinary purposes, as the following receipts will show ; the Seville being preferred for cooking, as having the stronger flavour ; but the Sweet Orange answers for many dishes equally well, when the Bitter Orange cannot be obtained. When the Bitter Orange is prescribed, it should be used if possible. Bigarade Sauce.—(1) Pare off the rinds of two Seville Oranges, cut them up into small pieces, and boil in a saucepan of water for about five minutes, then take them out and drain. Put a little butter into a saucepan over the fire, and when it melts stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour and cook until it browns. Pour in 1 teacupful of broth, add the juice of the two Oranges, a little sugar, and salt and pepper to taste ; put in the pieces of rind, boil up quickly, pour it into a sauceboat, and serve. (’2) Put the rind of half a Seville Orange and a little lemon-peel and sugar into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cup- ful of Spanish sauce, and boil gently for twelve minutes or so. Strain off the liquor into a basin, and add the juice of half a lemon, a little Orange-juice, and 1 gill of claret. \\ arm it up without boiling, put in a little cayenne, turn it out into a sauceboat, and serve. This sauce is a very good accompaniment to wild fowls. (3) Cut the rind off two sound bitter Oranges, keeping it quite thin but of equal thickness. Blanch it, put it into a saucepan with 1 pint of reduced Spanish sauce, and add a little sugar, and salt and pepper to taste. Warm it up until the peel is tender, and a few minutes pre- vious to serving add the juice of an Orange and a little iemon-juice. (4) Put the thinly-pared rinds of two bitter Oranges in a saucepan with water to cover and boil them tid soft. Dram the pieces of peel, cut-them into fine strips, and put them m a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of clear o-ravy 1 wineglassful of white wine. Squeeze in the juice of the tu-0 Oranges, with a small quantity of lemon-juice.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 32 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ibe., referred to, see under their special heads. Oranges—continued. and put in a small pinch of cayenne pepper. Stir the sauce over the fire until it boils, when it will be ready for serving. (5) Cut an Orange into halves, remove the peel and pith from one half, and divide it into slices and each slice again into quarters, taking care to pick out all the pips. Put the pieces of Orange into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of water, boil for three minutes or so, take out, and drain. Put 1 gill of broth into a saucepan over the fire, and when it boils add the pieces of Orange and a little sugar, and stir in the juice from the remaining half. Simmer gently for ten minutes, skimming frequently, turn it into a sauceboat, and serve. A little mustard or cayenne may be added. (6) Mix 8 table-spoonfuls of red currant jelly with 1 table-spoonful of made mustard, put it into a basin, and add a little pepper and one finely-minced shallot. In the meantime rub the rinds of two sweet Oranges with pieces of sugar, mix them into the jelly preparation, and pour over sufficient port wine to make it of that consistence that it will stick to the spoon while being stirred. Cut off the rinds of two more Oranges, slicing them very fine, mix them into the sauce, and pour it into bottles until wanted. It will keep in this way for several months, and must lie warmed up, not boiled, before serving. (7) Cut off the peel from a large Orange, chop it into small pieces, put it in a saucepan of water, and boil until tender. When done, put it in a strainer to drain; when quite dry, put it into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of reduced brown sauce, and simmer gently at the side of the fire for a few minutes. Just before serving, stir in (off the fire) the juices of an Orange and lemon. Buttered Orange-juice. -Squeeze the juice out of six or seven Seville Oranges into a basin, and mix with it the yolks of six eggs, the whites of three that have been beaten separately, and 1J wineglassfuls of rose-water. Beat the mixture well, strain it through a fine hair sieve into a small lined stewpan, mix with it Jib. of caster sugar, and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until it begins to thicken, then put in a piece of butter about loz. in weight and continue stirring it for a few minutes longer. Pour Fig. 45. Buttered Orange-juice the mixture, when the butter has dissolved, into a pie- dish standing on a flat dish, garnish round with almond biscuits, and leave it until quite cold before serving. See Fig. 45. Candied Orange-peel.—Cut some Seville Oranges in halves lengthwise, and scoop out all the pulp as cleanly as possible. Put the rinds into a bowl with salted water to cover, and let them soak for a week. At the end of that time, drain the rinds; put 21b. of loaf sugar into a saucepan with 2qts. of water and boil it until reduced to a thin syrup, then add the rinds and boil them for lialf-an hour. Place in another saucepan 21b. or 31b. of loaf sugar with a very small quantity of cold water, and stir it over the fire until reduced to a thick syrup. Put the rinds into the second syrup, and boil them until the sugar candies. When ready, lay the rinds on a fine sieve, sift caster sugai over, and put them in a cooled oven. When the rinds are quite dry, pack them into wide-mouthecl bottles, and cork down. Candied Quarters of Oranges.—Peel the Oranges, divide them into quarters, remove the pips as carefully as possible, and boil the fruit gently in plenty of water. Drain the quarters of Oranges thoroughly on a sieve, then put them into a stewpan with syrup at 28deg. and let them simmer for ten minutes. Turn the Oranges into a Oranges—continued. basin with the syrup, and leave them till the following day ; then drain the syrup off the Oranges, boil it up again, and pour it back upon the Oranges. Proceed in the same way the three following days, giving the syrup in all what is called four fashions. Take the quarters of Oranges carefully out of the syrup, put them on wire sieves, and set them in the screen. When the quarters of Oranges are dry, dip them in semi-grained sugar and dry them again. When quite dry, (they should not stick to the fingers when touched), take the sieve of Oranges from the screen, and leave them till cold, then pack away in boxes between layers of white paper. Caramel Orange Quarters.—Peel the Oranges and carefully trim oft'all the white pith; pull them apart in quarters, taking care not to tear the skin, place them on wire trays, and dry in a moderate temperature. Boil lib. of sugar to the crack (see Sugar-boiling), insert a thin twig care- fully in the broad part of each Orange, dip them in the sugar, and place them out of hand on oiled wire trays. When finished, put the Oranges in a cool place till' the sugar has stiffened on them. When ready to serve the Oranges, push through from underneath the tray, taking care not to damage the sugar that covers them; put some green leaves in a compote-dish, and lay in the quarters. Chartreuse of Candied Oranges.—Peel and quarter Oranges enough to line the bottom and sides of a round tin jelly mould, lay the quarters upon a sieve, and place them on the shelf over the stove or just inside the oven, where the white membrane which encloses the pulp will become quite dry; this membrane must be entirely unbroken, so that no juice can escape. While the Oranges are drying, put over the fire in a sugar-boiler Jib. of loaf sugar, 1 gill of water, and I teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and boil the sugar until it cracks off sharp when cooled in ice water; after large bubbles begin to show on top of the boiling sugar, it must be tested frequently to see if it is boiled crisp enough. When the sugar is done, pour some sweet salad-oil into a round tin mould, run it all over the inside of the mould, and then pour it out. Dip the quarters of Oranges in the hot sugar, one by one, and then entirely line the bottom and sides 'of the oiled mould with them, overlapping a little; the sugar will hold them together, and the oil will prevent adhesion to the mould. When the Orange quarters have cooled in the mould, they will turn out and retain their shape. This forms a chartreuse, which may lie filled just before serving with whipped cream (see Fig. 46) or crystallised fruits. Chartreuse of Oranges.—Two plain moulds will be required one of which should be about ljin. more in diameter than the other. Make some Orange jelly and pour a layer of it into the larger mould, then put in a layer of Oranges divided into quarters and freed of all skin and pips; pour over these another layer of jelly, and stand the mould on ice. When the jelly is quite firm, put in the smaller mould, placing it exactly in the centre, so that the space all round will be the same. Next fill up the space between the moulds with quarters of Oranges, prepared as above, and liquid Orange jelly, and set the mould on ice. Dissolve Joz. of isinglass in a small quantity of milk, then mix it with 1J pints of cream, sweeten it with Orange syrup, adding this latter ingredient in very small quantities and whipping the cream well at the same time. When theTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 33 Oranges—continued. jelly has set, pour warm water in the smaller mould to loosen it, then lift it out carefully, fill up the hollow space with the whipped cream, and stand the whole on ice for an hour longer. When ready to serve, dip the large mould containing the chartreuse in warm water, then turn its contents quickly on to a dish. This dish can be made to look very pretty and effective if a little care and judgment are exercised in its manufacture; the flavour is excellent. Compote of Oranges.—(1) Put the thin peel of eight Oranges into a saucepan with lib. of sugar and 3 breakfast-cupfuls of water, and boil for twenty minutes, skimming frequently as the scum rises. Scrape off the white pith from the Oranges, taking care not to injure the inner skin; pull them into quarters, add them to the syrup, and simmer gently for six minutes longer. Take them out with a skimmer, arrange in a heap on a dish, keeping the skin side downwards ; boil the syrup until quite thick, and when cold pour it over the Oranges and serve. (2) Peel six Oranges, cut them into rings or slices, and remove their pips. Put |lb. of loaf sugar into a stewpan with 1 teacupful of water, and place it over the fire; when it boils, put in the finely-minced yellow rinds of three Oranges, and boil the whole for five minutes. Place the sliced Oranges in a basin, pour the hot syrup over them, cover the basin with a plate, and stand it in a cool place. When quite cold, pile the Oranges on a glass dish, pour their syrup over them, and serve. (3) Put the thinly-pared yellow rinds of five or six Oranges in | pint of water, stir in 5oz. or 6oz. of loaf sugar, and when it has dissolved pour in | pint of white wine. Scrape the white pith off' the Oranges, cut them into thin slices, arrange in a circle on a fancy or glass dish, with plenty of caster sugar strewn over and between them, with a few of the slices tastefully arranged in a group in the centre. Put the yellow peel round as a garnish, pour over the syrup, and place the dish on ice or in a cool place for several hours. Serve with fancy biscuits. Compote of Oranges and Apples.—Cut into thin round slices with their peels on about four Oranges, and dust them over with sugar. Peel six or seven large ripe apples, cut them into thin round slices, and cover them with more sugar. Arrange the Oranges and apples alternately in a glass dish, the slices overlapping each other, then sift more sugar over the whole, stand the dish on ice, and leave it for two hours. When ready to serve the compote, pour \ pint of white wine over it. Compote of Oranges and Cocoa-nut.—Carefully remove the peel and white part of five sweet Oranges, and grate off' the rind of one more, and one lemon. Separate the Oranges into natural sections. Put the grated rinds of the Orange and lemon, together with the juice of the latter, into a saucepan, add 8oz. of sugar and ^ pint of water, boil for five minutes, put hi the pieces of Oranges, boil for five minutes longer, take out the Oranges, boil the syrup until quite thick, then let it get perfectly cold. Put a few of the pieces of Oranges on a glass dessert-dish, sprinkle with grated cocoa-nut, pour over a little of the syrup, and continue in this way until all is used up; pile on top 1 pint of well-whipped cream, dust over with nonpareils or chopped pistachio-nuts, and serve. Conserve of Orange. — Grate the rind of one Orange into a saucer, squeeze its juice over, and mix well. Put lib. of crushed loaf sugar in a pan with a small quantity of water, place it over a slow fire, and when boiling stir in the Orange-juice and grated peel. Continue stirring until reduced to a thick syrup, then turn it out and leave until cold. It is then ready for use. Imitation Orange-juice.—Put loz. of citric acid and 1 drachm of carbonate of potash into a basin, pour over lqt. oi water, and let them dissolve; pour the liquor over the peel of half an Orange, and let it stand until it is suffi- ciently flavoured. Sweeten to taste with honey or white sugar, and it is ready for use. In place of the Orange- peel, 5 or 6 drops of the oil of Orange-peel, mixed with jj fluid ounce of tincture of Orange-peel, may be used. Imitation Syrup of Red Oranges of Malta. Put lqt. of nlain syrup into a bottle and add I toz. of cherry juice, Oranges—continued. loz. of essence of curafoa (which must be quite fresh and pure, otherwise the quality of the syrup will be spoilt), and lastly, \oz. of citric acid. Shake the bottle now and then, and in a day or so the syrup will be ready for use. The essence of curafoa should contain ‘2oz. of oil in each pint. The syrup should be used shortly after being made, as it is liable to change its flavour considerably by being kept. Oranges a la Franqaise.—(1) Cut six Oranges into halves, remove all the insides, taking care not to injure the rinds; notch evenly round the edges of the rinds, and put them into cold water to soak. Squeeze out all the juice from the pulp, strain it into a saucepan, pour in water to make 1| pints in all, add l£oz. of gelatine dissolved in 1| teacupfuls of water, also 6oz. of sugar, the thin rind and juice of a lemon, and the whites and crushed shells of three eggs. Whisk well over the fire until the liquor boils, remove the whisk, put the lid on the pan, and boil gently for about ten minutes. Remove the pan front the fire, let it stand for five minutes, and strain the jelly through a jelly- bag until clear; wipe the Orange-peels perfectly dry, fill them level with the jelly, packing them in ice to keep them firm, heap up on top \ pint or so of cream beaten stiff with about 1 teaspoonful of crushed loaf sugar and a few drops of vanilla, place a sweetmeat on the top of each, and serve on a dessert-dish. (2) Cut a small piece front the top of some large Oranges, and scrape out all the inside with the aid of the handle of a spoon, taking care not to injure the rind. Put the rinds into a basin of cold water until wanted, and with the pulp prepare a clear jelly. Take out the Orange-rinds, drain them, and wipe them dry. Mix a little prepared cochineal with half the jelly, leaving the remainder clear. When the jelly is nearly cold, put in a little of the coloured and of the clear alternately until the rinds are full, allowing every layer to set before another is added. When the jelly is quite set and firm, cut the Oranges into quarters or halves with a sharp knife, place them on a dish, and serve. They may be cut into halves before the pulp is taken out, if desired, and one half filled with the coloured jelly and the other with the clear. They must then be cut into quarters before being served. (3) Pour J pint of cold water over loz. of gelatine, and let it soak for three hours. Take nine deep-coloured Oranges, cut a hole in the top of each, only just large enough to admit the bowl of an egg-spoon, and then scoop out all the pulp (being very careful not to tear the edge of the hole), and scrape out the inner skin. When the Orange- rinds are emptied, lay them in cold water. Grate the rinds from three other oranges, cut them then in halves, and squeeze the juice over the grated rinds; add it to the pulp and juice of the nine Oranges, and strain all through coarse muslin, squeezing it well so that the strained juice may be well coloured with the grated rind. Mix with this juice Hlb. of powdered white sugar, and stir till the sugar is quite dissolved, then add % saltspoonful of powdered cinnamon. Pour 1 pint of boiling water over the soaked gelatine in a saucepan, put it over the fire, and stir till it is quite dissolved ; add the juice and sugar, and stir over the fire for two or three minutes, then strain it through a jelly-bag, but do not squeeze or shake the bag. Take the Orange rinds out of the cold water, wipe them, and put them standing close together on a dish, the open ends uppermost, and fill them very full with the warmed strained jelly. Pet them stand in a very cool place all night. Next day, cut them in halves, first cutting the rinds through all round with the point of a very sharp penknife, then with a larger knife cutting right through the jelly. Pile these halves on a glass dish and garnish with green leaves. Orange and Apple Tart.—Thinly peel two Oranges, put the peel in a saucepan with a small quantity of water, boil it till tender, and then cut it into fine shreds. Peel and core ten or twelve apples, cut them into quarters, and put them into a saucepan with just sufficient water to prevent them burning. \\ hen half cooked, put Mb. of sugar in with the apples, also the peel of the Oranges and the juice. Stir the mixture over the fire till reduced to a thick paste, then take it off and leave till cold. Butter a shallow For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heads. VOL. II.TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 34 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Oranges—con tinued. dish, line it with short paste, and bake in a quick oven. W hen cooked, leave the paste till cold, then turn the Orange mixture into it, and serve. If preferred, it can be put into small tartlets, which should be baked in patty-pans before- hand. Oranges and Bananas for Dessert.—Peel four bananas (the red kind if possible), cut them across into rather thin slices, and arrange them in a glass dish; strain the juice from a couple of Oranges, pour it over the bananas, sprinkle them plentifully with powdered sugar, and serve imme- diately. Or peel the Oranges, slice them, and arrange the slices in the dish among the slices of bananas. Cream, either whipped or plain, may be served with this dish, also sugar. Orange Baskets.—(1) Select some Oranges with a clear skin, and with a blunt knife mark out the handle and rim of a basket in Vandykes. With a sharp penknife cut through the rind over the traced lines, taking care not to cut through the pulp. Take off the two spare pieces of peel, and with the handle of a teaspoon carefully take out all the pulp from the basket. Fill up the baskets Fig. 47. Orange Basket. with Orange jelly of whipped cream, and decorate with crystallised flowers (see Fig. 47); put a large flat of sponge cake in the centre of a dish, with a napkin spread over it, put one basket on the top of the cake, and surround with the remainder. Any form of extra ornamentations, such as perforations, &c., can be put in the basket. (2) Candied.—Cut and prepare the Oranges as for Orange Baskets, drop them into cold water for a few minutes, and then drain and simmer them gently in boiling water for three minutes in order to soften them, so that they may be cut with a perforating tin vegetable-cutter to represent open-work baskets. Put them into a sugar-boiler with some syrup at 24deg. (see Syrups), simmer gently for a few minutes, and then put them with the syrup into a basin. Let them remain for a day, strain off the syrup, boil up again, and pour it over the baskets, repeating the operation the following day. Take out the baskets, drain them, fill them with any kind of small preserved fruits or jellies, pour over a little syrup flavoured with maraschino, arrange them on a dish, and serve. Before cutting them into baskets they may be turned very thinly to remove the coloured rind, and in a spiral direction, which will make them quite transparent when finished. Orange Bavaroise.—Put the yolks of eight eggs into a saucepan and add lOoz. of loaf sugar and the peel of two Oranges steeped for an hour in 3 breakfast-cupfuls of boiling milk. Place the pan over the fire, and when the mixture begins to thicken add ljoz. of gelatine steeped in water, and strain the whole through a fine sieve into a pan or bowl. Pack this in ice, anti stir until it is quite thick, then mix in 3 breakfast-cupfuls of whipped cream. Line a cylinder-mould with Orange jelly, and when it is set pour in the mixture, pack the mould in ice, let it remain for two hours or so, turn it out on to a dish, and serve. Oranges—continued. Orange Beignets.—Peel some Oranges, carefully removing every particle of the white part of the rind; divide them into pieces, roll each piece in powdered white sugar, dip them in batter, and fry. Orange Biscuits.—(1) Put 8oz. of butter into a basin, warm it, work it to a cream, and add the same quantity of Orange sugar. Chop into thin slices 2oz. of candied Orange-peel, mix it in, and add gradually 4oz. of dried flour and the well-beaten yolks of eight eggs. Beat the whites of eight eggs to a stiff froth, stir them in, pour the mixture into well-buttered moulds, sprinkle over a little caster sugar, and bake in a slow oven for five or six minutes. Turn them out when done, let them get cold, and they are then ready for use. (2) Put two or three Seville Oranges into a saucepan of water, and boil them until the rinds are quite tender, changing the water frequently to take off the bitterness. Take them out, drain them, cut them in halves, scrape out all the pulp, carefully removing all the pips, and pound the rind to a pulp in a mortar. Rub the rind pulp through a sieve, and add it to the inside pulp and juice, weigh it, and add double the quantity of caster sugar. Stir 1X611, and let it stand for twelve hours or so. Brash over a baking-sheet with salad-oil. pour the mixture on it, spreading it very thinly, let it remain for a few hours in the dry closet, cut it into shapes, and when they are quite dry on one side turn them over and diy the other side. Arrange them on a dish, and serve. (3) With 6oz. of sugar nib off the rind of half an Orange, then pound well. Sift Jib. of flour on to a table, make a bay in the centre, put in Joz. of yeast dissolved in 1 teacupful of warm milk, also 2oz. of butter, the yolks of two eggs, a very little salt, 4oz. of blanched and pounded sweet almonds, and the Orange sugar. Mix all these thoroughly and set it to rise in a warm place for five or six hours. Roll out the paste to about Jin. in thickness, cut it into narrow strips, cut them slantwise into pieces about 5in. long, and form them into rings, taking care that the join is almost invisible. Put half of them at a time into a saucepan of boiling water on the fire, gently agitate the surface to cause them to rise, take them out, drain them, put them into cold water, and when they are cold take them out and drain. Dip them into beaten egg, let them drain, put them on to waxed baking-sheets, and bake in a very moderate oven until they are slightly coloured. Take them out and they are ready for use. They may be formed into any desired shape, such as twists, knots, &c. (4) Grate the rind of an Orange into Jib. of flour and put them into a mortar. Beat six eggs with fib. of powdered white sugar, mix this with the flour and grated peel in the mortar, and beat it to a paste. Put this paste into biscuit-moulds, and bake in a rather hot oven. Orange Bitters.—(1) Macerate 01b. of Orange-peel for twenty- four hours with lgall. of water. Cut the yellow part of the peel from off the white, chop it fine, and macerate in 4fgalls, of 95 per cent, alcohol for two weeks, then add a syrup made of 4Jgalls. of water and 16lb. of sugar. Filter through Canton flannel. (2) Take Joz. of Seville Orange-peel, Joz. each of lemon- peel, gentian root and ginger, all bruised, and put them into a jug; pour 1 pint of boiling water over them and cover with a cloth. (3) Peel the yellow rinds as thinly as possible off three dozen Seville Oranges; put the rinds into a tub with 2galls. of strong gin and 3-lb. of loaf sugar, cover, and let them stand for three months. At the end of that time, strain the bitters, pour it into bottles, cork them tightly, and put away for use. Orange Brandy.—(1) Put twenty large Seville Oranges into a jar with 4lb. of crushed loaf sugar, 2galls. of pale brandy, and a little cinnamon, and stir very gently for three weeks, taking care not to bruise or injure the Oranges. Strain off the liquor through a flannel or jelly-bag, put it into bottles, cork down, and it is ready for use. (2) Peel off as thinly as possible the yellow rinds of eight lemons .and eight Seville Oranges ; put the rinds in a large jar with 31b. of loaf sugar, a small quantity of35 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Oranges—continued. saffron, and lgall. of pale brandy, and let the whole re- main for three days, stirring it occasionally. At the end of that time, strain the liquor, pour it into bottles, anti cork them tightly. Keep the brandy for a year in a cool cellar before it is used. (3) Peel otf thinly the rinds of six Seville Oranges and strain the juice of twelve. Put the peel and juice into a large open vessel, with 21b. of caster sugar and 3qts. of pale brandy. Turn lqt. of skimmed milk into a saucepan, place it over the lire until boiling hot, then pour it in with the brandy and mix well. Stir the brandy occasion- ally every day for eight days, then strain it through a flannel hag until quite clear. Pour the brandy into pint bottles and cork them tightly. Orange Butter.—Boil twelve rggs until hard, peel them, cut them into halves, and put their yolks in a mortar with 2oz. of caster sugar, Jib. of butter, and 2oz. of blanched and chopped sweet almonds. Pound the whole to a smooth paste, moistening it occasionally with Orange-flower water, then rub it through a sieve on to a glass dish. Serve the butter with any kind of sweet or fancy biscuits. Orange Cake.—(1) Large,—Sift fib. of flour on a paste- board, cut Jib. of butter into small pieces, lay them on the flour, and work them in; add fib. each of sugar and blanched and pounded almonds, the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs that have been rubbed through a fine sieve, three well-beaten eggs, and suttieient milk to form a smooth paste. Knead the paste until all the ingredients are thoroughly mixed, then roll it out as thinly as possible without breaking. Cut it to a round shape, lay it on a sheet of buttered paper on a baking slab, roll the trimmings of the paste out into a long strip, cut it lengthwise into three, and plait them. Moisten round the edges of the cake with a paste-brush dipped in milk, and lay the plait round. Bake the paste until lightly browned in a moderate oven. Beat the yolks of three eggs together with the grated peel and strained juice of three Oranges, fib. of caster sugar, and loz. of butter broken into small pieces. Turn the mixture into a lined stewpan and whisk it over a slow tire until it thickens, but on no account let it boil or the eggs will curdle; then move it away from the fire and let it cool. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a still' snow and stir them light.y in with the yolks. When the crust is Fig. 48. Orange Cake. nearly cold, spread the mixture over it, garnish in a circle until quarters of Oranges from which all the white pith has been removed, pile a few table spoonfuls of well-whipped cream in the centre (see Fig. 48), and serve. (2) Grate the rinds off two Oranges and strain their juice. Put 1 pint of flour in a basin, and mix with it lib. of moist sugar, half of the grated Orange-peel, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 4 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Beat the yolks of four and the whites of two eggs in half the Orange-juice, and stir them in with the dry ingredients, adding sufficient cold water to mix the whole of the proper consistency. Butter some jelly-cake pans, fill them with the mixture, and bake in a quick oven. Whisk the two remaining whites of eggs together with 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and the rest of the Orange-juice and rind; when the cakes are cooked, turn them out of the tins, spread each cake over with a layer of the beaten whites, and put them one on top of another. When cold, mask the top of the last cake with Orange icing, and place it in a cool oven for a minute or Oranges—continued. two for the icing to dry on it. Spread a lace-edged dish- paper over a round dish, place the cake on it, and serve when ready. The top looks very pretty if ornamented in some fancy design with shred angelica and crystallised fruits. (3) Place the thinly-cut rind of an Orange in a basin with the juice of two lemons, and let them soak for an hour or so. Put Jib. of butter and lib. of sugar into a basin and work them to a cream, add gradually the yolks of five eggs, and beat well for ten minutes. Strain in the lemon-juice, mix in lib. of flour, and add a little less than 1 table-spoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in 1 table- spoonful of boiling water. When thoroughly mixed, pour it into a flat-cake pan, and bake in a moderate oven. Turn it out when done, and when cold it is ready for use. (4) Beat eight eggs in a basin, and when they are very light mix in 1 (,1b. of sugar and Jib. of butter worked to a cream, then add 1 breakfast-cupful of milk; dissolve 1 tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda and 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar in another breakfast-cupful of milk, and pour it in also. Sprinkle in Hlb. of flour, mix thoroughly, pour it into jelly-cake pans, and bake. In the meantime put the juice and gr ited peels of twelve Oranges into a basin, mix in 21b. of caster sugar, and if the Oranges are' very sweet add the juice of one or two lemons. Stir to a smooth paste, and when the cake is done divide it into slices, spread them over with the Orange mixture, put them back in their original positions, cover the top with the mixture, sprinkle caster sugar over, and serve. (5) Small.—Beat ilb. of sugar and 4oz. of butter to a cream, add the yolks of seven eggs, whip these well in, lint in the grated rind and juice of an Orange, and lastly 41b. of sifted flour mixed with 2 teaspoonfuls of baking- powder. Work it until quite light, pour it into buttered flat pans, and bake in a moderate oven. Take them out and use when cold. They may be iced with Orange-flavoured icing. Orange Caramels. -Peel the Oranges carefully, removing all the white part of the rind; separate them into sections without breaking the skin, and lay them in confectioners’ sugar for a short time. Make a syrup of loaf sugar and very little water, boil it till when a little of it tried in cold water is brittle, then dip the pieces of Orange separately and quickly into it and lay them on a well-oiled wire tray to dry. They should be very carefully removed from the trays when dry, as the caramel is easily broken. Orange-Caramel Rock.-Put lib. of loaf sugar into a basin, ponr over it 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and add 1 tea cupful of filtered Orange-juice, 1 liqueur-glassful of kirschen- wasser, and 1 teaspoonful of acetic acid. Pour it all into a sugar-boiler, boil to the crack (see SUGAR-BOILING), and mix in Jib. of candied Orange-peel cut up into very small pieces. Turn it out into a deep well-oiled pan, mark it into diamond shapes, and when quite cold and set it is ready for use. Orange Charlotte.—Line a charlotte-mould with sections of Oranges. Put Joz. of gelatine into a basin with a little less than 1 teacupful of water, let it soak until soft, then pour over about the same quantity of boiling water, and add Jib. of sugar and the juice of a lemon. Pass it through a sieve into another basin, and add the pulp and juice of sufficient Oranges to make \ pint of it; add a little of the grated rind of an Orange, and pack the basin in ice to cool. Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, and when the Orange mixture begins to thicken add them, and beat until it is thick enough to drop from the whisk. Pour it into the mould, pack it in ice, and when set and firm turn it out on to a glass dish; garnish round with crystallised Orange flowers (see Fig. 49), and serve. Orange Cheese Cakes.—(1) Peel two Oranges as thinly as possible, put the rinds in a saucepan with plenty of water, and boil them until tender. Drain the peels, put them in a mortar with 4oz. each of loaf sugar and butter, and pound well. Beat the yolks of six or seven eggs in 1 table- spoonful each of brandy and sherry, then mix them in gra- dually with the pounded ingredients. Butter some patty- For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. D36 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ibe., referred to, see under their special heads. Oranges—continued. pans, line them with puff paste, half fill each with the Orange mixture, anil hake in a brisk oven. When cooked, take the cakes out of the tins, and arrange them on a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper spread over a dish. (2) Blanch and skin Jib. of almonds, put them in a mortar, and pound finely, pouring in every now and then a few drops of Orange-flower water. Warm lib. of butter, being careful not to oil it, then beat it well together with Jib. of caster sugar. Boil one fresh and two candied Oranges to draw out the bitterness, then drain and pound them in a mortar till quite smooth. Beat the yolks of ten eggs and the whites of four, then mix all the ingredients together. Fill some patty-pans with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the cakes out of the tins, leave them till cold, arrange them on a fancy dish, and serve. Orange Chips.—Cut some Seville Oranges into halves and squeeze out all the juice, which strain through a fine sieve; remove all the pulp from the rinds, and steep them in water for an hour or two. Afterwards drain the rinds and boil them in plenty of water until tender; drain, cut the rinds into shreds, put them in a stewpan, pour the juice over, add an equal weight of loaf sugar, and place them over a gentle lire. Stir the chips frequently until they candy, then put them in a cool larder and leave until quite dry, which will take nearly a month. When ready, the chips should be kept for use in wide- mouthed bottles. Orange Cordial. —Cut twelve medium-sized bitter Oranges into slices, put them in a vessel, and pour over 3qts. of rectified spirit and 1 pint of Orange-flower water; close the vessel, taking care that no air can enter, and let it remain for ten days; then add 51b. of clarified syrup, lqt. of water, and sufficient tincture of saffron to colour. Cover the vessel again, sealing it as before, and let it remain for fourteen days. Run the liquor through a jelly-bag, let it settle, pour it from the lees, bottle, and use as required. Orange Cream.—(1) Put the peel from six large Oranges into a bottle containing 2 pints of brandy, and let it infuse for a couple of weeks. Put 21b. of sugar into a basin with 1 pint of water, and when it has dissolved add it to the brandy, together with 1 pint of boiling skimmed milk. Let it remain for a day, then filter it through filtering-paper, pour it into bottles, cork down, and use when required. (2) Boil the peel of a Seville Orange for a, few minutes, changing the water frequently so as to extract the bitter taste. Pound it to a pulp in a mortar, and add J I b. of caster sugar beaten to a smooth paste, together with the yolks of four eggs, as well as the strained juice of the Orange and 1 table-spoonful of brandy. Turn it into a basin, beating it well for about twelve minutes, then add 2 breakfast-cupfuls of boiling cream, and stir until it is quite cohl. Turn it into custard-glasses, and serve. Oranges—continued. (3) Peel the yellow rinds off two Seville Oranges as thinly as possible; beat the yolks of eight eggs well, turn them into a lined saucepan with lqt. of fresh milk and the rinds of the Oranges, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and stir the whole over a moderate fire until thickened, but do not let it boil. Next stir in with the custard loz. of gelatine that has been dissolved in a small quantity of warm water, and the juice of the two Oranges. Rinse a mould out with cold water, strain the custard into it, and place it in a cool temperature or on ice. Previous to serv- ing, dip the mould quickly into warm water to loosen the contents, wipe it, and turn the cream on to a fancy dish. (4) Mix together 21b. of loaf sugar, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and J pint of water; set it in a stewpan over a moderate fire, keeping it closely covered till when a little of it is tried in cold water it forms a jelly. Stir into it then a flavouring of bitter Orange extract and the grated rinds of two Oranges; directly these are added, take the pan from the fire, let it stand closely covered for ten minutes, and beat to a smooth stiff cream with a small wooden spatula. When beaten as stiff as soft dough, turn it out on a paste- board and work it with the hands; form it into balls, and cover them with chocolate. (5) Put the grated yellow rinds of one-and-a-lialf Seville Oranges into a jar together with lib. of loaf sugar, the strained juice of six Seville Oranges, and 1 pint of the best brandy; cork the jar well, and let it stand for three days, shaking it twice each day. At the end of the three days, boil 1 pint of fresh milk warm from the cow, and stir it hot into the mixture in the jar. Cover it closely, and when quite cold strain it through a flannel bag; bottle it, seal the corks, and lay the bottles on their sides in saw- dust. It will be fit for use in a week, but will keep longer. It is a nice flavouring for trifles, &c., and mixed with ice- water makes a nice summer drink. (6) Thinly peel the yellow rind off a Seville Orange, and boil it; when the rind is tender, which can be told by pass- ing a straw through it, drain, and put it in a mortar; beat it until fine, then mix in Jib. of loaf sugar and beat again until the sugar is fine. Whip the yolks of four eggs with the juice of the Orange and J wineglassful of the best brandy, and mix them with the other ingredients; stir in gradually 1 pint of boiling cream, and beat the whole until cold. Pour the cream into custard-cups, stand them in a deep dish, pour round boiling water to half their height, and let them remain in it until the water is cold. Ornament the top of each custard with small pieces of preserved fruits or peel, and serve. Orange Cream-Ice.—(1) Put the rinds of two Oranges rubbed off with fib. of sugar into a saucepan, add the yolks of eight eggs, the juice of six Oranges, and a little salt, and stir well over the fire until the mixture thickens, working it briskly ; then pour it into a mould packed in ice, freeze, and when wanted turn out on to a dish and serve very cold. (2) Rub a few lumps of sugar on the peel of an Orange, put them into a saucepan with the juice of four Oranges, and pour over lgall. of cream. Stir well over the fire, add sufficient caster sugar to sweeten, and when it begins to get thick pour into moulds, freeze, and it is ready for use. (3) Squeeze the juice from seven Oranges and one lemon into a sieve placed over a saucepan, and add ljoz. of ising- glass and sufficient water to make the liquor 3 breakfast- cupfuls in all. Rub off the peels of the Oranges and lemon with 4oz. of loaf sugar, put it into the saucepan with the juice, and boil for twelve minutes or so. Pass it through a fine strainer or muslin bag into a basin, and when quite cold work it well into 1 breakfast-cupful of cream. Pour it into a mould dipped in cold water or well oiled, packed in ice, turn it out on to a dish, and serve. (4) Rub Jib. of loaf sugar over the yellow rinds of several Oranges until each lump is well saturated with it, then put them in a lined stewpan with 1 pint of milk and the thinly-pared rinds of two more Oranges, and boil them for a few minutes. Strain the milk, return it to the stewpan with the beaten yolks of six eggs, and stir it at the edge of the fire until thickened, but it must not boil37 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Oranges—continu ed. or the eggs will curdle. Mix 1 teacupful of whipped cream with the custard, turn it into a freezer, and work it until frozen. Afterwards put it into a mould and pack in pounded ice and salt for an hour or two. Before serving, dip the mould into hot water, taking it out again at once, wipe it, and turn the ice on to a fancy glass or china dish. Orange Cream Trifle.—Put one dozen or two of macaroons in the centre of a glass dish and soak them with white wine. Mix the grated rind and the juice of two small Seville Oranges with lqt. of thick cream, add 2 table-spoon- fuls of Orange-flower water, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar. Whisk the cream to a still' froth, then turn Fig. 50. Orange Cream Trifle. it over the soaked macaroons, piling it as high as possible. Stand the dish over ice or in a cold place for two or three hours, then ornament it with strips of green citron (see Fig. 50), and serve. Orange Croquenbouclie.—Remove the peels and pith from seven or eight large Oranges, divide them into quarters, take off the inside pith, and place them on a sieve to dry. Put lib. of loaf sugar into a sugar-boiler, add A pint of ! water, put the pan on the fire, and when the sugar has dissolved add 1 pinch of cream of tartar. Boil to the crack degree (sec SUGAR-BOILING), and dip in the quarters of Oranges, holding them gently by one end; arrange them on a strainer or pastry-grill, let them drain, dip them again into the sugar, and arrange in a well-oiled croquenbouche-mould. They should be put in rows in an upright position, and fixed to one another by dipping them lastly into hot sugar. When they have set and the sugar is quite cold, remove the mould, and serve on a napkin spread over a dish. Orange Cup.—Peel about half-a-dozen Oranges, remove all the white pith, and divide them into sections; then remove the pips and the thin membranes from them. Put 6oz. of caster sugar in a saucepan with the juice of two Oranges, and stir it over a slow fire with a wooden spoon until it has dissolved but does not boil ; take it off the fire and leave until cold. Arrange the pieces of Oranges in a glass dish. Mix sufficient water with the syrup to form a nice sherbet, flavour with a few drops of essence of Orange- liowers, and pour it over the Oranges; put in a few lumps of ice, and serve with a ladle. See Fig. 51. Orange Custard.—(1) Put the thinly-pared rinds of two Seville Oranges into a stewpan with some water and boil them until tender. Drain the peel, and pound it to a smooth paste in a mortar. Strain the juice of four Seville Oranges, mix it with the peel, and add 1 wineglassful of brandy, 1 lb. of caster sugar, the yolks of eight eggs, and the whites of six. Beat the mixture thoroughly, stir in lqt. of milk, pour the whole into a lined stewpan, and stir it over a moderate fire with a wooden spoon until thickened, but not quite boiling. Pour the custard into glasses or a glass dish, and serve. (2) Boil the thinly-pared yellow rind of half a Seville Orange in plenty of water until tender, then drain and pound it in a mortar. When quite smooth, mix with the yolks of four eggs the strained juice of a Seville Orange, 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and A wineglassful of Oranges—continued. brandy. Beat the whole together for sixteen minutes, then work in gradually 1 pint of boiling cream. Continue beat- ing the mixture until cold, then pour it into cups; stand them in a flat pan, surround with boiling water, and place them over the fire. When the custards are set, ornament the top of each with a preserved Orange. Serve either hot or cold. (3) Squeeze the juice of ten large sound Oranges into a lined saucepan, sweeten with a few table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and stir over the fire till on the point of boiling. Skim the juice and leave it until nearly cold. Beat the yolks of ten eggs well, mix them with 1 pint of cream, and stir them in with the Orange-juice. Place the saucepan over a slow fire, and stir the contents until thick, but not boiling. Serve the custard when cold. (4) Put |oz. of gelatine into a basin with 1 breakfast- cupful of milk and let it soak for two hours. Beat up the yolks of six eggs with fib. of granulated sugar. Put 1J pints of milk into a double boiler, and when it boils pour in the gelatine and then the eggs, stirring continually for five minutes or until it thickens; turn it into a basin and let it cool. Peel off the rinds from half-a-dozen large Seville Oranges, cut them into halves, take out the pips, and remove all the hard parts. Arrange them in a glass dish, pour over the custard, let it remain for eight hours or so, then cover it with 6 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar beaten gradually into the whites of six eggs whisked to a stiff froth, and serve. Orange Custard Fritters. Put lib. of flour into a basin, and stir in gradually, keeping it quite smooth, lqt. of milk and five well-beaten eggs. Turn the batter into a saucepan, and stir it over a moderate fire for twenty minutes with- out letting it boil; then move it to the side, and mix in 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, I table-spoonful of finely- chopped Orange-peel, \ saltspoonful of salt, and the well- beaten yolks of five eggs. Butter a baking-slieet, and when the custard is well mixed, spread it over about lin. in thickness. When cold, cut it into equal-sized pieces, dip them in beaten egg and then in finely-grated bread- crumb, and fry them in butter till a golden brown. Drain the fritters, dust some caster sugar over, put them on a folded napkin or an ornamental disli-paper on a hot dish, and serve. Oranges for Dessert.—(1) Peel the Oranges and trim oil' the white part, being very careful not to break the fruit. Put some caster sugar in a dish, about lib. for two dozen Oranges, and pour over it sufficient cochineal to give it a bright pink colour; place it in front of the fire until well dried. Roll the Oranges in the sugar, giving them a good coating all over, then arrange them carefully in a raised glass or dessert-dish (see Fig. 52), and serve. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dee., referred to, see under their special heads. i/t Rs; r y UBRARY LEEDS38 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Oranges—continued. Oranges coloured in this way are a great improvement on the ordinary way of serving them. (2) Peel the Oranges, and with a sharp knife trim oil' all the white pith; slice them, and put them in layers in a glass dish, alternating each layer with a layer of grated cocoa nut and a dust of caster sugar. Strew plenty of grated cocoa nut on the top, pour 1 or 2 wineglassfuls of sherry over the Oranges, and stand the dish on ice for an hour or two before serving. (3) Select some fine China Oranges, peel them, and carefully trim off the pith, taking care not to cut through. Pass a double thread through the centre of each Orange. Whisk the whites of two eggs with lib. of caster sugar for twenty minutes. Hold the Oranges by the thread, and dip them into the beaten eggs and sugar, giving them a good coating. Pass a very thin stick through the Oranges in place of the thread, and fix them where they will dry quickly. Arrange the Oranges on a glass dish, and serve. Orange Drops.—(1) Rub off as much Orange-rind as will flavour about 2lb. of sugar made into drops. Put 21b. of rather coarsely-sifted sugar, that is without fine powder, into a basin, scrape off and add the Orange sugar, and stir in gradually sufficient water to make a paste that will drop from the spoon without sticking to >lt. Put this into a sugar-pan and add a little yellow colouring of saffron, set the pan on a ring on the stove, and stir well until the sugar is dissolved and makes a slight noise. Remove from the stove when about to boil, drop small lumps on cartridge paper or tin, and set them in the drying closet for about two hours. Pack them in tins or boxes. The sugar-pan should have a spout to the right, and when held in the left hand it is easy enough, with a piece of wire in the right, to chop off the preparation to the required size while being poured slowly out. (2) Put 8oz. of butter into a basin, beat it to a cream, and add the same quantity of sugar, the zest (rind) of four Oranges, and eight eggs one at a time. Peat well between every addition, and then sprinkle in 14oz. of flour. When thoroughly mixed, pour into small round tins, and bake in a moderate oven until done. Turn the drops out on to a dish, and they are ready for use when quite cold. Orange Extract.—Cut the thinly-pared rinds of three bitter Oranges into shreds, put them into a bottle, then pour in 1 pint of brandy or whisky, and cork it tightly. Shake the bottle frequently for the first four or five weeks. This extract will keep for years. Orange Pool.—Squeeze the juice out of five or six Oranges, and strain and beat it up with three eggs and 1 pint of cream; sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and flavour with moderate quantities of grated nutmeg and powdered cinnamon. Pour the mixture into a lined stewpan, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until thickened, but do not let it boil. When ready, pour into a glass dish, and serve when quite cold. Orange Fritters.—(1) Peel the Oranges, cut them in halves, pick out the seeds, and with a sharp knife scrape off all Oranges—continued. the white pith; put them in a basin together with some caster sugar and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of brandy, and leave them for an hour or two, afterwards draining them on a sieve. \\ arm and beat 2oz. of butter, beat also the yolks of two eggs, mix them together with the butter in fib- of flour, and stir in gradually with a wooden spoon sufficient tepid water to mix the whole into a smooth batter. \\ bisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff snow, and mix them lightly with the batter at the last moment. Put a large piece of lard or clarified fat into a flat stew- pan, and place it over the fire until boiling; dip the pieces of Orange into the batter, coating them well, and fry in the boiling fat until nicely browned. Then take them out, and put them on a sheet of kitchen paper in front of the fire to drain for a minute or two. Sinead a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, pile the fritters upon it, sift caster sugar over (see Fig. 53), and serve. (2) Peel the Oranges, remove all the white pith, and divide them carefully into quarters. Make the following syrup : Beat the white of an egg into 1 i, pints of water, pour it into a sugar-boiler, together with 21b. of loaf sugar, and boil, removing the scum as it rises, and adding occasionally a few drops of cold water until clear; boil for a few minutes longer, and strain through a tammy. Make some goad frying batter, dip the Oranges first in the cold syrup and then in the batter, put them into a stewpan in which some fat should be ready boiling, and fry them until nicely browned. Drain the fritters on paper to absorb the fat as much as possible, place them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper, sift caster sugar over them, and serve. Oranges Frosted and Glace.—Peel nine go id sized ripe and sweet Oranges. Carefully scrape off all the white and separate the sections from one another, being careful not to break the skin. Mix Goz. of powdered white sugar together with a few drops of liquid cochineal, spread it out on a plate, and dry it in the sun. If it gets lumpy in drying, roll it to powder again between two sheets of paper with a rolling pin. Whisk the whites of three eggs in 3 dessert- spoonfuls of water to a stiff froth; have the coloured sugar ready on a plate, and Goz. of powdered white sugar on another plate. Dip one-third of the pieces of Orange in the white of egg, then roll them in the red sugar, and lay them on a sheet of paper to dry. Dip another third of the pieces in the white of egg, and roll them in the white sugar. Put Hoz. of gum arabic over the fire together with 3 table-spoonfuls of hot water, stir till the gum is melted, add fib. of powdered white sugar, and continue stirring till it forms a clear thick glue. Then stand it in a pan of hot water, and dip the remaining third part of the pieces of Orange into it. Lay a stick along a flat dish and lean these pieces against it to dry. When all are dry, arrange them in a glass dish, and garnish them with orange- or lemon-leaves. Orange Gin.—(1) Put 2galls. of gin in a large vessel with 41b. of loar sugar and the strained juice and peel of thirty large Seville Oranges. Put 1 pint of milk in a small lined saucepan over the fire, and when boiling skim and pour it at once into the gin. Leave the gin for eight or ten days with the cover on the vessel, excepting when takenTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 39 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die,, referred to, see under their special heads. Oranges—continued. off to stir it, which should be done every day. At the end of that time strain the liquor through a jelly-bag, bottle it, and cork tightly. It is then ready for use. The Orange-peel that was used for the gin makes a capital flavouring for puddings. (2) Peel off as thinly as possible the yellow rinds of twelve Seville Oranges and eight lemons. Put the rinds in a large earthenware jar with 31b. of loaf sugar and lgall. of gin, cover the jar, and let the contents infuse for three months, shaking them thoroughly every day. At the end of that time strain the gin and pour it into bottles. Pack the bottles away in a dry cellar, and in a few months’ time the gin will be ready for drinking, but it is greatly improved if kept for a year or two. (3) Put the peels of six large Tangerine Oranges and six Seville Oranges—both cut oil' very thinly—into a bowl con- taining lgall. of unsweetened gin, and add a piece of sugar together with 20 drops of essential oil of Orange dropped on to it. Let this stand for four days, then strain it into another bowl. In the meantime put 31b. of pounded sugar candy into a sugar boiler (see Culinary Utensils), and pour over 3 pints of water and the juice of a dozen Oranges. Clarify it, add it to the gin, shake it up, and when it has stood for four days pour it into bottles, cork down, and store for use. Orange Granite Ice.—Remove the peels from half-a-dozen or so Oranges, cut them up into quarters, and take out the inner pith and pips. Place them in a basin, pour over 3 pints of syrup at 20deg. (see Syrups), let them remain for a couple of hours, then take them out and put them on a strainer to drain. Pass the syrup through a sieve into the freezer (see Ices), and when frozen to icicles add the drained quarters of Oranges, and cover. Let it remain twenty minutes longer, then serve in glasses or cups. Orange Honey.—Put |lb. of sugar and 2oz. of butter into a saucepan together with the grated rinds and juice of two Oranges, and the juice of two lemons. Stir well over the fire, and when boiling add the yolks of three eggs, the white of one, and a little rose-water; remove the pan to the side of the fire and continue stirring until the mixture has the appearance of melted cheese. It is then done, and may be used for filling tartlets or spread over layers of cake. Orange Jelly.—(1) Dissolve l|oz. of gelatine in £ pint of boiling water, and strain it. Squeeze the juice out of a sufficient number of Oranges to fill three teacups and suffi- cient lemons to fill one teacup ; mix the juices together, strain them, and add them to the dissolved gelatine. Sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and boil the whole for a few minutes. Clarify the jelly with the whites of two eggs and their shells beaten together, and strain it through a jelly-bag. Rinse a mould out with cold water, pour the jelly into it, and leave until set and cold. When ready to serve, turn the jelly on to a fancy dish. (2) Grate the rinds of six Oranges, three sweet and the remainder bitter ; also grate the rinds of two large lemons. Strain the juice of four sweet and four bitter Oranges and three lemons. Put 6oz. of loaf sugar into a saucepan together with H teacupfuls of cold water, the juice and peel, and boil it until very thick. Mix lqt. of clear isinglass jelly in with the above, boil it up again, and strain it. Leave the jelly for a few minutes to settle, then pour it carefully from the sediment at the bottom into a jelly-mould. Leave it in a cool place until quite set, then turn it on to a fancy dish, and serve. (3) Put lib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar into a stew- pan with 1 pint of water, and boil it until dissolved; then put in the thinly-pared yellow rinds of four Oranges and two lemons; boil it a few minutes longer, then skim, add the juice of eight Oranges, and boil for twenty minutes. Next mix with the syrup 1 pint of calf's-foot jelly and the juice of a lemon. Peel two or three sweet Oranges, trim oil' all the white pith and skin, core them, cut them into slices, and pick out all the seeds. Pour a layer of the jelly into a mould, and when it has set put in a layer of the Oranges; cover these with a layer of jelly, and proceed as before until the mould is full. Stand it in a cool place until ready to serve. Oranges—continued. (4) Dissolve ljoz. of isinglass in h pint of water, mix with it 1 pint of strained Orange-juice, the rind and juice of one lemon, and fib. of loaf sugar; pour the whole into a sauce- pan, and stir it over the fire until boiling. Strain the jelly through a piece of muslin, rinse a mould out with cold water, pour in the jelly, and set it in a cool place. When set and cold, turn the jelly on to a glass dish, and serve. Orange Julep.—Put 1 wineglassful of Orange cordial into a large glass, mix in a little lime-juice, fill up with ice, arrange on top a little mint and a few slices of Orange, sprinkle over with sugar, and serve with straws. Orange Lemonade.—Rub off some of the peel from three China Oranges and one large lemon on 3oz. of loaf sugar; put it into a jug, squeeze in the juice, and pour in lqt. of boiling water. When quite cold, strain the liquor through a fine sieve and serve it. Orange-and-Lemon Syrup.—Make lqt. of syrup with loaf sugar and water, and let it get cold. Peel the rind thinly off one dozen Oranges and half-a-dozen lemons, put it into a large stone jar, and pour in the syrup. Squeeze the juice out of the Oranges and lemons, mix it with 3 pints of water, and strain it through a silk tammy. Put the strained juice, with 4tlb. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, into a preserving-pan, and boil it until reduced to a syrup; strain the syrup from the peels, mix it with the other syrup, and boil both together for two or three minutes. When cool, pour the syrup into bottles, cork them down tightly, and put them away for use. Orange Liqueur.—(1) Select six perfectly sound Seville Oranges, wipe them over with a damp cloth to remove any impurities, taking great care not to break the peel; lay them in a large stone jar with Mb. of sugar candy, pour over them igall. of the best French brandy, then cover the jar with bladder, and tie down securely. Leave it for two months, shaking the jar well once every week. At the end of that time strain off the liqueur, and bottle it for use. (2) Put the thinly-pared rinds of twelve Seville Oranges and six lemons into a large jar with 31b. of sugar candy that has been pounded, and lgall. of gin. Steep the rinds for four days and nights, stirring every day; at the end of that time, strain the liquor through filtering-paper, bottle it, and cork tightly. Pack the bottles away in a dry cellar. The liqueur will not be ready for use until the expiration of a year. (3) Take four Seville Oranges and stick eight cloves into each; put these Oranges into a jar, and pour over them lgall. of strong spirits. Cover the jar closely, and let it stand for two months, stirring it six or eight times during that period. Clarify and boil 5lb. of sugar to syrup (see Sugar-boiling), and when the Oranges have been in the spirits for two months, filter the spirits through paper, mix the syrup with it, and bottle, being careful to cork well. (4) Put into bottles or jars 21b. of finely-chopped bitter Orange-peel and 4oz. of ground coriander-seeds ; pour in 94qts. of spirits of wine 60deg. over proof, keep the bottles in a warm place, and shake them daily for a month. Pour off the spirits, add to the bottles tRqts. of water, let it remain for a few days, pour it off, pressing out as much as possible, add it to the spirit, together with 4qts. of capillaire and a little yellow colouring to give it a deep colour, filter through flannel, and bottle. Orange Lozenges.—Put loz. of picked gum dragon or prepared gum into a basin with 2oz. of Orange-flower water, let it soak for six or seven hours, and then squeeze it through a cloth on to a marble slab. Work it well with the flat of the hand until it is clear and quite elastic, and add gradually 1 Mb. of icing sugar and 2oz. of Orange sugar. A little blue (see Colourings) should also be added to give it a very white appearance. Dust the slab over with caster sugar, roll the paste out to about Jin. in thickness, stamp it out with a tin cutter in the shape of lozenges, arrange them on a baking-sheet well dusted with caster sugar, and put them in the screen to dry. Place in bottles or tins, and they will keep for a long time.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 40 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, SaiXces, d'c., referred to, see under their special heads. Oranges—continued. Orange Marmalade.—(1) Squeeze out all the juice from the selected quantity of Seville Oranges, and strain it; poui- over the pul]) of the Oranges just as much water as will cover them, and let them steep for an hour. After- wards strain the liquor off the Oranges and mix it with the juice. For each quart of juice allow 31b. of loaf sugar; make a syrup with the sugar, boil it to the bubble (see Sugar-boiling), mix in the Orange-juice, and boil it for about fifteen minutes, keeping it well skimmed. Turn the marmalade into pots, and when cold cover and tie them down. (2) For every pound of Seville Oranges allow 21b. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar. Cut through the rind of each of the Oranges with a sharp knife, put them in a pre- serving-pan with soft water to cover, and stew over a gentle fire until a straw will easily pierce through the skin; pour in more water as it boils away, as the Oranges must lie kept covered. Drain the water into a basin, cut the rinds oil' the Oranges with a silver knife, and chop them into small shreds; squeeze the pulp of the Oranges through a coarse cloth into the water they were boiled in, put the liquor and peel into a clean preserving-pan, add the sugar, and boil the whole gently for half-an-hour, or until it will jelly when cold. When ready, turn the marmalade into jars, leave it until cold, then cover and tie down. (3) Peel 21b. of bitter Oranges and one sweet one, and squeeze the pulp and juice into a basin, taking care to remove the pips. Cut the peel into small pieces, and pour over 4qts. of water. The peel of a lemon cut into little bits should also be added, as it is a great improvement. Let it remain for a day, then pour it into a preserving- pan, and boil for three hours, when it should be quite transparent. Pour it back into the basin, let it stand for another day, and return it to the pan with Ijlb. of crushed loaf sugar to each pint of the juice. Boil for half-an-hour, turn it into jars, and it is ready for use. (4) Take a dozen or two Seville Oranges, cut them in halves, take out the skin and pulp, and boil the rinds in plenty of water, changing it two or three times. When the rinds are quite soft, take them up, drain, and let them cool. When well drained and quite cold, cut them into thin shavings. Scrape the pulp out of the skin, and pick out the pips. Weigh the peel and the pulp, and allow to each pound lib. of loaf sugar. Put the pulp and sugar together into a preserving-pan over the fire, let it boil gently to a syrup, add the peel, and boil gently for half- an-hour. Take it from the fire, let it cool a little, put into glass jars, and cover air-tight. (5) This is the best kind for puddings. Put twelve Seville Oranges into a saucepan of cold water, and boil until tender, changing the water two or three times, but each time adding boiling, and not cold, water, as at first. When ready, take them out, drain them, cut off their rinds, and pound in a mortar ; then add it to the pulp—without skin or seeds—and juice, and mix in sugar in the proportion of 21b. to each pound of fruit. Turn all into a jar large enough to more than hold it, and let it ferment a little. Tie down, and it will keep good for years, and requires no boiling. The finest moist sugar should be used. (6) Dundee.—Take two dozen Seville Oranges, cut the peel of eight of them and the peel of two lemons into small dice, and stew this chopped peel in water till it becomes quite tender. Peel the other sixteen Oranges, and cut the whole twenty-four into slices, removing the pips. Put the slices of Orange, together with their own juice and the juice of six lemons, over the fire in a pre- serving-pan, and boil them to a smooth mass. Rub this through a colander, but be as quick about it as possible, for fear of spoiling the colour ; put it back again over the fire, add 81b. of loaf sugar, and keep it boiling quickly, stirring constantly till quite thick. Drain the water from the chopped rinds, add them to the boiling marmalade, stir in well, and boil for two minutes longer; then take the pan from the fire, let the marmalade cool a little, and put it into jars. When quite cold, lay a piece of white tissue paper dipped in brandy on top of the marmalade in each jar, and tie down. Oranges—continued. (7) Florida.—Take twelve good-sized bitter Oranges and two good juicy lemons. Grate the rinds off six of the Oranges, and to this add the juice only of the two lemons. Peel off and throw away the thick white rinds of the grated Oranges; take all the rinds off the other six, and throw them away. Weigh the peeled Oranges, and to every pound allow lib. of sugar. Put the sugar, rind, and lemon-juice in a pan on the stove to boil; mean- while get the pips and white skin from the pulp and juice of the Oranges, and add this juice and pulp to the boiling sugar and lemon-juice. Let it boil very slowly till a little of it put in a saucer jellies as it cools, then remove it from the stove, let it cool a little, and put it into jars. When quite cold, lay in each jar, on top of the marmalade, a piece of white paper soaked in brandy, and close the jars air-tight with paper dipped in white of egg slightly beaten, but not to a froth. Orange-Marmalade Pudding.—(1) Baked.—Trim the skin and discoloured pieces off £lb. of beef-suet, and chop it very fine; put it into a basin with 1 heaped breakfast- cupful of finely-grated breadcrumbs and -1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar. Beat four eggs well together with 1 tea- cupful of milk, then mix them with the above ingredients, and beat for nearly twenty minutes. Thickly butter the interior of a mould, put in a layer of the mixture, then a layer of Orange marmalade, and continue putting in alternate layers of mixture and marmalade until the mould is full, making the last layer of the mixture. Put the pudding in a moderate oven, and bake it from Fig. 54. Orange-Marmalade Pudding. one-hour-and-a-half to two hours. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve with Orange sauce over it (see Fig. 54), and some separate in a tureen. (2) Butter a pie-dish, and line it with a good puff1 paste; put 4oz. of fresh butter in a stewpan with 3 table-spoon- fuls of finely-chopped Orange marmalade, the juice of a small lemon, 4 well-beaten eggs, and sugar to taste. Stir the mixture over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling, then pour it into the lined dish. Bake for three- quarters-of-an-hour in a brisk oven, and serve either hot or cold. (3) Mix 2 breakfast-cupfuls of stale breadcrumbs with 1 breakfast-cupful of moist sugar, turn them into a pie- dish, and spread over them a thick layer of Orange mar- malade. Beat two eggs well with 1 pint of milk, pour it carefully into a dish over the other ingredients, grate a small quantity of nutmeg on the top, and bake the pudding in a moderate oven. When set and lightly browned, take it out of the oven, and serve. (4) Beat up four eggs well, and mix them with Iqt. of milk ; then sift in lightly, stirring at the same time, sufficient Hour to make a nice light batter, add a small quantity of salt, and if at all lumpy pass the batter through a fine hair sieve. Spread a thick layer of Orange marmalade in a pie-dish, pour in the batter, and bake for nearly three-quarters-of-an-hour in a brisk oven. When cooked, stand the dish containing the batter on a flat dish, and serve while hot.41 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Oranges—continued. (5) Add to 3 table-spoonfuls of Orange marmalade -[-lb. of pounded white sugar, 3 table-spoonfuls of sifted bread- crumbs, the beaten yolks of six and the whites of three eggs, 4oz. of butter melted to oil, and 1 gill of cream. Mix all these well together. Line a dish with puff paste, pour the pudding into it, and bake in rather a quick oven. Orange-Marmalade Sauce.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Orange marmalade into a stewpan with 2 wineglassfuls of white wine, and place it over the fire until boiling. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve, and it is then ready for serving. Orange-Marmalade Souffle.—Mix \ teacupful of arrow- root perfectly smooth with 4 pint of water, stir it over the fire until thickened and boiling, then mix in 1 heaped teacupful of Orange marmalade and sugar to taste. Beat the mixture until somewhat cooled, then beat in, one at a time, the yolks of eight eggs. Whisk the whites of ten eggs and stir them in lightly at the last. Turn the Fig. 55. Orange-Marmalade Souffle. mixture into a mould, and bake it in a quick oven. When nicely risen and browned over the top, take the souffle out of the oven, dust it over with caster sugar, pin a napkin round the mould (see Fig. 55), and serve at once. Orange Meringue.—Thoroughly wash and pick over 4 lb. of the best rice, put it into a saucepan with plenty of Fig. 56. Orange Meringue. Oranges—continued. the centre, and strain the syrup over. Whisk the whites of the three eggs to a stiff snow with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and spread it over the Oranges (see Fig. 56). Dust a small quantity of caster sugar over the whole, and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Serve on the same dish. Orange Mould.—Peel five or six large Oranges, scrape off' all the white pith, and divide them into quarters, being careful not to break the skin. Put ilb. of loaf sugar into a stewpan with 1 teacupful of cold water, and boil it to the crack. Butter a mould, dip the quarters of Oranges in the syrup, and arrange them round the sides, putting them closely together, and leave until cold. Pick care- fully over equal quantities of fresh strawberries, rasp- berries, and currants. Whip 1 pint of cream to a stiff froth, turn the shape formed by the Oranges out of the mould on to a fancy dish, fill it with the fruit, pile the whipped cream on the top, and serve. If carefully arranged, the above makes a very elegant dish. Orange Nougat.—Mix together l|lb. of strained honey, 11 lb. of confectioners’ sugar, and a small quantity of water; put it over a moderate lire and let it cook till a little of it thrown into cold water is brittle. Stir in then the well- beaten whites of three eggs, and continue to stir till the mixture forms a stiff paste; then work in 2 table-spoonfuls of Orange marmalade and 1 pint of almonds, blanched and cut small; the grated rind of an Orange or two may also be added. Spread the nougat on oiled papers, lay it between two boards, and when cold cut it into square pieces. Orange Paste.—The Oranges should be previously steeped in water for two or three days. Afterwards put them into a saucepan with fresh water, and boil until tender. Drain the Oranges, cut them into halves and scoop out the insides. Put the peel in a mortar, allowing for each pound lib. of caster sugar, and beat it until smooth. Remove the skin and seeds from the pulp, pound it with an equal quantity of caster sugar, and add to the pounded peel. Put the paste into pots and tie them over till wanted. To make a pudding with the above paste, put Jib. of butter in 4 breakfast-cupful of boiling water and leave it until cool. Afterwards mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of the paste, three well-beaten eggs, and 2oz. of caster sugar ; thicken it by stirring in 2 teaspoonfuls of flour, mixing it perfectly smooth. Butter a shallow dish, and line it with a good puff paste; fill it with the Orange paste, and bake in a moderate oven. This pudding is equally nice eaten either hot or cold. Orange Pastille Drops.—Put 3Joz. of coarsely-sifted sugar into a saucepan, stir in 4oz. of water, and add |oz. of Orange sugar. Put the pan on the fire, and stir well; when the sugar begins to dissolve, remove the pan from the fire, stir for a minute or so longer, and then proceed as follows: Hold the pan with the left hand, pour the mixture out slowly, using a piece of bent wire to cut off the drops about the size of peas, arranging them in rows close together upon a sheet of stiff paper; when they are set, turn the paper upside- down, damp it, and let the pastilles drop from it. Put them on a sieve over a slow fire, shaking now and then. When quite dry, bottle and cork them down securely, and keep in a cold dry place until wanted. Orange-peel Chips.—Put the peels of several Oranges in a saucepan, first cutting them into small equal-sized pieces, water, and place it over the fire. When the water boils, drain it o f the rice, and pour in its place lqt. of milk, add Jib. of crushed loaf sugar and the thinly pared rind of one lemon, and stew the rice gently at the side of the fire until almost dry. Peel the rind off six Oranges, and put it into a saucepan with some thick syrup made with loaf sugar and a small quantity of water ; place the lid on, and let the rinds steep for twenty minutes at the side of the fire. Trim off all the white pith of the Oranges, and remove their seeds, by coring them like apples. When the rice has cooled, mix with it the beaten yolks of three eggs; put a layer of the rice on a flat dish, pile the remainder up to form a kind of wall, place the Oranges in cover with water, and boil. When soft, drain, and lay them on a sieve until dry. Put fib. of lump sugar in a saucepan with just as much water as it will absorb, place42 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Oranges—continued,. it over the fire until it comes to the boil, then move to the side, and let it simmer for a few minutes. Put the pieces of peel in a bowl, pour the boiling syrup over, and leave them until the following day; then drain the syrup off the peel, and boil it until reduced to the proper consistency. Pour the syrup over the peel again, leave it until the follow- ing day, then drain off, and boil it up again. Proceed in this manner until all the syrup is absorbed. Lay the pieces of peel apart from each other on wire sieves, and leave them in a cool place until dry. Serve in small glass dishes (see Fig. 57). Oranges Preserved in Brandy. -Take some well-shaped smooth-skinned Oranges, prick them in the middle, and lay them in cold water; then blanch in boiling water, and when tender put them again into cold water. After they have been a short time in cold water, take them out and give them seven or eight boils in sugar boiled to the small thread (see Sugar-roiling). Skim them, take the pan from the fire, and let the Oranges remain in the sugar all night. Put them over the fire again next day, boil up seven or eight times, skim them, and take the pan from the fire ; when the Oranges are sufficiently cooled, take them out of the sugar, put them into jars, and pour over equal quantities of brandy and the syrup. Cover or cork them air-tight. Orange Pudding.—(1) Baked.—Put lqt. of milk over the fire in a saucepan. Beat very light the yolks of five eggs and the whites of two together with jib. of sugar. When the milk gets very hot, but before it boils, pour it over the beaten eggs and stir well together, adding the grated yellow rind of an Orange ; then pour it into a buttered pudding-dish, put it into a pan of boiling water in the oven, and bake. Beat the whites of three eggs and two table-spoonfuls of powdered white sugar to a stiff froth, and when the pudding is done take it out of the oven, spread this froth over, and return it to the oven for two or three minutes to harden the froth. (2) Peel a quantity of Oranges, remove all the white pith, cut them in slices, put them in a stewpan with plenty of sugar, and stew over a gentle fire. Mix 2 table- spoonfuls of arrowroot in a pan with 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of cold water, then stir in gradually 1 pint of boiling milk, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and stir over the fire until boiling and thickened. Next move the arrow- root to the side of the fire and stir in the beaten yolks of four eggs. Butter a pie-dish, spread the Oranges at the bottom, put three or four very thin slices of bread-and- butter over them, and pour in the arrowroot custard. Put a few small pieces of butter about on the top, strew over plenty of moist sugar, and bake in a quick oven. When nicely browned on the top, take out the pudding, and serve hot or cold. (3) Put the grated rinds of an Orange and lemon into a basin and squeeze in their juice, taking out all the pips and seeds. Place jib. of butter in a pan, and stir in an equal quantity of sugar, working until it creams. Add three well-beaten eggs, and mix in gradually 1 table- spoonful each of brandy and wine, 1 teaspoonful of rose- water, and the orange and lemon mixture. Line a pudding- pan with some puff paste, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for lialf-an-hour. When done, sprinkle with caster sugar, and serve. (4) Put the peel of a Seville Orange into a saucepan of water, and boil until tender; pound it in a mortar, and add the juice from the Orange, two grated Naples biscuits, 8oz. of slightly-warmed butter, and 4oz. of caster sugar. Mix thoroughly, and stir in the well-beaten yolks of six eggs. Put some puff paste round the edge of a dish, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for half-an- hour. (5) Make a puff paste of 4oz. of butter, 5oz. of flour, and as little water as possible. Roll it out into a round piece, thin in the centre and thicker towards the edges, and just the size to line a soup-plate. Put it into a buttered soup- plate, press it to its shape, and with a knife trim from the edges any superfluous paste; press the edges down smooth, and crimp or notch them. Put the paste into a Oranges—continued. cold place till the pudding is ready. Place 4oz. of powdered white sugar into a pan or basin, cut up into it 4oz. of fresh butter, and if the butter is very cold and hard put the pan or basin near the fire for a few minutes to soften it, but do not let it melt or the pudding will be spoiled. Beat the butter and sugar together with the back of a wooden spoon till it is quite light and of the consistence of cream. Whisk three eggs till they are about as thick as a boiled custard, add them by degrees, and stir them in to the beaten butter and sugar. Mix together 1 table- spoonful of white wine, 1 table-spoonful of brandy, and 1 teaspoonful of rose-water, and add them by degrees to the other ingredients, stirring well all the time. Then stir in by degrees the grated rind of one lime, the grated rind of a large deep-coloured Orange, and the strained juice of both the Orange and the lime. Stir all very well together, and carefully put the pudding mixture into the soup-plate lined with puff paste, place it in a moderate oven, and bake for thirty minutes. After taking it from the oven, dredge powdered white sugar over it, and serve either hot or cold. (6) Grate the rind of a Seville Orange in a mortar, and put in with it a small chopped apple, and 4oz. each of butter and caster sugar; pound the whole until quite smooth, and pile the paste in a shallow dish; whisk the whites of four eggs to a stiff snow, spread them over the top of the Orange paste, and bake in the oven. When the whites have well risen, take the pudding out of the oven, and serve without delay. (7) Peel the rinds off two Oranges as thinly as possible, put them into a mortar, and pound until smooth. Mix with it 4oz. of caster sugar, the yolks of six eggs, and the strained juice of one lemon. Beat the mixture with a wooden spoon for about twenty minutes. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly in with the above mix- ture ; turn the pudding into a buttered pie-dish, and bake it for about a-quarter-of-an-hour in a brisk oven. When cooked, serve the pudding without delay. (8) Peel half a dozen Oranges, cut them in slices and pick out all the pips, put them in a deep dish, and sift plenty of caster sugar over. Put 14 breakfast-cupfuls of milk in a lined saucepan with a piece of Orange- peel, and place it over the fire to boil. Mix 1 table- spoonful of cornflour smoothly with j breakfast-cupful of cold milk, then stir in the boiling milk, and remove the Orange-peel. Pour the whole into the saucepan, and stir it over the fire until thickened and boiling, then move it to the side, and stir in the beaten yolks of four eggs. Pour this mixture over the slices of Oranges. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a still' froth together with 2 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, spread them over the top of the pudding, and put it in the oven until set. Serve hot or cold. (9) Rub about eight stale penny sponge cakes into crumbs, put them in a basin, and pour over 1 pint of boiling milk. When well soaked, mix with them the strained juic.e of six Oranges and the grated yellow rinds of four, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and beat the mixture well; whip six eggs thoroughly, and stir them into the above ingredients. Butter a pie-dish, line it with a good puff paste, put the above mixture in it, and bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, sift some caster sugar over the pudding, and serve. (10) Take three good-sized Seville Oranges, cut the peel off thin, squeeze the juice from them, and strain it. Boil the peels in plenty of water till perfectly soft, then pound them in a mortar with lib. of powdered white sugar. Beat the yolks of nine and the whites of four eggs, and mix them with the pounded Orange-peel; add jib. of butter melted to oil and the juice of the Oranges, and mix all thoroughly. Line a dish with some rich puff paste, pour in the pudding mixture, and bake for thirty minutes. (11) Warm jib. of butter without oiling it, and beat it until creamy together with jib. of caster sugar; beat the yolks of ten eggs, mix them with the beaten liutter and sugar, and squeeze in the juice of three Seville Oranges. Blanch and skin 4oz. of sweet almonds, put them in a mortar, and pound, adding occasionally a small quantity of Orange-43 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Oranges—continued. flower water; put the almonds and the grated peel of one of the Oranges in the above mixture and stir the whole well together. Butter a pie-dish, line it with a thin crust, fill it with the mixture, and bake in a brisk oven. Serve the pudding either hot or cold. (12) Boiled.—Take 4lb. of lady’s fingers or Savoy biscuits, and crumble them fine; pour over 1 pint of cold milk and let them soak a little. Beat loz. of butter to a cream with 2oz. of powdered white sugar; whisk four eggs very light with another 2oz. of sugar, and beat in butter and eggs together to the soaked biscuit-crumbs, then stir in 1 table-spoonful of cornflour blended with a little cold water. Have a saucepan of boiling water ready on the fire, butter a pudding-tin, and mix quickly into the pudding the strained juice of two Oranges, the grated rind of one, and the strained juice of a lemon; pour the pudding into the tin at once, cover it, and plunge it immediately into the boiling water. Boil for an hour, turn it out, and serve hot with sweet brandy sauce. (13) Finely chop 6oz. of shredded beef-suet, put it in a basin, and mix with it 6oz. of finely-grated bread- crumbs, 6oz. of flour, the grated peel of two small Seville Oranges, and the strained juice of three; add 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, two well-beaten eggs, and sufficient milk to mix the whole into a light paste. Butter a pudding-basin, turn the mixture into it, tie a floured cloth over the top, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for an-liour-and- a-lialf. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the basin on to a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of sweet sauce. (14) Pour 1 pint of cream over Jib. of Naples biscuits (see Biscuits), and beat it into a paste with a little sugar to taste. Put the grated peel of two Seville Oranges into a mortar, pound them, add the biscuits and cream, and stir in lastly six well-beaten eggs. Pour it into a buttered mould or well-floured pudding-cloth, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, boil for an hour, turn it out on to a dish, pour over some sweet sauce, and serve. (15) Boston Style.—Beat 3oz. of butter and 6oz. of sugar to a smooth cream, and mix in the whisked yolks of five eggs, the grated yellow rind of one Orange, and the strained juice of two; then add, a handful at a time, 41b. of sifted breadcrumbs alternately with spoonfuls of the whites of five eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and stir in lastly 2 table-spoonfuls of self-raising flour. Put the batter as quickly as possible into a buttered pudding-tin, cover it, leaving room for the pudding to swell, plunge it at once into boiling water, and let it boil for two hours. For the sauce beat 3oz. of butter to a cream with 4lb. of powdered white sugar, mix with it the strained juice of one lemon, 1 saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, and the white of an egg beaten to a stiff froth; whisk all these very well together, stir it over the fire for a few minutes, pour part of it over the pudding, and serve the rest in a small tureen. Orange Puffs.—prate the rinds of three Seville Oranges and strain their juice; put the rinds into a mortar with lib. of caster sugar and about 3oz. of butter, and pound them into a smooth paste, then mix in the strained juice. Roll the paste out on a marble slab, and with a tin cutter cut it into rounds. Lay them a short distance from each other on baking-sheets over which has been spread a sheet of white paper, and bake in a rather slow oven. When cooked, pile the putt's on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, dust them over with caster sugar, and serve. Orange Ratafia.—Take half-a-dozen thick-skinned Seville Oranges, cut off the yellow rinds as thinly as possible, and put them in a jar. Cut the six Oranges into halves, squeeze the juice from them, strain it, and add it to the peels in the jar; put in lib. of powdered white sugar and stir in the Orange-juice ti l quite dissolved, then pour over it 2qts. of brandy. Close the jar air-tight, let the liquor stand for a month, strain it, put it into bottles, and cork them well. Orange Ratafia Pudding Meringue.—Peel fifteen sweet Oranges and two large lemons; with a sharp knife remove all the white pith from the Oranges and lemons, and divide Oranges—continued. them into quarters. Put the fruit in a basin, strew plenty of caster sugar over, and let it stand for an hour or two. Next pass the pulp through a fine hair sieve, and mix with it the grated rinds of two lemons and three Oranges, and 4 wineglassful of Orange-flower water. Cut some stale sponge cakes into slices; butter a pie-dish, put in a layer of the cakes, baste them with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, then spread a layer of the Orange pulp over them; cover with another layer of sponge cake, baste with more butter, then put in another layer of pulp, and so on, until the dish is three-parts full, putting a layer of ratafia biscjiits on the top. Beat the yolks of four eggs up with 1 pint of milk, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, add 1 wineglassful of brandy and a small quantity of ratafia, turn it into a lined saucepan, and stir over the fire until thickened but not quite boiling, or the eggs will curdle. Pour the custard over the pudding, and put it in the oven. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar with the whites of the eggs and whisk them to a stiff froth. When the pudding is baked, take it out, spread the whisked whites of eggs ■■ ■ Fig. 58. Orange Eatafia Pudding Meringue. over, and put it back in the oven for a few minutes until the meringue is set. It may be served either hot or cold. The meringue should not lie browned at all when taken out of the oven. See Fig. 58. Orange-and-Rice Meringue.—Scald 41b. of rice, drain it, and put it in a saucepan with I pint of milk, the thinly- pared rind of one lemon, and Jib. of loaf sugar. Keep the rice simmering gently at the side of the fire until tender. Leave the rice until cold, then remove the lemon-peel, and beat in the yolks of four eggs. Peel off the yellow rinds as thinly as possible from a number of Oranges, and make a thick syrup with loaf sugar and a small quantity of water. Put the Orange-peel in and let it infuse at the side of the fire for a few minutes, but do not let it boil. Scrape off all the white part of the peel from the Oranges and core them in the same manner as apples are done to remove the pips. Cut the Oranges into halves, spread, the rice out on a dish (one that can be served at table and will stand the heat of the oven should be used), lay the halves of Oranges on the rice, and strain the syrup over them. Beat the whites of the four eggs to a stitt' froth together with 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, and spread them over the Oranges. Put them in a slow oven and bake for twenty minutes. Serve either hot or cold. Orange Salad.—(1) Peel half a-dozen Oranges, scrape off all the pith, and cut them into slices. Take out the pips, put a layer of the slices on a dish, and sprinkle over them some caster sugar and a little brandy or rum. Continue in this way until they are all used up, and serve. They may be piled in the shape of a pyramid. (2) Peel eight or nine Oranges, cut them into slices Jin. thick, and free them of the pips and white pith in the centre. Put them in a deep dish with what juice may have run from them when they were cut, the rind of one Orange, and some caster sugar, cover with another dish, and stand them in a cool place for a few hours. When ready for the Oranges, arrange them in a glass dish, the slices overlapping each other. Mix 14 wineglassfuls of brandy or ram with the syrup, strain it over the Oranges, and serve. Orange Sauce.— See Bigakade Sauce, page 31, vol. ii. Orange Sherbet—(1) Put 1 table-spoonful of gelatine in a little cold water to soak, and then pour over 1 breakfast-44 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Sec., referred to, see under their special heads. Oranges—continued. cupful of boiling water to dissolve it. Turn it into a basin with the juice of ten large Oranges, and add 2 breakfast - cupfuls of sugar and 3 breakfast-cupfuls of water. Mix well, and when quite cold it is ready for use. The juice of a lemon may be added if the Oranges are too sweet. (2) Put 3 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar into a saucepan with 3 pints of water, and boil for thirty minutes; add the strained juice of twenty large Oranges, strain it, pour it into a freezer, and it is then ready. (3) Take two lemons and nine Oranges, wipe them quite clean, grate the yellow rinds, and then squeeze the juice on to the grated rinds. Make a syrup of lqt. of water and 1 fll). of sugar, and mix it with the juice and grated rinds. Strain it through a hair sieve, pour it into a freezer, and freeze. (4) Squeeze one lemon and six Oranges, strain the juice, and add to it a small quantity of grated Orange-rind. Make a thick syrup of 141b. of loaf sugar and pour it hot over the Orange-juice and peel, then add sufficient boiling water to make the quantity of sherbet 3qts. Stand it in ice-water to cool, and then put it in the freezer. Beat the whites of two small eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them well into the sherbet while it is freezing. When frozen quite hard, re-pack with ice, and cover till required for use. Orange Shrub.—Boil 101b. of loaf sugar in 2galls. of water, skim it well, and when the sugar is quite dissolved put it into a tub; let it cool, and when quite cold pour it into a barrel; add to it 3qts. of Jamaica rum, Ingalls, of strained bitter Orange-juice, and the beaten white of an egg. Let it stand for a week, then bottle it. Orange Snow.—Soak loz. of gelatine in h pint of cold water for four hours, then add to it the grated rind of half a lemon, the grated rind of an Orange, the strained juice of one lemon and four Oranges, and 41b. of powdered white sugar; stir well together and let the mixture stand for an hour. Add 1 pint of boiling water, and continue Stirling till clear; then strain it through a coarse cloth and wring it thoroughly. Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, and when the liquid is quite cool whisk them into it by degrees, and continue whisking till quite thick and white. Fig. 59. Orange Snow. Wet the inside of a mould with cold water, and pour the snow into it. Let it stand in a cool place for eight hours at least before turning it out, then pile it up on a glass dish, and garnish round with sweet biscuits. See Fig. 59. Orange Souffle.—Mix 1 table-spoonful of flour smoothly into 1 pint of cream, add to it 2 table-spoonfuls of rose- water, and put it over the fire hi a saucepan with a little thinly-pared Orange-peel and a little cinnamon; stir till it boils, then take it from the fire. Strain, and add suffi- cient powdered white sugar to sweeten it. Let it stand till cold, and then mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of mar- malade and six eggs beaten well with 1 wineglassful of brandy. Pour it into a well-buttered mould, stand it in a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil for an-hour-and-a-quarter without any cover over it. Orange Sponge.—(1) Stir loz. of isinglass in 1 pint of boil- ing water until dissolved, then strain and leave it until cold. Strain the juice from six large Oranges and one Oranges—continued. lemon, mix it with the isinglass, and add the beaten whites of four eggs and Jib. of caster sugar. Whisk the whole until it looks like a sponge, then put it into a mould and keep it in a cool temperature for several hours. When ready, turn the sponge on to a glass or fancy dish, and serve. (2) Put loz. of gelatine in a stewpan with 1 pint of water, and place it on the fire until dissolved. Rub 4oz. of loaf sugar over the rinds of two Oranges, and put it in with the gelatine; squeeze in the juice of the Oranges, and when the sugar has dissolved strain the jelly into a basin. Leave it until half cold, then beat it with an egg-whisk until a thick froth. Pour the mixture into a mould, and keep it on ice or in a cool temperature until quite set. When ready to serve, turn the sponge on to a glass dish. Orange Sugar.—Take a large piece of loaf sugar, and with it grate the yellow rinds off some good Oranges, being careful to grate only the yellow part, without any' of the white. As the surface of the sugar becomes coloured with the rind, scrape it off, and continue grating rind and scrap- ing off' the coloured sugar till as much sugar is scraped off as required. Then put it in a stove or lay it at the mouth of an oven and let it dry. When perfectly diy, sift it through a fine sieve. Orange-Sugar Sand.—Sift some granulated sugar in order to free the granules from sugar dust, and then put it into a pan with a little double distilled Orange-flower water ; rub the colouring evenly through it with both hands, and let it dry slowly in a drying-oven, rubbing it occasionally between the hands, and bottling when quite dry. Another way of making it is to nib lump sugar on the rind of an Orange, and scrape it off as it turns yellow; or candied Orange-blossoms may be pounded and mixed with powdered loaf sugar. The sugar must be bottled closely, whichever method is adopted. Orange Syrup.—(1) Squeeze out the juice from some ripe sweet Oranges, put it into a saucepan, and add 1 Alb. of sugar to each pint of juice. Boil slowly, skimming frequently. Remove it from the fire when done, let it cool, and pour into bottles for future use. It gives a line flavour to custards, and a little of it mixed in melted butter makes an excellent sauce for puddings. (2) Peel nine bitter and three sweet Oranges, putting the peel into a saucepan with 14 pints of water as fast as it is taken off, and boil for fifteen minutes. Strain the liquor into another saucepan, add 24 lb. of loaf sugar, and boil gently for half-an-hour, skimming frequently. Squeeze out the juice from the Oranges, adding a little water to make it up to H- pints, pour this into the sugar, and boil gently for forty-five minutes, skimming frequently. When it is as thick as honey, it is done, and ready for use. (3) Rub off the zest rind (yellow skin) of four bitter Oranges on lumps of sugar, scrape it off the sugar, and put it into a pan containing lib. of sugar made into syrup at 32deg. (sec Syrups). Let it remain for six hours, then add 1 breakfast-cupful of Orange-juice, as well as the juice of two lemons. Stir well, pour it into bottles, cork them down tightly, fasten with wire, stand them in a saucepan of cold water, and boil gently for six minutes. Take them out, and when cold seal the corks and put them in a cold cellar in a leaning position until wanted. Orange Tart.—(1) Warm, but not oil, 6oz. of butter, and beat it well together with 6oz. of caster sugar; then mix in the beaten yolks of six eggs. Butter a shallow pie-disli and line it with puff paste. Cut 6oz. of candied Orange-peel into thin slices, and lay them on the paste. Pour in the beaten mixture, cover with a flat of pull paste, trim it off neatly at the edges, moisten them, and pinch them together. Put the tart in a quick oven, and bake it for an hour, or a little longer. When cooked, sift caster sugar over the top of the tart, and serve. (2) Put the grated rinds of two Seville Oranges into a deep saucepan, squeeze in the juice, and add yb. of butter and nine eggs slightly beaten. Put the pan over the fire and stir continually until the mixture is of the consistence of melted cheese; take the pan off the fire, and beat the45 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Oranges—continued. contents vigorously until a wire whisk for a few minutes. Have ready a flat dish lined with puff paste, or some small tartlet-pans, pour the mixture in, and hake in a very slow oven until done. Very little heat is required for this; it will burn if great care is not taken, therefore it is quite as well to cook the paste first. Orange Tartlets.—(1) Peel off the rinds of one dozen sweet Oranges, quarter them, and take out the core; boil them for about three minutes in a small quantity of sugar and water, and put them on a sieve to drain. Boil the juice that runs from them and the liquor they were boiled in to a syrup. Have ready some shells of pastry baked in patty- pans. Put the Oranges into the hot syrup for a few minutes, but do not let them boil, lay them in the shells of crust, and just before serving pour the syrup over. (2) Boil lib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar in a small quantity of water until reduced to a thick syrup; pare the yellow rinds thinly off some Oranges, put them into the syrup, and let them infuse for a short time, but with- out boiling again. Butter as many patty-pans as will be required, line them with some good puff paste, fill them with uncooked rice, place in a moderate oven, and bake. With a very sharp knife trim off all the white pith from the Oranges, also core and pick out all the pips. Cut them in halves, put them in a basin, strain their syrup over, and place them in the oven for a few minutes until hot. When the tarts are cooked, empty out the rice, take them out of the tins, put half an Orange in each, and pour some syrup over them. Spread a folded napkin or a lace-edged dish-paper over a dish, lay the tarts on it, and serve them with cream. (3) Rub loz. of butter in 8oz. of flour, and when smooth mix in 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, 1 saltspoonful of salt, the beaten yolks of three eggs, the white of one, and a sufficient quantity of milk to mix the whole into a smooth paste. Roll the paste Jin. in thickness out on a floured board, line some buttered patty-pans with it, fill them with uncooked rice, and bake in a moderate oven. Put the thinly-pared rinds of five or six Oranges into some thick boiling syrup, and let them infuse at the side of the fire for half-an-hour. Trim off all the white pith from the Oranges, core them like apples to remove the pips, cut them in halves, and put them in a stewpan; strain the above syrup over them, and let them heat slowly at the side of the fire, but do not boil them. Empty the rice out of the patties, take them out of the tins, put half an Orange in each case, and pour in a little of the syrup. Arrange the patties on a dish garnished with a folded napkin or a fancy-edged dish-paper, and serve. They are also very nice served cold with cream. (4) Butter some small-sized patty-pans, line them with puff paste, fill them with uncooked rice, and bake, keeping them a light colour. Peel the Oranges, and cut them into slices; put 4oz. of loaf sugar in a saucepan with 1 tea- cupful of water, and boil it to a syrup; then put in 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of minced Orange-peel, and boil the whole for five minutes. Afterwards add 1 liqueur-glassful of brandy with the syrup, pour it while hot over the Oranges, and leave them until cold. When the paste is cooked, empty out the rice, leave them until cold, then fill them with the cold Oranges; ornament tastefully on the top with blanched almonds. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a dish, arrange the tartlets on it, and serve. If they are preferred hot, they should be put in the oven a short time before serving, and decorated with the almonds afterwards. Orange Tonic.—Cut off the rinds from six Seville Oranges, peeling them very thinly, put it into a jar, and pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of brandy. Shake it frequently for a month or so. Drain off the liquor into a bottle, and when it is quite clear and bright it is ready for use. One teaspoonful in a wineglassful of sherry is sufficient to use at a time. Orange Trifle.—(1) Soak ioz. of gelatine in J pint of cold water for four hours, then add to it the grated rind of one Orange and the strained juice of two. Pour in i, pint of boiling water, stir till the gelatine is quite dissolved, putting it over the fire if necessary, then strain it and Oranges—continued. stir in the beaten yolks of three eggs. Stand the bowl the gelatine is strained into in a pan of boiling water over the fire before adding the beaten eggs, stir con- stantly till the mixture thickens, then pour it into another bowl and let it get quite cold ; when it begins to stiffen, mix in 1 pint of cream whipped to a stiff froth. Wet the inside of a mould, pour the trifle in, and set it on ice ; when very cold and well set, turn it out. (2) Peel some Oranges and with a sharp knife remove all the pith and seeds, dividing the fruit into quarters; put them in a basin, strew' plenty of caster sugar over, and leave them for an hour or two in a cold pdace.. Sweeten 1 pint of thick cream to taste with caster sugar, strain in the juice of half a lemon, and flavour it with . Orange brandy; whip the cream vigorously, and as the froth rises skim it off and pilace it on a sieve. Pass the Oranges through a fine wire sieve on to a glass dish, pile the frothed cream on the top, and keep it in a cool place until the time of serving. Orange Water-Ice.—(1) Put the juice of four Oranges and the grated rinds of three into a basin with 1 breakfast- cupful of water, and add the juice of three lemons and 1 paint of syrup*; stir well, then pass it through a fine sieve into a mould ; pack it in ice, freeze (see Ices), and when quite set turn it out on to a dish, and serve. (2) Put 1 teacupful of sugar into 1 gill of boiling water, and when melted add it to Iqt. of the strained juice of Oranges. Pour it into a mould packed in ice, freeze it, and it is ready for use. (3) Put lib. of sugar into a sugar-boiler and make it into a thick syrup with the addition of a little water. Add three Oranges peeled and pulled into quarters, with- out injuring the thin skin more than to extract the pips. Put the grated zest of three more Oranges and their strained juice into a basin. Take the pieces of Orange out of the syrup, p>ut them in a basin on the ice, pour the syrup over the zest and juice, and add 3 punts of water and the juice of one lemon ; pour it into a freezer (see Ices), and when nearly set add the whites of four eggs whipped to a froth, and beat well until it has the consistence of cream. When quite firm, add the pneces of Oranges, taking care not to break them, turn it into glasses or cups, and serve. Orange Whey.—This is a pdeasant drink, and is made by putting the juice of an Orange into 1 pint of milk, and warming it up until curds form ; it must then be strained, and when quite cold is fit for use. Orange Wine.—(1) Put 231b. of loaf sugar into a saucepan with lOgalls. of water, boil it, and clarify with the whites of six eggs. Put the pieel of one hundred Seville Oranges into a howl, pour over the boiling syrup), and add the strained juice of the Oranges and 1 breakfast-cupful (about 6oz.) of fresh yeast. Let it stand for four days or so, pour it into a barrel, bung it loosely, and in a month’s time pour in 4 punts of brandy. Bung it up) securely, let it remain for about three months, and it will be fit for use. The brandy may be omitted. (2) Take off the peel from forty Seville Oranges, cutting it as fine as possible; put it into a bowl, p>our 4gall, of boiling water over, and let it stand for a coupfie of days. Squeeze in the juice through a strainer, wash the remains in lgall. of water to extract all the goodness, add it to the juice, and pour into the bowl with the p)eel. Add 15lb. of loaf sugar, make the quantity of liquor up to 5galls., pour it into a cask, one that has had brandy in it for preference, stir daily for seven days, and then mix in l pint of fresh yeast. When it has fermented for about a fortnight, bung up the cask securely, and in a year’s time it will be in excellent order for drinking. (3) Clean some Seville Oranges by rubbing them gently with a wet cloth; take a sharp knife, pare off the yellow peel very thin, squeeze the Oranges, and strain the juice to get rid of the pips (it should be strained through a rather fine sieve, as some of the pips are extremely small); then measure it, and to each 3galls. of juice add 91b. of sugar, the whites and shells of three eggs, and lgall. of cold water. Crush the egg-shells very small, put them together with the water and the whites of the eggs into a46 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dtc., referred to, see under their special heads. Oranges—con tinned. frequently. Take them out, put them on a sieve, set in the sun to dry for a couple of da s, wipe them, pack care- fully in a jar, sprinkling over ioz. each of mustard- and coriander-seeds, |oz. of chillies, and 2oz. eacli of bruised white ginger and white peppers. Pour over sufficient vinegar to cover, let them stand for three weeks, add more vinegar to make Tip for that absorbed, and in six weeks’ time the pickle will be ready for use, but if left for six months it will be considerably better. Before serving, they should be cut first in halves and the halves in quarters, and the two different coloured skins of the Oranges will give a very pretty effect. Oranges—continued. vessel over the fire, and stir every minute-and-a-half or so till the egg begins to harden; boil till the syrup looks clear under the froth of egg that will form on the surface, then pour the syrup on the Orange-peel and let it stand till the next day. Add the Orange-juice, again let it stand all night, next day strain it anil put it into a cask, adding loz. of dried yeast to every Sgalls. of wine. Take the bung out of the cask and keep it out until the fermenta- tion ceases, then close the cask by driving the bung tightly in. It is an improvement to add 1 wineglassful of brandy for each gallon of wine just before driving in the bung. Let the wine stand nine months and then bottle ; three months after it is bottled it is fit for use. A hissing noise continues as long as the wine is fermenting; when the noise ceases, fermentation has stopped, and the cask may be closed. (4) Boil 4galls. of water until reduced one-third, then leave it until cool. Peel five Seville Oranges, put them into a tub with 151b. of chopped Malaga raisins, pour over them 2|galls. of the reduced water, first making it warm, .and leave them for five days, stirring well two or three times each day. At the end of that time, strain the liquor through a line hair sieve, pressing the raisins and Oranges to extract as much of the juice as possible. Put the liquor into a cask with the thinly-pared rinds of five more Oranges. Squeeze and strain the juice out of the ten Oranges, put it into a stewpan with ill). of loaf sugar, and boil until the sugar has dissolved, then pour it into the cask and bung tightly. Leave the wine for two months, then bottle. (5) Put 5galls. of spring water into a large tub with 5lb. of Malaga raisins and 101b. of honey; mix well, and add 3oz. of cream of tartar, and set it to ferment. When nearly completed and in its last stages, add the juice and peels of 5lb. of Oranges, let it stand for a few days, pour off the clear liquor, and bottle. Refined sugar in equal weight may be used instead of the honey. The longer the wine is kept, the better it will be. Orangeade.—(1) Squeeze the juice from a do. en Oranges, pour some boiling water on the peel, and cover closely. Boil 1 pint of water and 111), of sugar to a thin syrup, and skim it. When all are cold, mix the juice, the infu- sion, and the syrup, with as much water as will make a rich drink. Strain through a jelly-bag. (2) Put the thinly-pared rinds of four Oranges into a jug, pour 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling water over them, stand a plate on the top, and let it infuse until cold. Make 1 pint of thin syrup with loaf sugar and water, keep it well skimmed while boiling, then strain and leave it until cold. Squeeze the juice out of eight large Oranges, strain it, and mix with the syrup and the liquor from the peels. Strain the whole through muslin, mix 1 wineglass- ful of brandy with it, ice it, and serve. (3) Put | pint of syrup at 32deg. (see Syrups) over the strained juice of a dozen Oranges. Prepare an infusion made of the thin peel of four Oranges and another gill of the syrup. Stir them both in together, add lqt. of water, put the jar containing it on the ice, and freeze. (4) Put the thin peel of six Oranges into a basin, and steep them in lqt. of syrup at 35<leg. Mix the juice of the Oranges with the juice of three lemons, and pass it through a jelly-bag. Pour the syrup into a sieve over a basin, stir in the filtered juice, and add igall. of water, and it is ready for use. Orangeade Powder.—Rub off the rinds of six Oranges with llh. of loaf sugar, pound it in a mortar, sift it, and dry in the hot closet. Mix in 2oz. of cream of tartar, and bottle. A teaspoonful to 1 tumblerful of water is sufficient. Orangeade with Wine.—Rub the zest (rind) off two Oranges with sugar, scrape it off with a knife into a basin, pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of hot syrup, and add it pint of white wine and the strained juice of four Oranges. Strain it through a very fine sieve or tammy cloth, let it get perfectly cold, and it is then ready for use. Pickled Oranges. -Wipe a dozen or so Oranges, having half Seville and half St. Michael’s if possible; rub them well with salt, put them into a bowl with sufficient salt to cover, and let them remain for five days, giving them a turn Preserved Green Orange-peel.—Scrape the insides out of the Oranges, put the peel in cold water, and let them remain in it for three days, changing the water each day. After this, put them in fresh water in a pan over the fire, let them simmer till the water is bitter, then take them out, and plunge them into fresh boiling water. Let this water cool with the Oranges in it, remaining till the next day. Place them in fresh water, and boil till the water is bitter; put them into fresh boiling water, and let them remain as before, repeating this every day, till the bitterness is extracted from the rinds. Then take them from the fire, and put them into a sieve to drain. Add sufficient loaf sugar to the last water they were boiled in to make a thick syrup; when this is cold, put the Orange-peel into it, and let them stand all night. Next day boil them in the syrup, and let them stand all night. Continue this till they are green and tender, then put them into jars, and cover with paper dipped in brandy. Preserved Oranges. -(1) Weigh some Seville Oranges and allow rather over their weight of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar; scrape them very lightly, and score them round and round, but without cutting through to the fruit. Steep them in cold water for three or four days, changing the water two or three times daily. Afterwards tie the Oranges loosely in a large cloth, plunge them into a sauce- pan of water, and boil. When the head of a pin will easily penetrate through the peel, drain the Oranges, put the sugar into a preserving-pan with 1| pints of cold water for every pound, boil it until dissolved, and then strain it through muslin. Put the Oranges in the preserving-pan, pour the syrup over them, and boil until reduced to a thin jelly and nicely tinged with yellow; if the syrup does not completely cover the Oranges, turn them occasionally so that every side gets cooked the same. Put the Oranges carefully into glass jars, and pour an equal quantity of the syrup in each jar. Leave them until cold, then put in each jar a round of white paper that has been dipped in brandy, cover with parchment, and tie down tightly. Keep them in a diy store-cupboard. (2) Squeeze out the juice from some bitter Oranges, cut the peel in halves, put them into a pan of salted water, and let them remain for three days or so. Take them out, drain, cut each piece again into halves, and with a sharp knife scrape out all the white part. Cut the quarters of peel into small pieces, put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and boil for a few minutes. Strain off the liquor, put the peel into weak syrup, and let it remain for two or three days, then put it into stronger syrup, and continue in this way until the peel is thoroughly soaked with the syrup. The last time the peel should be boiled with the syrup, and when done turned into jars until wanted. (3) Select some Seville Oranges of a uniform size, make a cut about lin. long in the sides, put them in a sauce- pan with a good supply of water, and boil. The water should be frequently changed to take oft' the bitterness, and care must be taken that the Oranges do not burst in cooking. When they are tender, place them on a sieve, let them drain for twelve hours or so, then put them into a saucepan with some weak syrup, and simmer gently for an hour. Take them out, drain, put them into another saucepan with some thicker syrup, and simmer until they are nearly transparent. Add a little brandy to the pan, put the Oranges with the syrup into jars, cover them over when cold, and they are ready for use.47 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, it-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Oranges—continued. (4) Select bitter Oranges with a clear skin, make a small hole at the stalk end, and scoop out all the pulp. Put them into a basin of salted water, let them remain for four days, then take them out, drain, put them into a saucepan of water, and boil. When they are sufficiently done, so that a straw can easily be pushed through them, put them into a basin of cold water. Take them out, drain free from water, and remove any part of the pulp that may be adhering to them. Put them into an earthen- ware pan, and pour over sufficient boiling syrup to cover ; let them remain in this for five days, drain them, boil up the syrup again, adding a little more each time, and continue in this way until the syrup has penetrated the peel. Put the Oranges into jars, cover when cold, and they are ready for use. (5) Peel a dozen sweet or bitter Oranges, and with a sharp knife remove every particle of the white pith. Put 8oz. of loaf sugar in a saucepan with f breakfast-cupful of water, the juice of two large lemons, and the thinly- pared rind of one, also the rind of one of the Oranges. Boil all until reduced to a very clear syrup, then strain it, colour with a few drops of cochineal, and pour it over the Oranges. When quite cold, arrange the Oranges in a glass dish, pour their syrup over them, and serve. They make a very pretty dish. (6) Select a dozen moderate-sized Oranges, and pierce a small hole at one end of each near the stalk; scoop out all the seeds, and squeeze the juice into a basin, but leave the pulp inside the Oranges. Steep them in plenty of cold water for three days, changing the water each day. Strain the juice as soon as it is squeezed out, pour it into a jar, stand the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, and leave it on the fire for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Next put the juice into a lined pan with 21b. of loaf sugar, and boil it to a syrup; then pour it into a jar, cover with bladder while hot, and tie down. At the end of the third day put the Oranges into a preserving-pan with the water strained over them, and leave over the fire until boiling; move them to the side and keep them simmering gently for two hours. At the end of that time move the pan away from the fire, and leave the Oranges and liquor iu it until the following morning. Boil the Oranges again until tender, put in 21b. of loaf sugar, boil them up again, and leave until cool. Next day boil the syrup up, and put in the fruit with 2lb. of loaf sugar and sufficient boiling water to cover them well. Remove the Oranges, and boil the syrup up once every day for a fortnight, pouring it hot over the fruit each time. When the fruit looks clear and bright, boil the syrup up once more with the juice of the Oranges, and skim it well. Place the Oranges carefully in wide-mouthed bottles, pour the syrup over them, seeing that they are well covered, put bladder over, tie them down, and store away in a dry cupboard. Preserved Oranges Stuffed Cornish Style.—Grate lib. of Naples biscuits and mix with them Jib. of blanched almonds; slightly warm 4oz. of butter and beat it well with 3 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar and the yolks of four eggs. Stir this mixture in with the dry ingredients and beat all well together, adding a few drops of Orange-flower water. Fill some preserved Oranges with the mixture, strew caster sugar over, put them on a baking-dish, and bake in a slow oven. Leave the Oranges until cold, then arrange them tastefully on a glass dish, putting a border of green vine- leaves round the edge of the dish, and serve. Preserved Seville Oranges.—Steep the Oranges in water for one night, then drain, put them in a pan with fresh water, and boil. When tender, which can be ascertained by running a quill through them, drain, cut them into halves, and remove the pips. Allow 1 til), of lump sugar for every pound of the Oranges, and 1 pint of water for every four Oranges. Boil the Oranges in the syrup, and when sufficiently done take them out; for every pint of syrup squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and boil it until thickly reduced. Put the Oranges in jars, and when the syrup is cold pour it over them.' Tie them down and keep in a dry store-cupboard for use. Tangerine-Orange Biscuits.—Put the yolks of fourteen eggs into a basin with lib. of caster sugar, 1 pinch of salt, Oranges—continued. and any kind of flavouring preferred, and beat them well till creamy. Whisk the whites of the fourteen eggs to a stiff froth, then mix them with the ydlks, adding gradually at the same time 4toz. of Indian cornflour or potato-flour, and 44oz. of the finest wheat-flour; mix the batter till perfectly smooth. Butter some baking-dishes, then dredge them with flour, and shake off all the superfluous; fill a biscuit-forcer with the mixture, and lay it out in pieces the shape and size of half a Tangerine Orange; sift caster sugar over the biscuits, and bake them till lightly browned. When cooked, join the halves of biscuits together, using Orange marmalade for the purpose, then coat them thickly with Orange marmalade, and glaze them over with transparent icing. Put the biscuits in a screen to dry for a few minutes; cut some pieces of angelica to imitate the stalks, and stick one in the end of each biscuit. These biscuits, when nicely arranged in a glass or fancy dish, make an excellent addition to a dessert-table. Tangerine-Orange Jelly.—Squeeze the juice out of fifteen Tangerine Oranges, two Seville Oranges, and two small lemons. Put fib. of loaf sugar with 3oz. of isinglass into an ena- melled saucepan with a small quantity of cold water, and stir it over the fire until dissolved; then put in a small piece of Seville Orange-peel, the peel of a lemon, and the juice. Boil the whole for a few minutes, then strain it through a jelly-bag. Rinse a mould out with cold water, fill it with the jelly, and stand it in a cold place. In making the jelly, sufficient water should be used with the juice to make the whole a quart. When quite set and cold, dip the mould quickly into hot water, wipe it, turn the jelly on to a dish, and serve. Tincture of Oranges. —Add I gall, of over-proof plain spirit to lib. of ground dried Orange-peel, let it infuse for a fortnight, and bottle. The best way of treating the peel is to cut round the Oranges and, with the handle of a spoon for a scoop, take off the halves of rind; put them to dry in the sun or in a cool oven with the door open, and let them remain until crisp. Orange-flowers.—Although it is almost impossible to grow Oranges in this climate, the flowers (see Fig. 60) can be produced in great profusion in ordinary green-THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 48 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensilst~Sauces, &c.. referred to, see under their special heads. Orange-flowers—continued. houses; and the perfume of flowers so grown is nearly as strong as that of those grown in warmer climates. The flowers of the Mock Orange, Philadelphus coronarius (see Fig. 61)—erroneously called Syringa, which name pro- perly belongs to the lilac—are sometimes substituted for Orange-flowers, which they closely resemble both in smell and appearance. Orange-flowers are candied or crystallised by steeping them in candy sugar, and drying as described under Gandy and Crystallising. Orange-flower Biscuits.—Mix Jib. of sifted crushed loaf sugar with the well-whipped whites of three eggs and loz. of finely-chopped candied Orange-flowers. Have ready several small paper cases fin. in width and of the same height, half fill them with the mixture, dust them over with caster sugar, put them in a damp place to melt the sugar, then place them in a slow oven, and bake until they have slightly risen and are of a good colour. Turn them out of the cases, and they are ready for serving. Orange-flower Bonbons in Cases.—Put 12oz. of loaf sugar into a sugar-boiler and boil it to 38deg. (see Syrups). When it is cool, grain it with a spatula until it is perfectly white; then add loz. of candied Orange-flowers, working them well in, fill some paper cases with the mixture, and put them in the hot closet to dry; they are then ready for use. Orange-flower Cakes.—Put lib. of caster sugar into a stewpan with a sufficient quantity of Orange-flower water to dissolve it, and boil until clear ; bleach 1 handful of Orange-flowers in water and lemon-juice, squeeze them well in a cloth, and when the sugar is ready put the flowers in it. Whip the white of one egg well together with about 1 table-spoonful of cold water, and when the flowers have burst stir it quickly in with them. When the sugar rises, take it oil' the fire, pour it into small fancy-shaped moulds, and stand them in a cool place. Orange-flower Candy Tablets.—Put lib. of loaf sugar into a sugar-boiler, and boil it to the ball degree (see Sugar-boiling) ; add 1 table-spoonful of Orange-flower water, a few drops of acetic acid, and work the sugar against the sides of the pan with a spatula to grain it. When sufficiently white, pour it into tablet-moulds slightly masked with oil of almonds, place them in the screen to dry, and let the tablets remain for lialf-an-hour, when they should be quite brittle and ready for use. Orange-flower Cheese. -Put 1 handful of Orange-flowers into 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling milk, and when cold strain through a fine sieve and mix it with 1 pint of thick cream. Put the basin or bowl containing it on the ice, and whip it continually until quite thick. Add some Orange-flowers—continued. dissolved isinglass, and sweeten with caster sugar. When the mixture is of the required consistence, pour it into a mould, freeze, turn it out, and serve. Orange-flower Conserve.—Clarify lib. of sugar and boil it to the feather (see Sugar-boiling), then take it from the fire, and stir in I table-spoonful of Orange-flower water. When this is well mixed with the sugar, put it over the fire for a minute or two, and pour the mixture while warm into shallow paper cases. When cool, cut it into small cakes. Orange-flower Cream.—(1) Put 1 pint of milk into a saucepan with 1 pint of cream, boil them, and add a little salt and caster sugar. Sprinkle in a few Orange-flowers, boil up, add the yolks of ten eggs, and thicken it over the fire. Put in a little dissolved isinglass, stir well, pour the mixture into a mould, freeze, and it is then ready to serve. (2) Put six whole eggs and the yolks of four into a basin, and whisk them well; then add 3 teacupfuls of cream, 6 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, 1 pinch of Orange-flowers, and 1 small pinch of salt. Peat the mixture for ten minutes longer, or till the ingredients are thoroughly in- corporated, then pass it through a fine hair sieve into a pie-dish. Stand the pie-dish in a tin with a small quantity of hot water, put it into a slack? oven, and leave it till the cream sets. Take the dish out of the oven, stand it on another flat dish, and serve the cream while hot. Orange-flower Custard Fritters.—Put loz. of caster sugar in a sugar-boiler, stir it over the fire till of a dark brown colour, then pour in 2 table-spoonfuls of water and 1 table spoonful of Orange flower water. Beat the yolks of eleven eggs together with 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and the browned sugar when quite dissolved. Con- tinue beating the eggs, and pour in gradually 1J pints of boiling milk. When well mixed, strain the custard through a fine silk sieve. Butter eight teacups, fill them with the mixture, stand them in a saucepan with boiling water, taking care that the water does not reach to the tops of the cups, put the lid on the saucepan with some hot coals over, and poach them. Leave the custards till cold, then turn them out of the moulds and cut each into three slices. Dip each piece into a frying-batter, put them in a pan of hot fat, and fry. When done, dredge the fritters with caster sugar and glaze them under a salamander. Pile the fritters on a fancy-edged dish-paper or a folded napkin on a hot dish, and serve. Orange-flower Drops.—Sift some crushed sugar, first through a coarse sieve and then through a fine one; take about 21b. of the coarsely-sifted sugar, put it into a basin, and stir in with a spoon, adding gradually sufficient Orange- flower water to give the paste such a consistence that it will drop from the spoon without leaving any adhering to it. Turn this paste into a sugar-pan with a spout or lid to the right side, set the pan on the stove, and stir the contents with a spatula until the sugar is dissolved and makes a slight noise, but taking care not to let it boil. When on the point of boiling, remove the pan from the stove with the left hand, and with a piece of bent wire in the right cut up small equal-sized lumps, and let them drop on thick cartridge-paper or a smooth tin. Set them away in a dry closet for about twro hours, remove them from the paper or tin, by damping or easing with a knife, and pack away in bottles or boxes for use. A little essence of neroli and water may be substituted for the Orange- flower water if desired. Orange-flower Julep.—Mix in a pint glass 1 wineglassful each of Orange-flower water and syrup, and a few drops each of cloves and lemon, fill up the glass with broken ice, and arrange any kind of fruit on the top. Serve with straws. Orange-flower Liqueur.-—Slightly bruise lib. of freshly- gathered Orange-flowers, put them into a warifled bottle or jar, add a few green leaves of the Orange-plant, pour over 2qts. of over-proof spirit, then add 41b. of sugar pounded in the mortar in which the flowers were bruised; also add the thin rind of a lemon; cork tightly, give theARTISTIC FLORAL DECORATIONS. •—Arrangement oe Ferns and Ivy to go the length of Buffet or Side Table, Electric Lights or Fairy Lamps interspersed. .—Floral Centre-piece for Table or Buffet, made up of sunflowers, irises, foxgloves, grass, &c. 3. Ball-Shaped Floral Ornament, consisting of sunflowers, poker-plants, foxgloves, ivy, and grass, to hang from Chandelier or Centre of Ceiling- ornament, between Columns, or other suitable place in the Hall or Boom.TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 49 Orange-flowers—con tinued. bottle a vigorous shake, and let it stand for a month. Filter and bottle for use. Orange-flower or Neroli Flavouring.—The oil of Orange- flowers, a very fragrant aromatic, frequently used in lemonade, although Orange flower water is better. Orange-flower Pastilles.—Pound some dried Orange-flowers to powder, and then pound with them some gum dragon dissolved in equal quantities of water and Orange-flower water. Add and mix in powdered white sugar till the paste is sufficiently thick, make it into lozenges or drops, and dry them. Orange flower Pralines.—(1) Take some perfectly fresh white Orange-flowers, pick them, and lay them in cold water. Take double the weight of the Orange-flowers in loaf sugar, clarify it, and boil to the blow (see SUGAR boiling) ; put in the flowers, having drained them from the water, stir them till the sugar again reaches the blow degree, then take the pan off' the tire, but continue stirring till the sugar separates from the flowers and turns to powder; set the pan on a stove till the pralines are dry, and lay them on a sieve that the loose sugar may sift away from them. Put the flowers into bottles and keep them in a dry place. (2) Well wash and dry 61b. of Orange-flowers, put them into a saucepan with 31b. of sugar boiled to the blow degree (see Sugar-boiling), then reduce the sugar to the feather degree, taking care that the flowers are continually covered. Remove the pan from the fire, and continue to stir until the sugar grains, then put the flowers in the hot closet to dry, rubbing them frequently with the hands and mixing them up with abrut lib. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, so as to enlarge and whiten them. Put them into bottles, cork down securely, and they are ready for use. Should they be required very white and large, when they have been cooked in the sugar tv rn them out on a sieve to drain, then put them on a sheet of paper, and mix them with about Hlb. of caster sugar. Place them in the hot closet to dry, stirring frequently, and when quite dry, bottle, and cork them up for future use. Orange-flower Puffs. -Prepare a good pancake batter and mix with it sufficient Orange-flower water to flavour nicely and moist sugar to taste; put a lump of butter into a frying-pan, and when it boils pour in a layer of the batter, Fig. 62. Orange-flower Puffs. and fry like pancakes. When all the batter is used, dust the puffs over with caster sugar, put them on a hot dish oyer which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper (see Fig. 62), and serve. Orange-flower Punch for Weddings. -Put 1 liqueur- glassful of noyau into a bowl packed in ice, stir in 1 pint of lime-juice syrup, next add 1 tumblerful of Orange-flower water (distilled), the same quantity of elder-flower water, and lqt. of thin syrup. When these are well incorporated, pour in 2 bottles of soda-water, and serve immediately. Orange-flower Souffle. -Put a little flour into a basin and work it into a thin paste by adding milk and cream in equal proportions Turn it into a saucepan, boil it, and when the flour is done sprinkle in a little caster sugar and salt, and mix in a small quantity of pounded dried Orange-flowers. Stir in a lump of butter, the yolks of six eggs- and when they are well mixed add the well-whipped whites, of the six eggs, pour it all into a souffle-dish, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, sprinkle over a little sugar, salamander it, and serve quickly. Orange-flowers—continued. Orange-flower Sugar.—Put |lb. of candied Orange-flowers into a mortar with lib. of sugar, pound well, pass it through a fine sieve, put it into bottles, cork, and it is ready for use when required. Orange flower Syrup.—(1) Boil Hlb. of loaf sugar to the large pearl (see Sugar-boiling). Put lib. of picked Orange- flowers into a basin, pour the boiling syrup over them; put a plate over the basin, and let the contents infuse for a few hours, afterwards draining off the syrup. Boil another 1 till, of loaf sugar to the large pearl, and pour it while boiling ov er the Orange-flowers in the basin. Let them infuse for the same length of time as before, then strain ofl' the second lot of syrup and mix it with the first. When quite cold, filter the syrup, pour it into bottles, and cork them tightly. (2) To every \ pint of Orange-flower water mix 14oz. of granulated sugar, and stir constantly till dissolved. Strain and bottle the syrup. Orange-flower Tablets.—For every 41b. of Orange flowers use 21b. of double-refined sugar; clarify the sugar, and boil it to the feather (see Sltgar-BOIling). Cut up the Orange- flowers, moisten them with lemon-juice to preserve their whiteness, put them in the sugar, boil it again to the feather, then move the pan off the fire. In five minutes’ time, stir the sugar and work it well against the sides of the pan until it becomes glossy, then stir it gently into the centre. Pour the syrup into a shallow pan that has been lined with stout cartridge-paper, and when it has cooled a little mark it with a knife into tablets. When quite cold, break the tablets apart where marked, and put them in bottles or tins for use. ORDINARY.—This term is applied to a dining-room or eating-house (hence to the meal itself) where a meal is prepared for all comers at a fixed price for the whole service; being thus distinguished from a meal where each dish is charged separately, or a, la carte. ORGEAT.—This name was taken from the French orye, and signified therefore little else than medicinal barley-water, which was sometimes flavoured with lemon or almond, the latter flavour obtaining the greater popu- larity. By degrees the almond flavour displaced the barley, so that Orgeat is now little else than almond- milk flavoured and qualified to suit various tastes. The following receipts show the various methods of making it, and its adoption for flavouring other compounds: (1) Boil a piece of stick cinnamon in lqt. of new milk; take the milk from the fire, pick out the cinnamon, and let the milk stand till cold. Blanch 2oz. of sweet almonds, put them into a mortar and pound to a paste, adding a little rose-water to prevent them oiling. When the milk is cold, stir into it the pounded almonds and sugar to taste, set it over the fire, and boil for fifteen minutes, not longer for fear it should become oily. Strain it through a fine sieve, and serve either warm (not hot) or cold in glasses. (2) Put 2oz. of blanched sweet almonds into a mortar with one or two bitter ones, pound them to a pulp, add- ing 1 teaspoonful of orange-flower water to prevent* oiling. Now pour in 1 pint each of milk and water, sweeten to taste, and a very refreshing drink is obtained. (3) Blanch 6oz. of sweet and loz. of bitter almonds, and put them into cold water for several hours to soak. Take them out, drain diy, wipe them on a cloth, and pound to a pulp in a mortar, adding 4 teacupful of orange-flower water to prevent them oiling. Put 3 pints of water into an earthenware pan or basin, add the almond pulp and 41b. of caster sugar, mix well, cover the pan, and let them remain for an hour. Strain it into a pan packed in ice, and it is ready for use. (4) Pour boiling water over 2oz. of sweet and -Joz. of bitter almonds, slip them from their skins, and put them into cold water. Dry them in a cloth, place them in a mortar, and pound, moiste ing with a little milk. When the almonds are well pounded, mix with them by degrees 14 pints more milk, add powdered white sugar For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <i*c., referred to, see under their special heads. VOL. IT. ETEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 50 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Orgeat—continued. to taste, put in a pan over the fire, and let it boil once ; take it from the lire and stir till cold. Strain, and add to it b vine<4] assful of brandy before using. (5) Put lib. of sweet and loz. of bitter almonds into a basin, pour over sufficient boiling water to cover, slip them out of their skins, put them in a mortar, and pound, moisten- ing with 2 table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water. Then mix with the pounded almonds 1 pint of spring-water and 1 pint of rose-water. Strain the mixture through a cloth, squeezing the almonds quite dry. Have 3 pints of clarified sugar boiled to that degree that when the finger is dipped in "the sugar when it has sufficiently cooled and then into cold water, the sugar will crack as the finger is moved in the water (see Sugar boiling). When the 3 pints of syrup are boiled to this degree, put in the almonds, and let them boil in the syrup for one minute. Remove it from the fire, let it stand till cold, then put it into small bottles and cork them air-tight. When required for use, shake the hottle, put 1 table-spoonful of the syrup into a tumbler, and fill up with spring-water. Orgeat Cream Ices.—Rlanch ,} 11 >. of sweet and ten bitter almonds, and pound them in a mortar with a little milk. When they are reduced to a pulp, put it into a saucepan with lqt. of cream and the yolks of ten eggs, set the pan on the fire, and as soon as it is of the required consistence pour it through a fine sieve; add sufficient caster sugar to sweeten, turn it into the freezer and then into moulds shaped like various fruits packed in ice. When set, turn these out on to a dish covered with an ornamental paper, and serve with sweet biscuits round (see Fig. 63). Orgeat Paste.—Blanch twenty-four bitter almonds and lib. of sweet ones, put them into a mortar, and pound to a very fine paste, adding a little orange-flower water to prevent them oiling; then work into this paste its own weight of powdered white sugar. This paste may be kept a long time, and is useful for making Orgeat quickly; which may be done by mixing 1 pint of water with 2oz. of the paste, and when the paste is thoroughly dissolved straining it. Orgeat Syrup.—(1) Blanch and pound Soz. of sweet and 2|oz. of bitter almonds in a mortar with 12oz. of sugar and 2oz. of water. Mix in 24oz. more water, strain, pressing through as much as possible; add to this 2|lb. more sugar and let it dissolve with gentle heat. Pour in lastly 4oz. of orange- flower water, strain again, stir well, and in a week’s time bottle. This syrup should not be diluted, as it is very liable to frequent fermentations, and then both salicylic acid and borax would have to be used to check it. In America there is a beverage called Orgeat lemonade, made by mixing the syrup with lemon-juice and ice. (2) Blanch lib. of sweet and 4oz. of bitter almonds, put them into a mortar with 2oz. of orange-flower water, and pound them well, adding gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Put the paste into a cloth, and strain into a basin by twisting very tightly; macerate the residue with more water, and continue in this way until another pint has been Used. Strain the whole once more through a cloth into a saucepan, add 31b. of loaf sugar, and boil for a few minutes. Strain again, and let the liquor cool, stirring it two or three times a day for seven days. Bottle and use as re- quired. It should be shaken occasionally if it is inclined to settle or separate into flocks. Orgeat—continued. Orgeat Tablets.—Blanch 4oz. of sweet almonds and pound them in a mortar to a paste, adding a few drops of orange- llower water to prevent them oiling. Clarify lib. of double- refined sugar, and boil it to the feather (see Sugar boiling) ; put the pounded almonds in the sugar and boil it to the feather degree again. Take the pan off the fire, rub the sugar against the sides until it becomes glossy, then stir it in the middle. Line a shallow pan with stout cartridge- paper, and pour the syrup into it. When slightly cooled, mark the syrup into tablets with a knife; when cold, snap the tablets asunder in the places where they are marked, and put them in bottles or tins for use. Orgeat Water.—Blanch and pound 8oz. of sweet and loz. of bitter almonds, and put them into a basin with lqt. of water. A little water should be poured in whilst pounding to prevent them oiling. Add a little orange-flower water and sufficient sugar to sweeten. Stir well, and when it is well mixed, strain through a fine hair sieve into a basin or howl packed in ice, and it is ready for use. ORLEANS PUDDING.—See Puddings. ORLYS.—See Horlies. ORMERS.—This is the name given to certain shell- fish which are found on the rocks round the coast of Jersey. They have but one shell, very beautifully coloured on the outside and tinted with silver in the inside. Fig. 64. Ormer-shell. Ormers are shaped something like the human ear (see Fig. 64), hence they are commonly known as sea-ears. They are considered great delicacies, and may.either be prepared and dressed as scallops, or pickled as follows: Clean the required number of Ormers, beat them with a cutlet-bat until they are quite tender, and put them into a saucepan with some water so that there will be sufficient to cover them after they have boiled. Add a few white peppers, slices of whole ginger, and bay-leaves; place the pan on the fire, boil the contents gently for four hours, add salt and vinegar to taste, and they are then ready for use. If wanted to be kept for any length of time, more vinegar should be added; or the liquor in which they were cooked may be strained off and sufficient vinegar poured over to cover them, and cooked for a few minutes longer. ORRIS, or ORRICE.—This word is a corruption of Iris, a well-known genus of plants. The rootstock of Iris florenthia and Iris gennanica (see Fig. 65), known in commerce as Orris-root or Orrice-root, has an odour resembling that of violets, and is used as a substitute for that flower. The oil of Orris-root is frequently em- ployed in the manufacture of so-called raspberry essence.51 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Orris—continued. Orris-root Caramels.—Mix well together 21b. of the best sugar, loz. of gelatine dissolved in § breakfast-cupful of cold water, Joz. of pure paraffin wax, \ pint of cream, and lib. of glucose (if the caramels are made in the summer- time §lb. of glucose will be sufficient). Put this mixture over the .fire, and stir it constantly till when a little is tried in cold water it makes a ball if rolled, between the fingers; stir in then 1 dessert-spoonful of powdered Orris-root and a small quantity of sweet almonds blanched and grated. Pour the syrup into well-buttered tins, let it cool, cut it into fin. squares, and wrap each one separately in oiled paper. ORTOLANS (Fr. Ortolans; Ger. Fettammern; Ital. Ortolani; Sp. Hortelanos).—This is the name given to a European singing-bird (Emberiza hortidana) about the size of a lark. It has black wings, and frequents the hedges of gardens, deriving its name from the Latin hortulanus—a, gardener. It is exceedingly rare, and when fat is esteemed as a table delicacy. The Ortolan is some- times known as the garden bimting. Broiled Ortolans en Fapillote.—Rub with melted butter or salad-oil as many sheets of paper as there are birds, and cut them just large enough to double over the birds and turn in all round the edges like a hem, in order to preserve the fat and the trail while the birds are being cooked. Carefully pluck and singe the birds, cut off the beaks and claws, skin the heads and necks, and wipe them with a clean cloth ; twist the feet, lay the heads close to the sides of the birds, and then enclose the birds in the paper. After the birds are in the paper, put them on a gridiron over a very gentle fire, and broil for about five minutes or Fig. 66. Broiled Ortolans en Papillote. until they swim in their own fat. Serve them at once in the papers on a plate covered with watercress (see Fig. 66). The papers are not to lie removed until just before eating the birds. Fried Ortolans.—(1) Draw and singe twenty-four Ortolans, put them in a frying-pan with some melted bacon and a couple of bay-leaves, sprinkle over with salt and pepper, and fiy them over a brisk fire until done, turning them 'frequently. Strain off the fat, add some vinegar and melted glaze, and reduce the liquor quickly over a brisk fire. Take out the bay-leaves, add a salpifon of lean smoked ham steeped in water and a little Spanish sauce reduced with white wine, and warm the ham without boiling the liquor. Arrange the birds in a pile in the centre of a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve with a garnish of small quenelles. (2) Prepare and truss some Ortolans as for roasting, dip them into well-beaten egg, sprinkle over with breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry. When done, take them out, drain off the fat, and serve them on pieces of toast or fried breadcrumbs mixed with a few chopped mushrooms. Ortolans a la Ferigordine.—Prepare the birds as for roasting, cover them with slices of fat bacon, put them in a saucepan, set in the bain-marie, add a little stock mixed with lemon-juice, baste them with this, and cook them. Scoop out the centre from as many truffles as there are birds, put them into a saucepan with sufficient champagne to boil them in, take them out when done, and stuff them with a little game puifie. Put them into the saucepan with the Ortolans, warm them all up for a few seconds, | Ortolans—continued. arrange them on a dish, and serve with a little of the sauce to moisten them. Ortolans a la Provenpale.—Procure as many large truffles as there are birds to be cooked, and make some French forcemeat. Pierce a hole in the centre of each truffle and stuff it with the forcemeat. Remove the feet and heads from the birds, and season them w’ell with salt and pepper; lay the birds on their backs on the truffles, put them in a deep stewpan with h pint of port wine and about the same quantity of clear veal stock, and cover with slices of bacon. Put the lid on the pan, and stew the birds gently. When they are cooked, take them and the truffles out and keep them hot; strain the sauce through a line sieve, skim off all the fat, pour it into a small clean stewpan, and boil until reduced to half its original quantity. Mix with the sauce 1 breakfast-cupful of brown Spanish sauce, and boil it again until somewhat reduced. Put some pieces of toast on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, put the birds and truffles on them, and serve. Ortolans a la Sirene Franqaise.—Truss the birds with- out drawing them. Mince finely a small quantity of lemon- thyme, basil, chervil, chives, and twice the quantity of button-mushrooms, squeeze a little lemon-juice over them, and season with salt. Brush the birds over with a paste- brush dipped in warmed butter, and roll them at once in the seasoning. Butter the interior of as many paper cases as there are birds, and place a bird in each, covering them with a sheet of buttered paper; put the cases on a baking-sheet, on a bed of fine charcoal or rice, and put them in the oven. Meanwhile boil three or four eggs hard, and when peeled remove the wiiites and pass the yolks through a tine wire sieve. When cooked, take the top paper off the birds, strew a little of the yolk of egg over, and put a small round of lemon on each. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a dish, arrange the cases of birds on it, and serve. Garnishing here and there with groups of fried parsley is an improvement to the general appear- ance of the dish. Ortolans a la Toulouse.—In the south of France, and especially in Toulouse, where these birds are plentiful and well fattened, they kill them by putting their heads into vinegar, which the native cooks allege improves the flesh. Pluck, draw, and slightly singe one dozen Ortolans, rub them over with lemon, and pass a skewer through them. Cover well with melted butter mixed with lemon-juice, sprinkle over breadcrumbs, and roast them on the spit or in front of a clear fire for seven or eight minutes, basting frequently with the fat that drops from them. Put them on a dish, sprinkle a little salt over them, baste with the drippings, and serve with a garnish of slices of lemon. Ortolans in Cases.—(1) Pluck, draw, and singe one dozen Ortolans, and put them into small cases masked with perigueux sauce, putting their heads through a hole cut for the purpose. Place them in a quick oven for a few minutes, or they may be salamandered, and viien they are done damp them with a little more of the perigueux and serve. Care must be taken in drawing them to take out their gizzards. (2) Pluck, singe, and bone one dozen Ortolans. Put 11b. of chopped bacon into a frying-pan, and add some marjoram, parsley, thyme, peppercorns, two bay-leaves, two chopped shallots, and a little salt. Place the pan on the fire and fry them brown, add 8oz. of calf’s liver, and fry this brown also. Put this mixture into a mortar, pound it, pass it through a line sieve back into the mortar, and pound again, with the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs. When this is thoroughly mixed, add six finely-chopped truffles, stuff' the birds with it, and put them into oiled paper cases ; brush them over with oil or butter, and bake in a quick oven for a few minutes. Put the bones into a saucepan with l breakfast-cupful of stock or gravy, add 1 wine- glassful of port wine, and boil until the liquor is reduced to a teacupful. Arrange the birds on a dish, pour a little of the sauce over, and serve. Ortolans in a Croustade.—Cut off the legs and necks of the birds, and remove the gizzards; season them with salt, e 252 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Ortolans—continued. pepper, and grated nutmeg. Hollow out the centre of as many large truffles as there are birds, then mask them interiorly with a small quantity of chicken forcemeat. Place an Ortolan, the breast upwards, in each of the truffles, put them in a stewpan, cover with thin slices of fat bacon, then pour in, in equal quantities, some Madeira and mirepoix. Put the lid on the stewpan, and let the contents simmer for twenty-five minutes. Shape a round croustade out of bread, fry it in plenty of fat till lightly coloured, then drain it and fix it on a dish. When cooked, drain the truffles, pile them in the croustade, and garnish round the dish with fried parsley (see Fig. 67). Strain the cooking-liquor of the truffles, skim oft' the fat, and boil Fig. 67. Ortolans in a Croustade. it till reduced to half its original quantity; then pour in lqt. of Spanish sauce, and boil till reduced to a thick creamy consistency. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve, and serve in a sauceboat with the Ortolans. Ortolan Patties.—Make six patties of tart-paste in fluted moulds made with hinges so that they will open to let out the patty-crusts when done; fill them with flour, and bake. When set, take them out of the moulds and let them get cold. Place at the bottom of each 1 table-spoonful of royal salpifon, and then place in each patty two well- picked, fine, fat, raw, seasoned Ortolans, covered with a slice of thin bacon; lay them on a small baking-pan, place in a moderate oven, and bake for fifteen minutes. Re- move from the oven, take oil' the lard from the birds, moisten each patty with 2 table-spoonfuls of hot Madeira sauce, and serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin placed over it. Roasted Ortolans.—(1) Pluck and singe one dozen or so Ortolans, make a hole in the sides and take out the gizzards, but do not draw them. Stuff the heads into the holes, wrap them round with thin slices of fat bacon, and put them hi front of a clear fire to roast. Let them remain for from ten to twelve minutes, sprinkle over with salt, arrange them on a dish on erofitons of fried bread, and serve. They may be wrapped in vine-leaves (freshly gathered) if preferred instead of the bacon, which destroys the delicate flavour to a certain extent. A rich sauce should be served with them. (2) Dress and prepare one dozen or so Ortolans, and put them hi to a saucepan with a small quantity of butter. Cover the pan, and toss it over a quick fire for a few minutes, when they will be quite done. Put them on a dish, and serve. (3) When the birds have hung until they are quite tender, pluck, singe, and truss them like quails, but do not draw them; bind a vine-leaf round each bird, fix them on a spit, and roast hi front of a clear fire. Put in the pan under each bird a slice of toast, and baste them continually with butter. Prepare the following gravy for them: Put into a stewpan with a sufficient quantity of clear stock a few strips of thinly-pared orange-peel, the juice of the orange, a few basil-leaves, and 1 wineglassful of port wine; season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil it gently for fifteen minutes. When the birds are cooked, place them on a hot dish with a piece of the toast under each, strain the gravy, and serve it in a sauceboat with the birds. Stewed Ortolans.—Pluck, draw, and slightly singe one dozen Ortolans; chop off their heads and feet. Scoop out some of the inside of twelve truffles, stuff them with forcemeat, arrange them at the bottom of a saucepan, and place the Ortolans—continued. birds on them on their backs. Cover them with slices of fat bacon, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful each of port wine and veal stock, put the lid on the pan, and cook for twenty minutes or so; then take out the birds and truffles and put them m e very slow oven to keep warm. Strain and skim the liquor, reduce it to half its original quantity, then add 1 breakfast-cupful of Spanish sauce, and reduce again. Cut off twelve small rounds of bread from a household loaf, toast them, and plunge them into the sauce to soak. Put them on a dish, place the truffles and Ortolans on them, and serve with a little of the sauce poured over. Timbale of Ortolans with Truffles.—Take out the pouches from one-dozen-and-a-half Ortolans, chop oft' their legs, necks, and wings, singe them, and remove their gizzards by making the lower aperture a little wider, and fill them with a salpifon of truffles mixed with fat bacon and parsley. In the meantime, line a timbale mould with short paste, and cover it over with a thin layer of pork, chopped fine and mixed with truffles in ‘the propor- tion of 2oz. of truffles to Mb. of pork. Put the birds into a saucepan with a little bacon-fat, toss the pan briskly over a clear fire for two minutes to let them set, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and take them out. Cover with a little good glaze, arrange them in the hollow of the mould, cover with forcemeat, and lastly with a round of the paste. Put the mould into a hot oven and bake for an hour, taking care not to give it much colour. Put f breakfast-cupful of Maderia wine into a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs and a small quantity of truffles, put the pan on the fire, cover, and boil until the liquor is reduced to one-half its original quantity. Strain through a sieve, and mix in its equal bulk of melted glaze. Take the timbale out of the oven when done, make a small incision at the top, pour the glaze, &c., in, close up the hole, turn it out on to a dish, and serve. ORVIETO.—An Italian wine prepared in Umbria and the Palatine Marshes. OSWEGO.—A preparation of cornflour, so called after the American town in which it was first manufactured. It is said to be exceedingly pure, digestible, and nu- tritious. Oswego Biscuits.—Put 2oz. of melted butter into a basin with loz. of orange-zest, and stir in the yolks of six eggs and 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy. Work these well with a whisk for a-quarter-of-an-hour, and add 12oz. of Oswego mixed with I teaspoonful of baking-powder. Knead it to a dough, turn it out on to a well floured board, form it into the shape of small twists, put them on a buttered baking-sheet, brush them over with egg, and bake in a quick oven until done. Take them out when quite crisp, let them get cold, and they are then ready for use. Oswego Cake.—Put the yolks of seven eggs into a basin and stir in 12oz. of crushed loaf sugar; beat it well, and add the whites of the seven eggs beaten to a stiff froth and a little -lemon-zest (grated rind). When all these are thoroughly mixed, add 6oz. of Oswego and toy., of baking- powder. Pour the mixture into a Savoy-cake mould, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, turn it out, let it get cold, and it is ready for use. Oswego Pudding. -Break a dozen Oswego biscuits into a basin with a heaped table-spoonful of caster sugar and 2oz. of butter, pour over them § breakfast-cupful of boiling milk, cover with a plate, and leave them until quite soft. Beat two eggs up thoroughly, pour them in with the biscuits, and beat the whole together. Butter a pie-dish, pour the mixture into it, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes or balf-an-hour. Serve hot. OUNCE.—The 16th part of a pound avoirdupois, and the 20th part of a pint. See Weights and Measures. OVENS.—(Ur. Fours; Ger. Backofen; Ital. Form; Sp. Hornos).—These are literally described as places arched over with brick or stone-work, and used for baking, heating, or drying. Although modern ingenuity has con-THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 53 Ovens—co ntinued. siderably improved upon the original idea, the action brought about by means of the Oven is essentially the same now as in the days of our Anglo-Saxon forefathers. In their time it was customary to build a baking-chamber of clay, and cover it over with the hot embers of a wood fire. Nowadays the Oven is usually constructed of iron, and forms part of an elaborate cooking-range, which will be more fully described under the headings Stoves and Ranges. The heat is supplied from various sources, such as coal, gas, hot water, steam, oil, and hot air, for all of which various merits are claimed. But for ordinary domestic purposes the Oven which is a part of the range, and heated by the same means, whether gas, fuel, or oil, as the case may be, is quite sufficient. For more extensive cookery, such as would be required in hotels, mansions, and bakeries, those previously mentioned as heated by hot air, or steam, are generally preferred. As a matter of fact, Ovens constructed on the kitchen-range principle give the best results for all purposes if carefully and scientifically used. The old-fashioned brick Oven, for which so many virtues have been claimed, especially in bread-baking, may now be considered obsolete in all modemly-constructed build- ings. Under Baking will be found some very important instructions for the management of an Oven, and the various degrees of heat required for baking special articles. OX.—The cook uses this term in a very limited sense, generally as applied to the offal only. It is the male of the beef-providing beast. Bos taurus, more commonly known as Bull, Cow, Heifer, &c. Ox-Brains.—There is not much difference, so far as the cook is concerned, between the brains of any animals excepting so far as size is concerned. Ox-brains, being larger, are better than any other for the following dish. For their treatment before cooking refer to Brains. Tried Cutlets of Ox-Brains. -Blanch the brains, put them into a saucepan with a lump of salt and boiling water to cover, and boil them slowly for half-an-hour. Drain them when ready, and divide into small pieces; dip them in well-beaten egg and then in plenty of finely-grated breadcrumb. Put a large piece of butter in a frying-pan, place it on the fire, and when it boils put in the brains and fry them until nicely browned. Drain the brains, put them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish paper, squeeze a little lemon- juice over them, garnish with slices of lemon and fried parsley (see Fig. 68), and serve. Ox-Cheek or Head.—These two may be classed under one heading, the receipts given below applying equally to both; what is styled Ox-clieek being virtually half an Ox-head. The flesh of this part of the animal is peculiarly tender and gelatinous, being therefore excep- tionally suitable for stews, soups, and jellies. Collared Ox-Cheek.—Wash an Ox-cheek, put it into a saucepan with enough salted water to cover, and boil quickly for ten minutes or so. Take it out, put it into another saucepan of salted water, and add a cow-heel or lib. of pork-rind. Set the pan at the side of the fire and For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Ox-Cheek or Head—continued. simmer gently for about four hours or until the meat is quite tender; take out the meat, remove all the bones, mince the meat rather fine, sprinkle it over with salt and pepper, and also a little allspice if desired. Put it into a collaring-tin with a weight on the top, and when cold it is ready for use. Collared Ox-Head.—Take some slices off a cold boiled Ox- head, and cut each slice into small squares; cut half the quantity of fat bacon into pieces the same size, and put them together into a stewpan with a small quantity of mixed herbs, parsley, and a few cloves, tied up in a piece of muslin. Pour in about 1 pint of clear stock (the cooking-liquor of the head may be used if there is any left), season with a small quantity of cayenne pepper and salt to taste, and simmer gently at the side of the fire for an hour. Afterwards, let the mixture get cool, then turn it into a mould that has been rinsed out with cold water, removing the muslin with the herbs, and stand it in a cold temperature. When quite cold, turn the collared head out of the mould on to a dish over which has been Pig. 69. Colt.ared Ox-Head. spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish it with crofitons of aspic jelly and parsley (see Fig. 69), and serve. This makes a very tasty dish for breakfast or supper. Ox-Cheek a la Mode. -Wash an Ox-cheek and season it by rubbing well with salt, pepper, powdered mace, powdered cloves, and some finely-chopped onion. Put it in a stewpan over the fire with only as much water as will cover it, allow it to stew for two hours, let it get quite cold, and then skim off the fat. When the cheek is perfectly cold and free from fat, cut the meat into pieces about fin. square. Slice the meat of a cow-heel that has been well cleaned and boiled very tender into pieces of the same size. Mix the pieces of cow-heel and Ox- cheek together, put them into a basin, and season with pepper, salt, and a little mace. Fill up, or nearly fill up, the basin with gravy, cover it with a dish turned upside Fig. 70. Ox-Cheek a la Mode. down, put it into a slow oven, and bake for two horn's : then take it out of the oven, uncover, and set it in a cool I face. Next day, if perfectly cold, turn it out, garnish with parsley, and serve. See Fig. 70. s, (L'c., referred to, see under their special heads.54 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Ox-Cheek or Head—continued. Ox-Cheek Cheese.—Put an Ox-cheek in a basin of water and let it remain for twelve hours or so to soak; then put it into a saucepan with water to cover, set the pan on the fire, and boil the contents gently, skimming frequently. When the meat is tender and will easily leave the bones (it Mill take about four hours), turn it out on to a dish, remove all the bones, chop the meat very small, and sprinkle over a little salt and pepper and 1 table-spoonful of thyme. Put the meat into a cloth, tie it up securely and tightly, put it between two boards, with a heavy weight on the top, and let it get quite cold. Take it out, remove the cloth, and it is ready for use. Ox-Cheek Haricot.—Take an Ox-cheek that has been stewed, and cut off the meat in moderate-sized pieces. Put a few slices of onions into a frying-pan with a little butter or fat, and fry them to a light broM'n. Put a carrot or turnip—that has previously been boiled—into a saucepan with a little of the broth from the stew in which the cheek MTas cooked, and when they are warm add the pieces of meat, sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, put the pan at the side of the fire, and simmer gently for ten minutes. Skim off any fat there may be on the broth, mix in suffi- cient flour to give the liquor a creamy appearance, simmer gently for five minutes longer, turn it all out on a dish, and serve very hot. Ox-Cheek Pie.—(1) Thoroughly wash the cheek and let it soak for an hour or two in cold water. Next put it into a saucepan with cold water, and boil gently until tender. When cooked, drain the cheek, cut out all the bones, and leave it until cold. Put 3 breakfast-cupfuls of the liquor that the cheek was boiled in into a stewpan, boil it until reduced to one-third, and flavour it to taste with Worcestershire sauce, salt, and pepper. Skin and trim the meat into moderate-sized pieces, slice some cold boiled ham or bacon and two or three hard-boiled eggs, and fill a pie- dish with alternate layers of cheek, ba n, and egg, pour in the prepared gravy, and cover the whole with a good crust; trim it off evenly round the edges, and make a slight incision in the top. Bake the pie in a moderate oven until the crust is cooked. Serve cold. (2) Wash an Ox-cheek, put it into an earthemvare or stone jar with water to cover, place it in the oven when the fire is low, and leave it all night. Next morning cut the meat of the head up, mincing it almost as finely as for hash. Boil the palate until tender, then skin and cut it into small pieces. Butter and line a pie-dish with paste, put in the meat and palate with loz. each of washed morels and truffles, the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs, eighteen or twenty poached forcemeat balls, a few fresh mushrooms, and two or three artichoke-bottoms cut into small pieces ; season to taste with salt and pepper, and moisten to half their height with some of the liquor that the cheek M’as baked in. Roll out a flat of puff paste about ljin. thick, cover the pie with it, trim it evenly round the edges, moisten them, and press them together. Roll out the trimmings of the paste, cut out some imitation leaves, damp them slightly underneath with a paste-brush dipped in a little Mrater, then arrange them tastefully on the top of the pie, and make a small hole in the centre to let the steam escape. Bake the pie in a good oven. When cooked, stand the pie-dish on a flat dish, and serve M'hile hot. If asparagus-tops are hr season, a few of those pre- viously boiled and put in the pie would be an improve- ment. (3) Cut off the meat in slices from an Ox-cheek that has been stewed; put a layer of it at the bottom of a pie-dish, over this put a layer of parboiled onions cut in slices, sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, and continue hi this way until the meat is all used up. Pour in some of the liquor from the stew to fill up the dish, put over the dish a cover of paste, place it in a moderate oven, and bake. When done, take it out, and serve. Ox-Cheek Soup. (1) Cut off the muzzle from half an Ox- liead, put the head into a bowl of water, and let it soak for an hour. Take it out, chop it into halves, put it into the stockpot with sufficient M'ater to cover, and boil for a few minutes; take out the cheek, plunge it hito a bowl of cold Ox-Cheek or Head—continued. water, and then replace it hi the stockpot. Broth may be used instead of water if the soup is preferred rich. Put the pot on the fire, boil up the contents, skim frequently, remove it to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for an hour. Add an onion, a few sticks of green celery, a little chervil, two carrots, and a few sprigs of sweet herbs, and boil until the vegetables are done and the flesh easily leaves the bones. Take out the cheek, remove the bones, put the meat under a board with a weight on the top, and let it cool. Pass the broth through a fine sieve, skim off all the fat, and when it has settled pour off the clear liquor into a bowl. Put Jgall. of this broth into a saucepan, clarify it with Jib. of chopped lean beef mixed up with an egg and J pint of Madeira, strain it again into another sauce- pan, add the meat from the cheek cut up into as uniform- sized pieces as possible, warm the whole up M’ithout boiling, and a few minutes before turning it out add the white part of seven leeks that have been braised and cut into small pieces; pour the soup into a tureen, and serve very hot. (2) Put an Ox-cheek into a basin of warm Mrater, let it soak, take it out, and wipe dry on a cloth. Put it into a saucepan with water enough to cover, and add a few pepper- corns and a little salt. Cover the pan, set it on the fire, and as soon as the liquor boils remove the pan to the side of the fire and let it simmer gently. Remove the scum as it rises, and when all is off replace the lid and cook gently for two hours. More water must be added now and then to make up for that which has evaporated, and it must be put in boiling. Turn all out on to a dish, take out the bones, and let it stand for twelve hours or so. Skim off the fat, put it into a basin, and mix with as much flour as it can hold. Put it into a saucepan with two turnips, four carrots, an onion, and three leeks all cut into pieces, place the pan on the fire, and cook to a light brou'n. Return the broth and meat to the saucepan, pour in a little more M’ater, set the pan at the side of the fire, and simmer gently for from two to three hours, u’hen both meat and vegetables should be well co deed. Turn it out into a soup-tureen and serve very hot. Ox-Head Soup.—Put an Ox-head into a basin or bourl of M'ater and let it soak for three hours. Take it out, break all the bones, and M-ash it well in warm water. Put it into a saucepan •with 5qts. of M’ater, cover the pan, boil very slou’ly, and ski n frequently. When it has boiled for about two hours, add two carrots, two onions, one turnip, and a head of celery all cut into small pieces, twenty-five or thirty black peppercorns, two dozen allspice, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Put the lid on the pan, remove the pan to the side of the lire, and simmer gently for three hours, skimming frequently. Take out the head, put it on a dish, strain the liquor into a basin, and let them both cool. Let them remain for a day, then cut oil all the meat from the bones, put it into a saucepan with the gravy, after the fat has been removed, set the pan at the side of the fire, simmer gently for thirty minutes, and it is ready for use. A wineglassful of white wine is a great improvement. Potted Ox-Head.—Procure half an Ox-head, chop it into small pieces, put it in a boM’l of water, and soak for two or three hours. When ready, drain the head, put it in a saucepan M’itli plenty of M'ater, and boil slowly for four or five hours, or until the meat can be easily picked off the bones. When cooked, take the head out of the liquor, cut the meat oil the bones, and chop it into small pieces. Skim the fat off the cooking-liquor, put in the meat with 1 table- spoonful of Jamaica pepper, the same quantity of salt, a small quantity of black pepper, and a pinch of cayenne. Boil the above mixture for thirty minutes, then turn it into a basin or mould, and leave until next day, when it will be stiff. Turn the head out of the mould on to a dish, and serve. Stewed Ox-Cheek.—(1) Put a M'ell-u'ashed Ox-cheek into a boM’l of M’ater, and let it soak for twelve hours or so ; place it in a saucepan with 3J pints of water, and add one onion and a head of celery cut up into small pieces, a bunch of sweet herbs, four cloves, and salt and pepper toTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 55 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils Sauces, <Lc., referred to, see under their special heads. Ox-Cheek or Head—continued. Ox-Hearts—continued. taste. Put the pan at the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for seven hours. Take out the cheek when tender, cut off all the meat in small pieces, put them into a saucepan, pour over 1 pint of the liquor after it has been skimmed and strained, and add also 1 wineglassful of port wine and a few forcemeat balls; warm them all, turn them out on to a dish, and serve very hot. (2) Cut off all the meat from an Ox-cheek that has been washed and soaked, break up the bones, put them with the meat into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and sprinkle in a little salt and a few pepper- corns. Tie up a few cloves and a blade of mace in a small muslin bag, put it into the saucepan, and add five turnips, six carrots, three onions cut into slices, a head of celery chopped up rather small, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Set the pan at the side of the fire, and simmer gently for four hours or until the meat is quite tender. Take out the pieces of meat, put them on a dish, add a little browning and thickening to the gravy, pour it over the meat, and serve. A wineglassful of port wine if added to the liquor after the meat is taken out is an improvement. Stewed Ox-Head.—Put the head to soak in cold water the night before it is wanted, split it in halves, put it in a large saucepan with three or four carrots, two turnips, two onions stuck with cloves, half a burnt onion, and two bay- leaves. Fill the saucepan with cold water, season to taste with salt and pepper, add a bunch of sweet herbs, and keep it simmering gently at the side of the fire for four or five hours, adding more water when necessary. When quite tender, put the head on a hot dish, garnish it with some freshly-boiled vegetables, and serve with some of its cooking-liquor in a sauceboat. Ox-Hearts.—In the opinion of most professional cooks, the flesh of the Ox-heart is too coarse and greasy to be of any value for serving as a separate dish. This would appear to be somewhat of an error of judgment, for, prepared as follows, Ox-heart is not only tender, but delicious eating. It should be served at all times on very hot plates—hot-water plates if possible, or dinner plates set upon soup-plates containing hot water. The flesh of a cold Ox-heart is sometimes used either to increase the bulk of jugged hare or as a substitute for the flesh of the hare itself. Baked Ox-Heart.—Thoroughly wash and clean an Ox-heart and boil it for two or three hours, or till tender, allowing the water to nearly boil away, so that the remaining liquor can be used for gravy. Make a sage-and-onion stuffing. Take the heart out when cooked, cut a piece out of the middle, and fill the hollow with the stuffing. Put the heart in a baking-dish, pour the liquor round it, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and bake till brown. Cut the piece of heart that was taken from the middle into small pieces, put them with the liquor that is left in the Fig. 71. Baked Ox-Heart. pan after the heart is done, and stir in 1 table-spoonful of thickening. Put the heart on a hot dish, pour the gravy over, garnish with French beans or Brussels sprouts and potato balls (see Fig. 71), and serve very hot. Boiled Ox-Heart.—Put an Ox-heart into a basin of water, wash it well both in the cavities and outside to clear out all the blood, place it in a saucepan of salted water or stock, and boil for three hours. Take it out when done, cut it into thick slices, arrange them on a dish, and serve with a rich brown gravy poured over. Roasted Ox-Heart.—(1) Put an Ox-heart into a basin of warm water and let it soak for an hour to wash out all the blood. Take it out, wipe dry with a cloth, stuff it with some highly-seasoned forcemeat, tie round a piece of well-buttered paper, pass a spit through it, and place in front of a clear fire to roast, basting frequently with butter. "When done (it will take about two hours), remove the paper, put it on a dish, and pour over piquant sauce or a little rich gravy. (2) Wash the heart well, rinse all the blood carefully from the pipes, and parboil it for ten minutes. Make a stuffing of breadcrumbs mixed with finely-minced suet or butter, a small quantity of thyme, salt and pepper, and a little grated lemon-peel and nutmeg. Roast it in front of a clear fire, baste well with butter, and just before dish- ing stir 1 table-spoonful of currant jelly into the gravy. Place the heart on a hot dish, pour the gravy over, and serve very hot. Twenty minutes for every pound should be allowed for roasting the heart. Stewed Ox-Heart.—Put an Ox-heart into a basin of water, wash it well, and let it soak to clean out the blood. Take it out, dry on a cloth, cut it in halves, rub them well over with flour, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry to a brown colour. Put them in a saucepan with a sprig of thyme and four or five onions cut hi slices and fried, sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, and pour in sufficient water to cover. Place the pan on the fire, and cook the halves of heart gently for about three hours; then take them out, skim the fat from the liquor, reduce it, thicken, and add 1 wineglassful of claret and 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar. Put the heart back again into the saucepan, warm it up, put it on a dish, pour over the gravy, and serve. Ox-Kidneys.—The size of these, and their somewhat coarse nature, places them quite outside the usual culinary preparations prescribed for the smaller kidneys, such as sheep’s, lamb's, &c.; nevertheless, modern artistic cooks have found several effective modes of cooking them. Fried Ox-Kidney.—(1) Cut a kidney in slices and put them in a basin of warm water for two-hours-and-a-half to soak, changing the water once or twice so as to thoroughly cleanse them. Take the slices out, dust them over with flour, salt, and pepper, put them into a frying-pan with 3oz. of butter, and fry to a light brown. Put them in a circle on a dish, mix 1 table-spoonful of piquant sauce in J pint of gravy with 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar in it, pour it in the centre of the circle, and serve. As a rule Ox-kidneys are coarse, but cooked as above they are tender and luscious. (2) Trim and clean some Ox-kidneys, dry them, and cut them in slices; dust over with salt, pepper, and flour, put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry until dene through and browned. Place them on a hot dish, and stand it in the oven while the gravy is being prepared. Put a little butter and flour to the liquor in which the kidneys were cooked, pour it over them, and serve. Fried Ox-Kidneys with Champagne.—Select some kidneys that are of a good colour, remove a little of the fat, mince them, mix with a little chopped parsley and shallots, and sprinkle over salt and pepper. Place this in a frying-pan over a moderate fire, and when done dust over with flour; add 1 wineglassful of champagne and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of bd charnel sauce, and serve. Ox-Kidney Pie.—Take an Ox-kidney and lib. of “skirting,” cut them in pieces about 2in. square, and put them over the fire in a saucepan with a seasoning of pepper and salt and just sufficient water to cover them. Let them stew gently till quite tender, then take them from the fire and let them get nearly cold. Take the fat off, put the meat and gravy into a pie-dish, lay a crust over it, and bake for an hour. Ox-Kidney Rissoles.—(1) Cut an Ox-kidney into even slices and shape them into rounds, also the same quantity of56 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Ox-Kidneys—continued. bacon or ham cut into smaller rounds. Place the slices of bacon or ham over the kidney, then hard-boiled eggs in slices over them, and fasten the slices together with a little warmed butter and the beaten yolk of an egg. Fig. 72. Ox-Kidney Rissoles. Sprinkle over with salt and pepper, cover them well with breadcrumbs, put them hi a saucepan with a little butter, and fry for half-an-hour. Put them on a dish with brown gravy. See Fig. 72. (2) Cut an Ox-kidney, freed of fat and skin, in slices, and sprinkle it over with a sprig of minced parsley and one shallot, grated nutmeg, cayenne, and salt. Put them in a frying-pan, fry for about lialf-an-hour, turning them frequently, and add J pint of rich gravy mixed with 1 wineglassful of wine. Let this boil, and then add the juice of half a lemon and loz. of butter. Garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Ox-Kidney Saute.—(1) Cut a piece of Ox-kidney into halves lengthwise, then cut each piece across into thin slices. Put Jib. of butter into a saute-pan, melt it, then lay in the slices of kidney; season with pepper and salt, and fry them till lightly browned over a quick fire, shaking the pan frequently to ensure equal cooking ; take the slices out of the pan, and place them where they may drain. Put 1J breakfast-cupfuls of French white wine in a saucepan with a sprinkling of salt and pepper, and boil till reduced to one-fourth its original quantity. Put the pieces of kidney back into the sautd-pan, dredge them with Hour, fry them for two or three minutes, then pour in the reduced wine and 1 teacupful each of broth and water, and boil for five minutes. Mix in 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Put the kidney on to a hot dish, pour the gravy over, and serve. (2) Wash some kidneys, cut them into slices, and steep them in cold water for a short time. Drain the kidneys, put them into a frying-pan with a lump of butter, season with pepper and salt, and cook slowly over the fire, shaking the pan occasionally. When cooked, take the slices of kidney up and arrange them on a hot dish : mix 1 tea- spoonful of flour and about 2 teaspoonfuls of walnut ketchup in udth the gravy, stir it over the fire till thick, then pour it over the kidneys; sprinkle a small quantity of finely- chopped parsley over, and serve. (3) Cut a kidney into very thin slices, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry for two or three minutes over a brisk fire. When slightly coloured, dredge the kidney with a small quantity of flour, add a few sliced mushrooms and some chopped sweet herbs, moisten them to height with broth and red wine in equal quantities, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, and cook gently over a slow fire for five minutes. When cooked, put the kidney on a hot dish, pour the cooking-liquor over it, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve. Ox-Kidney Soup.—Put the stock from a boiled leg of mutton in a saucepan with a bullock’s kidney, and boil until it is about half done. Take out the kidney, and cut it up into small pieces. Add three or four sticks of celery, four turnips, and the same of carrots (all cut up small) to the liquor, and a small bunch of sweet herbs tied in a muslin bag. Put in salt and pepper to taste, 1 table-spoonful of mush- room ketchup, and the chopped kidney, and boil slowly for six hours. Take out the bunch of sweet herbs, and serve the remainder in a tureen; or it may be made the day before it is wanted, and warmed before serving. All soups are better served in this way. Ox-Kidneys—continued. Stewed Ox-Kidneys.—(1) Stew some Ox-kidneys in a little salted water until done, put them on a dish, and sprinkle over salt and pepper. Add a small quantity of flour to the liquor to thicken, and a little burnt sugar to colour it, pour it over the kidneys, and serve hot. (2) Wash the kidneys thoroughly, cut them into small thin slices, and dredge over with flour. Put a small sliced onion into a stewpan with a lump of dripping, fry it till beginning to brown, then put in the floured slices of kidney, season with pepper and salt, and cover them with cold water. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for an hour. Mix 1 teaspoonful of flour with just sufficient water to make it smooth, add a few drops of mushroom ketchup, then stir it in with the kidney, and continue stirring over the fire till the flour is cooked and the gravy thickened. Pour the stew into a hot dish, garnish with some croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, sprinkle about 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley ouer, and serve. (3) Remove all the fat from two large kidneys, cut them into slices, put them into slightly-salted water for half-an- hour, drain them, put them into a saucepan with ]J pints of water, and boil slowly for two hours or until they are tender. When they have been cooking for an-hour-and- a-half, season with 1 pinch each of grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt, and add a small minced onion. When done, pour in 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine, make this hot, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. Ox-Liver.—In consistency this is much firmer and coarser than pig’s, lamb’s, calf’s, or sheep’s liver, being perforated by large hard pipes, which render it tough and unpalatable. After removing these pipes and other hard portions, it is possible to make some very tasty dishes of it as follow: Boiled Ox-Liver and Bice.—Put I Jib. of liver into cold water, and let it remain in it for half an-hour to soak the blood out; boil it gently in 3 pints of water together with Jib. of rice, add an onion, a sprig of parsley, and when the liver and rice are nearly cooked add pepper and salt to taste, 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and a rasher of bacon cut in pieces. Take the liver out, cut it in slices, and return them to the stew till all are sufficiently done. Serve hot. Fried Ox-Liver with Onions.—Slice some large onions, put them in a deep frying-pan with just sufficient water to cover them, place the lid on the frying-pan, put it on the fire, and let the liver boil till the water has evaporated; then put 1 large table-spoonful of lard in with the onions, and fry them till brown. The liver should have previously been cut in thin slices and put in salted water. Take the onions out and keep them hot. Fry the liver in the same fat, adding more lard if necessary, and sprinkle over pepper and salt. When cooked, place the liver on a hot dish, put a little mound of onions on each piece, sift some cracker or dried breadcrumbs on the topi, and serve. Fried Ox-Liver with Potatoes.—Take 31b. of liver, put it in a saucepan over the fire in one piece, and stew gently for three hours in a very little water; then take it up and put into the liquor 2lb. of potatoes nicely peeled and washed, lib. of cabbage, turnips, or carrots, well washed and prepared, and salt and pepper to taste. When the vegetables are almost done, take them up, and break them into pieces about the size of a walnut. Cut the liver into rather thin slices, and fry it and the vegetables in hot dripping. When the liver and vegetables are fried, put them on a hot dish, thicken the liquor in the frying-pan with a small quantity of flour,• and pour it boiling hot over the liver and vegetables. Ox-Liver Gravy.—Drain the liver well by hanging it for some time, then rub it over with salt and leave it on a plate for twenty-four hours. Drain the liver again till all the moisture has dripped out, then keep it hi a dry place till ready to use. It makes an excellent gravy for cutlets and all made dishes. Ox-Marrow.—The fatty contents of the long bones of the Ox are esteemed a great delicacy. At one timeTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 57 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Ox-Marrow—continued. it was considered quite the fashion to serve marrow-hones at table as a sort of luxurious supper-dish; they were then dressed as follows : Marrow-bones.—(1) Take the bones from two legs of beef and saw them into pieces about 4in. long. Scrape them well to clean them, and put them in cold water to soak. Place them in a saucepan (side by side, not standing up), cover with good stock, boil up quickly, and then remove the pan to the side of the fire and simmer gently for an- hour-and-a-half. Take out the bones, drain, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with slices of hot toast. (2) Have the bones chopped at the ends, so that when sawn into halves each half will stand steady ; wash them clean, saw each bone in two, tie over each half a floured cloth, and boil them in water for two hours. Serve them standing upright on a napkin (see Fig. 73). Send them to table as hot as possible, and serve dry toast with them. The value of Ox-marrow when in combination with other foods, and therefore taking the place of other fat, may be said to have been discovered quite recently; or, at any rate, it is quite in later years that cooks seem to have recognised its merit as seen in the following re- ceipts. Ox-marrow from the bones must not be confounded with that from the spinal column. See Amourettes. Imitation Marrow Omelet. -Beat six eggs well, and season them with pepper and a little salt that has been dissolved in water. Put loz. of butter in an omelet-pan, place it over the tire until melted, then move it to the side and pour in the eggs. Turn the pan continually at the edge of the fire, but without putting it right over, as this would be too hot, and the middle part of the omelet must be kept mellow. When set, roll the omelet up with a knife, turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Ox-Marrow in Croustades.—With a plain round tin cutter about lin. in diameter cut out of a solid lump of butter as many croustades as are required. Dip the pats of butter in beaten eggs, roll them well in finely-grated breadcrumbs, and let them stand for an hour or two. Dip the croustades again in beaten eggs and breadcrumbs, then with a plain tin cutter fin. in diameter make a circular incision in the centre of each. Lay the croustades in a frying-basket, leaving a small space between each, plunge them into boiling lard, and fry till lightly browned. When cooked, lift the inner circle of the croustades and let the interior butter drip out. Turn the croustades upside-down on a cloth, and put them in a screen to diy. Pick the marrow out of a bone, cut it into pieces the size of an almond, and put them into a saucepan with some boiling milk and water; add a small quantity of salt-, and boil them for a minute. Drain the pieces of marrow, mix them in some hot Italian sauce, fill the croustades with the mixture, and replace the lids. Put them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper that has been placed on a hot dish, garnish with some ne it sprigs of fried parsley, and serve. Ox-Marrow Fritters.—Put |lb. of marrow, taken from the largest bones of the animal and kept in one piece, into cold water, and let it soak. Put it into a saucepan with good broth, boil it for ten minutes, and then let it cool in its liquor. When quite cold, drain and cut it into two Ox-Marrow—continued. dozen slices; cover half of them on one side only with some cooked line herbs, and over that again put a layer of cooked truffle, and glaze it all over (both truffle and marrow) with a paste-brush; when the glaze is cold, take the pieces of marrow singly, dip them into frying-batter, Fig. 74. Ox-Marrow Fritters. and fry them ; when the batter is dry and of a good colour, drain the fritters, put them on a napkin folded on a dish, arrange them in a heap, and serve with a garnish of fried parsley (see Fig. 74). Ox-Marrow Garnishing.—Open two fine marrow bones by setting them upright on the table, the marrow part on top, and with a sharp blow of a cleaver splitting them in two, striking on one side only. Remove the marrow, put it into freshly-salted water, and let it remain for one hour; then take it up, drain, and cut it into slices. Heat ^ pint of Madeira sauce, add the pieces of marrow, and let it boil up once with a few drops of tarragon vinegar. Serve with the slices of marrow on top. Ox-Marrow Patties.—(1) Blanch Jib. of sweet almonds and pound them in a mortar, adding occasionally a few drops of orange-flower water. When quite smooth, mix with them 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of flour, the beaten yolks of three eggs, and sufficient warm water to make the whole into a smooth paste. Butter some small shallow moulds, line them with the paste, brush over with a paste-brush dipped in well-beaten yolk of egg, and bake them in a slow oven. Chop and flavour some marrow with lemon-peel and mix some thick cream with it. When the patties are cooked, take them out of their moulds, put a small piece of the marrow mixture in each, spread them over with white of egg that has been whipped to a stiff froth, and dredge lightly over with caster sugar. Put them in the oven to set the egg, then place them on a dish that has been garnished with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve very hot. (2) Scoop the marrow out of the bones, cut it into small pieces, boil them for a minute in salted water, then put them on a sieve to drain. Line some buttered patty-pans until thinly rolled out puli' paste, fill them with uncooked rice, cover with rounds of puff paste, and bake them. Season the marrow with salt, pepper, finely-chopped shallot, and a small quantity of lemon-juice. When cooked, empty the rice out of the patties, fill them with the marrow, and replace the covers. Spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the patties on it, and serve while hot. Ox-Marrow Pudding (Baked).—(1) Pour 1 pint of boiling milk over the crumb of a household loaf of bread, and when it is quite cold work in four eggs, 1 lb. of marrow cut into thin slices, and 1 teacupful of brandy mixed with sugar and nutmeg to taste; when they are all thoroughly incorporated, put the mass into a well-buttered tin or mould, place some slices of citron on the top, and bake in a moderate oven until done. Turn it out and serve. Or it may be boiled in the mould and will take about two hours; when done, turn it out, stick the pieces of citron over it, and serve. (2) Cut some very thin slices of bread, and put a layer at the bottom of a pie-dislfi, over this put a layer of marrow or finely-chopped beef-suet, on top of that a layer of currants, washed and dried, then a layer of bread, another layer of marrow or suet, then currants, and so on till theTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 58 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Ox- M arrow—continued. dish is nearly filled. Mix four well-beaten eggs with 4oz. of sugar, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and lqt. of cream; pour this mixture over the pudding, allowing it time to soak, put the pudding in the oven, and hake for half-an-hour. (3) Remove all the fibre from 6oz. of Ox-marrow, chop it up, hut not too finely, and add to it Jib. each of crushed macaroons and finely-sifted breadcrumbs, loz. or 2oz. of blanched and pounded sweet almonds, and a seasoning of candied citron, caster sugar, and grated nutmeg. Put all these into a bowl, and stir in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of rich cream, the beaten yolks of six eggs, and 1 wineglass- ful of ratafia. Turn the preparation into a mould or shape, put it hi the oven, and bake until browned. Serve hot. (4) Pour 1J ]lints of boiling milk over 1 breakfast-cupful of breadcrumbs, and let them soak for half-an-hour. Cut 6oz. of marrow into fine shreds, mix them with the bread- crumbs, and add Jib. of well-washed and dried currants, sugar to taste, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and four well-beaten eggs. Butter a pie-dish, line it with puff paste, and turn the mixture into it; hake it a little under an hour. When cooked, stand the pie-dish on a flat dish, and serve the pudding. If preferred, the pudding may be turned into a buttered mould and boiled for two-hours-and a-half. If cooked the latter way, caster sugar should lie sifted over it when turned out of the mould. (5) Boil 1 pint of new milk with a piece of stick cinna mon and the peel of half a lemon until flavoured with these ingredients. Chop Jib. of Ox-marrow, put it in a basin, and strain the boiling milk over. Next mix in Jib. of well-washed and picked currants, 2oz. of thinly-shred candied orange and lemon-peel, 1 table spoonful of brandy, 4 table-spoonful of syrup of cloves, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and Jib. of crushed Naples biscuits. Stir the ingredients until thoroughly incorporated, and when cold mix in the beaten yolks of four eggs and the whites of two. Butter a small pie-dish, line the edges with puff paste, pour in the mixture, and bake it. Serve the pudding either hot or cold. (6) Beat up the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of four, and mix with them 4 pint of milk and 1 pint of cream boiled together with a blade of mace and half a nutmeg grated. Mix the boiled milk and cream with the eggs by degrees, sweeten well, strain it through a sieve, and then add to it 1 table-spoonful of orange-flower water. Put two Naples biscuits crushed to powder at the bottom of a pudding-dish together with the marrow of a large bone, Jib. of stoned raisins, Jib. of currants washed and dried, and loz. of citron cut in slices; pour the strained custard | over, put it in the oven, and bake. (7) Boiled.—Pour lqt. of boiling milk over 1J breakfast- cupfuls of finely-grated breadcrumbs, cover, and leave them until well soaked. Finely shred Jib. of marrow, stone and chop 3oz. of raisins, and wash 3oz. of currants. Mix these | ingredients with the soaked crumbs, and stir in six well- j beaten eggs; sweeten to taste with caster sugar and | flavour with a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Butter j a pudding-basin, fill it with the above mixture, tie a floured ' cloth over it, and boil for two hours. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, dust over with caster sugar, and serve. (8) Cut lib. of Ox-marrow into thin pieces and put it into a basin with the finely-grated crumbs of a stale penny roll, 3 heap ;d table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, 1 pint of boiling cream, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and leave them to soak for ten or fifteen minutes. Beat four eggs until very light, then pour them over the above ingredients, also 1 wineglassful of pale brandy, and stir until well mixed. Butter the interior of a mould, pour in the mixture, tie a thick pudding-cloth over the top, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for three- quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve. Ox-Marrow Quenelles.—(1) Put Jib. of marrow into a basin with its equal quantity of breadcrumbs, add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, salt and pepper to taste, and work it into a smooth paste with the yolks of six eggs and the white of one. Take it out a little at a time, poach in Ox-Marrow—continued. boiling salted water, drain them, trim them round, and serve very hot. (2) Coarsely chop Jib. of marrow, and mix with it the well-beaten yolks of six eggs. Cut a French roll into thin slices, toast them a light brown, and cut them into small squares. Put the crumb of another roll hi sufficient milk to moisten it, then mix 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley and a small quantity of salt with it. Mix all the ingredients together, and dredge in sufficient flour to bring it to a consistency. Cut the mixture into small quantities, roll them to the shape of an egg, throw them into a sauce- pan of boiling water, and boil for ten minutes. Serve them in a tureen with soup. (3) Soak a slice or two of crumb of bread in a small quantity of milk ; chop 4oz. of marrow, then mix it with the bread; season with salt and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, stir in two well-beaten eggs ami sufficient flour to make it thick. Work the mixture well, then divide it into small pieces about the size of a walnut, and roll them round. Put a lump of butter in a deep frying-pan, melt it, then put in the balls, and fry them until browned all over. Drain, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. Or they may be served as a garnish with ragouts or hashes. Ox-Marrow Rissoles.—Put a large piece of Ox-marrow into cold water to soak, then put it into a saucepan with broth, boil it for about ten minutes, and let it get quite cold in the liquor. Cut the marrow into pieces about the size of an olive, and dip them twice into well-reduced brown sauce finished with glaze; put them on .a baking-sheet, and let the sauce cool. Have ready some puff paste at seven turns, roll it out in a long, rectangular thin strip, put small quantities of the marrow on it about 1 in. from the edge, damp the paste round the marrow, fold the paste over so as to cover it, and cut out the rissoles with a channelled paste-cutter. Dip them in beaten egg, sprinkle them over with crushed vermicelli, and fry in a little fat over a slow fire until done. Take them out, drain, arrange them hi a group on a napkin on a dish, and serve. Ox-Marrow-and-Sponge-Cake Pudding. Take Jib. of stale sponge cake and crumble it very fine. Chop 2oz. of Ox- marow very fine, and mix it with the cake-crumbs. Beat up four eggs very light with Jib. of caster sugar, mix with them gradually J pint of milk, pour this mixture over the cake-crumbs and chopped marrow, and mix well together; then beat in 1 table-spoonful of flour with a very little salt mixed in it, and Jib. of layer raisins, stoned, chopped, plentifully dredged with flour, and mixed with 4oz. of citron chopped very fine. Continue to stir and beat till the fruit is evenly distributed, then pour it into a buttered pudding- tin, and boil for three hours. Serve hot with cabinet- pudding sauce. Ox-Marrow Tart.—Put four eggs into a basin and mix them up with 4oz. of flour and a pinch of salt, and pour in f pint of milk. Whisk well, and pour it through a sieve into a saucepan; add a small lump of butter, stirring frequently over the fire to prevent it getting lumpy. When it is rather thick, add 8oz. of dissolved sugar, a little of this being flavoured with vanilla. Work vigorously for eight or nine minutes longer to complete the mixture, then remove the pan to the side of the fire and add 8oz. of chopped and melted Ox-marrow and 2 table-spoonfuls of milk of almonds. The marrow must be passed through a sieve before being added. Work well for five minutes longer, then let the whole cool. In the meantime prepare a puff paste with a little more than 8oz. each of flour and butter, give it six turns, and lastly roll it into a flat about Jin. in thickness. Cut oft' two strips lengthwise about lin. wide, then roll out the paste in a flat about -Jjin. thick and 1 foot in diameter. Spread this over a tart-pan, trim it round, damp the edges with a paste- brush, and pour in the marrow cream, spreading it over to about Jin. thick, following the outlines of the paste but keeping quite lin. from the edge. Wet the edges of the paste, and put the strips of paste on it, following the out- lines, and join the ends neatly. Put the pan into a hot oven, and when the paste has well risen, glaze it with59 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Ox-Marrow—continued. sugar. Let it remain in the oven for two minutes, take it out, and serve very hot, or it will lose all its best qualities. Ox-Marrow on Toast.—(1) Take out the marrow from some bones, keeping it as large as possible, and put it into a saucepan of well-salted boiling water ; let it remain for one minute, and then drain off the water through a Fig. 75. Ox-Marrow on Toast. very fine sieve. Take out the marrow, put it on some pieces of toasted bread, place them in the oven, and cook for five minutes or so. Sprinkle over chopped parsley, salt, and pepper, and serve very hot. See Fig. 75. (2) Stop up the ends of a marrow-bone with a mixture of flour and water made into a stiff paste, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for two hours. Have ready some pieces of toasted bread, scoop out the marrow on to them, sprinkle over salt and pepper and a little finely-chop ped parsley, warm the pieces of toast thoroughly in tlie oven, and serve hot. Ox-Muzzles.—It is said that an artistic cook can make a tasty dish out of any material that is, or can be made soft enough to be eaten. This would appear to be fully borne out by the two following receipts converting Ox- snouts into luxuries: Curried Ox-Muzzle.- -Take a boiled Ox-muzzle and divide it into middling-sized squares; chop one onion, fry it in a stewpan with butter, without allowing it to take colour, add it to the pieces of meat, fry them also, and sprinkle over 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and the same quantity of curry powder. Two minutes later moisten (off the fire, and by degrees) with broth and a little white wine; add a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, stir over the fire till it begins to boil, and then remove to the side to simmer. Twenty-five minutes after, skim the fat off the sauce and thicken with two or three yolks of eggs diluted with cream. Finish by squeezing in the juice of two lemons, and dish up with a border of rice. Ox-Muzzle stewed in Piquant Sauce.—Singe an Ox-muzzle, soak it for a few hours, put it into a stewpan with water, and let it boil; then drain the muzzle, sponge it, and scrape its inside in order to disengage the white skin. Let it boil, and carefully remove the fillet of the palate as soon as it is done. When the muzzle is cooked sufficiently, drain it, cut it, as well as the palate, into middling-sized squares, and put them into a stewpan. Pour in piquant sauce to nearly their height, and let the stew simmer over a very slow lire for a-quarter-an-hour. Dish up quite plain. Ox-Palates.—These are the thick white corrugated linings of the upper jaws of the Ox, constituting the roof Fig. 76. Imitation Cocks’ Combs for Garnish, made of Ox-Palates. of the mouth, and extending from the front teeth to the posterior opening of the nose. They are not Ox- Palates—continued. peculiar for fine flavour, but for their firm gelatinous consistency, which permits them to be made up into a variety of dishes. One use to which they are especially adapted is that of making artificial cocks’ combs (see Fig. 76), cut out with either a pair of sharp scissors or a punch (see Fig. 77) specially made for the purpose. Aftereaux of Ox-Palates. Cut up a few boiled Ox- palates into squares of iin., and place them in a kitchen basin; season, mix in 3 table-spoonfuls, of cooked sweet herbs, and add half their volume of truffles and mushrooms cut the same size as the Ox-palates. Run PuNCH for Imitation Cocks’ Combs. small skewers through the squares of meat, truffles, and mushrooms, and dip them into some villeroy sauce which has been preparing at the same time, and is still warm. Set them on a baking-slieet, at small distances, and let the sauce cool. Afterwards take them off the baking-slieet, roll them in breadcrumbs, dip into beaten eggs, and bread once more. When wanted, plunge into hot hog’s lard, and as soon as they assume a nice colour, drain, and dish up on a folded napkin with plenty of fried parsley round. Blanquette of Ox-Palates with Truffles. Rub some Ox- palates over with salt, put them in a saucepan with a slice of lemon, a small lump of butter, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and water enough to cover, and stew them. Cut some truffles into pieces the size of a shilling, season them with salt, put them into a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry lightly over a brisk fire till cooked. Put the truffles into a sauce a la blanquette, give them one boil up, move the sauce to the side of the fire, and thicken with a liaison of beaten eggs. Drain the palates, skin them, put them into the sauce, then turn the whole into a deep dish, and serve. Bouchees of Ox-Palate.—Chop up two cold cooked Ox- palates into very small pieces, and put them into a saucepan with one-third of their bulk of chopped cooked mushrooms; pour a few table-spoonfuls of very good be- chamel sauce into another saucepan, reduce it, stirring continually, and adding gradually h teacupful of melted glaze. Add it to the salpipon of Ox-palates and mushrooms, and put the saucepan containing them into the bain-marie to keep hot. Have ready some bouchees cases made of puff' paste, remove the top, put in some of the mixture, cover them over, arrange on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. Braised Ox-Palates.—Put two Ox-palates into a basin of salted water, and let them soak for a few hours; take them Fig. 78. Braised Ox-Palates. out, put them into a saucepan of salted water, and parboil them, so that the hard skin may be easily scraped off. Wash them well, put them into another saucepan, and add some carrot, onion, and celery cut into pieces, a few60 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Ox-Palates—continued. cloves, peppercorns, and mace, a sprig or so of parsley, and 3qts. of stock or water. Set the pan on the lire and cook gently for four hours. Take them out when done, press them between two dishes or boards, and let them remain until they are cold. Cut them with a tin cutter into rounds, put them into another saucepan with a little of their stock reduced to glaze, and cook slowly for ten minutes. When done, put them on a dish in a circle, pour round some Italian sauce, fill the cavity with small mushrooms, or green peas, &c., and serve. See Fig. 73. Broiled Ox-Palates.—(1) Put three Ox-palates into a basin of salted water and let them soak for several hours; take them out, put them into a saucepan with more salted water, parboil them, and scrape off the skin. Put them into another saucepan with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, and add a small lump of butter rolled in flour, one clove, one shallot, a bunch of parsley and thyme, and salt and pepper to taste. Place the pan on the fire and simmer gently for about an hour; take out the palates, cover them with well-beaten yolk of egg, then roll them in breadcrumbs, and broil gently. Put them on a dish, pour some piquant sauce round them, and serve. (2) Blanch three Ox-palates for about ten minutes, and when they are cold take them out, drain, scrape them very carefully, and cut into halves. Put them into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of dripping or fat, one faggot, one onion weighing about :}lb., one clove, loz. of salt, and 3 break fast-cupfuls of broth. Put the pan on the fire and boil the contents gently for three hours. Take out the palates if done, drain them on a cloth, and remove any fat that may still be adhering to them. Place them in a circle on a dish, and serve with a little Italian sauce. Curried Ox-Palates.—Prepare two Ox-palates as for braising, cutting them up into shapes. Put them into a saucepan with sufficient brown stock to cover, and add one or two onions cut in slices, 1 table-spoonful of curry powder, half the quantity of curry paste, 2 table-spoon- fuls of flour mixed in a little stock, and salt to taste. Put the pan on the fire, stir frequently, and cook gently until the palates are done. Just before serving, add 2 table-spoonfuls of cream to the liquor, mix it in, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve very hot. Fricandeau of Ox-Palates.—Wash, parboil, and skin three Ox-palates as for Broiled Palates, cut them up into squares, lard them, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry till brown; then take them out and put them on a strainer to drain. Pour a little less than 3 teacupfuls of beef gravy into a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of port wine, and add 1 teaspoonful of browning, a shallot and anchovy, a little horseradish, and 1 table-spoonful of lemon pickle. Put the pan on the fire, noil it up, strain off the liquor into another saucepan con- taining the palates, and stew gently for thirty minutes. Put them on a dish when done, add a little thickening to the gravy, pour it over, and serve. Fricassee of Ox-Palates.—Rub the palates over with salt, and put them in a saucepan with a slice of lemon, a lump of butter, and sufficient water to cover. Boil the palates till the skin can be easily removed, skin them, and cut them into small pieces. Put 2oz. of butter into a sauce- pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir it over the fire till well mixed, but do not let it colour, then pour in gradually I pint of chicken broth, and boil. Flavour the sauce with green onions, mushrooms, and a bunch of parsley, skim it, and reduce till of the required thickness ; then strain it through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan. Put the palates into the sauce and make them hot again. Serve the palates either in a casserole of rice or a vol au-vent. Fricassee of Ox-Palates with Cucumbers.—Boil the palates in salted water with a slice of lemon and a lump of butter till tender, then drain, skin, and cut them into small pieces. Peel some cucumbers and cut them into small pieces. Put a lump of butter into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir it over the fire till well mixed, but not browned, then put in some green onions, mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, and the trimmings of the onions; pour in sufficient chicken broth to make the sauce when reduced. Ox-Palates—continued. Boil the sauce till it is well flavoured with the herbs, then strain it through a fine hair sieve into another sauce- pan, put the pieces of cucumber in, and simmer them gently till tender. Take the pieces of cucumber out of the sauce, and reduce and thicken the sauce with the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten with a little cream. Put the Ox-palates and cucumbers in the sauce, and heat them up again without boiling. Turn the fricassee into a hot deep dish, and serve. Fricassee of Ox Palates with Peas.—Put the palates in a saucepan with a piece of lemon, a lump of salt, and suffi- cient water to cover, and boil them till tender. When cooked, skin the palates and cut them up. Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir it over the fire till well mixed, then add a few green onions and some mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, and 1 pint of chicken broth. Stir the sauce till thick, then boil till somewhat reduced. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan. Cook some peas in butter, put them in the sauce, boil it up again, put in the palates, and flavour the sauce with sugar and salt, allowing the sugar to predominate. Serve the palates in a vol-au-vent or rice casserole. Fricassee of Ox-Palates with Truffles.—The palates must be boiled till tender in salted water in which has been put a slice of lemon and a lump of butter. Drain and skin the palates, and cut them into small pieces. Put 2oz. of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour into a sauce- pan, and stir over the fire for ten or fifteen minutes, but do not let it take colour; then pour in gradually the re- quired quantity of chicken broth, add a few mushrooms, green onions, and a bunch of parsley, and boil the sauce till well flavoured with the herbs. Strain the sauce into another stewpan, season it with salt and sugar, and boil till reduced. Cut some truffles into small pieces, put them in a frying-pan with some butter, season with salt, and fry over a brisk fire. Move the sauce to the side of the fire and stir in a liaison of beaten yolks of eggs ; put the truffles and palates into the sauce, and make them hot again without boiling. Turn the fricassee into a deep dish or a casserole of rice, and serve. Fried Ox-Palates. —Wash, parboil, and scrape off the skin from three Ox-palates, put them into a saucepan with suffi- cient water or stock (see Stock) to cover, and boil for two hours. Take them out, cut them in halves, spread a layer of forcemeat over them, sprinkle with salt, roll them up, and tie them. Put the yolks of three eggs into a basin with 1 table-spoonful of clarified butter, and make them into a thick batter by adding flour; also add 1 wineglassful of white wine slowly. Put the palates in this batter, place them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry to a light brown; when done, drain them, remove the strings, set them neatly on to a dish, and serve very hot. Ox-Palates d la Financiere.—Put half-a-dozen Ox-palates into a basin of salted water, and let them soak for a few hours. Take them out, wash well, put them into a sauce- pan with more salted water, and parboil them in order to61 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Ox-Palates—continued. scrape off the hard skin with ease. Put them into another saucepan with Jgall. of stock, and add a stick of celery, one onion, one carrot cut up small, a few sprigs of parsley, a blade of mace, six cloves, a clove of garlic, six pepper- corns, and salt to taste. Put the pan on the fire and boil gently for four hours, when the palates should be quite done. Take out the palates, press them between two dishes, and when they are cold cut them up into pieces 2in. wide and 3in. long. Put a layer of quenelle forcemeat mixed with a little fine herbs over the palates, roll each up in a piece of well-buttered paper, put them into a saute-pan, and cook for about twenty minutes in a little of the liquor in which the palates were cooked. When they are done, take them out, remove the paper, roll them hi some half-glaze, and put them in the centre of a dish in the form of a cone, with sautes potatoes round them (see Fig. 79) and the strained liquor poured over the whole. Ox-Palates au Gratin. Put five Ox-palates into a basin of boiling water, and keep them there until the skin comes off easily by scraping with a knife. Dip them into water to freshen them, put them into a saucepan with a little white wine, and add a few peppercorns and cloves, salt to taste, a carrot and onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Pour over sufficient water to cover the whole, put the pan on the fire, and boil for five hours or so. Cut four dozen mushrooms into slices. Put a chopped onion into a sauce- pan with a little butter, cook it gently, stirring continually, but do not let it take colour; put in the mushrooms, and when their moisture has evaporated, add a clove of garlic, with a little cayenne and salt to taste. Pour in a few table- spoonfuls of bechamel sauce, boil up once, and remove the pan from the fire. When the palates are done, take them out, drain, wipe them well with a cloth, cut them into small pieces of an oblong shape, sprinkle with salt and pepper, mix them into the sauce mixture, and add a little finely-chopped parsley. Put the palates with the sauce into a deep dish, cover with breadcrumbs, pour over a little warmed butter, put the dish in the oven, and cook for twenty minutes. Take out the dish, and the palates are ready to be served. Ox-Palates a la Lyonnaise. -Put two Ox-palates into a saucepan of boiling water and blanch them. Trim them, put them on a gridiron over a quick lire, and cook for a minute; take off the skin, and put them in a saucepan with the following thickening: Put lib. of clarified butter into a saucepan, and when it has melted stir in 111), of flour; then pour in the required quantity of stock to make the sauce. Set the pan containing the palates on the fire and cook them until done; take them out, cut them into small pieces, mix them up with a puree of onions, and they are ready for use. Ox-Palates a la Ravigote.—Put four Ox-palates in a basin, cover with warm water, and leave them until well disgorged; then put them in a stewpan with fresh water, and place them over the fire until they begin to harden. Plunge the palates into cold water and scrape the skin off with a knife. If the skin does not come off easily, they should be left over the fire a little longer. When well scraped, put the palates in a stewpan with white stock to cover, and boil them until very tender. Lay the palates on a plate with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of their cooking- liquor, cover with another plate, and leave them until quite cold. Put a chopped shallot in a saucepan with loz. of butter, stir it over a slow fire for five minutes, then pour in lqt. of white veal stock : stir and boil it until reduced to the consistency of thick cream, then move it to the side and mix in quickly the beaten yolks of two eggs> seasoning to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of chopped parsley. Divide each palate into three pieces, trim them to an oval shape, dip them one at a time in the sauce, and lay them on a plate until cold. Peel and boil 31b. or 411). of potatoes, and when soft drain them and mash them with a little milk or butter; press them into a border mould and stand this in a bain-marie. Roll the palates into beaten egg, breadcrumb them well, roll them in the egg again, and afterwards in the bread- crumbs, giving them a good coating. Put a large lump of Ox-Palates—continued. lard into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire until blue smoke rises, then put in the palates and fry them until nicely browned on both sides. Turn the border of mashed potatoes on to a hot dish, arrange the palates on it in a crown, pour a ravigote sauce round them, and serve. Ox-Palates a la Vivandiere.—Disgorge four Ox-palates, put them in a stewpan of water, and place them over the fire until they begin to harden; then put them in cold water and scrape off all the skin. Foil them in white stock until tender, put them on a plate with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of the stock, cover with another plate, and leave them until cold. Put a chopped shallot in a sauce- pan with a small lump of butter, stir it over the fire for a few minutes, then pour in lqt. of bechamel sauce. Boil and stir the sauce until of a creamy thickness, then move it to the side of the fire and stir in quickly the beaten yolks of two eggs ; season to taste with salt and pepper and a small quantity of finely-chopped parsley. Divide each palate into three pieces, trim each piece to an oval shape, dip them well in the sauce, and lay them on a plate until cold. Peel and finely chop three moderate-sized onions, put them in a stewpan with loz. of butter, and fry until lightly browned. Drain the butter off the onions, and pour over them 1 wineglassful of port wine and a piece of glaze about the size of a walnut. Stir over the fire until the glaze has melted, then pour in 14 breakfast-cupfuls of brown sauce and barely 1 breakfast-cupful of broth. Boil and stir the sauce until the thickness of cream, then move it off the fire and mix with it 1 teaspoonful of sugar and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Roll the palates in beaten eggs, and breadcrumbs, repeating the operation twice. Put a large lump of lard or clarified fat into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire until blue smoke rises, then put in the palates and fry them until nicely browned. When the palates are taken out of the fat, place them on a sheet of kitchen-paper for a minute to drain. Arrange the palates in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce round them, put a bunch of fried parsley in the centre, and serve. Ox-Palates eii Papillote. -Prepare the palates by first dis- gorging, then blanching them to harden, and scrajie off the skin. When done, put them in a saucepan with white stock, and boil for three or four hours. When very tender, put the palates on a dish, with a few spoonfuls of their cooking-liquor, put another dish over them, and leave them until cold. Put about 4 teacupful of salad-oil in a stew- pan with a chopped moderate-sized onion, stir it over a brisk fire for a few minutes, drain off the oil, pour in 4 breakfast-cupfuls of white sauce, and add two chopped mush- rooms and 1 scant table-spoonful of chopped parsley ; stir the sauce and boil it for seven or eight minutes. Cut each palate into three pieces, which trim to an oval shape ; put them into the sauce, and boil for a few minutes longer, seasoning with a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Turn file palates and sauce on to a dish, and leave them until cold. Cut as many pieces of white paper to the shape of hearts as there are pieces of palates, making them large enough to fold over them. Spread some of the cold sauce over the papers, put the pieces of palate on them, mask that also with some of the sauce, and twist the papers up. Lay them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear but not too fierce a fire for ten minutes, turning them when done on one side. Arrange the palates, leaving them in the papers, in a circle on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with a group of fried parsley in the centre, and serve with a sauce- boatful of Italian sauce. Ox-Palate Croquettes. -Put three Ox-palates into a sauce- pan with sufficient water to cover, and boil over a mode- rate fire until done. Take them out, trim, scrape, and cut them into quarters. Put them into another saucepan with two heads of cloves, a clove of garlic, a little thyme and bay-leaves, salt and pepper to taste, and sufficient stock to cover, and simmer gently for thirty minutes ; then take out the quarters of palates, put I teaspoonful of beef forcemeat on each, roll them up, and dip into a thin paste made with a little Hour, 1 table-spoonful of olive oil, and 4 pint ofTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 62 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Ox-Palates—continued. white wine. Plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, fry until done, arrange them on a dish with a garnish of fried parsley, and serve very hot, or they will be spoilt. Paupiettes of Ox-Palates.—(1) Cut oft'five or six fillets from some Ox-palates that have been cooked; trim, and cut them into halves. Have ready a salpicon of cooked fine herbs finished with trutHes and thickened with forcemeat, cover the fillets over with it, and roll them round into the shape of paupiettes, fastening them with small skewers. Dip them into well-beaten egg, cover with breadcrumbs, put them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry until they are done. Take them out, drain, remove the skewers, place them on a napkin on a dish in the form of a pyramid, and serve. (2) Pare ten cooked fillets of Ox-palates, cut off a little from each end, cover them on one side with some uncooked forcemeat mixed with a quarter of its bulk of minced fat liver, roll the paupiettes into shape, secure them with string, and wrap them round with thin slices of bacon. Put them into a flat saucepan close together, pour over a little stock and white wine, place the pan on the fire, and cook them. When done, remove the string and slices of bacon, trim them, and glaze carefully. Have ready a moderately thick layer of forcemeat poached on a dish to form a round, put it on a dish, place the paupiettes in a circle, standing on their ends, round it, fill the cavity in the centre with cooked minced truffles, and serve. A sauceboatful of brown sauce reduced with truffles should accompany this dish. Pickled Ox-Palates.—Wash four Ox-palates, put them in a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, three blades of mace, two or three cloves, and !qt. of water, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. Boil the palates until quite tender (they will take about five hours), then drain and remove their skins, keeping them covered until cold. Put 1J pints of vinegar and an equal quantity of white wine into a saucepan with the mace that was previously boiled with the palates, four cloves, and a few peppercorns, and boil them for ten minutes ; then take the mixture oft' the fire and leave it until cold. Put the palates in an earthen- ware jar with two bay-leaves, five or six peppercorns, and a blade of mace, then pour the pickle oter them. Tie paper over the top of the jar, and keep it for use in a store cupboard. Rolled Ox-Palates. -Boil the palates until the skin may be easily peeled oft', then trim them, and chop the trim- mings. Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour into a small stewpan and mix them over the fire, then put in the chopped trimmings, with 1 wineglassful of sherry, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of the liquor in which the palates were boiled, and let them simmer gently at the edge of the fire. Prepare a sufficient quantity of nicely-flavoured forcemeat to mask the palates with. Brush the outside of the palates over with a paste- brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, spread the forcemeat over them, roll up tightly, and tie them round with fine twine; lay them in a stewpan with a large lump of butter and milk to moisten to their height, and stew them very gently at the side of the lire for two hours. At the end of that time turn the trimmings and their gravy on to a hoT dish, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, lay the rolled palates on the top, garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs and pickles, and serve. If any of the forcemeat is left after the palates are covered, it should be rolled into small balls, fried in butter, and placed round the dish. Stewed Ox-Palates.—(1) Wash six palates, put them in a bowl of warm water, and soak them for a few hours until thoroughly disgorged. When ready, skin the palates, put them in a saucepan with plenty of water, and stew until tender. Then drain and cut them into small pieces. Put loz. of butter in a saucepan with I table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the lire until mixed ; then pour in 1J pints of veal broth, \ wineglassful of sherry, 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and 1 table-spoonful of burnt sugar colouring. Stir the liquor over the fire until boiling, then put in the palates, one onion peeled and stuck with three cloves, and a slice of lemon. Move the saucepan to the edge Ox-Palates—continued. of the fire, and keep the contents simmering for five hours. Prepare a dozen veal-forcemeat balls, put them in a flat stewpan with boiling fat, and fry until nicely browned. Put the balls on a sheet of kitchen-paper near the fire to drain for a minute or two. Put the palates on a hot dish when they are cooked, strain the gravy over them, garnish with the forcemeat balls, and serve. (2) Put the palates over the fire in a saucepan with sufficient milk to cover, and let them simmer till they will peel easily. When peeled, stew them till very tender in a fricassee sauce, adding to it a small quantity of cream, thickening it with flour and butter, and flavouring with mushroom powder and a very little pounded mace. Stewed Stuffed Ox-Palates.—Put four Ox-palates into a basin of salted water, wash them well, put them into a saucepan with more salted water, and boil for an hour. Take them out, scrape off the skin, reduce the liquor to a breakfast-cupful, and strain it into a basin. When the palates are quite cold, trim them and spread over them some good veal stuffing, roll them up into shape, and tie round with tape or string. Put a lump of butter into a sauce- pan, and when it has melted add a little flour, and cook until it is brown. Dip the palates into well-beaten egg, put them in the saucepan with the butter, and cook until they are brown also. Pour in the ^ pint of stock, toss the pan over the fire until the liquor boils, then remove it to the side to keep hot without boiling. Add 1 teaspoonful of ketchup to the liquor, take out the palates, remove the tape or string, arrange them on a dish in a circle, pour the liquor in the centre, and serve. Turban of Ox-Palates. Place the palates in lukewarm water until the blood has well disgorged, drain them, put them in a saucepan with sufficient fresh water to cover, and place them over the fire until they harden ; then plunge the palates into cold water and scrape the skins off. Boil the palates until tender in white stock, put them on a plate with a little of their cooking-liquor, cover with another plate, and leave them until cold. Prepare some veal force- meat, and make a border with some of it on a gratin- disli. Cut each palate into three pieces, trim them to an oval shape, cover them with the remainder of the force- meat, ihen roll them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs. Fio. 80. Turban of Ox-Palates. Arrange the palates in a crown on the border of forcemeat (see Fig. SO), and place the dish in a moderate oven ; in lialf-an-hour’s time, place a sheet of paper over the palates, and leave them in the oven for another quarter-of-an-hour. When ready, pour an Italian sauce over them, and serve while very hot. Vol-au-Vent of Ox-Palates. -Disgorge four Ox-palates in warm water, then put them in a saucepan with fresh cold water, and place them over the fire until they harden ; put them in cold water and scrape off all the skin. Return them to the saucepan with white stock to cover, and boil until tender. Then place them oir a plate with a few table- spoonfuls of the stock, cover with another plate, and leave them until cold. Prepare lib. of puff paste, giving it six turns, roll it out, and trim it to a round shape; mark the edges of the paste with the back of a knife. Sprinkle a little water over a baking-sheet, lay the paste on it, and brush the top over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg. Dip a knife in hot water, and with the point cut a circle half-way through the paste and aboutTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 63 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Ox-Falates—continued. |in. from the edge. Bake the paste in a brisk oven, cover- ing it with a sheet of paper when it begins to take colour. When the palates are cold, cut them into small rounds with a tin cutter about lin. in diameter, put them in a sauce- pan with a few mushrooms, lqt. of bechamel or white sauce, and U- teacupfuls of white stock. Boil for half- an-hour, then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and mix in with the palates loz. of butter, h table-spoonful of chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, a squeeze of lemon-juice, and salt and pepper to taste ; beat the yolks of two eggs together with 2 table-spoonfuls of milk, and stir them quickly into the sauce. Stir it over the fire until on the point of boiling, then move it off at once before it quite boils. When baked, lift the lid of the paste, scrape out the soft part with a knife, and fill it with the palate mixture. Spread a fancy dish-paper or a folded napkin on a hot dish, stand the vol-au-vent on it, and serve. Ox-Pith.—The marrow taken from the spinal column. See Amourettes. Ox-Tails.—Kettner informs us that the Ox-tail in which we now take a national pride was originally Huguenot, and we learned the taste for it from the poor Protestant refugees who settled about Bermondsey. In this region of the tanners there is or was a place known as the Borgeney—Petty Burgundy. The Huguenots, when they saw Ox-hides abounding about them, thought they could make something of the tails, which were then sold with the hides. They make an excellent soup. A philanthropist who happened to be a lover of good cheer was in the habit of visiting the homes of the poor Frenchmen here at Spitalfields, and Petty Burgundy. In Petty Burgmidy he came upon the Ox-tail soup, which opened his eyes; and he then made such a proclamation of the goodness of it, that it became in course of time a fashionable dish. Boiled Ox-Tails.—Cut two dozen small onions into a sauce- pan with 3 pints of water, and boil them for about twenty minutes. Cut two Ox-tails into pieces, put them in a saucepan with a large lump of butter and a large onion, and brown them ; then pour in the water from the boiled onions, adding more water if required to cover them. Add to the pan two or three carrots cut in pieces and an equal quantity of turnips cut in the same way, putting in the carrots about twenty minutes before the turnips. Stew slowly, and when the tails and vegetables are cooked take them out and keep hot on a dish. Put loz. of butter in another pan, melt it, stir in as much flour as will make it quite stiff, pour in the strained gravy from the tails, adding a little at a time, and stir well until it boils. Place the pieces of tails in the centre of the dish, arrange the vegetables round them, pour over the sauce, and serve with the boiled onions round the dish for garnish. Braised Ox-Tail with. Chestnut Puree.—Cut the thickest part of a fresh Ox-tail into pieces about 3m. long, soak them in water for a few hours, then blanch them. Put some layers of fat bacon and some sliced carrots and onions in an oblong stewpan, add a bunch of sweet herbs, and put in the slices of tail. Dust in a small quantity of salt, cover them with white wine and broth mixed in equal quantities, and put on the top some slices of fat bacon or some pork rind. When boiling, move the pan to the side of the fire, put some live embers on the lid, and braise the contents for five or six hours, adding more broth to keep up the quantity. When cooked, drain the pieces of tail, and keep them hot. Mix 1 teacupful of gravy with the cooking-stock, boil it up, then strain it through a fine hair sieve; return it to the pan, skim off the fat, and boil it quickly till somewhat reduced. Have ready a chestnut puree in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the pieces of tail in a circle, pour the gravy round them, and serve. Broiled Ox-Tails.—(1) Wash the tails thoroughly and cut the thick parts into joints; put them in a stewpan with a bunch of sweet herbs, a small quantity of salt and cayenne pepper, and cover with common stock. When the liquor | Ox-Tails—continued. comes to the boil, move the stewpan to the edge of the fire, and keep it simmering gently for two-hours-and-a-half. Afterwards take them out and drain them well on a sieve, brash them over with a paste-brush dipped hi beaten yolk of egg, and cover thickly with finely-grated breadcrumbs. Fig. 81. Broiled Ox-Tails. Put them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear brisk fire, turning them constantly. When ready, lay them on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 81), and serve with a sauceboatful of tartar sauce. (2) Take some sections of Ox-tails that have been stewed, dust them over with salt and pepper, dip them into warmed butter and then into breadcrumbs, then butter again, and lastly breadcrumbs. Put them on a gridiron over a clear fire and broil until browned. Place them on a dish, pour over some piquant or Italian sauce, and serve. They may also be dished up on a puree of green peas, or on some boiled red cabbage. Curried Ox-Tail.—Separate an Ox-tail at the joints and put it into a saucepan with 3 pints of vrater, a thin slice of bacon or ham, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Place the pan at the side of the fire, and simmer gently for four hours ; take out the pieces of tail, and pass the liquor through a sieve into a basin. Put an onion and a couple of sour apples, both cut in pieces, into a saucepan with loz. of butter, and fry them until quite brown, stirring continually. Mix in 1 table-spoonful of curry powder, 1 teaspoonful of flour, salt and pepper to taste, and 1 pint of the liquor that the tail was cooked in; remove the pan to the side of the fire, stir frequently, and cook for twenty minutes longer. Lay in the pieces of tail, warm them up, remove the pan from the fire, squeeze over a little lemon-juice, turn the curry out on to a dish, and serve very hot. Pried Ox-Tail.—(1) Disjoint an Ox-tail, cut it into pieces 2in. long, and blanch for twenty minutes; then egg-aml- breadcrumb them, then fry hr hot fat to a light brown colour, and serve with tomato sauce. (2) Dip some sections of stewed Ox-tail into breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry to a light brown. Arrange them on a dish, pour over a little tomato sauce, and serve. This is an easy method of warm- ing up pieces of tail that have been left over from a pre- vious dish. (3) Put three Ox-tails cut into pieces 4in. in length into a saucepan with lqt. of stock and a bunch of sweet herbs, place the pan at the side of the fire, and simmer gently for three hours or so until tender. Take them out, let them get quite cold, then dip into well-beaten egg and next into breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry to a light brown. Pour a little tartar sauce over a dish, put the pieces of tails on it, and serve with a garnish of fried parsley. Haricot of Ox-Tails.—Put 3 breakfast-cupfuls of butter into a saucepan, and when it has melted add three Ox-tails divided into natural sections and two onions chopped small; cook until the onions are light brown. Put in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir for two minutes longer; pour in 3 pints of water, and when it boils skim carefully, removing the pan to the side of the fire. Let it simmer for an hour, and add two carrots and two turnips cut into rather large pieces; when they have been cooking for an hour, add some potatoes cut into slices or squares, and salt and pepper to taste. They will require twenty minutes, cooking, and by that time all the ingredients should be thoroughly done. Take out the vegetables, pile them in theTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 64 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, fauces, ibe., referred to, see under their special heads. Ox- Tails—continued. centre of a dish, place the pieces of tails round, pour the gravy over, and serve hot. Ox-Tail Soup.—(1) Cut the tail into joints, wash the pieces, and fry them in a small quantity of butter; next drain the pieces of tail, put them in a stewpan with a ham- hone, two or three carrots and onions peeled and sliced, a head of celery washed and cut into convenient-sized pieces, a hunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, and a few cloves and peppercorns. Cover the contents of the stewpan with water, place it over the lire, and boil and skim until the scum ceases to rise. Then move the stew- pan to the edge of the fire, put the lid on, and let the contents boil very gently until the tail is quite tender. When ready, cut the meat into small pieces; strain and skim the soup, return it to the stewpan, thicken it with flour, and mix with it 1 wineglassful of port wine and 2 table- spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup. Put in the pieces of meat again, and let the soup simmer at the side of the fire for a few minutes longer. Turn the soup into a soup- tureen, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (2) Cut the Ox-tails into small pieces, and steep them in cold water for several hours. Next drain them, and put them into a, saucepan with 3qts. of rich brown stock. Poil the soup gently for about two hours, then put in 3 heaped breakfast-cupfuls of vegetables, composed of carrots, turnips, and onions all cut into small squares. Keep the soup simmering at the side of the fire until the vege- tables are tender. Pour the soup into a tureen, and serve. (3) Put an Ox-tail divided in natural sections into a basin of water, and let it remain for an hour or so. Blanch the sections, drain them, put them in a saucepan, with a layer of minced vegetables and a bunch of sweet herbs at the bottom, and pour over 2 wineglassfuls of white wine. Place the pan on the fire, reduce the liquor, then pour in some broth; cover the pan, put hot ashes on the lid, and braise for from four to five hours. Take the pieces of tail out, drain them in a colander, trim them, and put them in another smaller saucepan to keep hot. Add more broth to the liquor, boil it up on a quick fire, strain through a fine sieve, remove the fat, and pour it into a saucepan containing Jgall. of boiling jelly-broth. Put 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of pearl barley into a saucepan with a little of the broth, add it when boiled to the soup, together with a few sliced vegetables also boiled in broth: Boil the soup again for a few minutes, pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve with the pieces of tail on a separate dish. (4) Disjoint a couple of Ox-tails and put them into a saucepan, with Hoz. of butter, a head of celery, and two each of onions, turnips, and carrots, all cut up into small pieces; add 4oz. of ham cut into thin slices, five cloves, a large bunch of sweet herbs, and lastly 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Put the pan on the fire, and stir well until there is a thick glaze in the pan and the flavour from the herbs is extracted. Add 3qts. more water, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for from three-hours- and-a-half to four hours, or until the tails are quite cooked and tender, skimming frequently. Take out the pieces of tails, put them on a dish to keep warm, strain the soup into another saucepan, and add a thickening of flour, 1 wineglassful of port wine! the same quantity of ketchup, and a small head of celery boiled and cut into pieces. Return the pieces of tails to the .soup, boil for a few minutes longer, pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve. (5) Separate two Ox-tails into sections, wash them thoroughly, and turn them into a basin of water for an hour to extract the blood. Put them into a large jar with a large onion stuck with three or four cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, 6 table-spoonfuls of browning, 2 table-spoonfuls of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Pour over these 3qts. of water, place the lid on the jar, secur- ing it tightly, put it in a warm oven, and cook for about three hours. Remove all the fat, take out the pieces of tails, and strain the soup through a fine sieve. Have ready a small head of celery boiled and cut into pieces, put the pieces of tails hi a soup-tureen, add the celery to the soup, warm it up, pour it into the tureen, and serve. Ox-Tails —continued. Stewed Ox-Tail.—(1) Divide an Ox-tail into natural sections, blanch them for twenty minutes, and then put them into a basin of water and let them soak for an hour. Take them out, drain them, put them into a saucepan with 5 pints of vegetable broth, and place the pan on the fire; when the liquor boils, skim it, and add Jib. of sliced onions and lib. of carrots turned into cork shapes, two faggots, three or four cloves, and sufficient salt and pepper to taste. Remove the pan to the side of the lire, and simmer gently for from three to four hours, until the tail is cooked. Pour the contents of the saucepan into a colander to drain into another saucepan, take out the pieces of tail, wipe them dry on a cloth, and put them into a Jgall. saucepan. Take the carrots out of the colander, and put them also into another saucepan. Skim off the fat from the liquor, reduce it to half its original quantity, and pour half of it into the saucepan with the carrots and the remainder into the saucepan with the pieces of tail. Warm both the carrots and pieces of tail, arrange the latter on a dish, garnish with the former and ten or twelve glazed onions, pour the gravy over all, and serve. (2) Cut a fresh tail into joints, and steep them in water till all the blood is washed out; blanch them in boiling water, drain, and leave till cool. Line the bottom of a stewpan with some slices of bacon, put in the tail, also a few carrots and onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs; pour in a small quantity of broth, put the lid on, and stew slowly at the side of the fire, with hot ashes on the lid. Peel and blanch some turnips, cut them to a nice shape, put them in a saucepan with some Spanish sauce, season with salt and sugar, and stew gently till tender. When the tail is cooked, drain it well, put it on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, anil serve. Ox-Tongues.—The most valuable part of what is termed offal supplied by the Ox is the tongue. So great is the demand for these that large quantities are imported already pickled, and sometimes cured by smoking, from Mexico, Canada, Australia, and other parts of the world where beef is plentiful; but although the demand for these may be ever so great, they do not in any way come up to those which are pickled and cured in England. Ox-tongues may be served either hot or cold; when served hot it is the custom of cooks to dish the tongue on a bed of rice, or pack it on either side with vegetables to keep it steady whilst being carved; but a Mr. Labaube, for some years chef to the Marquis of Salisbury, has invented what be styles the Cavendish Ox-tongue Holder. It is described as consisting of a plated metal frame, bottomless and flexible. After the root has been trimmed off' square, the tongue is placed in the holder, and two skewers are Fig. 82. Tiie Cavendish Ox-Tongue Holder (Temple and Crook). piassed through it, one lengthwise, the other from side to side, as shown in Fig. 82. A fly-nut screws on to the end of the lateral skewer, and serves to bring the sides of the holder closer together, so that it grips the tongue firmly. Thus secured, the latter can be carved with convenience and comfort; paper frills are not required, and the dish, as a whole, has'a more presentable appearance. The holder adapts itself to tongues of various sizes, and constitutes a noticeable addition to the ornaments of the table. It has been stated that horse-tongues are frequently substituted for Ox-tongues, but we have no reason to credit this, or to believe that any others beyond those taken from the Ox, cow, or neat are ever sold in our marketsARTISTIC CENTRE PIECE. The stand is moulded in fat on a plaster base The ten +• x ■ and snipe, the latter with beaks in the air and turned truffle! SUPPorted b7 and carries a wreath of larksITHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 65 Ox-Tongues—continued. The tongue of the horse differs in so many respects besides shape from the tongues we are describing that it would be readily detected. The following receipts, contributed from various authentic sources, provide a great number of different modes of treating the tongue : Baked Ox-Tongue.—(1) Place the tongue in a deep earthen- ware pie-dish, put 3oz. of butter in slices on the top, and cover it completely with a flour-and-water paste, allowing the edges of the paste to hang over the sides of the dish. Bake it in a moderate oven, judging the time of cooking by the size of the tongue. When cooked, remove the paste, skin the tongue, stretch it out on a board, screw it down at the root and tip, and leave it like that until quite cold. When ready, unscrew the tongue, brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in liquid glaze, and fix' a frill of paper round it. Spread a fancy dish-paper or a table- napkin over a dish, put the tongue on it, garnish with cold young vegetables, and serve. (2) Put the tongue the night before it is cooked into a bowl with sufficient lukewarm water to cover it and let it soak all night. On the following morning, trim it neatly and scrape it. Stick eighteen or twenty cloves all over the tongue, and boil it until about half cooked, judging the time according to the size of the tongue. Afterwards drain it, brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolks of eggs, and strew over plenty of finely-grated breadcrumbs. Put it in a baking-dish and bake until nicely browned, basting it constantly with butter. When cooked, place the tongue on a hot dish, pour round it some rich brown gravy in which has been mixed 1 wineglassful of wine, and serve with red-currant jelly. (3) Cut off the root and superfluous fat from a very fresh Ox-Tongue, braise it, and when cold cut it into thick slices. Put the crumb of a household loaf into a mortar with one anchovy, a little butter, chopped parsley, a few shallots, tarragon-leaves, capers, and chives, and pound them well together. Put half of this mixture in a baking- pan or dish, arrange the slices of tongue on the top, cover it over with the rest of the mixture, pour over a little stock and warmed butter, put the pan (or dish) in a moderate oven, and bake. When done and a light brown take it out of the oven, put the dish or pan it was cooked in on another dish, and serve. Boiled Ox-Tongue.—Put a fresh tongue into a saucepan of water with 2 table-spoonfuls of salt, and boil for three or four hours: take it out, plunge it into cold water for two or three minutes, take out, drain, take off the skin, put it on a dish, and serve either hot or cold. Boiled Ox-Tongue served with Chestnuts. —Place a pickled Ox-Tongue into a bowl of water and soak it, then put it into a saucepan with water to cover and boil for two hours ; take it out, drain it, and remove the skin. Cover the bottom of a saucepan with vegetables cut in slices and a few sweet herbs, place the tongue on topi, and pour in sufficient broth and white wine to moisten to half its height. Cover with paper, set the saucepan on the fire, and cook gently until—the tongue is tender, turning occasionally so as to glaze it on both sides. Have ready a puree of chestnuts, moderately thick, spread it over a dish, and place the tongue on it; add a little more broth to the liquor in the saucepan, boil well, skim and strain into another sauce- pan, reduce it to half-glaze, pour it over the tongue, and serve. Boiled Ox-Tongue with Prunes. Put a fresh Ox-Tongue into a saucepan of salted water and boil until the skin can easily be removed. Skin it, put it into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and add lib. each of prunes and stoned raisins, 4oz. of sugar, and spice to taste; set the saucepan on the fire, and boil well until the whole is done. Put the tongue on a dish, pour over the remainder, and serve. Boiled Ox-Tongue served on a Puree of Sorrel.—Cut on the root of a fresh Ox-Tongue, wash it well, put it into a saucepan of lukewarm water, place it on the fire, and bring the contents gently to the boil. Take the Ox-Tongues—continued. tongue out, drain, put it into another saucepan with a few vegetables and a bunch of sweet herbs, cover with cold water, and boil for two hours. Take it out, skin, put it into another saucepan lined with vegetables cut in slices, pour over gravy and white wine in equal parts to half its height, cover the pan, put it on the fire, and boil slowly until the liquor is reduced to one half its original quantity. Remove the pan to the side of the fire and cook very gently until the tongue is tender and the liquor reduced to a glaze. The tongue must be turned, so as to glaze it well all over. Cover a dish with a puree of sorrel, place the tongue on it, add a little gravy to the liquor, and boil up at once; skim the liquor, strain it into another saucepan, reduce it to half-glaze, pour it over the tongue and serve. Boiled Pickled Ox-Tongue with Chestnut Puree.—Put a pickled Ox-Tongue into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and ^boil for two hours. Take it out, drain, remove the skin, put it into another saucepan with a few vegetables cut in slices, a bunch of sweet herbs, sufficient broth to moisten it to half its height, and a little white wine. Cover the tongue with a piece of paper, place the pan on the fire, and finish cooking the tongue, turning it over frequently. When done and well glazed put it on a dish on a puree of cooked chestnuts, add a little more broth to the liquor, boil it, skim off all the fat, strain it into another saucepan, reduce to half-glaze, pour it over the tongue, and serve. Boiled Pickled Ox-Tongue with Red Sauce.—Put an Ox- Tongue into brine and let it remain for fourteen days or so. When wanted for use, take it out, drain, and put it into a basin of water for three hours. Take it out, drain again, put it into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, set the pan on the fire, and as soon as the contents commence to boil remove the pan to the side of the fire and simmer for three hours. Remove the pan from the fire, let the tongue remain in the liquor for thirty minutes, take it out, drain it, trim, and take off the skin. Put it on a dish, and pour over some sauce made as follows: Put 1 breakfast-cupful of vinegar into a saucepan with a few cloves and peppercorns, a bay-leaf, a little thyme and parsley, and reduce it quickly to half its original bulk; then add 2 breakfast-cupfuls of gravy, boil again, and thicken with some potato-flour mixed to a paste with water. Let it remain for five minutes, strain it through a fine sieve into another saucepan, and stir in 2 table- spoonfuls of red-currant jelly and 1 teacupful each of well- washed currants and sultana raisins. Boil for five or six minutes, and it is ready for use. Boiled Smoked Ox-Tongue.—Put a smoked Ox-Tongue into water, and let it soak for a couple of days; then put it into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and boil for three hours. Take it out, drain, skin it, put it on a dish with a garnish of gherkins and green pickled peppers, and serve. Braised Ox-Tongue.—(1) Soak an Ox-Tongue in warm water until all the blood is extracted and the water quite cold. Take it out, drain, trim off the superfluous fat, and lard the meat with fat bacon. Put it into a braising-pan with a few cloves, carrots, and onions, a little thyme and parsley, two slices of fat bacon or pork, sufficient stock to moisten it, and salt and pepper to taste. Set the pan at the side of the fire, cover it, place hot ashes on the top, and cook slowly for about four hours. Take out the tongue when done, remove the skin, cut it lengthwise into halves, lay them ojien on a dish, pour some tomato or piquant sauce over and serve. (2) Well wash a fresh Ox-Tongue, pass a needle with twine through the tip and root, tie it securely, and bind round with string. Put it into a saucepan with sufficient boiling water to cover, boil gently for two hours, then take it out and diain. Welt 6 table-spoonfuls of butter in a braising-pan, and when quite hot add two onions and half a small carrot and turnip, all finely chopped. Stir veil over the fire for five minutes, remove the pan to the side, cover the tongue with flour, put it in the pan, and brown it first on one side and then on the other. Put For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£•<:., referred to, see under their special heads. FGfi THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils'', Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Os-Tongues—continued. lqt. of water into a saucepan with a clove, a bunch of sweet herbs, a small piece of cinnamon, and a little each of salt and pepper. Boil well for a few minutes to extract the flavour, strain the liquor into the pan with the tongue, cover with the lid, put it in the oven, and cook slowly for two hours, basting frequently with the liquor, and sprinkling in a little flour, salt, and pepper. About half-armour before the tongue is done, the juice of a lemon should be added to the gravy. Take out the tongue when done, put it on a dish, pour over 2 table-spoonfuls of melted glaze, and keep it warm. Boil the liquor, and stir in 1 table- spoonful of cornflour mixed up with a little cold water; boil for a minute longer, pour it through a sieve round the tongue, and serve with sprigs of parsley for garnish. Braised Ox Tongue in Sauce Hachee.—Steep a fresh Ox- Tongue in water till the blood is drawn out, then blanch it. Place it in a stewpan with a carrot, an onion, a bunch of parsley and thyme, a bay-leaf, and one or two cloves; put in two or three slices of fat bacon, a ladleful of broth, and braise it. When cooked, skin the tongue, and cut it into halves. Prepare a sauce hachee with some chopped gherkins, mushrooms, capers, and anchovies, and mix them in some brown Italian sauce; or, in place of the Italian sauce, put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in a small saucepan, stir it over the fire till brown, then pom- in a small quantity of broth or gravy, and add the chopped herbs. Spread the tongue out on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. Broiled Slices of Ox-Tongue in Cases.—Cut up into thick slices a braised Ox-Tongue, cover them with thin slices of bacon, sprinkle over a few minced sweet herbs, and wrap the whole round with pieces of greased paper, folding them in such a manner that the liquor cannot ran out. Put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil. When done, place them on a dish, and serve. Cold Ox-Tongue.—Boil a tongue for three hours; when cooked, skin it, trim off the rough parts of the root, and truss it a good shape by placing the root against some fixture and running a fork through the thin end into the table or board. When cold, finish trimming the tongue. Put the tongue on a dish, fix a frilled paper round the root with skewers, wet it with a little hot jelly, and garnish with parsley and chopped aspic. An imi- tation scallop shell may be carved on the tongue, commencing at the thin end and ending at the thick. Glaze it well with light glaze, spread a thick layer of aspic jelly over the tongue, and garnish it on the dish with attelettes of jelly and mushrooms. See Fig. 83. Pried Fillets of Ox-Tongue.—Cut off eight fillets from a cold boiled Ox-Tongue, having them 4m. long, 2in. wide, and Jin. thick ; dip them in hot butter, and cover with flour. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter into a frying-pan, make it hot, place in the fillets, and brown them on both sides, taking care not to burn them. Take them out, and put them on a dish over thin strips of toast; add another table-spoonful of butter to the pan, stir in a little more than 1 teaspoonful of flour, and when this is brown add 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice or half the quantity of vinegar, J teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and Ox-Tongues—continued. 1 breakfast-cupful of rich stock. Boil up once more, pour the sauce round the tongue, and serve with a garnish of parsley. Minced Ox-Tongue.—Cut any cold cooked Ox-Tongue into oblong-shaped pieces, cut them again transversely into slices, and put them in a saucepan with a few slices of uncooked truffle. Cut an onion and three small Jerusalem artichokes into slices and again into quarters, place them in a frying-pan with a little oil, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and fry over a moderate fire until done. Add 1 table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, cook for a minute or so, and then add the pieces of tongue and truffles. Cook for three or four minutes longer, remove the pan from the fire, and pour in the juice of two lemons. Turn the mince out on to a dish, garnish with pieces of bread fried in butter, and serve. Ox-Tongues a la Financiere.—Blanch a couple of fresh Ox- Tongues, put them into a saucepan lined with vegetables cut in slices and a few small pieces of bacon, moisten with a little broth, cover the tongues with paper, put the sauce- pan on the fire with hot ashes on the lid, and cook until the tongues are done and quite tender. Take them out, drain them, trim the thick or root ends, making them as round as possible, and with a sharp knife cut the tongues transversely to half their length and remove the top pieces. Cut these into slices, and put them back in their places. Put a flat crouton of fried bread in the centre of a dish, mask it with forcemeat poached in the oven, glaze the tongues, and put them on it, with their root ends meeting in the centre; surround the base with a ragout a la fin- aneiere, and garnish with quenelles, made with a spoon, and some larger ones studded with truffles. Serve with a sauce- boatful of brown sauce reduced with wine. Should salted tongues be used they will only require to be boiled with plenty of water until they are tender, and then treated as above. Ox-Tongue a la Gourmet.—Boil an Ox-Tongue in plenty of water for three hours. When cooked, drain it, peel the skin oft', and trim it nicely. Lard and braise four sweet- breads. Take the fillets of two or three chickens, trim them nicely, put them in a buttered saute-pan, and saut6 them. Peel sufficient potatoes that will, when mashed, fill a border mould, boil till tender, then drain, and mesh them with a little butter; press them in a border mould, and set in a bain-marie for a few minutes. When the fillets of chicken are cooked, take them out of the pan, and keep them hot. Pour 1 h pints of white sauce and J pint of veal stock into a saucepan, and boil till rather thickly reduced, stirring all the time; then mix 1 teacupful of cream with it, and season with a small quantity of moist sugar. Glaze the tongue and sweetbreads. Turn the potato border on to a hot dish, put the tongue in the centre, put two of the sweetbreads at each end, the fillets of chicken at each side, pour the sauce over them, straining it through a fine hah' sieve, and serve without delay. Ox-Tongue au Gratin.—Moisten about 4oz. of crumb of bread with a little clear gravy; when the bread is soft, put it in a mortar with 2oz. of butter, a moderate quantity each of finely-chopped lemon-thyme, tarragon-leaves, and parsley, a few capers, and two boned, washed, and chopped anchovies, and pound until quite smooth. Cut some cold, cooked Ox-Tongue into neat slices, put a layer of the forcemeat in a dish that will stand the heat of the oven and can be served at table, then arrange the pieces of tongue on the top and cover them with another layer of the stuffing. Put a few small slices of butter on the top, and place the dish in a quick oven. In about a-quarter-of- an-hour’s time take the dish out of the oven, and if not sufficiently coloured on the top brown it under a sala- mander. Serve while hot. Ox-Tongue a, la Terrapin.—Put a salted Ox-Tongue into a saucepan of water and boil it until quite tender; take it out, strain, and cut it lengthwise . in halves. Stick a few cloves in them, put them into another saucepan with sufficient water to cover, add an onion cut in slices, a little mace, and browned flour, boil for a few minutes; and put in three finely-chopped hard-boiled eggs, remove the panTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. (57 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£-c., referred to, see under their special heads Os-Tongues—continued. from the fire, pour in 1 wineglassful of wine, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve very hot, with a garnish of hard-boiled eggs cut in slices. See Fig. 84. Ox-Tongue in Aspic Jelly.—(1) Trim off the roots of a skinned cold boiled tongue, either fresh or salted. Pack a igall mould in ice, pour in a little warmed aspic jelly to cover the bottom to about lin. in depth, let it set, garnish with beetroot cut in various shapes, pour over a little more aspic to set them, place the tongue up- side down on the top, pour over 1 teacupful more of the jelly to fix the tongue in its place, then fill up the mould with jelly, and let it remain until set and quite firm. Turn it out on to a dish, garnish with parsley and pickles, and serve. Pickled beetroot if possible should be used. (2) Put an Ox-Tongue in a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover it; place it over the fire until boiling, then skim the liquor, stand the saucepan at the edge of the fire, and stew the tongue until tender. When the tongue is cooked, drain, skin, curl it round, and place it in a large mould. Put loz. of soaked gelatine into a saucepan with 1 qt. of stock, and about one dozen peppercorns; stir them over the fire until boiling and the gelatine has dissolved, then strain the liquor through a jelly-bag over the tongue in the mould, leave it until quite cold and firm, then turn the tongue and jelly out of the mould on to a dish over which has been spread a lace-edged dish- paper or a folded napkin, garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve. Ox-Tongue Patties.—Prepare a forcemeat of truffles, grated Hamburg beef, breadcrumbs, and a plentiful seasoning of spices, and bind it with beaten egg. Cut an Ox-Tongue into thin slices, put a little of the forcemeat on each, and roll them up, fastening them with skewers. Brush the rolls over with a paste-brusli dipped in beaten egg, and roll them in breadcrumbs; put them in a frying-pan with butter or clarified fat, and fry them until nicely browned. Make some flaky paste, roll it out thinly, and cut it into pieces 24in. long. Remove the skewers from the rolls of fried tongue, and lay one on each piece of paste; roll them up, moistening the paste at the ends and pinching them together; brush them over with beaten egg, roll them in breadcrumbs, and fry again. When the paste is cooked and of a golden colour, drain the rolls on a sheet of kitchen-paper for a minute or two, place them on a dish over which should have been spread a folded napkin or a fancy-edged dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Ox-Tongue Toast.—Mince the required quantity of cold boiled Ox-Tongue, put it into a saucepan, mix in a little cream or milk, boil up, and add the well-beaten yolks of eggs to thicken. Have ready several rounds of toast, butter them, mask them with the tongue preparation, and serve very hot Pickled Ox-Tongue.—(1) Rub the tongue well with salt and let it drain for three days. Put into a saucepan a pickle composed of lib. of salt, |oz. each of salprunella and saltpetre, ilb. of coarse moist sugar, ten juniper berries, three or four bay-leaves, 1 table-spoonful of strong vinegar, and 6 breakfast-cupfuls of water. Set the saucepan on the fire, boil for thirty minutes, turn the whole into a bowl or dish, and let it get cold. Place the tongue in it, and let it remain for three weeks or a month, turning it daily. Should it be required for immediate use three weeks will be long enough, but if allowed to remain Ox-Ton gues—contin ut d. a month in the pickle it will require to be hung for a few days before using. (2) Put a tongue into a basin, dredge it with salt, and let it remain for two days. Remove the salt and any slime there may be on the tongue, and rub it well with a mixture composed of lib. of saltpetre and 1 table-spoonful of coarse moist sugar. Let it remain in this for seven weeks, turning and covering it well daily; take it out, rub it dry, and hang up in a dry place for five or six days a.ul it will be ready for use. If desired, the tongue need only be left in the pickle for from three to five weeks, and can be used at once without being hung up to dry. (3) Rub a tongue well with salt and let it remain for five hours in a basin; pour ort' the liquor, and rub the tongue well with 2oz. of saltpetre, afterwards rub it with a mixture of loz. of salprunella and 4oz. of coarse brown sugar. Place it back in the basin and let it remain for four days. Put lgall. of water into a saucepan with sufficient salt to make a brine capable of supporting an egg, and add i-lb. of moist sugar, 4oz. of bay-salt, and 2oz. of saltpetre. Boil well for fifteen minutes, removing all the scum as it rises, pour it into a bowl, and let it get cold. Put in the tongue, turn it every day for a fort- night, take it out, and smoke it. It is then ready for use. Potted Ox-Tongue.—(1) Put a pickled tongue intoa saucepan of water and boil it for three hours or until tender; plunge it into cold water for a few minutes, take it out, and skin it. C hop it up small and pound in a mortar to a paste. Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of butter into a saucepan, and melt it; add 1 teaspoonful of mixed ground spices, having half mace and the remainder nutmeg, cloves, and cayenne in equal proportions, to the tongue and a little salt if required, and lastly the clear part of the melted butter. Pound and mix thoroughly, press the mixture into jars, pour over more melted butter, cover the jars, and keep them in a dry place until wanted. (2) Rub a neat’s tongue well over with loz. of saltpetre mixed with £lb. of sugar, and let it remain for a couple of days. Put it into a saucepan of water, boil until it is quite tender, remove the skin and side bits, and cut it into very thin slices. Put the slices in a mortar and pound them, adding lib. of clarified butter, a little powdered mace, and salt and pepper to taste. When the mass is as fine as possible, put it into small pots, pour over some hob clarified butter, and the mixture is ready for use. (3) Take off all the skin and gristle as well as any dis- coloured parts from lib. of cold boiled tongue, chop it up, and pound it in a mortar. Season well with cayenne, ground mace, and allspice, and work in either 2oz. of butter, or 4oz. of the fat from the tongue. Squeeze the mixture into small jars or pots, cover them with clarified flutter, or beef-suet, put them in a cool place, and let them remain until wanted. A little made mustard may also be added to the paste. Pressed Ox-Tongue.—Prepare a pickle with lib. of salt, 4oz. of coarse moist sugar, and |oz. each of saltpetre and salprunella-; rub an Ox-Tongue well with it daily for about three weeks. Put it into a saucepan of water, boil up, change the water, and boil for four hours. Place the tongue in a collaring-tin or mould, put a weight on the top, and let it get cold. Turn it out on to a dish, surround it with a paper band, and serve. It may be glazed if desired. Roasted Ox-Tongue.—(1) Put an Ox-Tongue into a basin of warm water and let it remain for twelve hours or so to extract all the blood. Cut off the root and superfluous fat, scrape it, stud it with cloves, put it into a saucepan of water, and boil for two hours or more according to the size. Take it out, drain, mask it with beaten yolk of egg, roll it in breadcrumbs, pass a skewer through lengthwise, and roast before a clear fire, basting frequently with butter. When done, put it on a dish, pour over a little gravy mixed with white, wine, and serve. (2) Soak a tongue for twelve hours in a basin of water, take it out, drain, lard it with strips of bacon, and rub well over with salt. Tie pieces of buttered paperTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 68 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensits, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Ox-Tongues—continued. round it, push a skewer through it lengthwise, and roast in front of a clear lire for a couple of hours. When nearly done, remove the paper in order to brown the tongue, roast for twenty or twenty-five minutes longer, put it on a dish, and serve with a little red-currant jelly. (3) Take a neat’s tongue, boil it, blanch, and put it away till quite cold. When the tongue has cooled, cut a hole in the under-part and scoop out the meat, mince this fine with two, or, if the tongue is large, three hard-boiled eggs, a good-sized apple, a small quantity of , beef-suet, and a little bacon; season with a little powdered ginger and finely-powdered dried herbs and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Mix all these very thoroughly and then stuff the tongue with the mixture. Wrap the end of the tongue in a veal- caul, lard it with fat bacon, and roast. Garnish with sliced lemon and barberries, and serve with sauce made of butter, gravy, and orange-juice. Scalloped Ox-Tongue.—Chop up sufficient cold cooked tongue to fill 2 breakfast-cups, and mix in 1 teaspoonful each of capers, chopped parsley, and salt, a little pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of onion-juice mixed up in 1 teacupful of stock. Sprinkle sifted breadcrumbs, over a well-buttered scallop-dish, put in the tongue preparation, cover with more breadcrumbs, making the total quantity used, 1 breakfast-cupful, and put so e small pieces of butter here and there over the top. Place the dish in the oven, bake for twenty minutes, take it out, and serve at once. Stewed Larded Ox-Tongue.—(1) Put an Ox-Tongue into a saucepan of salted water, boil it for an-hour and-a-half, take it out, drain it, peel off the skin, and lard with bacon and raw ham. Put some vegetables cut in slices, and trimmings of bacon into a saucepan, place a few pieces of veal on the top, and the tongue on the top of the veal. Pour over a little broth, place the lid on the pan, put it on the fire, and reduce the liquor to a glaze. Pour in more broth with a little white wine to half the height of the tongue, cover it with a piece of paper, and complete the cooking, turning it frequently. Take the tongue out, glaze it, pour over some Italian sauce, and serve. (2) Put an Ox-Tongue in a saucepan of salted water, boil for an-hour-and-a-half, take it out, and skin it. Cover the bottom of a saucepan with a layer of vegetables cut in slices and intermixed with trimmings of bacon, cover with trimmings of veal, lard the tongue with fillets of bacon and raw ham alternately, place it in the saucepan over the veal, pour in a little broth to moisten, cover the sauce- pan, put it on the fire, and cook the contents until the liquor is reduced to glaze. Pour in broth and white wine to half the height of the tongue, cover with a piece of greased paper, and cook until the tongue is quite tender, turning it over once or twice. Take it out when done, drain it, put it on a dish in the oven to glaze, pour over Italian sauce, and serve. Stewed Ox-Tongue.—Cut the root off a tongue but do not take all the fat off. Salt the tongue for a week with common salt and a little saltpetre, turning it every day. When it has laid in the salt for a week, boil it till the skin can easily be taken off. When skinned stew it in a little good gravy till sufficiently tender, seasoning with mushroom ketchup, soy, cayenne, pounded cloves, and, if it requires it, adding a little salt. Serve with morels, mushrooms, or truffles. Stewed Ox-Tongue with Parmesan Cheese.—Well wash, trim, and blanch an Ox-Tongue, put it into a saucepan with sufficient stock to cover, and boil until quite tender; then take it out, skin, and cut it up into thin slices. Put \ pint each of stock and white wine into a saucepan, and simmer slowly until reduced to half its original quantity. Turn half of this liquor into a dish, grate over some Par- mesan cheese, place the slices of tongue on the top, pour over the remainder of the liquor, and grate over more cheese. Put the dish in a moderate oven and bake the tongue until done and well browned; then take it out, and serve. Stewed Ox-Tongue with Raisins and Cuconari. Boil an Ox-Tongue (or four sheeps’ tongues) in cor.sommd or any rich , Ox-Tongues—continued. broth with 1 wineglassful of sherry in it. Take it out when done, skin, cut it into slices, and prepare a sauce • as follows: Put 1 breakfast-cupful <>,f cuconari (a very white grain, as large as a melon-seed, having the flavour of almonds, very much used in Greece and Turkey), or 4oz. of blanched and chopped almonds, into a basin, and pour over boiling water to cover; serve 1 breakfast-cupful of sultana raisins in the same way. Put 4oz. of butter into a saucepan on the fire, melt it, stir in the strained juice of a lemon, 1 table-spoonful of Hour, \ table-spoonful of powdered sugar, and 1 breakfast-cupful of cream. Bring these to the boil, add the raisins and cuconari, all of which must be well drained and wiped on a cloth, and lastly add the slices of tongue. Make all the ingredients hot, and serve at once. OXALIC ACID.—An acid that is found in sorrel, rhubarb, and other things. It is frequently but erroneously styled salts of lemon. OXFORD DUMPLINGS.—See Dumplings. OXFORD JOHN.—See Mutton. OXFORD NIGHT-CAPS—Whether these have or have not any relation to the festivities peculiar to the University of Oxford, or to the city of that name, or even to the county itself, it is certain that a few excellent receipts for spiced beverages have been collected under the above heading. In the belief that some of them at least are worthy of commemoration, they are hereunder duly recorded. Brown Betty.—Dissolve lib. of brown sugar in 1 pint of water, slice a lemon into it, let it stand a-quarter-of-an- hour, then add a small quantity of powdered cloves and cinnamon, t pint of brandy, and lqt. of good strong ale; stir all well together, put into the mixture a couple of slices of toasted bread, grate some nutmeg and ginger on the toast; and you have a Brown Betty. Ice it, and you will find it excellent in the summer; warm it, and it will be very comforting in the winter. Lamb’s Wool is merely a variety of the wassail bowl, and although not common in Oxford is a great favourite in some parts of England. The following is the origin of the term Lamb’s Wool, as applied to this particular beverage. Formerly the first day of November was dedicated to the angel presiding over fruits, seeds, &c., and was therefore named La Mas Ubal—that is the day of the apple fruit—and being pronounced lamasool, our country people have corrupted it to Lamb’s Wool. Lamb’s Wool was anciently often met with in Ireland, but is now rarely heard of in that country, having been entirely superseded by the more intoxicating liquor called whisky. Mix the pulp of half-a-dozen roasted apples with some raw sugar, a grated nutmeg, and a small quantity of ginger; add lqt. of strong ale made moderately warm. Stir the whole well together, and, if sweet enough, it is fit for use. This mixture is sometimes served up in a bowl, with sweet cakes floating in it. Leander Punch..—This drink was invented by Mr. Fellows, who was for many years an active member of the well-known Leander Boat Club, from which it takes its name. The inventor caused the Punch to be introduced into the university by a friend at Christ Church College. Four glasses of whisky if possible (Irish), two of brandy, and the juice and peel of one large lemon. Add boiling water to make lqt., and if not enough, ad libitum. Then boil 1 wineglassful of good old ale, and put the froth into the punch with L table-spoonful of the ale; sweeten to taste, and stir. If it stands in a jug near the fire for half-an-hour it will be improved. Oxford Bishop, or Spiced Wine.—Bishop seems to be one of the oldest winter beverages known, and is to this day preferred to any other, not only by the youthful votary of Bacchus at his evening’s revelry, but also by the grave69 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads Oxford Night-Caps—continued. Don by way of a Night-Cap, and probably derives its name from the circumstance of ancient dignitaries of the Chnrcli, when they honoured the university with a visit, being regaled with spiced wine. It appears from a work published some years since and entitled “ Oxoniana; or, Anecdotes of the University of Oxford,” that in the rolls or accounts of a college of ancient foundation, a sum of money is frequently met with charged “pro speciebus,” that is, for spices used in their entertainments; for in those days, as well as at the present, spiced wine was a very fashionable beverage. Three cups of this a prudent man may take ; The first of these for constitution’s sake, The second to the girl he loves best, The third and last to lull him to rest. Make several incisions in the rind of a lemon, stick cloves in the incisions, and roast the lemon by a slow fire. Put small but equal quantities of cinnamon, cloves, mace, and allspice, into a saucepan with | pint gf water, and let it boil until reduced one half. Boil a bottle of port wine, burning a portion of the spirit out by applying a lighted paper to it. Put the roasted lemon ami spice into the wine, stir well, and let it stand near the fire for ten minutes. Rub a few pieces of sugar on the rind of j a lemon, put the sugar into a bowl or jug with the juice j of half a lemon (not roasted), pour the vine over, grate I some nutmeg into it, sweeten to taste, and serve with the | lemon and spice floating in it. | Oxford Grace Cup.—The ancient grace cup was a vessel proportioned to the number of the company | assembled, the guests drinking out of the same cup one ! after another. Virgil describes something like it when j speaking of the entertainment Queen Dido gave to vEneas. It has been the custom from time immemorial, at the civic feasts in Oxford, for the grace cup to be inti-oduced before the removal of the cloth, when the Mayor receives the cup standing; his right and left hand guests also rise from their seats while he gives a toast, which since the Reformation has been “ Church and King.” The cup is then handed round the table, no one presuming to apply his lips to it until two persons have risen from their seats. The origin of this custom is ascribed by our antiquaries to the practice of the Danes heretofore in England, who frequently used to stab or cut the throats of the natives while they were drinking, the persons standing being the sureties that the one holding the cup should come to no harm while partaking of it. Extract the juice from the peel of a lemon, and cut the remainder into thin slices; put it into a jug or bowl, and pour over it 11 pints of strong home-brewed beer and a bottle of mountain wine; grate a nutmeg into it, sweeten to taste, stir it till the sugar has dissolved, and then add three or four slices of bread toasteil brown, bet it stand for two hours, then strain it off into the grace cup. OXFORD PUNCH.—See Punch. OXFORD SAUSAGES.—See Sausages. OYSTERS (Fr. Huitres; Ger. Austern; Hal. Ostrice; Sp. Ostras).—“Please to remember the grotto” has been for many years regarded as the introductory signal of the Oyster season, although as a matter of fact these grottos refer to a pilgrimage to a certain grotto which they are supposed to represent, the requested monetary contribution being for the purpose of paying the expenses of the pilgrimage. Oysters are in season eight months of the year, the four “close” months being May, June, July, and August: the other months having the letter r in their spelling, accounts for the saying that Oysters are in season when there is an r in the month. The Oyster (Ostrea edulis) is found on almost every coast, being specially cultivated in certain localities, and yielding enormous crops, as it is estimated that one Oyster alone Oysters—continued. produces in one year from three thousand to four thousand young. The system of cultivation has been brought to great perfection, and the superior kinds of Oysters care- fully preserved from the contamination of inferior sorts. Of the varieties of Oysters, that which holds the foiemost place in the estimation of the gourmet is the English native. This kind has a historic reputation, for it is recorded that when the Romans landed upon our shores they eagerly sought for the luscious British native. The green Qyster of Ostend is much prized by Continental epicures; but the British Oyster-eater has an erroneous notion that the green colour is due to the presence of copper, whereas it has been plainly shown by chemical experts that the green colour is entirely due to the food upon which it subsists. Of the numerous kinds of Oysters sold in our markets, it is only necessary to state that those possessing the smallest, smoothest, and cleanest-looking shells, from the high-class native down to the lowest type, are the best flavoured. For serving plain no Oyster excels the British native (see Fig. 85), but for cooking a coarser and, cheaper kind may be used with almost as good resultsTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 70 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Ctensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Oysters—continued. even though we revert to those preserved in tins. Of the imported Oysters, the Americans are said to be the best, but some ■cooks prefer the French, Dutch (see Fig. 86), or Anglo-Portuguese. Those commonly known as Blue- points (see Fig. 87), are exceedingly ugly in the shape and character of the shell, and are proportionately wanting in flavour. Oysters must be kept alive, and as they are liable to fret and waste in substance whilst in captivity, they require frequent change of water, and occasional feeding, or fattening, as it is called. The following is the system usually adopted: Take some fresh Oysters, put them into a tub of water, wash and scrub them with a birch or heather broom till quite clean, then lay them in an earthenware pan with the flat shell upwards; sprinkle them with flour or oatmeal, and cover with salted water (quite as salt as sea water), bay-salt being the best for this purpose. Change the salted water every day, and sprinkle the Oysters with oatmeal or flour; thus they will fatten. Sometimes it is necessary to preserve Oysters for culinary use, especially in localities where they are scarce or the supplies insufficient. When this is the case, the following will be found an excellent method of preparing them so that they will keep good, although not fresh, and be always ready for use. Clean the Oysters thoroughly, put them into a large saucepan with some sea water, the juice of half a lemon, and some grated nutmeg. When the water is on the point of boiling, move the saucepan off the fire, and leave the Oysters in the liquor until the following day. Put the Oysters into stone or earthenware jars, pour over some clarified butter, and, when cold, cover and tie the jars down. Keep them in a cool place. Oysters—continued. Oysters should be kept in a very cold place, and be thoroughly washed before they are opened; they should, according to the French custom, be opened on the deep shell so as to preserve their liquor. It is then advisable, if possible, to lay them on a bed of finely-chopped ice for an hour or so before serving; this improves the flavour greatly, but they must not be left on the ice much longer, for after that time they will begin to lose flavour, instead of gaining it. To open an Oyster it should be held in the folds of a cloth, in the palm of the hand, or in a hollow cut out of a piece of wood (see Fig. 88); an Oyster-knife can then be inserted between the shells with a see-saw motion, forcing it inwards and cutting the Oyster away from the flat shell. When the knife has done its work the flat shell can be removed. In most cases it is usual to remove the beards or “ fringes ” of the oysters before using them for cooking; but that is not an absolute necessity, although advisable. After cutting the body loose from the deep shell, they are then ready to serve or use as may be required. Aspic of Oysters.—(1) Put three or four dozen large Oysters into a stewpan with sufficient white wine, such as sherry or vin de grave, to cover them, and let them cook gently until firm. Drain, trim, put them into a basin, and then season with a dust of salt and the juice of a lemon squeezed over them. Set a mould in a box or tin of powdered ice and pour in a thin layer of warmed jelly. Let this set, and then lay Oysters symmetrically over it to within Jin. of the edge all round. Pour over sufficient aspic to cover these, allow it to set, and then repeat the layer of Oysters until the mould is quite full, taking care that the aspic shall cover the last layer of Oysters with- out overflowing. Allow this to stand for an hour in the ice, and then dip the mould into hot water, removing quickly, and turn out on to a cold dish. Garnish round with chopped aspic jelly (see Fig. SO), or ornament with croutons of aspic in two or three colours of brown, red, and yellow. Serve with a rich mayonnaise sauce. (2) Partially boil some Oysters in their own liquor, and beard them. Put a good-sized lump of butter in a stew- pan with a few shallots, truffles, sweet herbs, and a small quantity of parsley, all finely chopped, toss them for a few minutes over the fire, then put in the Oysters, and season to taste with salt and pepper. When sufficiently stewed, take the Oyster mixture off the fire and leave until cold. Coat a mould with liquid aspic jelly, leave it until set, then fill it up with the Oysters and a few crayfish, cover the whole with more liquid jelly, and set the mould on ice. When set, turn the jelly on to a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper, garnish with parsley and crayfish claws, and serve. This is a very pretty luncheon dish. Attelettes of Oysters.—Beard some large Oysters. Take a sweetbread, divide it into as many pieces as there are Oysters, and let the pieces be about the same size as them. Cut some rashers of bacon into the same number of pieces,71 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <be., referred to, see under their special heads. Oysters—continued. but rather larger. Chop fine and mix together a little parsley, some shallots and lemon-thyme, and add salt and white pepper. Rub this seasoning over the Oysters and pieces of meat, then brush over with beaten egg or dip them in it, shaking a little more of the seasoning over them; roll them in sifted breadcrumbs, and thread them alternately on small silver attelettes. After skewering, dip them again in the breadcrumbs and fry in boiling lard or fat to a pale brown. Slip the skewers out and serve with some rich gravy a little mushroom ketchup, and lemon pickle. Baked Oysters.—Butter the inside of a deep dish, and line it with sifted breadcrumbs. Put in half of the Oysters, sprinkle over a small quantity of white pepper, throw in a little mace, cover with a layer of breadcrumbs, and dis- tribute little pieces of butter all over. Lay the remainder of the Oysters on the top, season them with mace and ■white pepper, then cover with another layer of bread- crumbs and small pieces of butter. Pour in the liquor if the Oysters are fresh; if salt, pour iu a little water instead, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve hot. Baked Oysters in their Shells.—(1) Open some Oysters, remove the beards, and dip them first in beaten egg and then in finely-grated breadcrumb that have been seasoned with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Place the Oysters in their lower shells, put a small piece of butter on each, and bake for a few minutes in a brisk oven. When ready, place the shells with the Oysters on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper spread over a dish, squeeze a small quantity of lemon-juice over each, and serve. (2) Open and beard the required quantity of Oysters, removing them carefully from their shells; wipe the shells, put the Oysters back again, and strew over them a small quantity of washed, boned, and finely-minced anchovies, a small quantity of powdered mace, and a few drops of lemon-juice. Dredge them lightly with flour, put a small piece of butter in each shell, and place them in the oven until nicely browned over the top. Spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the shells on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Baked Oysters on Toast.—Beard two dozen fine Oysters, put their beards and liquor into a stewpan, and let them simmer for a few minutes. With a tin cutter, 3in. in diameter, cut some croutons of bread, toast them in front of a clear fire, and butter thickly on one side. Lay the croutons, buttered side downwards, on a dish that will stand the heat of the- fire, and put a few' Oysters on each. Strain the Oyster-liquor, and mix with it loz. of butter in small bits, season to taste with salt and a small quan- tity of cayenne pepper, and pour it over the Oysters. Put the dish into a brisk oven for a few' minutes, then take it out, and serve the Oysters while very hot with a plate of cut lemon. Boiled Oysters.—(1) Open the Oysters, wash the shells clean in boiling water, and drain them dry; drop the Oysters into boiling water, and let them simmer for two minutes. Serve them in their shells, with vinegar and pepper and thin slices of bread-and-butter. _(2) Put a-dozen-and-a-half Oysters into a saucepan with their liquor, boil up, and add f teaspoonful of lemon- juice, a little cayenne, and salt and pepper to taste; mix these well and put in 1 table-spoonful each of butter and cracker-crumbs. Cook for a few' minutes longer, take them out, arrange them on pieces of toasted bread on a dish, pour over the liquor, and serve. Broiled Oysters.—(1) Take some fine large-sized Oysters, lay them on a soft cloth to dry, pepper them, and then place them on a w'ell-huttered gridiron over a clear fire and leave till thoroughly hot. Lay them then on slices of hot-buttered toast cut rather thin, and serve while hot. (2) Dip twenty-four large and freshly-opened Oysters in an equal quantity of bread and cracker-crumbs, flatten them with the hand, place them on a well-greased broiler and broil for two minutes on each side, then salt them slightly, arrange them on six slices of toast, lightly glaze them on top with maitre-d’hotel sauce, and serve. Oysters —continued. (3) Put a dozen or so large Oysters on a gridiron over a moderate fire with the flat shell uppermost; when done they will open. Preserve the liquor in the shells with the Oysters, and serve them hot upon a napkin. (4) Open the Oysters, remove the flat shell, dust a small quantity of salt and pepper over each one, lay them on a gridiron, baste them with a few drops of olive oil, and broil over a charcoal fire. When the Oysters are cooked and begin to stick to their shells, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with cut lemons, and serve. (5) Stuffed.—Put the grated yolks of four hard-boiled eggs into a basin, and mix in half the quantity of minced bacon or salt fat pork, add a little pepper and chopped parsley, and make them all into a paste by adding the un- cooked yolk of another egg. Split open 4 dozen Oysters, stuff them with this mixture, put them in table shells, 4 in each, coat them over with breadcrumbs, put a little warmed butter on the top, place them in an oven and bake until done. Put them on a dish, garnish with pieces of fried bread, and serve. See Fig. 90. Croustade of Oysters.—(1) Take a loaf of bread that has been baked in a round 2qt. mould, and wiien three or four days old take off the top crust and scoop out all the crumb. Put 3 breakfast-cupfuls of the crumb into a frying-pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, and fry them until they are quite crisp (it will take about two minutes) over a quick fire, and they must be stirred continuously. Pour Iqt. of cream into a saucepan, boil it, and stir in 3 table-spoonfuls of flour mixed in with 1 teacupful of milk ; boil for eight minutes longer, and sprinkle in salt and pepper to taste. Put a layer of the sauce at the bottom of the croustade, next a layer of Oysters, sprinkle over more salt and pepper, then pour over another layer, and then add a layer of the breadcrumbs. Continue in this way until the croustade is full, finishing up with breadcrumbs. Put the croustade in the oven, bake slowly for thirty minutes, and serve on a dish with a garnish of parsley round it. It will take from lqt. to 3 pints of Oysters for this dish. On an average fifty oysters will make lqt. (2) Take lib. or so of butter, break it off into lumps about the size of an egg, put them into a bowl of ice-cold water, and work them into the shape of eggs. Roll in breadcrumbs, then in egg beaten with a little milk, then in cracker-meal, and egg and cracker-meal again, so as to give them two coatings of the meal. Plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat and fry to a deep yellow'; take them out, cut a round piece from the toil, and pour out the hot butter, scraping out any that will not ran out, with a spoon. Fill them up with Oysters, scalded and mixed with a little anchovy sauce, return the pieces taken off to their places, put them on a dish, garnish with slices of lemon and fried parsley, and serve. (3) Blanch some Oysters and cut them into little pieces. Boil a small quantity of white sauce till reduced to a creamy consistency, then mix in some anchovy butter, 1 pinch of cayenne pepper, and add the Oysters. Cut some thick slices of bread off a household loaf, mark a ring in the centre of each, on one side only, with a sharp pointed knife, and fry them till nicely browned all over in butter. Drain the crusts, hollow them out in the marked circle, and fill them with the Oyster mixture; sprinkle a little grated Parmesan cheese over, baste them with a little72 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processest Utensilst Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heads. Oysters—continued. warmed butter, and put them in the oven. When nicely glazed, arrange the crusts on a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Curried Oysters.—(1) Peel and cut into thin slices a moderate- sized Spanish onion ; put a lump of butter into a stewpan, place it over the lire, and when the butter boils put in the onion and fry it until nicely browned. Next stir in 3 table-spoonfuls of curry powder, add more butter if necessary, and mix well over the fire. Pour in gradually a sufficient quantity of broth, put the lid on the pan, anil let the -whole boil np. Grate a cocoa-nut and peel and chop a very sour apple, or, instead of the apple, a few tamarinds would be best if they could be obtained; put them into the stewpan with the other ingredients, and boil the whole gently until the cocoa-nut is tender. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of flour smooth with a little water, and stir it into the above mixture; season to taste with salt, stir it over the fire, and boil for five minutes. Put two or three tomatoes, freed of their seeds, into a stewpan with a hundred Oysters and their liquor, also the milk of the cocoa-nut. Stir them occasionally, and stew gently for a few minutes. Add this to the former mixture. Squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, turn the curry on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve with a separate dish of rice. (2) Put five or six dozen Oysters in a basin with their liquor. Chop two onions into small pieces, put them into a saucepan with loz. of butter, fry them, and stir in 1 table-spoonful of curry powder and 1 teaspoonful of curry paste; when these are incorporated, put in the Oysters with their liquor, stir well until they are completely covered with the thick liquor, then turn them out on to a dish, and serve. A dish of boiled rice should accompany this. (3) Peel and mince a large onion, put it in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry until lightly browned ; blanch two dozen Oysters and drain them. Stir 1 table- spoonful of curry powder in with the onions, mix well, put in the Oysters and their strained liquor, stir until boiling, then take the Oysters out and place them on a hot dish. Put a small piece of butter that has been kneaded with a little flour in the sauce, stir it until thickened, then pour it over the Oysters. Garnish with sippets of toast or small croft tons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter, and serve. Darioles of Oysters.—After having scalded one dozen Oysters in their own liquor remove their beards and cut each Oyster into four pieces. Put 2oz. of flour and loz. of butter into a saucepan, beat them together over the fire, and when the butter is melted add j- pint of milk and the Oyster liquor; stir this over the fire till it boils, dust in a pinch of salt, a little pepper, nutmeg, and cayenne to taste, two well-beaten eggs, and 1 teaspoonful of lemon- juice. Put the Oysters in buttered dariole-moulds, pour the liquor over them, and cover with buttered paper; set them in a steamer, and-steam them for a-quarter-of-an-hour. When this is done turn them out and serve with Dutch sauce. Devilled Oysters.—(1) Take 1 pint of Oysters, or sufficient to make a good dish, wipe them dry, and lay them on a Hat dish; cover with butter well warmed and mixed with cayenne pepper and lemon-juice, turn them over and over in this mixture for ten minutes, then roll them in a paper of rolled crackers or sifted breadcrumbs; dip them into beaten egg, and again roll them in the crumbs, fry them in boiling lard and butter mixed, and serve as hot as possible. (2) Open the Oysters, letting each one remain with its liquor in the deepest shell. Add to each a few drops of lemon-juice, a little pepper, cayenne, and salt, and a small bit of butter. Lay the shells on a gridiron over a clear hot fire, and let the Oysters cook for three minutes. Serve them in the shells laid on a napkin on a dish with slices of bread-and-butter. Fried Oysters.-—(1) Select large Oysters and drain them; mix 1 table-spoonful of flour smoothly with \ teacupful of Oysters—continued. milk, grate some stale breadcrumb on a sheet of paper, and season with salt and pepper ; roll the Oysters first in the paste and then in the breadcrumbs, covering well, but touching them as little as possible. Lay them on a plate and leave them for several minutes. Beat one or two eggs thoroughly, roll the Oysters in it, one at a time, then roll them again in the seasoned breadcrumbs. Put a large lump of lard in a frying-pan over the fire, and when blue smoke rises put in the Oysters and fry them until nicely browned. Take each Oyster as it is cooked out of the fat and lay it on a sheet of paper in front of the fire to drain. Spread a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, pile the Oysters upon it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Open the Oysters, beard and wipe them quite dry, season slightly with grated nutmeg, roll them in beaten white of egg, and then in finely-grated breadcrumb; put a large piece of lard in a flat stewpan, and when it boils put in the Oysters and fry them until nicely browned. Drain the Oysters as they are done on a sheet of kitchen- paper, spread a fancy-edged dish-paper or a folded napkin over a hot dish, pile the Oysters on it, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. (3) Partially boil the Oysters in their own liquor, beard them, and dry them on a cloth. Make a thin batter, and put the Oysters into it. Put a large lump of lard in a fiat stewpan, place it on the fire, and when boiling take each Oyster up with 1 table-spoonful of the batter and drop it in. When delicately browned, take the Oysters out, and drain them on a sheet of kitchen-paper placed in front of the fire; spread a fancy disli-paper or a folded napkin over a hot dish, arrange the Oysters on it, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. (4) Season some breadcrumbs with salt, pepper, powdered sweet herbs, and grated lemon-peel. Beat up two or three eggs on a plate. Dry some Oysters as much as possible, dip them in the beaten eggs, and roll them in the bread- crumbs. Egg and breadcrumb them twice. Melt a lump of butter in a fiat stewpan, put in the Oysters, and fry until nicely browned. Afterwards place them on a sheet of paper for a minute or two to absorb the grease, then put them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental disli-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (5) Blanch twenty-four large Oysters in their own liquor for two minutes, and drain them ; spread some chicken forcemeat over both sides of the Oysters, dip them in egg and finely-sifted breadcrumbs, fry in hot lard for three minutes, and serve with fried parsley. Fried Oysters and Bacon.—Open one dozen Oysters and remove their beards ; cut as many thin slices of bacon as there are Oysters, trim them neatly, lay an Oyster on each, roll them up, and fasten with small skewers. Fry each roll carefully and nicely. Cut as many rounds of bread, about Jin. thick and 2in. in diameter, as there are rolls of bacon, toast them eveidy on both sides, and butter Fig. 91. Fkied Ovsteks and Bacon. them. Spread a folded napkin or a fancy-edged disli-paper on a hot dish, put the pieces of toast on it, with a roll on each, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 91), and serve. Fried Oyster Balls. -Blanch two dozen Oysters in their own liquor, then strain and cut them into very small pieces. Skin and finely chop 4oz. of suet and also chop very finely 4oz. of veal. Mix all the ingredients together in a basin, season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of pounded mace, and bind them with beaten yolk of egg.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 73 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Oysters—continued. Dredge flour over a table, put the mixture on it, divide it into small quantities, and roll them into halls. Dip the halls in beaten white of egg, then roll them in finely- grated breadcrumbs. Put a large quantity of clarified fat in a stewpan, place it over the fire until smoke rises, then drop in the halls, one at a time, and fry until lightly browned. As the halls are cooked, take them out of the fat and lay them on sheets of paper to drain. Arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Tried Oyster Cutlets.—(1) Finely chop several large Oysters, together with an equal quantity of veal, put them together in a mortar with a small quantity of chopped veal-suet, and pound them until smooth. Soak in the liquor from the Oysters as many breadcrumbs as it will moisten, then mix them with the other ingredients. Season the mixture to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of pounded mace, and bind it with beaten yolks of eggs. When quite smooth divide the mixture into equal portions, and mould them into Hat cutlets ; roll them in beaten egg and bread- crumbs, covering them well. Put a lump of butter in a flat stewpan, place it on the fire, and when boiling put in the cutlets and fry them until nicely browned. Drain them for a minute on a sheet of paper in front of the fire, then arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper; put a bunch of fried parsley in the centre, and serve. (2) Fry some breadcrumbs in a little butter, and mix them in with the strained liquor of a dozen Oysters. Chop the Oysters very fine, put them into a saucepan of water, and boil for two or three minutes. Take them out, drain off all the liquor, sprinkle over salt and pepper, and mix in the yolks of two eggs. When this mixture is cold, form it into the shape of cutlets, dip them into beaten egg and then into the fried breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling lard, and fry to a light brown. Take them out, drain, put them on a dish, and serve very hot, with a garnish of fried parsley. Fried Oysters as in Hamburg. -For this dish Holstein Oysters and zwiebach should be used. This zwiebach is a milk roll, cut in slices and dried to a light colour in a moderate oven. It is obtainable anywhere in Germany. Beard a dozen or so of these Oysters, roll them well in grated Parmesan cheese, dip them into well-beaten egg, and then into the pounded zwiebach. Plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling lard, fry them for a minute or two, take them out, drain them, put them on a dish, and serve. Fried Oyster Patties.—Make some good puff paste, roll it out rather thin, and cut it into round pieces. Chop some Oysters, mix them with chopped hard-boiled egg, a little chopped parsley, and a little grated lemon-peel; add a season- ing of pepper, salt, and pounded mace, moisten the mixture with cream and a little Oyster liquor, then put a good spoonful on to each piece of paste, fold it over, moisten the edges with a little cream, and press them together. Brush the patties over with the yolk of an egg, and fry them for ten or fifteen minutes. Fried Truffled Oysters.—Chop 6oz. of the cooked breast of a fowl and half the quantity of raw fat salt pork, put them into a mortar with a little pepper, and pound them. Chop a few truffles into pieces the size of peas, and mix them in. Put four dozen Oysters on a cloth, and with a sharp knife inserted at the edge of one of them make an opening up and down inside, but not to make the hole too large, and fill them with the mixture. Put them, when all done, into a basin of flour, coat them well over, dip them into well-beaten egg, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry to a golden colour. Take them out, drain them on a cloth in a slow oven, sprinkle over with salt, and arrange them on pieces of toast on a dish, and serve Imitation Fried Oysters.—Take a bunch of salsify or Oyster-plant, scrape it well, wash, and grate it. Make a Oysters—continued. thin batter with \ pint of milk, two well-beaten eggs, and sufficient flour; stir into it the scraped salsify, beat the batter well, mix in a seasoning of pepper and salt, then drop it a spoonful at a time into boiling lard or dripping. Have a colander quite hot set over a bowl in the oven and as fast as the mock Oysters are fried throw them into it to drain. Serve hot, free from grease, and as quickly as possible. Imitation Scalloped Oysters.—(1) Put several herring roes in water the night before wanted, and let them soak all night. On the following morning dry the roes and cut them into pieces the size of an Oyster. Butter the interior of some scallop shells, and put in each 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, the smallest quantity of pounded mace, a few drops of lemon-juice, and a thick layer of breadcrumbs. Put a piece of the roe in each shell, strew a few minced capers over them, and cover with more breadcrumbs. Put a very small piece of butter on the top of each, and place them in a slow oven. When nicely browned on the top, arrange the shells on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Remove the skin and bone from a Dutch herring, finely mince the flesh, and spread it over the well-washed lower shells of some Oysters. Boil a calf’s sweetbread in salted water, and when it is cooked cut it into small pieces; grate about 1 breakfast-cupful of stale bread, and season it with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Dip the pieces of sweetbread first in beaten egg and then in the seasoned breadcrumbs, lay a piece in each shell, then cover them with breadcrumbs, placing here and there a small piece of herring. Baste them with butter, and brown them under a salamander or in a brisk oven. When lightly and delicately browned, arrange the shells on a hot dish that has been embellished with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper and serve. Imitation Stewed Oysters.—Take a bunch of salsify, scrape and wash it well, put it in a saucepan over the fire in weak vinegar and water, bring it quickly to the boil, and boil for ten minutes. Drain off the vinegar and water and rinse the salsify in boiling water, drain this off also, and then pour over just sufficient boiling water to cover and let it boil gently for another ten minutes; add 2oz. of butter and a seasoning of salt and pepper and let it stew in this till quite tender. Meantime have a double saucepan on the fire, the outer one filled with boiling water; put in the inner one | pint of milk, thicken it with cornflour, and add 2oz. of butter. When the salsify is quite tender put it into this sauce. Add a little pepper and salt and let it remain for five minutes, keeping the water hr the outer saucepan boiling steadily. Serve in a covered dish. Oysters a l’Americaine.—(1) Place in a saucebowl 1 heaped teaspoonful of salt, f teaspoonful of very finely-ground white pepper, one medium-sized, fine, sound, well-peeled shallot, 1 heaped teaspoonful of chives, and \ teaspoonful of parsley, all very finely chopped. Mix lightly together, then pour in 1 teaspoonful of olive oil, six drops of tabasco sauce, 1 saltspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, and lastly 1 gill (or 5J table-spoonfuls) of good vinegar. Mix it thoroughly with a spoon, and it is ready for use. A teaspoonful should be poured over each Oyster just before eating. (2) Open some Oysters, put them into a saucepan with their liquor and salt and pepper, boil them for one-minute- and-a-half, place them in a soup-plate, pour over some hot milk, and serve. A little cornflour may be mixed with the milk to thicken it slightly. This should only be prepared just before being served. Oysters a la Delmonico.—Put loz. of butter into a sauce- pan, work in A table-spoonful of cornflour, then stir in 1 teacupful of thick cream, adding it slowly and stirring over a slow fire. Should it be too thick a little of the strained Oyster liquor should be added. Now put in the yolk of an egg, remove from the fire, add 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, stir vigorously, pour it over one dozen Oysters arranged in a bowl, and serve as quickly as possible.74 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For ditails respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils. Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Oysters—con ti nued. Oysters an Gratin.—Put in a small lined stewpan Jib. of butter and 1 teacupful of cream, and stir them over the fire until well mingled. Add to the mixture 1 wineglassful of wine, 1 table-spoonful of anchovy sauce, and a small quantity each of cayenne pepper and grated lemon-peel, and continue stirring over the fire until hot. Pour half of the above mixture on to a dish, lay the Oysters on it, strew Parmesan cheese and breadcrumbs over them, dust lightly with salt and pepper, pour over the remainder of the cream and butter, and strew another thin layer of crumbs and cheese on the top. Bake until nicely browned in a brisk oven and serve while hot. Oysters a l’Indiemie.—Put | table-spoonful each of curry powder and flour in a small saucepan; mix in gradually 1 teacupful of cream, 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped onion, and the same quantity of finely-chopped apple, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stew the whole gently for twenty minutes, stirring occasionally. Put 1 tea- cupful of well-washed rice in a saucepan of water and boil it until tender. The rice should be quite dry when cooked. Put a dozen Oysters in the sauce with a squeeze of lemon-juice, and leave them until hot. Make a wall of the rice on a hot dish, and pour the Oysters hi the centre. Serve while very hot. Oysters a la Minute.—Open some Oysters and put them on a fine hair sieve until well drained. Put 1 table-spoonful of coulis hi a stewpan with a bunch of sweet herbs and a glass of champagne, and place it over the fire until boiling. Mix the Oyster liquor with the sauce and continue boiling until somewhat reduced. Next put in the Oysters and toss them over the fire for a minute or two. Turn them on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets or toast on small croutons of fried bread, and serve. Oysters en Papillotes. —Put some cold cooked potatoes into a basin and mash them, adding gradually sufficient butter and flour to make them hito a stiff paste. Roll this out on a board, cut' it into lozenge-shaped pieces, put three Oysters together on each piece, roll them up, and bake in a moderate oven until done and of a light brown. Put them on a dish and serve hot. Oysters a la Poulettc.—Put thirty-six freshly-opened Oysters in a saucepan with a little of their own liquor, loz. of butter, \ pinch each of salt and pepper, and par- boil for three minutes, adding J pint of hollandaise sauce; stew well together for two minutes longer, but without letting the liquor boil, add 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley and the juice of half a lemon, stir slightly, and serve very hot. Oysters a la St. Bernard.—Open the required quantity of Oysters, put them in a saucepan, strain over their own liquor, and partially boil them. Drain the Oysters, remove their beards, and dip them twice in egg and breadcrumbs. Season some rich brown gravy with minced parsley and sweet herbs, a small quantity of mace, and salt and pepper to taste ; thicken the gravy with butter rolled in flour, stirring it over the fire until boiling. Melt a lump of lard in a flat stewpan, put in the Oysters, and fry them a golden brown ; when cooked, drain, and put them in the gravy. Boil the whole up gently, then turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley and cut lemons, and serve without delay. Oysters a la d'Uxelles.—Put some Oysters into a sauce- pan of boiling water, let them remain for about a minute or so, take them out, and plunge them in cold water. Place them on a plate with another one on the top to keep them flat, and let them remain until quite cold. Cut them open horizontally but not quite through, mask them inside with a layer about Jin. thick of reduced d’Uxelles sauce, close them together, dip them into frying-batter, and fry until they are done and quite crisp. Put them on a dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with more of the sauce in a sauceboat. Oyster Bouchees.—Blanch two dozen Oysters and turn ten mushrooms ; cut both into small pieces, put them into a saucepan with some German sauce, and stir over the fire till hot. Prepare some puff paste, giving it six turns, roll Oysters—continued. it out to about Jin. in thickness, and with a fluted tin cutter, about 2in. in diameter cut eighteen rounds out of the paste. Arrange the pieces of paste on a baking-sheet, let them rest on ice for ten minutes, then brush over with beaten egg, and with a plain tin cutter ljin. in diameter cut through the centre of each bouchee, to about one-third the thickness of the paste. Bake the bouchees in a quick oven, and when cooked, lift off the inner circle of the paste, and hollow them out inside. Fill the bouchees with the salpifon of Oysters and mushrooms, and replace the covers. Arrange the bouchees on an ornamental dish-paper or a folded napkin on a dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Oyster Cakes.—Beard a dozen or two Oysters, chop them together with an equal quantity of veal, put all together in a mortar with ‘2oz. of chopped beef suet, and pound until smooth ; add about a third of the quantity of grated breadcrumb, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a little pounded mace, moisten the whole with a well-beaten egg and a small quantity of the Oyster liquor, and mould it into round flat cakes. Put a large lump of lard or clarified dripping into a flat stewpan, place it on the fire, and when blue smoke rises put in the cakes and fry them till golden brown. Drain the cakes well, put them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Oyster Canapees.--Finely chop a dozen Oysters, put them in a saucepan with 1 teaspoonful of cracker dust or finely- grated breadcrumb, a small lump of butter about the size of a walnut, and J teacupful of thick cream, and season with pepper and salt. Stir the mixture over the fire and let it simmer for a few minutes. Cut some slices of bread about Jin. in thickness, butter them, and put them on a hot dish. Pour the mixture over the bread-and-butter, and serve it while hot. Oysters in Cases.—Open and blanch twenty-four medium- sized Oysters in a saute-pan with 1 wineglassful of white wine and loz. of butter, and season with a pinch of pepper and a taste of nutmeg. Let them cook for five minutes, then add 1 pint of well-reduced veloute sauce, and cook for another five minutes, adding Joz. of crayfish butter, and stirring occasionally. Fill six buttered paper cases with four Oysters each and the garnishing equally divided. Sprinkle over a little fresh breadcrumbs, and arrange them on a tin roasting-pan. Spread a very little butter over each patty, and put them in a moderate oven for five minutes. Have a hot dish ready with a folded napkin spread over it, arrange the patties on it, and serve. Oysters in Caviare Bolls.—Pass Jib. of dried flour through a fine sieve; take 4oz. of it and mix it with 1 teacupful of milk and Joz. of yeast. Put the remainder into a basin, make a hole in the centre, sprinkle in a little salt, and add the yolks of three eggs, 3oz. of warmed butter, and sufficient lukewarm milk to make it into a stiff paste. Work vigorously for eight minutes, and leave it hi a warm place until wanted. Put the dough in front of the fire, and when it has risen to double its original bulk add it to the paste, work well for five or six minutes longer, place a cloth over the basin, put it back in front of the fire at only a moderate temperature, and let it remain for two hours. Turn it out on to a well-floured board or table, and when quite cold cut it in quarters, roll each out into a long shape, and cut them transversely into pieces so that when they are rolled up they will be of the size of a walnut. Form them into balls, and put them on a baking-slieet at a little distance from one another. Let them stand for lialf-an-hour or so, then brush them over with egg, and bake in a moderate oven until done. Take them out, and when quite cold scoop out a little from each, fill the cavity with caviare, put an Oyster in the centre; and serve on a dish garnished with parsley. Oyster Chartreuse.—Pare six large potatoes, put them into a saucepan of water, and boil. Take them out when done, niash them, and add 1 gill of milk, salt and pepper to taste, 1 table-spoonful of butter, and lastly the whites75 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Oysters—continued. of four eggs beaten to a froth. Butter a charlotte-mould (one that will hold Jgall.), sprinkle it over inside with breadcrumbs, cover these with a layer of the potato mixture, and let it set for a few minutes. Put 1 pint of cream into a saucepan with a slice of onion, boil it, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour mixed in about J teacupful of milk or cream. Sprinkle in salt and pepper to taste, and boil for eight minutes. Put lqt. of Oysters into a sauce- pan with their liquor, boil till tender, take them out, and drain on a colander. Remove the slice of onion from the cream, put in the drained Oysters, stir, and turn it out into the mould. Cover the top with a layer of the potato mixture, taking care not to put too much on at a time, or the liquor from the inside will ooze out. Put the mould into a moderate oven and bake for thirty minutes. Take it out when done, let it stand for ten minutes, then put a dish on the top; turn it over, and Fig. 92. Oysteii Chartreuse. take the mould off very carefully. Put a garnish of fried parsley round the dish (see Fig. 92), and serve. Great care must be taken in lining the mould with the potato mixture so that there are no small holes or cracks left in it, or the liquor will run out, and the effect of the dish would be spoilt. Oysters with. Cream.—(1) Take two hundred and fifty good- sized Oysters, lift them out of their liquor one at a time, and lay them in a deep pan. Strain half the liquor and boil it. Take 6oz. of butter, divide it into small lumps, roll them in flour, stir them into the boiling liquor, put in the Oysters, and take them out as soon as the liquor boils again. Stir in, very gradually, 11 pints of cream, add a seasoning of pepper or grated nutmeg and celery salt, and when it .again comes to the boil, return the Oysters to it; when they are heated through, pour into a hot dish, and serve. (2) Put 1 pint of cream into a saucepan with a small piece of onion, and a little mace tied up in a muslin bag. Boil it, and stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour mixed with a little milk or cream. Put lqt. of Oysters into a saucepan with their liquor, and boil them for a few minutes until tender, skimming frequently. Take out the Oysters, drain, put them into the saucepan with the cream, remove the onion and mace, pour it into a dish, and serve hot. (3) Boil three dozen Oysters in their own liquor for a few minutes, then strain, cut them into small pieces, and dredge with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Put 4oz. of butter in a stewpan, mix in 2oz. of flour, and stir over the fire until the butter has melted and mixed with the flour; then pour in f breakfast-cupful of cream, and stir until boiling. Move the saucepan off' the fire, and put in the Oysters with J table-spoonful of chopped parsley and 1 teaspoonful of very finely-chopped onion. Stir the mixture well, put it into large Oyster shells, strew grated breadcrumb over the top of each, distribute two or three small pieces of butter on them, and place them in a brisk oven until nicely browned. Arrange the shells with the Oysters on a hot dish, over which has been spread a 1 Oysters—conti nu ed. folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with parsley, and serve. Oyster Cromeskies.—(1) Scald the required quantity of Oysters in their own liquor, and put them between slices of bacon cut very thin. Two Oysters are quite sufficient for one slice of bacon. Roll the bacon over and fasten the Oysters in with a small skewer. Fry them in a frying- pan, and when they are of a pale brown, take them out, place them on a dish, and serve hot. (2) Put one dozen Oysters into a saucepan and parboil them in their own liquor; take them out and chop them up, after the beards have been removed. Put a little butter into a saucepan, melt it, stir in a small quantity of flour, add the chopped Oysters, strain in the Oyster liquor, and add salt and pepper to taste and a little finely- chopped parsley. Mix thoroughly, remove the pan from the lire, and stir in the yolk of an egg and the juice of half a lemon. Have ready twelve slices of fat bacon cut thin and parboiled, and put the Oyster mixture on them in equal quantities. When cold fasten them over, securing them with a small skewer, dip them into batter, and fry to a light brown in boiling fat. When done, take them out, drain thoroughly, put them on a dish, and serve with a garnish of parsley. The slices of bacon should be cut 1 J2in. by 2Jin. before the mixture is put on. (3) Put a dozen Oysters into a saucepan with a little white wine, poach them for a few minutes, take them out, drain, and chop them up into small pieces. Put some reduced bechamel sauce in a saucepan, stir in a little of the strained Oyster liquor, and when it is succulent and well-thickened remove it from the fire and add the chopped Oysters. Sprinkle in a little grated nutmeg, turn the mixture out on to a flat pan, and let it cool. Take pieces the size of an egg, flatten them a little, and place them between pieces of pancake or wafer paste. Dip them into smooth thick frying-batter, plunge them into a pan of boiling fat, and fry for about ten minutes. Take them out, drain off' all the fat, arrange them on a napkin spread over a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve very hot. Large Oysters are best foj this dish. (4) Open two dozen Oysters, put them with their liquor in a stewpan, and partially boil them; drain the Oysters, remove their beards, and cut them into small pieces. Put 2oz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of Hour in a saucepan, mix them well over the fire, put in the Oysters and their « liquor, which should be strained, and 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Stir the mixture for two or three minutes on the fire, then move it to the side and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs and the strained juice of a small lemon. Spread the mixture out on a dish and let it cool. Cut some thin slices of partially boiled bacon in pieces 2Jin. long and 1 Jin. wide. Make a thick paste with flour, 1 table-spoonful of oil, and 1 table- spoonful of water, then stir in sufficient tepid water to make a thin batter; add at the last the well-whisked white of one egg and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Put a small quantity of the Oyster mixture on each piece of bacon, and roll it up tightly. Put a good-sized lump of butter or lard in a fiat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when blue smoke rises, which denotes that it is boiling, dip the cromeskies in the batter, put them in the fat, and fry until nicely browned. When taken out of the fat, lay them on a cloth or sheet of paper in front of the fire to drain. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the cromeskies in a circle on it, fill the centre with crisp, fried parsley, and serve. Oyster Croquettes.—(1) Blanch six dozen Oysters, trim them, and chop the meat into small pieces; put it into a sauce- pan with a third of the bulk of mushrooms, cooked and cut into small pieces. Put 1 pint of bechamel sauce into a saucepan over a clear fire, reduce it, stirring frequently, and add a few table-spoonfuls of the Oyster liquor and a little cream. When it is well reduced and begins to froth add a liaison made with the yolks of three eggs to thicken it, and lastly add a small quantity of butter. Stir in the Oyster mixture, turn it out into a basin, and let it get quite cold, placing the basin if necessary on ice. Take76 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Oysters—continued. out small quantities about the size of an egg, roll them on a board sprinkled with breadcrumbs, make them round with spoons, and dip them first into well-beaten egg and then into breadcrumbs. Have ready a frying-pan of boiling fat, plunge them in a few at a time, and when they are done and of a good colour take them out, drain, arrange them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with a garnish of fried parsley. (2) Chop 1 breakfast-cupful of Oysters very line and mix them up with the same quantity of cooked minced veal. Put 3 table-spoonfuls of powdered crackers in a basin with the Oyster liquor, soak them well, and add the Oyster and veal mixture, 1 table-spoonful of warmed butter, the yolks of two eggs, and 1 table-spoonful of onion-juice. Mix thoroughly, take a little out at a time, roll it into balls about the size of a greengage, dip them first in egg and then in cracker-crumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry to a light brown. Place them on a dish with a napkin folded on it, and serve. The Oysters do not require to be cooked before being minced, but the veal must, as it takes longer to cook. (3) Boil about two dozen Oysters in their own liquor for five minutes, drain, cut them into moderate-sized pieces, and dust over with salt and pepper. Put 4oz. of butter in a saucepan with 2oz. of flour, stir them over the fire until mixed, then pour in l breakfast-cupful of cream and continue stirring until boiling. Take the saucepan off the fire, and put in the Oysters with \ table-spoonful of chopped parsley and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Stir the mixture well, turn it on to a dish, and leave it until cool. Divide the mixture into small quantities, roll them into balls with the hands, then roll them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs. Put a lump of lard or clarified fat in a frying-pan, make it hot, then put in the balls, a few at a time, and fry them until nicely browned. As each lot of balls are done, lay them on paper to drain. When well drained, arrange the balls on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Oyster Forcemeat.—(1) Put Jib. of butter in a saucepan and when it has melted pour it over 1 breakfast-cupful each of breadcrumb and crackers rolled very small. Put them into a basin, and add the strained liquor of the Oysters, one egg, and salt and pepper to taste. Mix it up lightly so as not to make it into a paste, and then add two dozen Oysters. Stir up again, and the stuffing is ready for use. (2) Take ilb. of crumb from a stale household loaf and add it to a dozen Oysters finely minced. Put them into a basin with 2oz. of finely-slired suet and the same quantity of lean ham, or bacon and butter. Season with grated nutmeg, 2 table-spoonfuls of sweet herbs, a little parsley, both finely minced, and a little salt. Add sufficient well- beaten egg (it will require about three) to make it of the necessary consistence. This is a good stuffing for fresh- water fish. (3) Strain the liquor from lqt. of Oysters, and pour it over sufficient stale bread to fill the body of a turkey ; carefully remove all bits of shell from the Oysters, and then add them to the bread with 1 teaspoonful of salt, J saltspoonful of pepper, and a stalk of celery minced very fine, or 1 teaspoonful of celery-leaves dried and powdered. A good stuffing for turkey. Oyster Fricassee.—(1) Open and beard some Oysters, put them into a stewpan with their own liquor, loz. of butter, and the strained juice of half a lemon; season them with a small quantity each of cayenne pepper and grated nutmeg, and let them simmer gently at the side of the fire for a few minutes. Do not cook them too much or they will shrivel up. Beat the yolks of two eggs together with 3 table- spoonfuls of sherry, strain them, and stir ill with the Oysters. Toss the whole over the fire for a minute, then turn them on to a dish, and serve. (2) Beard a dozen Oysters and strain their liquor ; put a small lump of butter into a stewpan with 1 dessert- spoonful of Hour, mix them on the fire, then add the strained liquor of the Oysters, and stir it over the fire until thickened. Beat the yolk of an egg with about For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Oysters—continued. £ teacupful of cream, strain and stir it in the sauce, season to taste, and stir it at the edge of the fire for a few minutes but do not let it boil again. Put the Oysters in and let them warm gradually. Cut some slices of bread, trim off the crusts, and toast them ; butter while hot, lay them on a dish, pour the fricasseed Oysters over, and serve. (3) Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter into a frying-pan, and when it is brown add 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, a small quantity of cayenne and salt, and lastly ‘2qts. of well-washed and drained Oysters. Work 1 table- spoonful of flour into 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, and when the butter is melted stir in the Oysters with the mixture and cook until they begin to curl; stir in the yolks of three eggs, well beaten, remove the pan from the fire, turn the fricassee out on to a dish, and serve with a garnish of fried bread and parsley. (4) Take a rasher of ham, pour boiling water over it, and let it soak for half-an-hour, then cut it up small and put it over the fire in a saucepan with the strained liquor of 3 [lints <rf Oysters, 1 pint of good strong veal broth or chicken broth, an onion chopped fine, a small quantity of chopped parsley and sweet marjoram, and pepper to taste. Let this simmer gently for a-quarter-of-an-hour, and then allow it to boil fast for five minutes, skim and put in the Oysters, stir constantly, and let it boil up once; then mix in 1 table-spoonful of cornflour blended smoothly with 1 [lint of milk, keep stirring till it boils and begins to thicken, then add 2oz. of butter. When the butter is melted lift out the Oysters with a skimmer, lay them on a hot dish, and keep them covered. When the sauce again comes to the boil take it from the fire; have a beaten egg ready in a cup, beat into it a spoonful or two of the hot sauce, then empty the cup into the saucepan, mixing the egg well in. Pour the sauce or gravy over the Oysters, and serve at once, adding the strained juice of a lemon after the tureen is placed on the table. Oyster Fritters.—Separate the yolk and white of an egg, beat the yolk well, and mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls each of ground rice and salad-oil, £ table-spoonful of vinegar, and a small quantity of cold water; mix smoothly and let the batter stand for an hour. Open the Oysters and beard them; whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff snow, and mix them in lightly with the batter. Put a large lump of lard or clarified fat into a Hat stewpan, and place it on the fire until boiling. Take the Oysters one at a time, put each in a table-spoon, fill the spoon with flatter, and pour it into the boil- ing fat. Fry until nicely and equally browned, then drain them well. Spread a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper over a hot dish, pile the fritters in the centre, garnish with cut lemons (see Fig. 93), and serve with a [date of thin slices of brown bread-and-butter. Oysters on Ice (a l’Arctique).—Procure a large square- shaped block of ice with a level top surface, and with a hot iron melt a cavity in it large enough to hold two or three dozen Oysters. Sprinkle the Oysters over with salt and pepper, place the block of ice on a napkin on a dish to prevent it slipping, put the Oysters in the cavity, garnish with parsley, both on the top of and round the block of ice, and it is ready for table. If desired the sides of the ice may be chipped with an ice-axe to uces, <bc., referred, to, see under their special heads.77 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Oysters—continued. resemble a rock, and parsley may be spread over tbe Oysters, and flowers inserted here and there (see Fig. 94). Oyster Kabobs.—Put some chopped onions, mushrooms, and parsley into a saucepan with a little butter and flour, warm it a little, and add two dozen blanched Oysters ; when they are warm stir in sufficient yolk of egg to make it of that consistence that it will adhere to the Oysters. Pass a skewer through six of the Oysters at a time with as much of the mixture on them as possible, then dip them in breadcrumbs, then beaten egg, and lastly bread- crumbs again. Put them into a frying-pan with butter, and fry to a light brown. Put them on a dish, pull out the skewer, and serve. Oyster Ketchup.—(1) Pound two dozen Oysters with three Bordeaux anchovies in a mortar, anti season with |oz. each of ground cloves, cayenne pepper and ground mace. Mix their liquor with them, turn them into a lined sauce- pan, pour in 1 pint of white wine and 2 wineglassfuls of brandy. Place the ketchup over a slow fire until boiling, then strain it through a fine silk sieve. When cold pour the ketchup into bottles and keep them tightly corked for use. (2) Wash two dozen Oysters in their own liquor, then put them into a mortar and pound. Strain the liquor of the Oysters through muslin into a saucepan, add the pounded Oysters with 1 pint of sherry, and place them over a slow fire. When boiling, put into the liquor a small quantity each of pounded mace and cayenne pepper and 2 table- spoonfuls of salt. Boil gently for five minutes, then skim the ketchup and pass it through a fine hair sieve. When cold, bottle the ketchup for use; the corks must be put in tightly and sealed down. (3) Take one hundred fresh Oysters, boil them in their own liquor till all the goodness is extracted, then strain, and measure the liquor. Add to it half what it measures of port wine and half what it measures of sherry. Put wine and liquor together into a saucepan over the fire and add six anchovies, 1 drachm of ginger, and Joz. each of allspice, mace, and white pepper: boil all together for a- quarter-of-an-hour or twenty minutes. Have ready a large jar with the thinly-pared yellow rind of a lemon, a piece of horseradish cut small, and twelve shallots in it; pour the boiling ketchup over these, let it stand till cold, and then bottle it, dividing the spice among the bottles. Cork well. Oyster Loaves.—Beard and cut some Oysters into halves; put them in a stewpan with their strained liquor, 1 wine- glassful of white wine, and a moderate quantity of gravy; season to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity each of grated lemon-peel and pounded mace. Stew them gently, and when cooked put in about loz. of butter in small pieces. Cut the tops oil' some small French rolls, scoop out the crumb, put the rolls into a stewpan of boiling butter, and fry until crisp and brown Rub the crumb of the rolls up finely and fry that also. Drain the rolls, and fill them Oysters—continued. with the Oyster mixture ; place them on a hot dish, put the crumbs round, and serve. Oyster-and-Macaroni Pudding.—(1) (Baked).—Put 5oz. of macaroni into a saucepan of boiling salted water, cook for twenty minutes, then take it out and drain. Take a 3 pint pudding-basin, butter it well inside, put in half the macaroni, place two dozen Oysters on the top, put 3oz. of butter pulled in pieces on these, sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, and cover with the remainder of the macaroni. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour into a basin, make it into a thin paste with a little milk, beat in an egg, pour in more milk to make the quantity of it used 1 breakfast-cupful in all, and add a little of the strained Oyster liquor. Pour it all over the macaroni, put the pudding-basin into a moderate oven, bake for about twenty minutes, when it should be done, and serve. (2) Put a layer of stewed macaroni in a deep dish, place some Oysters on the top, and sprinkle over a little cayenne and grated lemon-rind. Pour over 1 gill of cream, cover all with breadcrumbs, put the dish in the oven, and bake to a light brown. When done, serve very hot, with 1 sauceboatful of piquant sauce. Oyster Omelet.—(1) Put half-a dozen Oysters into a saucepan with their liquor, and scald them ; take them out, drain, and cut them into quarters. In the meantime put the yolks of three eggs into a basin, beat them to a cream, and add 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste, 1 table-spoonful of milk, and lastly the Oysters. Beat the whites of the three eggs to a stiff:' froth, and stir them in together with 1 table-spoonful of melted butter. Put lioz. of butter into a frying-pan, and when it has melted pour in the contents of the basin, and hold the pan over the fire until the omelet is set. Give the pan a vigorous shake, ease the omelet from the bottom with a knife, hold the pan in front of the fire for a few minutes to let the upper part set, then fold it over, place it carefully on a dish, and serve hot. (2) Open the shells of four Oysters, beard them, and put them on a sieve to drain. Break two eggs into a basin, sprinkle over a little pepper, and flavour with a small quantity of grated lemon-peel. Put loz. of butter into an omelet-pan, let it melt, toss the pan so as to spread it, and when it comes to the boiling-point pour in the eggs and stir well to incorporate with the butter; when half done, place the Oysters on one half, cover with the other part, and cook for a minute or two longer; then turn it out on to a very hot plate, dust with salt, and serve at once. (3) Scald eighteen Oysters in their own liquor made boiling hot; drain, return them to the saucepan, moisten with }2 pint of German sauce, and season with l pinch of salt. Make a plain omelet with twelve eggs, turn the sides over towards the centre, and fill the middle with the Oyster preparation. Turn it over on to a hot dish, pour the rest of the sauce round, and serve very hot. Oyster Pancakes.—Put 1 pint of wheat-flour into a basin with 1 teaspoonful of salt. Stir in gradually \ pint of strained Oyster liquor and h pint of milk, mix the batter until quite smooth, then add two beaten eggs and a few Oysters. Put a good-sized lump of lard into a frying-pan, make it hot, then drop in the batter in table-spoonfuls. Fry tbe pancakes till delicately browned on both sides, take them out carefully, and drain them on paper. Put a folded napkin or a dish-paper on a hot dish, put the Oysters on it, and serve. Oysters with Parmesan. -Drain the Oysters as free as possible from liquor; spread a dish thickly with butter, lay the Oysters on it, strew finely-minced parsley over them, season with pepper, pour ^ glass of champagne over them, and cover thickly with grated Parmesan cheese. Put the dish into the oven, and when nicely browned on the top drain the fat carefully off the Oysters and serve while very hot in the same dish. Oyster Patties.—(1) Large.—Make a crust with lib. of flour and 41b. of butter. Put 3 pints of Oysters in a stewpan with half their own liquor and h pint of milk. When78 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Satires, the., referred to, see under their special heads. Oysters—co n tinned. half cooked line a pie-dish with some of the paste and two-thirds fill it with the Oysters, adding a seasoning of pepper and celery salt, 2oz. of butter cut up into little pieces, and a good sprinkling of flour. Lay the remainder of the crust over the top, and bake in a quick oven. (2) Small.—Prepare some rich puff paste and line some buttered fluted patty-pans with it; bake them, and when cooked and cooled turn the paste patties out of the tins. Put some large Oysters in a stewpan with a few cloves, a small quantity of mace and grated nutmeg, a few pounded yolks of hard-boiled eggs, about 2oz. of butter, and as much of the Oyster liquor as will cover them. Stew the Oysters until well plumped, then move them from the fire and leave until cold. Fill the patties with the Oysters, dust them over witn salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, arrange them on a dish with an orna- mental folded paper (see Fig. 95), and serve. (3) Turn a couple of dozen Oysters into a basin with their liquor. Put 1 oz. of butter into a saucepan and work it together with 1 tablespoonful of flour to a smooth paste; when warm add a little mace, cayenne, and salt, and pour in gradually 3 table-spoonfuls of cream. Boil for a few minutes and pour in the strained liquor from the Oysters, add the Oysters last, and boil for a couple of minutes longer. Line some small patty-pans with thin puff paste, put a quantity of rice in each to keep them in shape, cover the top with more of the paste, and bake in a brisk oven. Take them out, remove the top, empty out the rice, fill them with the Oysters and a little of the liquor, cover them, and serve. (4) Beard the required quantity of Oysters, rinse them in their liquor, chop them small, add a little of their liquor (strained), put them in a pan with a very little pepper and salt, a scrape of nutmeg, and a morsel of lemon- peel, and let them simmer for about two minutes. Line some small patty-pans with putt' paste, put a small quantity of the chopped Oysters into each, cover with putt' paste, and bake in a pretty quick oven. (5) Make some puff paste, roll it out, and with it line some small tin patty-pans. Put them into a quick oven and bake ; take them out, leave till cold, then turn them out, and arrange on a dish. Put some large fresh Oysters into a saucepan over the fire, allowing two or three to each patty, and add some hard-boiled yolks of eggs, chopped fine, a small piece of butter, a seasoning of nutmeg; cloves, and mace, and sufficient of their liquor to barely cover them. Let them stew for a short time without coming to the boil, take them from the fire, and leave till quite cold ; put two or three into each shell of puff paste and serve. (6) Add sufficient strained lemon-juice to l gill of cold water to mix fib. of flour to a smooth, stiff paste, knead it well, lay it on a floured paste-board, roll it out, and spread over fib. of fresh butter; fold it up, dredge with flour, and roll it out again. Repeat this till fib. of butter has been rolled in, then fold it in three, and put it into a cool place for two hours. Beard twenty-five Oysters, and throw them into boiling water. Put the beards and liquor over the fire with a very small piece of mace, a little each of grated nutmeg, white pepper, and cayenne, and the thinly-pared rind of half a lemon ; let them boil quickly for ten minutes, then strain the liquor, and add to it the Oysters cut into six pieces, 1 table-spoonful each of strained lemon-juice and cornflour blended in 4 table- spoonfuls of cream, and stir till thick. Lay the paste out on the paste-board, and with a circular paste-cutter Oysters—co n tinned. 2fin. in diameter cut it into rounds, then take a paste-cutter, also circular, but only lfin. in diameter, and press it in the middle of each round of paste, cutting it half-way through. Knead the remainder of the paste, roll it out, and cut it into rounds with the smaller paste-cutter; put all the rounds of paste on to a floured baking-tin, and bake in a quick oven. When cooked, remove the centre pieces of paste from the larger rounds with a sharp penknife, fill up the hollow with the prepared Oysters, cover with one of the small pieces of paste, and when all are ready lay them on a heated napkin on a hot dish and serve immediately. (7) Open three or four dozen Oysters, beard them, and put them in a stewpan with their liquor ; skin and bone half-a-dozen sardines, chop them finely, put them in with the Oysters, add a few finely-minced capers, the strained juice of a small lemon, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Knead 1 table-spoonful of butter in a small quantity of flour, add it to the above ingredients, and boil the whole gently for a few minutes. Prepare a sufficient quantity of short-paste, butter some small patty-pans, and line them with it. Fill them with the above mixture and cover with the paste, trimming oft' neatly round the edges ; make a slight incision at the top of each patty and bake them in a quick oven. When the patties are cooked, turn them out of their tins, arrange them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with neat sprigs of fried parsley, and serve. (8) Take some small tin pans. Cut some thin sliees of stale bread without crust, having a piece to fit the bottom of each pan, toast them quickly and lightly, butter them while hot, and put a piece in each pan. Wet them well with the strained liquor of the Oysters after they are placed in the pans, then lay on top of the toast as many Oysters as the tins will hold without heaping them higher than the sides. Season with pepper and salt, put a piece of butter on top, and set the pans on a baking-sheet; turn a baking-tin down over them to keep in the steam and the flavour, and bake in a quick oven till the Oysters begin to shrivel up. About eight minutes ought to be enough. Serve very hot in the tins in which they were baked. Oyster Pie.—(1) Line a deep pie-dish with a thin layer of puff paste, put it in a moderate oven, and bake the crust; then take it out, fill the dish with well-washed Oysters, add a little butter, sprinkle the Oysters with flour, salt, and pepper, cover the dish with another layer of the paste, ornament it with pastry flowers or leaves, put it into a quick oven, and bake. As soon as the top crust is done the Oysters should lie cooked; then take it out, put it on a dish, and serve. If intended to lie eaten hot it must be served directly it is cooked, but it is quite as tasty when cold. (2) Line a pie-dish with puff paste, and fill it with slices of stale bread; butter the paste that covers the edge of the dish, lay a cover of puff paste over the pie, press the edges very lightly together, trim them, and bake quickly in a hot oven. Meantime drain the liquor from I qt. of Oysters and chop them line with a sharp thin-bladed knife. Blend 1 teaspoonful of cornflour in a very little cold milk, pom- over it pint of boiling milk or cream, put it over the fire in a"” saucepan, stir till it thickens, and then add loz. or rather more of butter; when the butter has been well mixed in, season the chopped Oysters with salt and pepper, stir them into the thickened milk, let them simmer (stirring all the time) for five minutes, and then take them from the fire. When the bread pie is baked take it from the oven, and while still hot carefully raise and take off the upper crust; remove the bread, fill the dish with the thickened cream or milk and chopped Oysters, replace the top crust, put the pie again in the oven till it is thoroughly hot, and then serve. (3) Butter a pie-dish; make some rich puff paste, roll it out, line the sides (not the bottom) of the dish with it, and cover the edges. Take sufficient fresh Oysters to fill the dish, pour the liquor from them, and season to taste with pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and powdered mace and cinnamon. Stir this seasoning well among them, put themTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 79 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <ic., referred to, see under their special heads. Oysters—continued. into the pie-dish, and pour in some of their liquor. Have ready chopped the yolks of four or six hard-boiled eggs, according to the size of the pie, spread them, together with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of sifted breadcrumbs, over the Oysters, lay a sheet of puff paste over, press the edges together, trim, and crimp them. Make an ornament of puff paste in the shape of a rose or tulip, and place it in a small slit cut for the purpose in the centre of the crust; roll out some pastry very thin and cut out seven leaves, crimping them to lay round it. Bake in a quick oven. (4) Take the kidney-fat of a loin of veal, cut it into thin slices, lay them at the bottom of a pie-dish, and sprinkle with salt, white pepper, pounded mace, and grated lemon-peel to taste. Beard lqt. of Oysters, lay them on the seasoned slices of fat, pour the liquor over them, shake some more of the seasoning on the Oysters, and then lay over them the marrow of two hones. Cover the edge of the pie-dish with a strip of puff paste, cover the pie with more of the paste, and hake for about forty minutes. (5) Baltimore.—Make a crust, grease the bottom of a baking-dish, and cover it with the paste. Season 2qts. of raw Oysters (without the liquor) with spices to taste (some preferring nutmeg, mace, and cayenne pepper, other's black pepper alone), add £lb. of butter and 1 heaped tea- cupful of grated breadcrumb, put all together in the dish, and cover it with paste cut in strips, crossed or otherwise ornamented as fancy suggests. A pound of butter to 2qts. of Oysters is desired by some, but the quantity named above is preferable, especially if the Oysters are of fine quality. A pie of this size will bake -in three-quarters-of-an- hour if the oven is in good order; if the heat is not quick allow it an hour. If in baking tbe crust is likely to become too brown, put a piece of paper doubled over it, and the desired colour will be retained; if the pie looks dry when taken from the oven, pour some of the liquor that was drained from the Oysters in the dish, having previously strained and boiled it. (6) Line a well-buttered pie-dish with puff paste, then put into it 2qts. of Oysters strained free from liquor and seasoned to taste with pepper or nutmeg, mace, and cayenne. Mix with them 2oz. each of breadcrumbs and butter cut into small pieces, cover with a crust of the puff paste, and bake it. If the oven is quick three-quarters-of-an-hour will be sufficient time to cook it, but if the oven is moderate it will most likely require an hour. Oyster Pot Pie.—Drain off nearly all the liquor from igall. of Oysters and put them into a pan holding 3qts. Prepare a paste with lib. of dour, 3 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, and 1 breakfast-cupful of water, make it like biscuit-paste, but without breaking, and as soft as possible to handle. Pat it out with the hands, cover the Oysters with it, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. Make an incision in one side, remove a piece of the crust, and put in 1 teaspoonful each of salt and pepper, loz. of butter, 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and 1 teacupful of flour and water. Stir well, replace the piece of crust that was taken out, bake for a short time longer, and it is ready to be served. The crust should be as light as sponge and but lightly browned, and the Oysters quite cooked but not hard. Oyster Powder for Flavouring Sauces.—Open the Oysters very carefully so as not to cut them, only cutting the gristle that fastens the shells, and add for each dozen Oysters two drachms of salt. Pound them together with the salt, a few at a time in a mortar, and when all are pounded rub them through a hair sieve. Put them back again into the mortar, and pound them together with as much thoroughly dried flour as will make them into a paste. Roll this paste out several times, the last time flouring it well and rolling it out to rather less than |in. thick, then cut it into pieces about lin. square. Lay these in a Dutch oven near the fire where they will dry very gently without browning, turn them every twenty minutes, and as they begin to dry crumble them. When quite dried (they will take about four hours) pound them fine, sift them through a fine wire sieve, and put the powder into bottles, which should be corked and sealed till required for Oysters—continued. use. Three drachms of this powder is sufficient to flavour \ pint of sauce. Oyster Ragofft.—Open lqt. of Oysters, set them in their own liquor in a saucepan over the fire, and keep them hot for some time without boiling, then take them out and set them aside; meanwhile peel and pick three dozen good well-grown mushrooms, cut them in pieces (not too small), put them in a stewpan on the fire, add 2oz. of "butter, salt and pepper to taste, and let them stew gently till well done. Add the Oysters together with \ pint of fresh cream, and cook them till well mixed; taking care not to let them boil; then dish them up and serve garnished with celery-leaves and fried Oysters. Oyster Rissolettes.—Open some large Oysters, blanch them in their own liquor, and heard them. Let the liquor stand for two or three minutes, then strain it carefully into a basin. Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour into a stewpan, stir them over the lire until amalgamated, then pour in the Oyster liquor, mix- ing smoothly; add | tea- cupful each of cream and white stock, and continue stirring over the fire until thick. Chop and put the Oysters in the sauce with a moderate quantity of chopped mushrooms that have been dusted with flour and fried in butter, ami season to taste with salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Make a sufficient quantity of puff paste, roll it out thin, and with a tin cutter cut it into small scalloped rounds; put a small quan- tity of the Oyster mix- ture on one half of each of the rounds (see Fig. 96) and fold the other half over, moisten round the edges with a little water, pinch them to- gether (see Fig. 97), and brush each rissolette over with a pastebrush dipped in beaten yolk of egg. Spread a sheet of buttered paper over a baking-sheet, lay the rissolettes on it, a little space between each, and bake them in a brisk oven. Spread a folded napkin or a lace-edged dish-paper over a hot dish, and when the rissolettes are cooked pile them on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Oyster Salad.—(1) Clean two heads of celery, leaving a little of the green part on, and put them into a saucepan with half their bulk of tender white cabbage. Pour over sufficient boiling salted water to cover them, and boil for five minutes. Take them out, place them on a colander to drain, and mince them very fine. Put the strained liquor from a couple of dozen Oysters into a saucepan, boil it, skim it, and add a little vinegar, bruised pepper- corns, and salt. Remove the pan to the side of the fire, put in the Oysters, simmer gently for a few minutes until they are done, take them out, and turn them into a basin packed in ice to cool. Add a little oil and vinegar to the chopped celery and cabbage, spread some of it over a dish, arrange the Oysters on it, putting them close together, cover with the remainder of the mixture, smooth it over with a knife, pour over a little thin mayonnaise sauce, and serve. (2) Put lqt. of Oysters into a saucepan with their liquor, cook them, take them out, drain, and season with 1 table-spoonful each of salad-oil and lemon-juice, 3 table- spoonfuls of vinegar, and salt and pepper to taste; put them into a basin packed in ice, ami let them get quite cold. Scrape and wash a head of celery, cut it into thin slices, sufficient to fill 2 breakfast-cups, and put it also in a basin packed in ice, and a lump of ice on it. When wanted for use, drain the celery, mix it with the Oysters, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. Fig. 96. Oyster Rissolette, Open. Fig. 97. Oyster Rissolette, Folded.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 80 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensits, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Oysters—continued. (3) Drain off the liquor from |gall. of Oysters, and plunge them into a saucepan of boiling vinegar to get plump without being cooked. Take them out, put them at once into a basin of cold water so that they will not shrink, drain off all the water, and place them in a cool place until wanted. Put the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs into a' mortar, mash them, and add 2 teaspoonfuls each of salt, pepper, and made mustard, and lastly 2 table- spoonfuls of salad-oil, a few drops at a time. When the mixture is quite smooth, add gradually first one well- whipped egg and then 1 gill of vinegar. Chop fine an equal bulk of celery as Oysters, and mix in two pickled cucumbers cut into thin slices and the Oysters. Turn the Oyster mix- ture out on to a dish, pour the salad dressing over, and serve. (4) Put the strained liquor from two dozen Oysters into a basin, and add 1 breakfast-cupful of warmed aspic jelly and the shell and white of an egg beaten up. Turn ail into a saucepan, boil it, and strain it through a flannel jelly-bag. Dip a casserole-mould into cold water, drain it, cover the bottom with the jelly mixture, and pack it in ice. When the jelly is set, place some of the Oysters on the top of it, about lin. or so apart. Cut a beetroot lengthwise into slices, and with a tin cutter cut out some fancy shapes; arrange them in the mould over the Oysters, and continue in this way with layers of jelly, Oysters, and beetroot until the mould is full, taking care to let the jelly set well and firm every time it is added before another lot is poured in. When the jelly is completed, turn it out on to a cold dish, garnish with two or three lettuces, cut in pieces, a little mustard and cress, poui- over 2 table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, mixed with an equal quantity of vinegar, and add salt and pepper to taste. Oyster Sandwiches.—Chop 1 dozen Oysters, and put them in a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, a lump of butter about the size of a walnut, and 1 teaspoonful of finely-grated breadcrumb or cracker-dust; season with salt and pepper, stir it over the fire, and let it simmer for a few minutes. Add half the yolk of a raw egg, or if preferred a small quantity of white of egg, and remove the saucepan from the fire. Four the mixture into a mould, leave it till cold and set, then turn it out ; cut it into thin slices, and place them between slices of 1 >read -and - butter. Oyster Sauce.—(1) Open a dozen Oysters, blanch and beard them, reserving their liquor, which strain. Put 3oz. of butter into a lined stewpan with 2oz. of Hour, and mix them well over the fire, then stir in 1 teacupful of the Oyster liquor. When boiling and thickened, cut the Oysters into quarters, and put them in the sauce. Let the sauce simmer gently at the side of the fire for five or ten minutes, when it will be ready for serving. (2) Partially boil the Oysters in their own liquor, then strain and beard them, reserving the liquor. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir them over the fire until mixed, then pour in the Oyster liquor, and stir until boiling. Add as much milk as will be required to make the sauce, also a blade of mace and a bay-leaf tied together, pepper and salt to taste, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Boil the sauce for a few minutes, then put in the Oysters. When they are quite hot remove the mace and bay-leaf, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and serve the sauce. (3) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of fish broth into a saucepan, boil it, pour it over two dozen Oysters to shrink them, then strain it back into the saucepan, and boil again. Skim well and stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour made into a smooth paste with a little water, then add lioz. of butter and lastly the Oysters. When it begins to boil, pour it into a sauceboat and serve very hot. Any stock may be used, but fish stock is best. (4) Open the required quantity of Oysters and boil them up once in their own liquor, then take them out and put into the liquor a blade or two of mace, and some cream and melted-butter sauce; then add the Oysters, let all come to the boil, and continue boiling for nearly a minute. Pick out the mace, and serve the sauce in a small tureen. (5) Open eighteen large Oysters, put them in a saucepan ■with loz. of good butter, and place the pan on the stove. Oysters—continued. Cook for four minutes, remove half the liquid from the pau, and add 1 pint of hot German sauce. Then with the spatula mix all lightly together without letting it boil, and serve. Oyster Sauce for Boiled Turkey.—Put into a saucepan over the fire 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and 2 piled table- spoonfuls of butter, and stir them together until they bubble; then gradually mix in the liquor from lqt. of Oysters and enough broth from the turkey to make a sauce of the con- sistency of cream. Season with salt and white pepper, and let it boil for a moment; put the saucepan containing the sauce into a pan of hot water, and place it on the back of the fire to keep hot until wanted. Put in the Oysters, and let them boil once; in the meantime dish the turkey, pour a little of the Oyster sauce over it, and serve with the remainder of the sauce in a boat. Oyster Sausages.—(1) Scald 1 pint of Oysters until hard, finely mince them, mix in lib. of finely-chopped lean beef (sirloin for preference), add half the quantity of bread- crumbs, season well with pepper, salt, and a small quantity of ground mace, and bind it with beaten yolks of eggs. Divide the mixture into moderate-sized quantities and shape them like sausages. Melt a lump of butter in a flat stew- pan, put in the sausages, and fry them nicely. When cooked, drain the sausages, put them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Mix together fifty Oysters, Alb. of cold veal or chicken, 2oz. of suet, all chopped line, 6oz. of sifted breadcrumb® the beaten yolk of an egg, and a seasoning of powdered mace, black pepper, and cayenne. Make this paste into balls or rolls like sausages, brush them over with beaten egg, roll them in sifted breadcrumbs, and fry them in boiling lard. Serve rich brown gravy with them. (3) Put three-dozen-and-a-half Oysters in a basin with their liquor, rinse them well in it, take them out, and mince rather coarsely. Put them into a basin with lOoz. each of breadcrumbs and finely-shred beef-suet, sprinkle over 1 saltspoonful each of salt and pepper, half the quantity of cayenne, 1 teaspoonful of mace, and a little grated nutmeg; add two eggs, work them all together, and put the mixture in a cool place for two or three hours. Take it out in small quantities, roll them into shapes like sausages, sprinkle with flour, put them into a saucepan with a little butter, and fry to a light brown, or they may lie plunged into boiling water for three minutes; take them out, drain, and when quite cold dip them into beaten egg and breadcrumbs, and broil them. Oysters Sautes.—Beard six dozen Oysters, and sprinkle them with dried breadcrumbs, giving them a coating. Put a small quantity of butter into a frying-pan over the fire, and when it has melted place in the Oysters close together, and fry them quickly to a light brown colour. Cover them u ith a plate, turn the frying-pan upside-down, then return the Oysters from the plate into the frying-pan and fry the other side. This is required to be done quickly and carefully so as not to break the Oysters apart. Put them on a dish, and serve with a garnish of fried parsley and quarters of lemon (see Fig. 98). Oyster Souffle.—(1) Prepare a panada as follows: Put lib. of freshly-baked breadcrumbs into a basin of warm water,TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 81 Oysters—continued. and let them soak for thirty minutes or so. Take them out, squeeze, put them in a cloth and wring out all the moisture; place them in a saucepan with loz. of butter, sprinkle with a little salt, and stir well over a moderate fire until the mixture does not stick to the pan. Put two dozen Oysters into a saucepan with their liquor, scald them, take them out, drain, cut off the beards, and put them into a mortar with l£oz. of the prepared panada, pound them to a pulp and mix in the yolks of three eggs and loz. of butter. When these are incorporated, pass them through a fine sieve into a basin and stir in 1 teacupful of the Oyster liquor and the same of well-whipped cream. Sprinkle in cayenne and salt to taste, and add a little lemon-juice and the whites of two eggs whipped to a white froth. Stir lightly, pour it into a buttered souffle-mould, cover the top with a piece of well-buttered paper, put the mould in a steamer over a saucepan of boiling water, and steam for thirty minutes. When done, turn the souffle out on to a dish, pour some Oyster sauce over it, and serve. (2) Put the flesh from two whitings into a mortar, pound it to a pulp, and pass it through a fine sieve. Cut a dozen blanched Oysters into quarters. Put loz. of butter into a saucepan, and when it has melted mix in 2oz. of flour, stir well, add 1 teacupful of strained Oyster liquor, and continue stirring until the liquor becomes quite thick. Pour this mixture into the whiting puree, turn it back into the mortar, pound well, and add three eggs, one at a time, and a little salt and cayenne to taste. When these are mixed, add the Oysters and 1 teacupful of well-whipped cream. Butter a souffle-mould, pour in the mixture, put the mould in a steamer over a saucepan of boiling water, and cook for thirty minutes. When done, turn it out on to a dish, pour over some Oyster sauce, and serve. Oyster Soup.—(1) Blanch two or three dozen Oysters in their own liquor, beard them, and cut them into small pieces. Put 2oz. of butter in a saucepan with 1 table- spoonful of flour and mix them well over the fire, then stir in as much fish stock as will make the required quantity of soup. Continue stirring until boiling, then put in the Oysters and their liquor, previously strained, add a moderate quantity of minced parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and a little grated nutmeg. Beat the yolks of two eggs in with the juice of half a lemon and strain them, move the soup off' the fire, and stir in the beaten eggs. Pour it into a soup-tureen and serve with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (2) Put 3 pints each of water and milk in a lined saucepan on the fire; finely crush |lb. of soda biscuits and add them to the milk-and-water; when it boils, put in also 1 pint of finely-chopped Oysters. Boil the soup until it is well flavoured with the Oysters, then add 3 pints of whole Oysters and 4oz. of butter, season to taste with salt and pepper, let the soup simmer gently for ten minutes longer, then turn it into a soup-tureen and serve while very hot. (3) Put 31b. of knuckle of veal or leg of lamb in a saucepan with 3qts. of water and a lump of salt, and let it simmer gently for three liours. At the end of that time skim the soup and strain it into the saucepan with lqt. of Oysters that have been freed of their beards and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of crushed biscuits; season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil it up again. Then add l|oz. of butter in small pieces, pour the soup into a soup- tureen, and serve while very hot. (4) Wash lqt. of Oysters in water to free them of grit, put them into a saucepan with two slices of bacon cut into small pieces, and pour over the strained Oyster liquor. Add a little parsley, thyme, and chopped onions, with salt and pepper to taste, boil slowly, and when nearly done, stir in loz. of butter rolled in flour and 1 teacupful of cream. Turn the soup out into a soup-tureen, and serve. (5) Put lqt. of stock in a saucepan on the fire and the same quantity of milk in another saucepan. Place lqt. of Oysters in a colander over a third saucepan, let them drain, and when the stock boils pour a little over the Oysters, stir them well in it, and then let it drain off. Put the pan containing the Oyster liquor on the fire, and when the liquor boils skim, and strain it into the stock. Oysters—continued. Add the Oysters to the stock, boil until they begin to shrink, and then remove the pan to the side of the fire and stir in a little more than 2 table-spoonfuls of crushed crackers, 1 teaspoonful each of salt and pepper, and lastly the quart of boiling milk. Pour the soup at once into a soup-tureen, and serve with a little chopped parsley sprinkled over the top. (6) Put 2 table-spoonfuls of cornflour into a basin and work it to a smooth paste with a little milk. Put 1 pint of white stock into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of cream, salt and pepper to taste, add the cornflour, and put the pan on the side of the fire. As soon as the stock com- mences to simmer throw in a dozen large Oysters with their liquor and simmer gently for a few minutes, when it will be done and ready for use. (7) Prepare 2qts. of fish stock with flounders or eels, and flavour it with mace, parsley, a bunch of sweet herbs, and an onion stuck with three cloves. Strain and beard six dozen Oysters; put the yolks of ten hard-boiled eggs in a mortar and pound them to a smooth paste. Strain the fish stock, and pour it in a saucepan with the strained liquor of the Oysters and the pounded yolks. Boil the soup gently for half-an-liour, then put in the Oysters and the well-beaten yolks of six raw eggs; stir quickly till smooth, but do not let it boil again. Turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve while very hot. (8) Boil lgall. of Oysters in their liquor until quite done. Add lqt. of rich milk, the yolks of four eggs, 2 good table-spoonfuls of butter, and 1 table-spoonful of flour, all mixed well together, but in this order: first the milk, then, after beating the eggs, add a little of the hot liquor to them gradually, and stir them rapidly into the soup ; l&stly add the butter and seasoning, such as plain pepper and salt, to taste, celery sal-t, marjoram, and thyme or mace and a bit of onion may be used for flavouring. (9) Put two dozen Oysters at the bottom of a soup- tureen, and dust them over thickly with dried parsley and powdered cracknels. Prepare the soup as follows: Put lgall. of white broth into a saucepan, add a little vege- table stock, bring it to the boil, thicken with potato-flour moistened with milk, stir in a little each of cayenne and powdered mace, boil for two or three minutes longer, turn the soup at once into the tureen, and serve. (10) Put the crumb of four French rolls in a saucepan of water over the fire with four onions peeled and cut up small, 1 teaspoonful of whole white pepper, and three or four blades of mace. Boil the bread till the onions are soft, then pick out the spices, rub the bread and onions through a hair sieve, and put it with 3qts. of well-seasoned veal stock into a saucepan over the fire. Rub 1 table- spoonful of flour into 3oz. of butter, put it into a small bowl, and blend it with a little of the soup taken out of the saucepan (about 1 breakfast-cupful will be enough), and then stir it into the soup over the fire ; when it has boiled for ten or twelve minutes, add fifty Oysters with their liquor and let them boil slowly for a-quarter-of-an- hour. Taste the soup, and if the liquor of the Oysters has not made it salt enough, add salt to it. Pour it into a tureen, and serve. (11) Cut about 2oz. of fat pork into small squares and fry them until lightly browned. Put 2oz. of butter into a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and stir them over the fire until mixed ; pour in slowly 1 qt. of milk, add the pieces of pork, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and, if liked, a few drops of essence of anchovies. Stir the soup over the fire until boiling and thickened, then put in two dozen Oysters and keep them simmering for a minute or two. Turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve with a plate of croutons fried in butter. (12) Free lqt. of Oysters from bits of shell, and strain off their liquor; add to the liquor 1 pint of milk and suffi- cient water to increase the quantity to about 2qts., place the milk-and-Oyster liquor over the fire, season it with salt and white or red pepper, let it boil for a moment, and remove any scum that may rise. Meantime, beat four eggs till smooth together with h pint of milk, and strain them. After the scum has all been removed from the soup, put into it the Oysters and the eggs-and-milk, and stir For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. VOL. II.82 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Oysters—continued. constantly until it begins to thicken, but do not let it boil or the eggs will curdle; as soon as it is smooth and scalding hot, serve it. The Oysters need so little cooking that the heat of the scalding broth is sufficient for the purpose. Oyster-and-Steak Radeau.—Make a seasoning or stuffing with 2oz. of breadcrumbs, 1 dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, a little chopped mixed herbs, and a little pepper and salt; stir all these well together. Beat Joz. of butter to a cream, and mix the breadcrumbs, &c., with it. Beat flat a tender veal steak not cut too thick, spread the season- ing over it, or, if preferred, put a layer of bearded Oysters on it. Roll up the steak, bind it evenly with twine, put it into a pie-dish, pour round 1 breakfast-cupful of boil- ing water, cover it, put it hi the oven, and bake for forty minutes, basting frequently. Take off the cover a short time before it is done to let it brown, remove the twine, thicken the gravy with a little browned flour, and serve very hot. Oyster Toast.—(1) Chop one-dozen-and-a-half Oysters and three boned and scraped anchovies, and put them into a saucepan with loz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of flour, the liquor from the Oysters, and salt and pepper to taste. Put the pan at the side of the fire, and simmer the con- tents gently for a few minutes. Have ready four slices of bread fried in butter, spread the mixture over them, arrange them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with a garnish of fried parsley. These must be served very hot. (2) Put half-a-dozen Oysters in a mortar after they have been bearded and cleaned, and pound them to a pulp. Add a little cream, salt (if required) and pepper to taste, and form the mixture into a paste. Have ready some slices .of toast, spread the mixture over them, and warm them in a moderate oven for a few minutes. Take them out when done, arrange on a dish, sprinkle a little finely-minced lemon-peel over, and serve. (3) Cut some slices of bread about Jin. thick, or rather thinner, trim off the crasts, and cut the slices into pieces large enough to hold an Oyster; fry the bread, then cut some very thin rashers of bacon the same size, and fry them lightly. Put the Oysters on a gridiron in their shells, and place them over the fire till hot through. Spread the pieces of fried bread with anchovy paste, sprinkle over a very little cayenne, then lay on each a piece of fried bacon, and on the bacon one of the warmed or roasted Oysters sprinkled with a very little cayenne; pour over each a little of the Oyster liquor, and serve hot. Oysters with Villeroy Sauce.—Put a few scalded Oysters into a saucepan with some thick villeroy sauce, and warm them thoroughly. Take them out singly, being careful that they are well covered with the sauce, dip them into breadcrumbs, then into well-beaten egg, and lastly into breadcrumbs again; put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, fry, take them out when done, drain off' the fat, arrange them on a napkin on a dish, and serve with a garnish of fried parsley. Oyster Vol-au-Vent.—Put the liquor and beards of three dozen Oysters into a saucepan, and add a little pepper, cayenne, and the very finely-chopped rind and strained juice of half a lemon. Put the pan on the fire, boil up the liquor, and tliieken with 3oz. of butter rubbed into 2 table-spoonfuls of dried flour. Continue to boil until the liquor is reduced to 1 teacupful, strain it into another saucepan, add the Oysters, place the pan at the side of the fire, and simmer gently for five or six minutes, then stir in 1 teacupful of cream, and keep the mixture warm. Prepare a paste as follows: Rub 12oz. of butter into an equal quantity of flour, and mix in the juice of a lemon added to an egg beaten up in 1 teacupful of water. Make these into a paste, handling it as little as possible, turn it out on to a WTell floured bqard, and roll it out to ljin. in thickness. Cut it with a vol-au-vent tin cutter to take off the rough edges, make it the required shape, cut round the top Jin. from the edge and Jin. deep, and bake the vol-au-vent in a hot oven for forty-five minutes. When done, carefully take out the centre, remove the soft under- done paste, and fill it up with the Oyster mixture. Arrange Oysters—continued. the vol-au-vent on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with a garnish of fried parsley. Pickled Oysters.—(1) Thoroughly cleanse and beard four dozen Oysters, put them into a saucepan, strain their liquor over them, season well with salt, allspice, cloves, and mace, and boil for a few minutes. When plump, pour \ pint of vinegar over the Oysters, boil them up again, turn them into earthenware jars, and leave until cold; then cover each jar with stout paper, tie down, and put them in a dry cupboard for use. (2) Open as many large Oysters as will fill a Jgall. jar, wash them well, put them in a stewpan, and strain their liquor over them; place the pan over the fire until the liquor is on the point of boiling, then take out the Oysters and lay them on a dish to cool. Put some mace and peppercorns in moderate quantities into the liquor, and boil for about half-an-hour, keeping it well skimmed, then leave it until quite cold. Put the Oysters in a jar, pour over them 1 pint of white wine and J pint of the best French vinegar, strain in as much of the liquor as will cover them, and close the jar well, seeing that it is perfectly air-tight. (3) Wash fifty large Oysters in their own liquor, take them out, and dry them. Strain the liquor, add salt to taste, 2 teaspoonfuls of pepper, two blades of mace, 3 table-spoonfuls of sherry, and 4 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and put the Oysters into this pickle. (4) Put some fine large Oysters with their own liquor into a stewpan over a gentle fire, add a lump of butter, simmer, and stir them often to prevent burning. When plump and white, take the Oysters out of the liquor, and lay them on a thickly-folded cloth till cool. Mix an equal quantity of the best vinegar with the liquor of the Oysters, and make it hot. Put a layer of the Oysters at the bottom of a stone jar, then several cloves, allspice, and whole peppers, and J teaspoonful of ground mace; then another layer of Oysters and spices, and proceed in this way until all the Oysters are pul in. Pour the prepared liquor over the Oysters, and cover the jar. On the following day they will be ready for use. If kept in a cold place, they will remain good for a month; or, put them into bottles or glass jars, pour a small quantity of sweet-oil over each, cork and seal the bottles or jars so that they are perfectly air-tight, and the Oysters may be relied upon for at least a year. (5) Put lqt. of Oysters in their own liquor in a pan over the fire and let them cook till the edges curl up; then strain them at once, put them into cold water, let them remain in it for ten minutes, and spread them on a board to drain, sprinkling with salt. Put half the Oyster liquor, an equal quantity of vinegar, a red-pepper pod (or if very small, two), 2 drachms of mace, and Joz. of cloves in a saucepan over the fire, let this mixture boil up once, pour it into a bowl, and let it stand till perfectly cold; just before taking this liquor from the fire drop into it a quarter of a lemon cut into very thin slices. When the liquor is cold, put the Oysters into a jar, pour it over them, and cover down air-tight. (6) To lgall. of Oysters allow 1 pint of vinegar, two grated nutmegs, eight blades of mace, three dozen cloves, one-dozen-and-a-half peppers, J saltspoonful of cayenne, and a lemon and a half. Put the Oysters in hot water, scald them, and, when hot through, drop them into cold water to plump, then drain them through a colander. Take ljqts. of the liquor, let it boil, skim it well, then add the seasoning. Put the Oysters hi a jar, and pour the liquor over them hot. Scalloped Oysters.—(1) Strain the Oyster liquor, rinse the Oysters in it, then plump and beard them. Measure the liquor, and add to it an equal quantity of rich white sauce; if this does not thicken it sufficiently add 1 tea- spoonful of flour rubbed into a small piece of butter, stir over the fire till pretty hot, or if the flour-and-butter is added stir till it boils and boil for ten minutes, stirring occasionally. Put in the Oysters, and keep them nearly simmering for three or four minutes, then put them into their shells with a little of the sauce, put a layer of sifted breadcrumbs on them, pour over this a little clarified83 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Oysters—continued. butter, and brown them before the fire or with a sala- mander. (2) Put the liquor of three dozen Oysters in a saucepan with 1 teacupful of cream, 1 wineglassful of wine, and the juice of half-a-lemon; season the sauce with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and mix in 1 table-spoonful of flour that has been worked with loz. of butter. Place the sauce over the fire, and stir until it boils and is very thick. Scald the Oysters in boiling water, then drain them, remove their beards, and put them in the sauce; move it to the side of the fire, and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs. Fill scallop shells with the Oysters, strew them with finely- grated breadcrumb and Parmesan cheese, and baste them Fig. 99. Scalloped Oysters. with a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter. Put the shells in a brisk oven, or brown them under a salamander. When ready, arrange them on a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper on a dish (see Fig. 99), and serve. (3) Take as many scallop shells as there are people to be served, wash them well, and wipe dry. In the bottom of these shells put a layer of Oysters, cover them with sifted breadcrumbs, sprinkle the breadcrumbs with pepper and celery salt, and stick over them little pieces of butter; over this put another layer of Oysters, covering them as before with sifted breadcrumbs, sprinkling them with pepper and celery salt, and sticking butter over them. Put the shells into a well-heated oven, and bake the Oysters till the tops are nicely browned. Serve hot. (4) Loosen the Oysters from the shells, sprinkle the deep half-shell with breadcrumbs, replace the Oyster, cover it with breadcrumbs, and bake in a moderate oven. When nearly done pour 1 teaspoonful of warmed butter over each, take them out when cooked, put them on a dish, and serve. (5) Put eight dozen Oysters into a saucepan with their liquor and toss the pan over the fire for a few minutes to shrink them. Have ready sixteen well-buttered scallop shells or silver ones in imitation if preferred, sprinkle them with bread and cracker-crumbs mixed in equal proportions, place half-a-dozen Oysters in each, and cover them with more crumbs, spreading them evenly. Strain the Oyster liquor into a basin, add fib. of butter, 1 pint of milk, and salt and pepper to taste; pour it over the crumbs, and bake the scallops in a cool oven until done and of a light brown colour. Place them on a dish, and serve. (6) Chop a little parsley very fine, and, together with a small quantity of pepper, mash or rub it into about Hoz. of butter, then warm it sufficiently to melt it. Open some Oysters, roll each one in this melted butter, lay it in the deepest of its shells, stand the shells in a baking-pan, add a few drops of lemon-juice to the Oyster in each shell, and cover until sifted breadcrumbs. Bake them in a quick oven, and serve in the shells. _ (7) Open about two dozen Oysters, put them with their liquor into a stewpan and partially boil them, then drain, beard, and cut them in halves. Finely chop half-a-dozen button-mushrooms and two shallots, put them into a stew- pan with a good-sized lump of butter, dredge lightly with flour, salt, and pepper, and stir them over the fire for a few minutes without browning. Pour in sufficient white wine and clear stock in equal portions to make the sauce, and boil for fifteen minutes. Next put the Oysters in the sauce and toss them over the fire for two minutes or so. Turn the mixture into scallop shells, cover it with finely Oysters—continued. grated breadcrumb, and put a small lump of butter on the top of each. Place the shells in the oven until the Oysters are nicely browned on the top, then put them on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (8) Put 4oz. of sardine butter in a saucepan, melt it, then put in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped onions and any kind of herbs; stir these ingredients over the fire until cooked, then put in two dozen freshly- opened Oysters with their liquor, and 1 breakfast-cup- ful of cream, season with salt and pepper, and stir the whole over the fire for a few minutes. Turn the mixture into a dish that will bear the heat of the oven, strew over plenty of breadcrumbs, and put the dish in a quick oven until the Oysters are lightly browned. When cooked, serve the Oysters while very hot in the dish in which they were cooked. Spiced Oysters.—Take a hundred fresh Oysters, put them into a large earthenware pipkin together with their own liquor strained, half a nutmeg grated, eighteen cloves, four blades of mace, 1 teaspoonful of allspice, a very little cayenne pepper, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 2 table-spoonfuls of strong vinegar, and stir all these well together with a wooden spoon. Put them in a moderately-heated stove or over a slow fire ; take them from the fire several times, and stir them thoroughly; as soon as they come to the boil pour them into a pan and let them stand all night in a cool place. They will be ready for eating next day. Steamed Oysters.—Open and drain the required quantity of Oysters, lay them in a steamer, which place over a sauce- pan of boiling water, cover them with a pjlate, and cook for ten minutes. When ready, place the Oysters on a very hot dish, garnish with some small croutons of brown bread fried in butter and drained, and a few drops of lemon or vinegar poured over them. Dust lightly with salt and pepper, and serve. Stewed Oysters.—(1) Open the shells of one dozen or so Oysters, take them out carefully, and wash them in their own liquor until perfectly free from grit and pieces of shell; put them into a saucepan, strain the liquor twice, pour it over them, place the pan at the side of the fire, and let them simmer gently for a few minutes until done. Take them out with a slice or skimmer, and put them on a dish in a slow oven to keep warm ; add to the liquor 1 teacupful of cream, and salt and cayenne to taste. Place the pan on the fire, and when the liquor boils add 2oz. of butter worked up with 1 teaspoonful of flour and continue to stir until they are all thoroughly mixed. Put in the Oysters, warm them up without boiling, remove the pan from the fire, and stir in a little lemon-juice. Have ready some pieces of bread fried in butter, arrange them on a dish, put the Oysters on them, pour over the liquor, and serve very hot. (2) Put a small quantity of butter into a saucepan with a little flour, and when melted add the required number of Oysters; warm them at the side of the fire, and when firm and set pour in a little of their liquor well strained and slightly warmed. Then add a seasoning of chopped mushrooms, carrots, and onions, a few green peas and laurel-leaves, a little thyme, and salt and pepper to taste. When the Oysters are done they should be taken out and kept hot while the remainder of the ingredients are being cooked. When all are done, put the Oysters on a dish, pour over the mushroom mixture, and serve very hot. (3) Put l pint of milk into a saucepan and thicken it with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and loz. of butter. When the butter has dissolved, put in a dozen or so bearded and well-washed Oysters, sprinkle with salt and pepper to taste, and stew gently at the side of the fire for thirty minutes. Turn the stew out on to a dish when done, and serve very hot with a garnish of small pieces of the crumb of bread dipped in lemon-juice and fried in butter to a light brown. (4) Strain the liquor of some Oysters, put it in a stew- pan over the fire with some sifted breadcrumbs, a glass of white wine, and a seasoning of pepper and nutmeg, let it boil up, and pour it boiling over the Oysters; coverTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 84 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Oysters—continued. them and let them remain in the hot liquor for a few minutes. Have ready a hot deep dish with some sippets of toasted bread at the bottom and round the sides, pour the Oysters and liquor on the toast, and serve hot. (5) Put lqt. of Oysters into a saucepan, strain their liquor, and put it in with them; add one bruised anchovy, a seasoning of salt, a little mace, white pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs, and let all stew together for a- quarter-of-an-hour. Then pick out the mace and the bunch of sweet herbs, and add 4oz. of butter with 1 well-lieaped table-spoonful of flour rubbed into it, and stew the Oysters for ten minutes longer. Serve garnished with toasted bread and slices of lemon. (6) Mix J table-spoonful of cornflour smoothly with 1 pint of milk, pour it into a lined stewpan with loz. of butter in small pieces, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling; then season to taste, put in a dozen Oysters, and let it simmer at the side of the fire for half-an-liour. Cut some small crohtons of bread, squeeze lemon-juice over them, and let them soak for a few minutes. Put a piece of lard or butter in a flat stewpan, and when boiling add the pieces of bread and fry them until nicely browned, then drain. When cooked turn the Oysters on to a hot dish, garnish with the bread, and serve. (7) Open two or three dozen fine Oysters, beard them, put them with their liquor into a stewpan, add loz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped heart of celery, 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Put the lid on the stewpan, and boil the Oysters gently at the side of the fire for a few minutes, but do not over- cook them or they will shrivel up. When cooked, turn them on to a hot dish, and serve. (8) Open two dozen Oysters, strain their liquor into a stewpan, and place it over the fire; when boiling, skim it, mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, and flavour to taste with salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Put the Oysters in the sauce, and let them simmer at the edge of the fire for ten minutes. Cut three or four thin slices of bread, trim off all the crusts, and toast the slices. Butter the toast, lay it on a hot dish, put a few of the Oysters on each slice, pour the sauce round them, and serve. (9) Put about Jib. of butter in a stewpan and place it over the fire; when it has melted put in half-a-dozen large Oysters with their liquor, and shake the stewpan about until the Oysters are warmed through. Squeeze in the juice of a lemon, put the Oysters on a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast, and serve. (10) Open some Oysters, strain the liquor, put it into a saucepan over the fire, add sifted breadcrumbs to thicken it, and season to taste with a little white pepper and grated nutmeg. Put the Oysters into the liquor, add a wineglassful of white wine to every dozen Oysters, and stew them for seven or eight minutes. Have some slices of toast trimmed and buttered, and when the Oysters are done dip these pieces of toast in the liquor and arrange them round the edge of a hot dish; pour into the centre of the dish the stewed Oysters and liquor, and serve. (11) Take the requisite quantity of Oysters out of their shells; pour 1 teacupful of olive oil into a stewpan, set it over the fire till hot, then put in 1 teacupful of chopped parsley; lay the Oysters on the top, pour in sufficient water to cover them, and boil for fifteen minutes. Put the yolks of four eggs into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of the Oyster liquor and the juice of one lemon ; beat them well, then stir until a wooden spoon over a slow fire until the eggs are thick, but they must not boil. Drain the Oysters, lay them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Stewed Oysters a la Baltimore.—Open neatly thirty-six medium-sized fresh (Rockaway) Oysters, place them in a saucepan without their liquor, and add 1 oz. of good butter; cover the pan, put it on the stove, and cook the Oysters for two minutes, then add 1 wineglassful of good Madeira wine and a very little cayenne pepper, cook together for two minutes longer, and add 1 gill each of Spanish sauce and half-glaze. Stir thoroughly until boiling, and just Oysters—continued. before serving squeeze in the juice of a lemon, add Joz. of butter and 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and serve immediately in a hot tureen. OYSTER-CRABS.—See Crabs. OYSTER-PLANT.—A plant known to botanists as Mertensia maritima, the root of which when cooked somewhat resembles the oyster in taste. It grows very freely in America, and can be prepared in any of the following styles: Boiled Oyster-Plant.—Scrape a bunch of tender Oyster- plant, putting the roots as they are scraped into cold water to which a little vinegar has been added. Cut the Oyster- plant into pieces, put it in a saucepan of boiling salted water over the fire, and boil for about twenty minutes, or until tender; then drain, add 1 table-spoonful of butter, cream enough to cover it, and a seasoning of salt and white pepper, and serve it as soon as the cream is hot. The cream may be omitted if not desired. Pried Oyster-Plant.—Cook a bunch of Oyster-plant as for Oyster-plant A la Roulette, and when done put it in a dish; season with \ pinch each of salt and pepper and 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, dip it well in frying- batter, and fry it in very hot fat for five minutes, separat- ing the pieces with a spoon. Lift them up with a skimmer, drain on a cloth, sprinkle over them a very little salt, and serve on a folded napkin, decorating witli a little fried parsley. Oyster-Plant a la Poulette.—Scrape a good-sized bunch of fine, fresh Oyster plant, plunge it at once into acidulated water, and when well washed, drain, and cut it into 2m. pieces. Place them in a saucepan and boil in plenty of water, adding 2 pinches of salt, 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and the same quantity of diluted flour. After forty minutes, or as soon as they bend to the finger, they are done. Lift them out, drain well, and serve with 1 pint of hot poulette sauce poured over them. Oyster-Plant Saute.—Scrape a large bunch of fine Oyster- plant, plunge it into cold water containing 2 table-spoon- fuls of vinegar, so as to prevent it turning black, take it from the water, drain, and cut it lengthwise into 2in. pieces. Place them in a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls each of vinegar and flour, mix well, cover with plenty of cold water and a handful of salt, put the lid on, and let them boil slowly for forty minutes. Then drain, put them into a saute-pan with ljoz. of butter, and season with J pinch of pepper, the juice of half-a-lemon, and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Heat well for five minutes, tossing occasionally, then place them in a deep hot dish, and serve. FACHWAI.—A kind of beer made in Bengal, from rice or other grain. It is not generally consumed by Europeans. FADDY.—The name given by the East Indians to unhusked rice. FAELA.—A favourite Spanish dish containing the usual oil and garlic. It is made as follows: Put 1 breakfast-cupful of olive oil into a saucepan, make it hot over the fire, and stir in lib. of well-washed and dried rice, one or two cloves of garlic, a little chopped parsley, an onion in pieces, two or three toasted green chillies, the pulp of eight or nine large tomatoes, and a seasoning of salt. The chillies should be peeled and cut into strips. Cut Jib. or so of cooked ham in small squares, and cut off the fillets of a fowl; put these in the sauce- pan with the rice, moisten with a little weak stock or broth, and cook slowly until the rice is done, and not pulpy but in grains. An earthenware dish (without a cover) that will stand the heat of the fire and can be sent to table is the best for this. PAGANINI TARTLETS.—See Tartlets.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 85 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. PAILS.—Two or three of these are very useful in a kitchen; those made of galvanised iron are better than those made of wood, being more easily cleaned and kept clean. PAIN.—Literally the French for bread, but used also to denominate a kind of cake, or cheese, of meat, fruit, vegetables, &c. PAKE.—A Grecian alcoholic liquor obtained from the fruit of Arbutus Uneclo. PALATES.—See Ox-Palates. PALESTINE SOUP.—This name is given in error to a soup made with Jerusalem artichokes, the term “ Jerusalem ” being a corruption of Girasole, and not in anywise connected with the famous city of Palestine. PALETTE-KNIVES—These are made in different sizes and for different purposes. To the confectioner r v Fig. 100. Palette-knife (Mathews and Son). they are of great use for mixing and working sugar. See Fig. 100. PALM OIL.—An oil obtained from the fruit of Fla'eis guineensis. In Western Africa, under the name of palm butter, it enters largely into the composition of savoury dishes. According to Simmonds, the natives scoop up the fluid oil from the cooking-pot in a gourd- shell, and drink it in large draughts in the form of soup, with snails or monkey-flesh. Every well-to-do man drinks from 51b. to 81b. of this butter for his breakfast, as it is con- sidered most wholesome and fattening. It is not used for cooking amongst civilised people. PALM WINES.—From all kinds of palms, without exception, some sort of alcoholic liquor can be prepared; and as these Palms extend throughout America, Africa, Asia, and many parts of Europe, the manufacture of drinks from them is of a very extensive and impor- tant character. The juice which flows from the sapped Palm is known, when fermented, as tode. After a second fermentation of the Palm sap a kind of leaven or yeast, known as ragi, is produced, which is used for making cakes and bread. Arrack is made by the distillation of Palm Wine. In Bombay punch is made from the cocoanut Palm, qualified with spices and. sugar,. after a Portuguese receipt. It is called Queimado, is drank hot, and is considered an excellent remedy for a cold. PANADA (TV. Panade; Gcr. Brodum ; Ital. Panata). -A Spanish word derived from the Latin—pcinis bread, the original Panada or Panado being simply bread boiled in water to a pulp. It is now used by all cooks to give consistency to forcemeats, and is generally flavoured, seasoned, or sweetened. It may be prepared as follows : (1) Soak in warm water the fine crumb of bread. When it is quite soft and moist, put it in a cloth and wring out the water, then put it into a saucepan with a lump of butter and a little salt, and beat it smooth and dry over a very slow fire, taking care that it does not brown. Put it aside to cool. Instead of butter, milk may be used, or a little white broth. (2) Breadcrumb Panada may be prepared with wheat- flour or rice-meal, the latter being preferable, as follows: Pour into a small stewpan 1 glassful of water and let it boil; immediately take it off the fire, and introduce into it the requisite quantity of meal to make a rather consistent batter. The Panada being thickened, dry it on the fire till it can disengage itself from the stewpan; then pour it into a kitchen-basin and let it cool, previous to employing it. Panada—continued. (3) To 2 table-spoonfuls of breadcrumbs add 2 table- spoonfuls of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and 1 pint of cold water. Put this on the stove and let it boil for five minutes; then add 2 wineglassfuls of wine, and serve directly. (4) Put one sardine and two boned anchovies into a mortar and pound them well with a little minced parsley and cayenne. Turn the mixture on to a plate, and with a knife or spatula work in 2oz. of butter. Form the paste into a roll or pat, and keep it on the ice until wanted. Serve on crisp dry toast. (5) Take a quart saucepan, pour in about § breakfast- cupful of water, and put it on the fire to boil; add loz. of butter, and when the liquor boils sift in 4oz. of flour and continue stirring until it becomes a smooth paste, when it is ready for use. PANCAKES (Fr. Crepes; Gcr. Pfannekuchen).—It may be said that what the omelet is to the French cook the Pancake is to the Englishman; the difference in pre- paration being very slight, unless, as in the case of the omelet, it happens to be complicated by various additions and modifications. The term is derived from the pan in which they are made, with the addition of the word cake, and they are loosely described as thin cakes of batter fried in a pan or on a griddle. As will be seen by the following receipts, considerable divergencies from the original have been invented and prescribed. Baked Pancakes.—(1) Mix 2oz. of flour with 2oz. of warmed butter, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, 4 pint of warmed milk, four eggs, and a small quantity of salt, and stir the mixture until quite smooth. Put about Joz. of butter into a frying-pan and melt it; then pour in a small quantity of the batter, letting it spread hi a thin layer over the bottom of the pan ; fry until browned on one side, then turn it over quickly and brown the other side. When all the batter is cooked, roll up the Pancakes and cut them into strips. Rub a piece of butter over a hot dish, lay the strips of Pancakes on it, dust over 1 saltspoonful of salt and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, baste with a few table-spoonfuls of hot gravy or broth, and put them in the oven for ten minutes. Serve while very hot in the dish hi which they were cooked. (2) Beat 2oz. of flour with two eggs until it is quite smooth. Put £ pint of milk in a saucepan with 2oz. of loaf sugar and 2oz. of butter, and place it over the fire until hot; then stir it gradually in with the beaten eggs and flour, mixing them quite smooth. Butter a few small saucers, pour the mixture into them, and bake in a brisk oven for twenty minutes. Make some raspberry or straw- berry jam hot, and when the Pancakes are cooked mask half of them with it, and cover them with the remainder. Put the Pancakes on a hot dish that has been garnished with a fancy dish-paper, sift caster sugar over, and serve. Currant Pancakes.—Stir in Jib. of washed and dried grocer’s currants to every pint of any plain pancake batter. Serve with butter, lemons, and sugar. New England Pancakes.—Stir slowly into 1 pint of cream 5 table-spoonfuls of dried, sifted flour. Beat up the yolks of seven new-laid eggs and the whites of four, season these with 1 teaspoonful of salt, and stir them into the flour and cream, working all thoroughly together. Have ready a very clean frying-pan, and in this heat almost to smoking 1 table-spoonful of fresh butter; pour in a thin layer of the batter, and turn when set. Serve these piled one on the other with caster sugar and powdered cinnamon over each. Pancakes.—(1) Mix 2 teaspoonfuls of flour with 1 pinch of salt. Beat the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, add a few drops of orange-flower water, and then stir them in with the flour. Butter a small omelet-pan, put in a small quantity of the batter, and cook it over the fire for a minute or two; then turn and cook the other side. Roll up the Pancake, put it on a hot dish, and keep near the fire till all are made. Arrange the Pancakes on an ornamental dish-paper on a dish, sprinkle with a little sugar, and serve.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 86 For detail* respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Pancakes—continued. (2) Take 1 pint each of thick and thin milk, or lqt. of sour milk; add a little salt, 1 teaspoonful of ammonia, and sufficient flour to make a hatter. The thinner the batter more tender the Pancakes will he, when cooked. Half a teacupful of cream improves them. Put 1 spoonful at a time into a pan of hot butter, and fry. Butter while hot, and serve with sugar, honey, or molasses. A sauce made by mixing 1 teacupful of cream with 1 table-spoonful of sugar and J teaspoonful of ground ginger, and served with the Pancakes, is an improvement. (3) Mix smoothly with 1 pint of fresh milk a sufficient quantity of flour to make a moderately thick batter, and strain it through a fine sieve. Beat four eggs well to- gether with 1 wineglassful of pale brandy, mix them with the batter, and add 1 teaspoonful of powdered ginger, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Beat the whole well together for a few minutes, then fry in small quantities in boiling butter. As the Pan- cakes are cooked, drain and roll them, put them on a hot dish over which lias been spread a fancy dish-paper, dust with caster sugar, and serve. (4) Break three eggs in a basin and whip them together with 3 heaped table-spoonfuls of flour; then beat in J wineglassful of orange-flower water and 1 scant table- spoonful each of olive oil and pale brandy, adding 1 salt- spoonful of salt; next stir in gradually a sufficient quantity of milk to bring the batter to the proper consistency. Put a large piece of butter or lard in a frying-pan, and when it melts fry the batter in it in small quantities. As the Pancakes are cooked, drain, roll, and pile them on a dish over which has been spread a fancy dish-paper, and serve witli sugar. (5) Break four eggs into a large basin and beat them together with 1 table-spoonful of yeast, 1 wineglassful of brandy, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and a little powdered cin- namon. Mix in another basin as much flour and milk as will bring the whole to the proper consistency. When quite smooth, stir in the other ingredients, cover with a cloth, and set it in a warm place to work for three or four hours. When ready to serve, fry the batter in small quantities in a little butter. Arrange the Pancakes on a hot dish, sprinkle with caster sugar, and serve with some oranges cut in halves on a separate plate. (6) Beat four eggs together with 1 teacupful of olive oil, J teacupful of thick cream, and 1 pinch of salt. Put Jib. of sifted flour into a basin, make a hollow in the centre, then gradually mix in the beaten eggs, stirring with a wooden spoon till it forms a smooth paste, with- out being too consistent, and rather light; then add 1 wineglassful of brandy. Put 1 table-spoonful of clarified butter into a Pancake-pan, make it hot, then put in 2 table-spoonfuls of the paste. Spread the paste over the bottom of the pan, and turn the pan about continually to disengage the Pancake as soon as it sets; turn it over quickly, tossing it for a minute, then slip) it on to a hot dish. Use up the remainder of the paste in the same way, keeping the Pancakes hot till all are cooked, then dust some caster sugar over, and serve. (7) Berlin.—Dissolve IJoz. of dry yeast in 1 breakfast- cupful of warm milk, then stir it gradually into Jib. of flour, cover with a cloth, and set it in a warm place to rise. Put lib. of flour in a bowl, stand it where it can get warm, and add 4oz. of sugar, J table-spoonful of pounded bitter almonds the grated peel of lialf-a-lemon, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Stir in the well-beaten yolks of eight eggs and sufficient warm milk to make a light dough; then mix in the sponge. Knead the whole thoroughly, mixing in at the same time Jib. of warmed butter. The dough should be of the con- sistency of bread dough, and it should be kneaded until small bubbles appear. Cover the dough with a cloth, let it partly rise in a warm temperature, then knead, and let it rise again. Divide the dough into halves, place one half on a floured paste-board, roll it out to about Jin. in thickness, then- with a round tin-cutter 2Jin. in diameter cut it into cakes. Put a small pile of any kind of preserve in the centre of each cake, and lay them on a floured baking-tin. Dredge more flour over the paste-board, put Pancakes—continued. the remainder of the dough on it, roll it out, and divide it into cakes, as before, making them all of one size and thickness; lay the rounds on the top of those with the preserve, and moisten and press them round the edges. Cover the cakes with a cloth, and keep them in a warm place until slightly risen. Put about 2oz. of butter in a frying-pan, make it very hot, then put in as many cakes as possible, and fry them over a brisk fire, turning them when browned on one side and browning the other. Cook all the Pancakes in this way, adding more butter to the pan when required, but taking care that it is hot before the cakes are put in. Drain the Pancakes thoroughly on a cloth and leave them until cold. Beat the whites of two eggs with a small quantity of lemon-juice and suffi- cient caster sugar to make a creamy icing. Brush each of the Pancakes over with a paste-brush dipped in the icing, and place them in a cool oven. When the icing is quite dry on the Pancakes, arrange them in a pile on a dish over which has been spread an ornamental dish- paper, and serve. (8) Prepare a batter as for ordinary Pancakes, but make it into a stiff paste by the addition of more flour. Arrange the cakes on a large griddle, and cook them over a clear fire. When done spread each one with butter and sugar, pile them up on a hot plate, cut them into quarters, and serve. (9) French.—Put into a pan 4oz. of butter, 1 table- spoonful of pounded ratafias, the thin rind of a lemon, and 2oz. of pounded sugar ; mix in separately three eggs, add the yolks of three more, one at a time, and mix well; pour in a little milk, J pint of cream, and a little orange-flower water, and beat well to the thickness of cream. Put some clarified butter into a frying-pan, melt it, and pour it away so that the pan only is greased ; then put in the batter for the Pancakes in small quantities and fry' them. The Pan- cakes should be made very thin. When all are done, leave 1 table-spoonful of the batter at the bottom of the pan, add to it a little orange-flower water, sugar, a small quantity of pounded ratafias, and the yolk of an egg; mix this with cream, put it into a sauceboat, and serve as a sauce. (10) Weigh two eggs, then take the same weight each of flour, caster sugar, and butter. Warm the butter and beat it to a cream ; then mix with it the flour and sugar, and when quite smooth stir in 1 teacupful of milk and the two eggs. Butter some patty-pans, pour the prepara- tion into them, and bake for twenty minutes in a quick oven. When cooked, turn them on a hot dish, sprinkle caster sugar over, and serve with lemons cut in halves on a separate plate. (11) Put 2oz. of sifted flour into a basin with 3oz. of caster sugar, a few macaroons or bitter almonds, 1 tea- spoonful of orange-flower water, 1 pinch of salt, the yolks of five eggs, J pint of milk, and 1 pint of cream, and mix well. Butter the inside of an omelet-pan, put a little of the mixture in at a time, and cook on one side only. When all the Pancakes are done, sprinkle caster sugar over, and brown them under a salamander. Arrange tastefully on a silver dish, and serve. (12) Beat a dozen eggs thoroughly, strain them, and mix into them lqt. of cream, a grated nutmeg, Jib. of sugar, 2 wineglassfuls of wine, and enough flour to make it not quite as thick as ordinary Pancake batter. Put a frying- pan over the fire; when pretty hot, wipe it with a clean cloth, and pour in batter enough for a thin Pancake. Keep turning it to prevent it from burning. (13) Mix six well-beaten eggs with 1 pint of cream, then stir in Jib. of caster sugar, half-a-grated nutmeg, and sift in while stirring sufficient flour to make a thick batter. Make a frying-pan hot, wipe it over with a cloth, fry a small quantity of the batter at a time, lightly browning it on both sides; then sift caster sugar over the Pancakes, and serve with lemons cut in halves. (14) Beat well the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of four, add to them by degrees Jib. each of powdered white sugar and clarified fresh butter, 1J pints of cream heated lukewarm, 1 wineglassful of spirits of wine, and 2 table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast; mix with this as much sifted87 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Pancakes—continued. flour as will make it into a very thick batter, and let it stand for half-an-hour to rise; then roll it out rather thin and cut it into oblong pieces. Spread jam or marmalade on these, double them, and leave again to rise; then fry them in boiling lard or butter, (15) Russian.—Mix loz. of liquid yeast with lib. of flour, stir in sufficient milk to make a stiff dough, and stand it by the fire to rise. Beat 3 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter with four eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and a little grated lemon-peel; when well mixed, pour it into the dough, and heat it again until it will separate from the bowl. Divide this preparation into equal quantities, roll them into balls, and fill each with marmalade or apricot jam. Put a sheet of floured paper on a baking-sheet, put the balls on it, and leave them to rise in a warm tempera- ture. Plunge the balls into boiling lard and fry them till nicely browned. Dust the tops with caster sugar (see Fig. 101), pile on a dish, and serve hot or cold. Pancakes with Apricot Jam.—Put Jib. of flour into a basin with 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar and 1 pinch of salt, break in five eggs, and mix all well together. Melt Jib. of butter and stir it in with the other ingredients, also 1J pints of milk. Cut a piece of crumb of bread round Jin. thick and 4J in. in diameter, sift caster sugar over, and glaze it in the oven. Three frying-pans should be used when making a large quantity of Pancakes, so that they may be done quicker. Stand the pans on the fire with a small piece of butter in them, and when it is melted put in each 2 table-spoonfuls of the mixture. When one side of the Pancake is browned, turn it on the glazed piece of bread, coat the top with apricot jam, put another one over this, and so on, till all are done. Do not coat the top one with jam, but sprinkle with caster sugar, glaze it under a salamander, and serve. Pancakes made with. Macaroons.—Put 2oz. of bitter macaroons and loz. of dried orange-flowers into a mortar, and with the pestle break and grind them to powder. Turn this into a large bowl, add to it Jib. of finely-powdered white sugar and 2oz. of dried and sifted flour, and mix all well together; then stir into them the beaten yolks of ten eggs, throw in 1 saltspoonful of salt, and add lqt. of cream. Make a frying-pan hot over the fire, put a lump of butter into it, and when that is quite hot fry as much of the batter as will cover the bottom of the pan; when slightly browned on one side, turn it carefully and brown the other. Lay it on a hot tin plate, spread over a thin layer of apricot marmalade, and on that sprinkle crushed macaroons. Roll the Pancake up rather tight, and proceed with the next one, which should, with some more butter, have been put in the frying-pan over the fire as soon as the first one was taken out. When all the Pancakes are done, cut them about 3in. long, glaze them, and serve hot; or they may be served quite plain. Pancakes with Potato Salad.—Slice some cold boiled potatoes, and mix them with two or three mineed onions, a moderate quantity of finely-minced parsley, a few slices of pickled beetroot, and salt and pepper to taste; moisten the mixture with 3 table-spoonfuls of the best salad-oil and plenty of vinegar that has been diluted with water. Beat six eggs well, mix them smoothly with 1 table- spoonful of flour and 1 teacupful of milk, and season with salt and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Put a large piece of butter into a frying-pan; when it boils, pour in some of the batter and fry it until lightly browned on both sides. Fry the remainder of the batter in the same I Pancakes—continued. way, and when all the Pancakes are cooked, drain, pile them on a hot dish, and serve with the potato salad. Pancake Pudding.—Make about a dozen small thin Pan- cakes and fry lightly; mask half of them with currant jam and the remainder with apricot jam, and roll up. Place them all round a pudding mould, cutting off pieces to make them fit. Prepare a rich custard, pour it carefully into the mould, strew in the trimmings of the Pancakes, and cover with a small thin Pancake. Put the mould in a saucepan with boiling water to three parts its height, and steam for two hours. When cooked, turn the pudding carefully out of the mould on to a dish, and serve. Pancakes with Sherry.—Put six eggs into a basin and beat them well, then mix in 1 pint of cream, 2 wine- glassfuls of sherry, Jib. of sugar, and sufficient flour to make a moderately thick batter. It should not be quite so thick as the ordinary Pancake batter. Beat the mixture well to make it quite smooth. Make a very clean frying- pan rather hot, then pour in a thin layer of the batter, and place it over the fire until set. Proceed in this manner with the rest of the batter, rolling the Pancakes up as they are taken from the pan. Put them on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or a lace-edged dish-paper, sift caster sugar over them, and serve while very hot. Pancake Soup.—Prepare a thin creamy batter with 2 table- spoonfuls of flour, 1 teaspoonful of salt, two eggs, and a small quantity of milk. Melt a small piece of fat (either suet, lard, or butter) in a frying-pan, pour in sufficient batter to thinly cover the bottom of the pan, and place it over the fire until the Pancake is lightly browned on one side; then turn it quickly over to the other. When all the Pancakes are fried, cut them with small tin cutters into any fancy shapes. Put a saucepan with 3 pints of clear soup over the fire, and when the soup boils put in the Pancakes, and boil them for two or three minutes; then turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve while very hot. Pancake Strudels.—Prepare a Pancake batter with four eggs, 4 table-spoonfuls of flour, 2oz. of warmed butter, loz. of sugar, and J pint of warmed milk. Put a lump of butter into a frying-pan, melt it, then pour in a thin layer of the batter. Fiy until browned on one side, then turn it over and brown the other. Continue in this way until all the Pancakes are cooked, putting more butter into the pan when required. Beat the yolks of four eggs -and mix them with J pint of sour cream, then put in 2 table-spoonfuls of well-washed currants, the same quantity of sultanas, and a small quantity of grated lemon-peel. Spread the mixture over the Pancakes, roll up lightly, lay them in a buttered dish, moisten with a few table- spoonfuls of sweetened milk, and put a small piece of butter on each. Place the dish in the oven until the Pancakes are lightly browned, and serve while very hot. Pancakes Stuffed with Veal Forcemeat.—Make a Pan- cake batter, using in proportion four eggs, 2oz. of flour, 2oz. of warmed butter, loz. of sugar, and J pint of warmed milk, and mix the batter until smooth. Melt a small lump of butter in a frying-pan, and pour in a small quantity of the batter, letting it spread in a thin layer over the pan. When the batter browns on one side, turn it over and brown the other. Spread a thin layer of veal forcemeat over each Pancake, roll them up, and cut Fig. 102. Pancakes Stuffed with Veal Forcemeat. them through into strips; dip these in batter, and fry them slowly in butter. Drain the Pancakes, arrange them on an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with parsley (see Fig. 102), and serve.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 88 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Pancakes—continued. Snow Pancakes.—Put Jib. of sifted flour into a basin, and mix with it the grated peel of a small lemon, 1 teaspoon- ful of salt, and sufficient milk to make a rather thick batter, which beat well with a wooden spoon. Put a small piece of butter or lard into a frying-pan, and place it oyer a clear fire. Beat up very quickly 1 table-spoonful of fresh snow with each Pancake, and fry them until lightly browned on both sides; then drain them as free from fat as possible. Spread a fancy dish-paper over a hot dish, lay the Pan- cakes on it, first dredging with caster sugar and folding them over, and serve at once. Stuffed Pancakes with Fruit.—Warm 2oz. of butter and beat it until creamy; mix it with four eggs, loz. of sugar, J pint of warmed milk, and a small quantity of salt; then stir in sufficient flour to make a thin batter, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of well-washed currants and the grated peel of half a lemon. Put loz. of butter into a frying- pan, melt it, and pour in a very thin layer of the batter; when browned on one side, turn it over quickly and brown the other. Continue in this way until all the batter is used, putting in more butter when wanted, but not using too much. As each Pancake is cooked, spread over a thin layer of any kind of preserved fruit, roll it up, arrange on a hot dish over which has been spread an ornamental disli-paper, sift over caster sugar and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon, and serve. Stuffed Pancakes with Ham.—Finely mince Jib. of cooked ham and add it to 1 breakfast-cupful of thick sour cream. Beat 2oz. of warmed butter, then mix with it four well- beaten eggs. Put 1 teacupful of flour into a basin with a small quantity of salt, and stir in the beaten eggs to- gether with | pint of warm milk. Put a him]) of butter in a frying-pan, melt it, then pour hi a thin layer of the batter, and fry it until nicely browned on one side; then turn it over and fry the other. Proceed in this way until all the Pancakes are cooked. Mask each Pancake with a thin layer of the ham mixture, roll up, cut them into strips about fin. thick, and lay them in a thickly-buttered dish. Beat two eggs and \ pint of milk, season with a small quantity of salt, and pour them over the Pancakes. Put the dish in a moderate oven and bake until the custard has set. Serve while very hot. Stuffed Pancakes with Herbs.—Put into a stewpan with a lump of butter, some finely-chopped parsley, chives, thyme, and any other green herbs that may be liked, using them in equal quantities. Put the lid on the pan, place it over a slow fire until the herbs are soft, then mix with them a small quantity of chopped ham. Beat five eggs together with a little more than \ pint of milk and 3oz. of warmed butter; stir in gradually sufficient flour to make a thin batter, keeping it smooth. Melt a lump of butter in a frying-pan, and fry the batter in small quantities, letting it run in a thin layer over the pan. When all the Pancakes are cooked and lightly browned on each side, mask each with a thin layer of the herb mixture, on one side only, and roll them up. Lay the Pancakes side by side in a stewpan, placing them close together so that they will not unroll, pour in just sufficient broth to cover the bottom of the pan, put on the lid, and stew them slowly at the side of the lire for twenty minutes. Drain them, arrange them on a lace-edged dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. PANDANUS WINE.—See Ava-fara. PAN-DOWDY.—This is the eccentric name given to a deep pie or pudding made of baked apples, or of sliced bread and apples baked together, with no bottom crust. The following is a good receipt for it: Peel, core, and quarter about 21b. of cooking apples, put them in a basin, cover them with a light bread dough that has been rolled out, and bake in a brick oven. When the apples are cooked, remove the crust and stir in with them 2 or .3 table-spoonfuls of molasses, a small quantity each of powdered cinnamon and grated nutmeg, and loz. of butter broken up into small bits. Put a plate over the basin, return it to the oven, and bake for three hours longer. Serve while hot. PANTRY- Although in all Continental kitchens this is practically included in what is termed the office of the kitchen, in England it is usually associated with the larder, as a chamber especially adapted for storing food. The word is evidently derived from the Latin panis— bread. See Larder. PAP.—Any soft food for infants. PAPARE TTA. — A wine made in Piedmont, a province of Italy. PAP AW.—A tree of tropical America belonging to the order Passiflorece. The milky juice of the plant is said to have the property of making meat tender. Its dull, orange-coloured, melon-shaped fruit is eaten raw, cooked, or pickled. FAPBOAT.—A kind of sauceboat or dish. PAPER (Fr. Papier; Ger. Papier; Ital. Carta; Sp. Papel).—In every kitchen Paper is occasionally useful. Cooks use it for tying round delicate meats to be baked or roasted; for covering pies and other pastry that require cooking thoroughly before browning; for lining cake-tins; for covering jams; for making cases to hold small birds, cutlets, and ramekins; for covering cutlets, fish, and other things prepared for grilling or broiling, as en papillote; for making frills to fasten round cutlet- or ham-bones, or the shank-bones of haunches ; to fold round cakes and other delicacies; and to make those ornamental dish- papers which are used instead of the folded napkin. Considerable ingenuity is exercised by some cooks in the use of Paper, either for cooking or for ornamentation; but, in a general way, lace-edged dish-paper frills and cases can be bought ready made, and at such a small cost that cooks prefer to use them, especially as they are so much more accurately made by machinery than it would be pos- sible to construct them by hand (see Plate illustrating Paper Cases and Ornaments). Nevertheless, as it may sometimes happen that these ready-made goods are unattainable, it is as well for the cook to understand how to make them, should occasion, under such circum- stances, require their use. When lining cake-tins—a thin white or wliitey-brown Paper does for this—two or three flats should be cut to the shape of the tin, and laid at the bottom; a long strip, rather wider than the side of the tin, is then to be laid accurately round, so that one edge touches the bottom flats, and the other extends above the sides (see No. 1 on Plate illustrating “ Home-made Paper Frills and Cases ”) preventing the cake from overflowing as it rises. For covering foods to be cooked no special instructions are required, as the cook cuts the shapes to suit the parti- cular purpose out of a common note or foolscap Paper. Frills are made by folding a strip of thin Paper—coloured perhaps—and cutting into it very evenly a little way through the folded margin (see No. 2). By turning the back of the strip over the front (see No. 3) a single frill results. Two or three strips can be served in the same way, and laid over each other, forming a very elegant ornamentation (see No. 4). When making the incisions they may be cut (instead of straight) either slanting, zigzag, or scalloped, and will, when made up, have a very pretty effect, according to the arrangement adopted. In making Paper cases a somewhat stiffer Paper is required, something of a thin cartridge, with an even smooth surface. A very good square or oblong case can then be made by cutting a sheet of Paper to the required size, which will be the size of the bottom, plus the height of the sides (see No. 5). When the sides are bent over one at a time along the dotted line, the case is easily formed by pinching up the corners, and fastening them with a needle and thread (see No. 6). Round, oval, or cutlet-shaped cases require blocks to fold them on. These blocks are merely wooden columns (see No. 7) about Sin. or 4in. long, which can be made fast to a bench or table by a thumbscrew (see No. 8) passing through the table and entering some twoORNAMENTAL, ARTISTIC, AND FANCIFUL ARRANGEMENTS OF FRUITS FOR TABLE OR SIDEBOARD. ui 2 c- g ; §1 g g. I-"* S'a! C" CD ■'h ; CD £3 C» O ' £ 3 « H- ^ O P ' “ a j ci 1-1 gS . g O go -• P'T'aq g* 5-' S E+: o' ® 2. E, o *2 » 5 g a- H- ^ ® ^ 9 §- § 5’ ! td W w o 3 * £ a ^ a a" w © Si ~ £ • y * ' g £ s a a af § go U ? g s o* 3 gTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 89 For details respecting Culinary Processes. Vtonsils, Sauces, .he., referred to, see under their special heads. Paper—continued. inches or less into the substance of the block. A piece of Paper is then cut out to the desired size and shape, and laid on the top of the block, the overlapping part being neatly folded down in even pleats (see No. 9). Over the folded paper a tin or wooden cap may be made to fit, passing down only so far over the Paper as to have a free Jin. all round (see No. 10). This free Jin can then easily be turned over the edge of the cap, and a very excel- lent case results (see No. 11). If the cap is not handy, then the edge can be folded by pressing with the back of a small knife (see No. 12), whilst the Paper is turned up with the finger and thumb. “ All the numbers refer to those on the Plate illustrating Home-made Paper Prills and Cases.” In order to make these pleats quite firm, it is advisable to press the folds sharply and firmly with the handle of a knife, or other hard, smooth substance. With these instructions no difficulty should be experienced by cooks in making cases for their own use. PAFILLOTE.—Fr. for a curl paper. The term is commonly applied to the papers used for wrapping cutlets and other dainties before cooking. PAPINS DIGESTER.—See Digesters. PARADISE, GRAINS OP.—See Pepper. PARAGUAY TEA.—The leaf of the Brazilian holly or mate {Ilex paraguariensis), sometimes used as a sub- stitute for Chinese tea. It is very extensively employed in the South American States. PARBOIL.—To partly boil. PARFAIT-AMOUR.—See Cordials & Liqueurs. PARKIN.—The name of a spiced cake that is manu- factured on the 5th of November in almost every cottage in the neighbourhood of Leeds. It is usual to send slices of Parkin as presents. (1) Warm lib. of butter and heat it until creamy with 41b. of moist sugar, then heat in 1 break fast-cupful of treacle and the beaten yolks of six eggs, mixing the whole smoothly together with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of fine oatmeal; also mix in 14 teaspoonfuls each of bicarbonate of soda and cream of tartar, loz. of caraway-seeds, and ‘2oz. of thinly-shred candied lemon-peel. Whisk the whites of the ■ Fig. 103. Parkin. six eggs to a stiff froth, and stir it in with the mixture at the last. Butter a shallow baking-dish, turn the Parkin into it, and bake it for about two hours in a moderate oven. Serve when cold. See Fig. 103. (2) Put 341b. of oatmeal into a basin and mix in lib. each of flour and butter, 41b. of moist sugar, loz. of baking- powder, and make the whole into a stiff dough by work- ing in syrup. Make the dough into rounds, put them on tins, keeping them about 3in. apart, and bake in a slow oven. Take them out when done, and use cold, or it may be made with 31b. of dough such as is used for making brandy snaps, and working in 6oz. of moist sugar, 5oz. of butter, 12oz. of oatmeal, foz. of bicarbonate of soda, ioz. of caraway-seeds, and the same of any seasoning. In baking care must be taken not to cook too fast, or tliey will spoil. (3) Rub lib. of butter into 31b. of line oatmeal until perfectly smooth ; then mix in lib. of brown sugar, 11 table-spoonfuls of ground ginger, and 31b. of treacfe, and Parkin—continued. beat the whole well with a wooden spoon. Butter a shallow tin dish, and drop the mixture on to it with a spoon, leaving a small space between each. Bake the Parkin in a slow oven, and as the pieces nearest the edges of the tin are cooked they should be removed, and the centre pieces brought forward. (4) Put lib. of treacle in a small saucepan and place it over the fire until warm; dissolve 1 teaspoonful of bi- carbonate of soda in 1 table-spoonful of warm water, then mix it and the treacle with lib. of sifted oatmeal and 4 table-spoonful of caraway-seeds, beating with a wooden spoon until well incorporated. Cover the basin, stand it in a warm place for two hours, at the end of which time turn the Parkin on to a buttered baking-dish, and bake it. When cooked, cut it into pieces of the desired size. It should be kept in a dry place. (5) Prepare a moderately stiff dough by rubbing lib. of butter into lib. of flour, and mixing in 2 teaspoonfuls of bicarbonate of soda, 31b. of fine oatmeal, 1 teacupful of beer, and sufficient syrup. When thoroughly mixed, turn the dough into an edged pan about 3in. in height, and bake in a slack oven until done. Turn it out, and serve as required. (6) Rub i-lb. of butter into 241b. of oatmeal until quite smooth, then mix in a small quantity of ginger or finely- shred candied peel, Jib. of moist sugar, and 21b. of treacle. When quite smooth, turn the mixture into buttered cake tins, and bake in a good oven. PARLIAMENT CAKES.—See Cakes. PARMESAN CHEESE.—This is already described under Cheese. It is very valuable to the artistic cook, entering into many receipts as a garnish or flavouring. The following may be regarded as special applications of Parmesan to culinary purposes: Aigrettes of Parmesan Cheese.—Put 4 pint of water into a saucepan with Jib- of butter, and place over the fire until boiling. Stir in gradually 4oz. of flour, and continue stirring it until cooked ; then mix in Jib. of grated Par- mesan Cheese, and season to taste with salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. When the cheese has dissolved, move the saucepan to the edge of the fire. Beat four eggs well, and mix them in gradually. Put a good-sized lump of clarified fat or butter in a flat stewpan, place over the fire until blue smoke rises, then with a table-spoon drop in small quantities of the mixture and fry them until a pale golden brown. Take them out of the fat with a strainer, and lay them on a piece of kitchen paper near the fire to drain. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, p>ile the aigrettes on it, garnish with sprays of parsley, and serve them while very hot. Parmesan Cheese Omelet.—Break two eggs into a basin, and dust over with a very little pepper and cayenne. Put loz. of butter into a pan rubbed over with garlic. When it is boiling pour in the eggs and hold the pan over the fire to let the omelet set; then put 1 table-spoonful of grated Parmesan Cheese on one half of it, cover over with the other half, cook for a minute longer, and serve immediately. Parmesan Cheese Pyramids.—Rub 2oz. of butter in 2oz. of flour until quite smooth ; then mix in 2oz. of finely-grated Fig. 104. Parmesan Cheese Pyramids. Parmesan Cheese, season with salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and work the whole into a light paste with a little water. Roll the paste out very thin, cut it intoTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 90 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Parmesan Cheese—continued. squares, lay them on a buttered sheet of paper spread over a baking-sheet, and bake them in a brisk oven. When cooked, take the biscuits out of the oven and let them get cold. Season f breakfast-cupful of thick cream with salt, pepper, and cayenne pepper, and whip it to a stiff froth. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese with the cream, and ice it. When ready, pile the cream high on each of the squares (see Fig. 104), arrange them carefully on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper spread over a dish, and serve. Parmesan Cheese Quenelle Soup.—Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan on the fire, melt it, and add sufficient flour to form a roux. Cook this for a few minutes, add more flour to form a soft paste, and let it dry for a few minutes longer over the lire; then add the yolks of six eggs, 2oz. of grated Parmesan Cheese, a small quantity of chicken glaze, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste, and lastly a slight colouring of essence of spinach. Poach a small portion of this quenelle mixture to determine its firmness; should it be too stiff add a little broth, but if too thin add a little more yolk of egg. Form it into quenelles, put these into a buttered saute-pan, pour over some boiling stock, and poacli them for about fifteen minutes. Take them out, drain them on a cloth, put them into a tureen, pour over as much strained macaroni soup as is required, and serve very hot with grated Parmesan Cheese on a separate dish. The macaroni from the soup may be served with it or not as desired. Parmesan Cheese and Rice.—Peel and slice two small onions, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them; then add \ pint of shelled or tinned shrimps and 1 table-spoonful of dry French mustard. Stir the mixture well for a few minutes, then move it off the fire. Wash 2oz. of rice and boil it; when cooked it should be dry and each grain separate. Put the rice in with the fried onion and shrimps, add 2oz. of grated Parmesan Cheese, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Stir the mixture over the fire until the cheese has well dissolved. Turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. Parmesan Cheese Sauce.—Put l pint of rich creamy veloute sauce into a saucepan, add 1 breakfast-cupful of freshly- grated Parmesan Cheese, bring the sauce to the boil, rub or wring it through a cloth, and use as required. Parmesan Cheese Soup.—(1) Cut one or two rolls into thin slices, put them into a bowl of cream, soak them, and put them on a plate. Cover liberally on both sides with grated Parmesan Cheese, then put them into a tureen, pour over some rich soup, and serve. Toasted brown bread may be used instead of the rolls. (2) Peel and cut into strips about lin. in length three small carrots, turnips, and onions; wash and cut a head of celery into pieces the same length. Melt 2oz. of butter in a stewpan, put in the vegetables with a small quantity of sugar, cover tightly with the lid, and place it over a slow fire. Shake the vegetables about occasionally until lightly browned, then pour in about 3 pints of good broth, and boil them until tender. Cut a stale French roll into slices of a moderate thickness, then cut them out with a small round cutter into pieces about the size of a shilling; dip them in melted butter, and roll them in finely-grated Parmesan Cheese, giving them a good coating. Cover a baking- sheet with white paper, lay the pieces of bread on it, and bake them a pale golden colour in a brisk oven. Place the Par- mesan croutons in a soup-tureen, strain the soup through a fine hair sieve over them, and serve immediately. Parmesan Cheese Water Pie.—Put 21b. of flour on a table and make a dent in the middle, in which put 1 salt- spoonful of salt and as many beaten eggs as it will require to make a softisli paste. Knead it well, divide it into several equal-sized portions, and roll them out. Put a saucepan of water over the fire with a lump of salt in it, and when it boils scald the pieces of paste, one at a time, with the exception of two. Drain and dry the pieces of paste on a cloth, and smooth them out carefully. Butter a baking-tin, lay in one of the unscalded pieces of paste, and baste it with 1 table-spoonful of warmed butter; lay half Parmesan Cheese—continued. of the scalded pieces on the top of that, basting these also with a little warmed butter. Grate |lb. of Parmesan Cheese, and mix with it a few table-spoonfuls of chopped fennel and one or two raw eggs; season the mixture ■with salt and pepper, spread it over the pieces of paste, cover the cheese with the remaining scalded pieces of paste, moistening each with a small quantity of warmed butter as before. Lay the unscalded piece of paste on the top, butter it, and put it into a quick oven ; when cooked and nicely browned, cut the pastiy into any form liked, put it on a dish, and serve while very hot. This dish is a famous one in Turkey, and it is especially light and agreeable. PARR. — The name usually applied to the young salmon, but by some it is used for a small species of trout which is in season during the months of July and August. They may be cooked like ordinary trout, but are best fried. PARiSLEY (Fr. Persil; Ger. Petersilie; Itul. Petro- sellino; Sp. Perescil).—This plant (Petroselinum sativum), Lindley tells us, is said to have derived its botanical name from the Greek petros—a stone, from its being a native of rocky or stony places; but there is good reason to believe that it has a widely different origin. Parsley has ever been an object of superstitious observance; for besides its being the assigned plant from beneath which came our brothers and sisters, we remember how it was always considered such ill luck to transplant it that but few people in the Midland counties could be got to perform such an act. Mr. John Jones, of Gloucester, who has published some interesting notes upon this subject, on asking a person to whom the order to remove a bed of Parsley to another place had been vainly repeated, the reason for this neglect, received a reply to the following effect: Fig. 105. Curled Parsley. He was quite willing to root it up and destroy it entirely, but transplant it he would not, nor did he know anyone who would willingly take upon himself the consequences of such an act. Mr. Jones thinks that it is probable this herb was dedicated to Persephone, as queen of the dead, presuming her to be identical with Hecate or Selene; the resemblance of its Greek name (Selinou) to that of the last-named divinity at once suggesting its direct derivation from it. The correctness of this supposition is supported by other etymological considerations, as thus— its Greek name being preserved with the prefix of Peter: Archaic Greek Latin ... Italian German French Welsh English Selinou Petroselinum Petrosellino Petersilie Persil Perllys Parsley91 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, i-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Parsley—continued. These names our authority freely translates Peter’s Moon Plant, and adds that the connection of the name of Peter with it is suggestive of the policy hy which the pre- judices of the rude people, amongst whom Christianity was first introduced, were met and modified in the transference of objects of reverential regard, from the tutelage of long-honoured Pagan divinities, to that of Christian Saints. Parsley, thus dedicated to funeral rites by the Greeks, was afterwards consecrated to St. Peter in his character of successor to Charon, and doorkeeper of Paradise. Whether the above glowing account be correct or not, it is quite certain that well-curled Parsley (see Fig. 105) is fit for the modern cook’s crown. As a seasoning and garnish it has no equal, whether cooked or raw, and the garnish of one day can be fried for either the garnish or seasoning of another. Parsley should never be thrown away, as even when greasy it can be cooked, and when clean can be dried for use when the Parsley-beds are no longer available. Fried Parsley.—Carefully pick the stems from the Parsley, wash it, dry it on a cloth, put it into a frying-basket and then into hot fat, and fry for a few minutes, taking care that the fat is not too hot, or the Parsley will lose its colour and be spoiled. The fat that croquettes have been fried in is best for it. Farsley-and-Butter Sauce.—(1) Put '2oz. of butter into a saucepan, and melt it; then stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, mixing it well over the fire, but not letting it brown at all. Pour in gradually 1 pint of boiling water or white stock, and continue stirring until it thickens; then put in 2oz. more butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped Parsley, and season to taste with salt and pepper. When the butter has dissolved the sauce is ready for serving. (2) Blanch a small bunch of Parsley, and chop it finely. Put lioz. of butter into a small saucepan with 1 table- spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until well mixed but not browned; then pour in gradually £ pint of water, and stir it over the fire until boiling. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire, add the Parsley, and season to taste with salt and white pepper. Stir it for two or three minutes longer, and it is then ready for serving. Parsley Jelly.—Wash a large bunch of fresh young Parsley in several waters, put it in a lined copper pan with as much cold water as will nearly cover it, and boil for half- an-hour. Strain it through a jelly-bag two or three times, measure the juice, put it again hi the pan, with lib. of loaf sugar and the rind and strained juice of a lemon to eveiy pint, and boil it for twenty-live minutes. Stir in foz. of isinglass, then skim the jelly and pour it into jars. When cold, tie these down, and keep them in a dry store- closet. Parsley Juice for Colouring.—Pick some leaves of Parsley, put them hi a mortar, and pound them. Squeeze the juice oil into a jar, stand it in a saucepan, surround it with boiling water, but do not let the water boil over the edges (a bain-marie is best), and keep it by the side of the fire till the juice is warm. It is then ready for use. Parsley-and-Lemon Sauce.—Squeeze the juice out of a lemon, remove all the pips, and finely mince the pulp and rind. Wash a good handful of Parsley, shake it as dry as possible, and chop it, throwing away all the stalks. Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour hi a stewpan, and stir them over the fire until well mixed; then put in the Parsley and minced lemon, and pour in as much clear 6tock as will be required to make the sauce. Season with a small quantity of pounded mace, and stir the whole over the fire for a few minutes. Beat the yolks of two eggs with 2 table-spoonfuls of cold stock, and move the sauce to the side of the fire; when it has gone off' the boil sth in the eggs. Stir the sauce for two minutes at the side of the fire, when it will be ready for serving. Parsley Omelet.—Break two eggs in a basin, put 1 table- spoonful of milk in with them, and beat them, mixing Parsley—continued. thoroughly but not making them too light; add 1 pinch of salt and 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped Parsley, while beating. Put 1 table-spoonful of clarified butter in a small omelet-pan, and when boiling put in the omelet preparation; when partly set, run the point of a knife round to loosen it, and shake the omelet over to the further side of the pan until the thin edge, forced up- wards, falls back into the omelet. When nicely browned underneath, and the middle nearly set, roll the brown side uppermost, with the aid of a knife, and slide the omelet on to a hot dish. Serve at once. Parsley Powder.—Gather a quantity of fresh Parsley, and dip it into a basin of boiling water in which a little bi- carbonate of soda has been dissolved. Wring the Parsley well to extract as much of the water as possible, tie it together in moderate sized bunches, cover them with thin paper to keep the dust oil', and hang them up in the kitchen in a warm temperature. When quite dry, rub the Parsley oil’ the stalks, powder it as finely as possible, and sift it through a piece of coarse muslin. Put the powder into small wide-mouthed bottles, and cork them tightly. The corking must be especially attended to, as the Parsley will lose its flavour if not kept dry and free from air. Preserved Parsley for Winter Use.—Tie some fresh washed Parsley in bunches, having first carefully picked it over, put it in a saucepan of boiling water with a little salt and boil for three or four minutes. Put the Parsley on a sieve to drain. Dry it slowly in front of a brisk fire, and when dry enough almost to crumble put it into bottles. When the Parsley is required for use soak it in warm water for two or three minutes. Although not equal in appearance to fresh Parsley, it answers very well when the other cannot lie procured. PARSNIPS (Fr. Panais; Ger. Pastinaken; Ital. Pastinaclie; Sp. Chirivais).—The Parsnip is the edible aromatic spindle-shaped root of Pastinaca sativa (accord- ing to modern botanists more properly called Peuce- danum sativum). The name Pastinaca is derived from the Latin pastinum, a kind of dibble, which it closely resembles in shape. In its wild state the Parsnip is poisonous, but under cultivation it is not only quite Fig. 106. Long Parsnip. Fig. 107. Round Parsnip. harmless, but nutritious as a vegetable food. The Parsnip is a native of England and Ireland, but does not grow wild in Scotland. It is also met with in many other parts of Europe, and Northern Asia. In the Channel Islands Parsnips, which frequently grow 18in. long and 6in. in diameter, are largely used as winter food for cows, which ai-e said to yield much better butter in consequence.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 92 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Parsnips—continued. There are two principal kinds of Parsnips cultivated, the long (see Fig. 106) and the round (see Fig. 107), either of which may be used in the following receipts: Baked Parsnips.—Peel and wash some large hollow-crowned Parsnips, cut them lengthwise into quarters, and steam them for one hour. Take them out, put them in a baking- dish with a little salt and meat drippings, and bake till nicely browned. Drain, put them on a hot dish, and serve. Boiled Parsnips.—(1) Rub and wash some Parsnips well, but do not scrape them; put them in a saucepan with boiling salted water, and boil them quickly till tender, which will take from one hour to one-hour and-a-half accord- ing to the size of the Parsnips. When done, rub their skins off' with a rough cloth, put them in a hot dish, and serve with butter sauce, seasoned with a little pepper and salt, poured over them. (2) Scrape three large Parsnips, slice them iin. thick and 2in. long, and boil them in boiling salted water until they are tender. Drain off the water, add to the Parsnips 2 table-spoonfuls of butter and 1 teacupful of cream, season with white pepper and salt, let them boil once, and serve. Broiled Parsnips.—Boil some Parsnips, drain them, dry them on a clean towel, split them into slices |in. thick, dip them in melted butter seasoned with salt and pepper, put them between the bars of a double wire gridiron, broil them brown over a hot fire, and serve immediately. Pricassee of Parsnip.—Scrape some Parsnips and wash them, boil them in milk till they are soft, and cut them length- wise into quarters, and then into pieces about 3in. long. Have a white sauce ready made of h pint of cream mixed with 2 table-spoonfuls of veal or mutton broth flavoured with pepper, salt, and mace, and thickened with butter and flour. Put the Parsnips in, let them simmer for a few minutes, and serve hot. Fried Parsnips.—(1) Scrape some Parsnips, wash them, and boil them in salted water. When tender, drain them, cut them lengthwise into halves, and dredge them over with flour. Put a piece of lard or butter in a flat stewpan, place it on the fire, and let it boil; then put in the Parsnips, and fry them until nicely browned. Drain them, pile them on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (2) A merican.—Peel and wash some Parsnips, put them in boiling salted water, and boil till tender. Drain and cut the Parsnips in thin slices lengthwise, and leave them till cool, with a little salt sprinkled over them. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of molasses in a large frying-pan, place it on the fire, and let it boil ; then put in the slices of Parsnips and fry them; when browned on one side turn them and brown the other. Arrange them on a hot dish, and serve. Mashed Parsnips.—Scrape a large Parsnip, wash it, cut it lengthwise into eight pieces, put it into a saucepan with Iqt. of boiling water, a little salt, and a small lump of dripping, and boil till quite tender ; then take the pieces out, put them on a colander, drain, and press all the water out. Mash the Parsnip till quite smooth with a wooden spoon, then put it in a saucepan with 1 table- spoonful of milk or a small lump of butter, a little salt and pepper, and stir it over the fire till thoroughly hot again. Turn it into a dish, and serve at once. Parsnip Balls.—Wash, peel, and boil sufficient Parsnips to make 2 breakfast-cupfuls when mashed. When tender, drain the Parsnips, mash them with 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, 1 teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, and 2 table- spoonfuls of cream. Put the ingredients when well mixed in a saucepan, and stir them over the fire till bubbling. Take the saucepan off, mix in one beaten egg, and set it away to cool; shape the preparation into balls, dip them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, put them in a frying- basket, and plunge them into boiling fat. When well browned, drain the balls, put them on a hot dish, and serve. Parsnip Fritters.—Peel and boil some Parsnips until tender, then drain them thoroughly, mash them smoothly, mixing^ Parsnips—continued. in with them two beaten eggs, salt to taste, and suffi- cient flour to bind them rather stiffly. Divide and mould the mixture into small round cakes with floured hands. Put a large piece of butter into a flat stewpan, place it on the fire, and let it boil; then put in the cakes, and fry them a bright golden brown. Drain them, pile them on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Parsnip Pudding.—(1) Peel and wash two large Parsnips, cut them in halves, and boil them. When tender, drain them, and mash them smooth with a piece of butter, sweetening to taste with caster sugar, and flavouring with a small quantity of grated lemon-peel or powdered cinnamon. Stir in 1 wineglassful of brandy, and sufficient beaten eggs to make a stiff batter. Thickly butter the interior of a pudding-basin, strew grated breadcrumb over it, pour in the mixture, and boil. When cooked turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve it with a sauceboat- ful of sweet sauce. (2) German.—Peel three or four Parsnips, wash them, and boil them in water; when tender, drain them thoroughly, and mash them smoothly. Warm 2oz. of butter, mix it with the Parsnips, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and flavouring moderately with grated lemon-peel. Beat four eggs thoroughly, and stir them in with the mixture. Thickly butter a mould, strew in some grated breadcrumb, shaking the mould about so that it is covered equally, then pour in the mixture, cover it with a stout pudding- cloth, and boil it for an hour. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve with a fruit sauce poured over it. Parsnip Salad.—(1) Scrape the skin off two or three raw Par- snips, pick out the discoloured parts, cut them into thin slices, and dredge with flour. Put a piece of butter in a frying-pan, put in the Parsnips, and fry them till brown; then drain them and leave till cold. Arrange the slices of Parsnip in the centre of a dish; finely mince some ham, arrange it round them in little mounds, with the half of a hard-boiled egg between each, then put round Fig. 108. Parsnip Salad. that a border of well-washed and drained garden cress (see Fig. 108). Pour a remoulade sauce over the Parsnips, and serve. (2) Rub the skin off some Parsnips with a coarse towel, pick out the discoloured parts with a sharp- pointed knife, cut them into quarters, and boil in salted water till tender. Drain the Parsnips, cut them into narrow strips, and sprinkle a few chopped herbs over them. Prepare a plain salad dressing with oil and vinegar, the oil predominating, season it with salt and pepper, pour it over the Parsnips, and serve them. Parsnips Sautees.—Scrape some Parsnips and wash them, put them into a saucepan of cold water with a little salt, place them over the fire, and boil until tender. When cooked, drain them and cut them into slices, Put 2oz. of butter into a saute-pan, and place it on the fire ; when it has melted, put in the slices of Parsnips, and toss them gently about until lightly browned all over. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, strew finely-chopped parsley over them, and serve.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 93 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Parsnips—continued. Parsnip Soup.—(1) Peel and wash seven or eight Parsnips, and put them into a saucepan with 2qts. of hot veal broth, two sliced tomatoes, and two onions that have been sliced and browned in a little butter. Put the lid on the sauce- pan, stand it by the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer from two liours-and-a-lialf to three hours. When done, pass the vegetables through a fine hah- sieve, and boil the pulp up again in the soup. Take the soup off the fire, stir in the yolks of two eggs beaten in h pint of milk, season to taste with salt and pepper, pour it into a soup- tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (2) Peel and wash one large or two small Parsnips, cut them into little pieces, and boil them in lqt. of water till quite tender; then take them out, pass them through a sieve, and put them again into the water in which they were cooked. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of flour in \ pint of milk, stir it into the soup, and boil till the flour is cooked. Then put in salt and pepper to taste and two lumps of sugar. Pour the soup into a tureen, and serve it with croutons of fried bread, or with sippets of toast. (3) Put lib. of knuckle of veal or mutton in a saucepan with 24qts. of water, and let it boil for one hour. Peel and cut into small pieces six Parsnips and three small onions, put them into the soup, add a piece of celery and a tomato, also cut up, and boil for two hours; then pour through a strainer, rubbing the Parsnips through, and put the soup in the saucepan with J pint of cream or milk, and pepper and salt to taste. When very hot turn it into a tureen, and serve with sippets of toast on a plate. Parsnip Wine.—(1) Peel and cut 81b. of Parsnips into quarters, put them in a large pan with 2galls. of water, and boil until tender; then strain the Parsnip liquor, being very careful not to bruise the Parsnips. Pour the liquor into a cask, and mix with it 61b. of loaf sugar and loz. of cream of tartar; when it has cooled, put in a small quantity of either fresh brewers’ yeast or German yea-st. Keep the wine in a temperature of about 60deg. until fermentation ceases. When ready, put the bung firmly down in the cask and leave it for about a year. Afterwards draw the wine off, and bottle it. (2) Peel 61b. of Parsnips, cut them into quarters, or smaller if desired; put them into a pan with 41b. of sugar, loz. of cream of tartar, and 2galls. of water, and boil them. Pour the whole into a tub, let it cool, add 2oz. each of bruised cloves and ginger, and lgall. of cold boiled water. Let this remain for twelve hours, then add yeast to cause fermentation, taking care to stir this well in; when the fermentation has ceased, draw off the liquor into a cask, add the necessary finings, and bottle off in two years, or it may be bottled in six months, and left for two years before using. Scalloped Parsnips. -Mix 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold mashed Parsnips with 2 table-spoonfuls each of butter and cream, and a little pepper and salt. Put it iu a saucepan, stir it over the fire till bubbling, then take it off. Butter a baking-dish, put the preparation in it, sprinkle plenty of breadcrumbs over the top, pour a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter over, and brown it under a salamander. Serve while hot. Stewed Parsnips.—Peel and wash four large Parsnips, and boil them till tender in salted water. Take the Parsnips out when done, drain them, cut them into thin slices, and put them in a saucepan with l pint of cream, a piece of butter that has been mixed with a little flour, a little grated nutmeg, and 1 pinch of salt. Toss them over the fire till mixed and smooth. Turn into a hot dish and serve. PARTRIDGES (TV. Perdrix; Ger. Reblm finer; Hal. Pernice ; Sp. Perdices).—There are several species of birds of the genus Perdix, which differ from each other in some few particulars, although all of them are ranked as Partridges. Two kinds of Partridges are known to the cook: the European grey, and the French red-legged bird (bar- tavelles), the latter being sometimes found in the eastern Partridges—continued. counties of Great Britain. The grey Partridge is con- sidered the best for table when young, whereas the red- legged Partridge is at its prime when mature. In selecting grey Partridges, that is to say, those that are found chiefly in our markets, care should be taken to examine the claws and the beak, the condition of these very plainly indicating the age of the bird. Those having tender unworn beaks and sharp toes, with a fine skin over their legs, are generally reliable. Partridge shooting commences in this country on the 1st of September, and continues during the winter months. Gamekeepers recognise old birds by a horseshoe-shaped mark in the plumage of the breast. Partridges should be cleaned and trussed as follows: Pluck and singe the bird, empty it, and wipe it inside and out; cut the head off, but leave sufficient of the neck Fig. 109. Trussing a Partridge. skin to fasten back, cross the legs upon the breast keep- ing them in position by tying them to a skewer passed through the body (see Fig. 109); pass a skewer through the pinions and the breast, threading the skinned head upon the skewer; the bird is then ready for stuffing. Aspic of Partridges.—(1) Cut the fillets off the breasts of a couple of Partridges, season each fillet with salt and pepper, lay them in a buttered baking-dish, cover them with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake them. When the fillets are cooked, put them between two plates with a weight on the top, and leave them until cold. Roast the remainder of the birds, then cut off all the flesh, chop it, put it in a mortar with an equal quantity of chopped lean veal and the same each of butter and breadcrumbs that have been moistened with stock and squeezed almost dry. Pound the mixture until quite smooth, then mix with it a small quantity of powdered sweet herbs, one whole egg and one yolk, and a small quantity of game stock. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Butter a plain mould, turn the mixture into it, and steam it for half-an-hour. Turn the forcemeat out of the mould and leave it until cold ; then cut it into slices, and then with the fillets into rounds of one size and thickness. Slice some cooked truffles and some hard- boiled white of egg. Pour a thin layer of liquid aspic jelly into a plain mould, and leave it until it begins to set; then arrange tastefully over it some of the above ingre- dients, pour in another layer of the jelly, then another layer of meat, &c., and jelly again alternately until the mould is full. Place the mould iu an ice-closet or other cool place. When the jelly is firm, turn the contents of the mould on to a dish garnished with sprigs of well-washed parsley, chopped aspic, and halves of hard-boiled eggs, and serve. See Fig. 110. (2) Fillet six Partridges, and trim them ; put the minion fillets in a buttered saute-pan, and cook them in the oven. When done, take them out, and leave till cold. Fry the large fillets in a little clarified butter, trim them when cooked, and dip them in some chaudfroid sauce. Decorate the inside of a round fluted cylinder-mould with the minion fillets, putting one in each rib; pour in a little aspic jelly, and put in some truffles and hard-boiled white of eggs cut in patterns. Arrange the large fillets in a circle in the mould; when the jelly has set, fill it gradually94 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Partridges—continued. with more jelly and leave it till set. Prepare a idee socle, put it on a dish, and mask it with ravigote butter; turn the contents of the mould on to it, arrange some croutons and chopped aspic round the dish, and serve. Ballotines of Partridge.—(1) Bone the birds carefully, lay them open, and dust them over with salt, pepper, and powdered sweet herbs. Prepare a sufficient quantity of forcemeat with poultry livers, bacon, shallots, and sweet herbs, and season it to taste with sal-t and pepper. Line the inside of the birds with the forcemeat, then lay over that a few thin strips of cold tongue, blanched pistachio- nuts, and cooked truffles. Roll the birds up tightly, bind each one hi a separate piece of cloth, put them into a stewpan, moisten to their height with stock, and boil gently for half-an-hcur. Drain the birds, remove the cloths, bind them up again tightly, put them between two dishes with a moderate weight on the top, and leave until quite cold. When ready, unbind the birds, trim them neatly, and brush them over with liquid glaze. Spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper over a dish, lay the birds on it, garnish them with croutons of aspic jelly or a circle of chopped jelly, and serve. (2) Clean and bone five red Partridges. Cut some tongue and truffles in dice, and mix them with galan tine forcemeat. Stuff the Partridges with this, roll them, and tie each one in a cloth; put them in a stewpan with some mirepoix, and cook them. When done, leave them . till cool; then drain, take them out of the cloths, put them in fresh ones, and leave till quite cold. Take the cloths off the ballotines, trim them at each end, and glaze them until game glaze. Make a round rice socle on a dish, mask it with montpellier butter, putting a pat of it on the centre. Arrange the ballotines on the socle. Make a small vase of prepared udder or fat, put a crop ton of aspic jelly in it, and put it on the pat of butter. Garnish the top of each ballotine with eroftfons of aspic and chopped jelly, put some more croft tons round the base of the circle, and serve. Fig. 111. Boiled Partridges with Cream Sauce. Boiled Partridges with Cream Sauce.—Pluck, singe, and draw six birds without breaking the entrails, wipe them For details respecting Culinary Processes, Partridges—continued. with a wet towel, and put them in a pan with suffi- cient boiling water to cover; add 1 table-spoonful of salt, and boil them steadily and gently for fifteen minutes. Mean- while put h pint of thick cream into a saucepan set in a pan of boiling water, add to it 1 table-spoonful of butter and J saltspoonful of white pepper, and stir one way until the butter is melted; then leave the sauce where it will keep hot. When the Partridges are done, put them on a hot dish, dry them with a soft cloth, pour the cream sauce over (see Fig. Ill), and serve them hot, garnished with sprigs of parsley. Boudins of Partridge.—(1) Remove the skin and bone from a Partridge, chop the meat, put it in a mortar, and pound it until quite smooth. Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan with 2oz. of flour, and stir it over the fire until mixed; then pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of stock, and continue stirring it until boiling. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire, mix hi the pounded meat, £ teacupful of cream, and the yolks of four eggs. Season to taste with salt ami pepper, return the saucepan to the fire, and stir the con- tents until the eggs are set. Put the mixture on a dish, spread it out, and leave it until cold. Wash eight or ten truffles, put them in a saucepan, cover with cold water, and boil for ten minutes. Drain and finely chop the truffles, and mix them in with the forcemeat. Cut the mixture into small equal-sized pieces, roll them into the shape of pears, dip them in the well-beaten whites of the eggs, and then roll them in finely-grated bread- crumb, giving them a good coating. Put a lump of clari- fied fat in a frying-pan, set it over the fire until blue smoke rises, then drop in the boudins, and fry them until lightly browned. As the boudins are cooked, put them on a sheet of paper in front of the fire, and drain them thoroughly. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish paper over a hot dish, pile the boudins in the centre, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Cut the fillets off three young Partridges, trim off the skin and sinews, and chop and pound the meat. Chop and pound a boiled calf’s udder, pass it through a fine hair sieve, and mix it with the pounded Partridge, adding a third of the quantity of bread panada, binding together with the well-beaten yolks of three eggs and the whites of two, and seasoning to taste with pepper, salt, and allspice. Take a small portion of the forcemeat, roll it into a ball with a little flour, and poach it in boiling water to try the consistency. Divide the mixture into small equal portions, and shape them into balls with floured hands. Butter the bottom of a stewpan, put in the puddings, cover them with boiling water, add a lump of salt, and poach them. When done, drain the puddings, and leave them till cold ; then dip them in frying-batter, coat them thickly with grated breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling fat. When nicely browned, drain the puddings quite free of fat, put them on a hot dish, pour some brown Italian sauce over, and serve. The puddings can be broiled if preferred; in that case, dip them in beaten yolk of egg instead of the batter, breadcrumb them, brush them over with warmed butter, and bread- crumb again. Arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper placed on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (3) Finely chop the remains of one or two cold roasted Partridges, first picking out some of the best pieces of meat and chopping it rather coarsely. Put the finest- chopped meat in a mortar with an equal quantity of chopped lean veal, the same each of butter and soaked breadcrumbs, and pound the whole to a smooth paste; then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Return the mixture to the mortar, season it to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of spices, moisten with a small quantity of clear game broth, one whole egg and one yolk, and mix all till perfectly smooth. Butter some small dariole-moulds, and fill them with the mixture. Make a hollow in the centre of each, which fill with the coarsely-chopped meat, and cover with the forcemeat. Stand the moulds in a flat stewpan with boiling water to three parts their height, and steam them for three-quarters- of-an-hour or a little less. When cooked, turn the boudins see under their special heads. Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to,THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 95 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Partridges—continued. out of tlie moulds on to a hot dish, pour some game gravy round them, and serve. The gravy may he made of the trimmings of the birds. (4) Prepare some Partridge forcemeat, mixing with it some half-glaze and essence of Partridge. Fry an onion cut in small dice in butter, but do not brown it; then mix it with the forcemeat. Cut some strips of paper 4in. long and 2 Jin. wide, and butter them ; put a piece of forcemeat not quite so wide nor so long on each strip of paper, and with the handle of a spoon work part of the forcemeat to the centre of each boudin, so as to form a hollow fin. deep and fin. wide. Put some salpiijon (made with truffles, cooked fillets of Partridges and tongue, mixed with Spanish sauce that has been stiffly reduced with essence of Partridge) in the hollow, without quite filling it, then fill it with forcemeat. Put the houdins in a saute-pan with a little general stock and let them simmer gently for a-quarter-of-an-hour. When cooked, drain the boudins, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pour some reduced Spanish sauce over, and serve. Braised Partridges.—Singe, draw, and truss three Partridges as for boiling, put them in a stewpan with a slice of chopped fat bacon and a bunch or faggot of sweet herbs and fry them till nicely coloured all over; then pour in a little wine, put the lid on the stewpan with a few hot ashes on it, and let them braise gently. When nearly done put in with the Partridges Jib. of ham cut in dice, and four large cloves of garlic that have been boiled in plenty of water; sprinkle a little Spanish red pepper over, and continue cooking for about fifteen minutes. When done, take the Partridges out, drain them, remove the strings, put them on a hot dish, and garnish round with the garlic and ham; take the sweet herbs out of the cooking-stock, skim the fat off, thicken it with a little brown sauce, pour it over the Partridges, and serve. Braised Partridges a la Cussy.—Chop some sweetbread, boiled cocks’ combs, truffles, and mushrooms together. Remove all the bones from the Partridges, with the exception of the thigh bones and legs, stuff them until the chopped sweetbread, &c., then sew them up, giving them their original shape, and hold them until their breasts in front of the fire till quite firm. Put a slice of ham in a braising- pan, and when warm put in some chopped bacon, onions, carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs, the Partridge bones (which should have been pounded in a mortar), alittle salt and pepper, and some stock and white wine, mixed in equal quantities; cook the vegetables till soft, then put in the Partridges. Cover them with a sheet of buttered paper, put the lid on the braising-pan, with some hot coals on the top, stand it over a slow fire, and cook the birds. When done, put them on a hot dish. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve, skim and boil it with a few slices of truffles till reduced, then pour it over the Partridges, and serve. Braised Partridges a la Financiere.—(1) Singe, draw, wipe, and truss two Partridges with their wings inside. Lay a piece of pork-rind in a saucepan, adding one carrot and one onion, both cut in slices, two bay-leaves, one sprig of thyme, and the two Partridges, seasoning with 1 pinch of salt and J pinch of pepper. When the birds have assumed a good golden colour on the hot stove, moisten with J pint of broth, put the saucepan in the oven, and cook for twenty minutes longer. Dress them on a dish, untruss, pour over J pint of hot financiere, sauce, and serve. The gravy from the Partridges can he utilised for making the financiere sauce. (2) Cook three Partridges as directed for Braised Partridges a la Perigueux. Fry a three-sided block of bread, fix it on a dish until a little paste made until flour and white of egg, put a bird on each side, and fill the spaces between them with some financiere ragoht. Lean some crayfish, with the claws sticking upwards, on each pile of the ragoftt, and put a larded and glazed sweetbread _ on the top of the bread. Fill a sauceboat with financiere sauce, and serve. Braised Partridges a la Givry.—Draw some young Par- tridges and truss them as for boiling, dip their breasts Partridges—continued. in boiling water, then refresh them in cold water; lard them with thin strips of bacon, and put them in a stewpan lined with far bacon. Pour in sufficient broth to reach to half the height of the birds, put the lid on the stewpan with some hot ashes on the top, and braise them for twenty minutes. Put some rings of onions in a little white game broth, and stew till tender. Cook some very black truffles (they can be braised with the birds), then cut them into rounds that will just fit in the rings of onions. Chop the trimmings of the truffles, mix them with some Italian sauce, and reduce it. When cooked, glaze the birds, drain them, and- glaze them again. Put them on a hot dish, place the rings of onions and the truffles three on each side of the breast, using a little melted glaze for the purpose of sticking them. Mix a small quantity of game glaze in the sauce, pour it round, not over the birds, and serve. Braised Partridges a la Perigueux.—Clean three Par- tridges, and truss them as for boiling. Fasten some thin slices of fat bacon round them, put them in a stewpan with f pint of mirepoix and \ pint of essence of truffles, put a sheet of buttered paper over them, stand the stewpan over a slow fire, and let the contents simmer till the Partridges are done. Cut a three-sided block of bread 3in. high, 2 Jin. at the base, and I Jin. at the top, fry it, then fix it in the middle of a dish with a paste prepared until a little flour and white of egg. Drain the Partridges when cooked, and place one on each side of the bread. Shape three large Partridge forcemeat quenelles like pears, and put one between each bird; mix some essence of Partridge with perigueux sauce, pour it over the birds, put a large truffle on the top of the bread, fill a sauce- boat with the same sauce, and serve it with the Partridges. Braised Partridges a la Piedmontese. -Clean and truss three Partridges, put some thin slices of lemon freed of peel on the breasts, and tie some thin layers of fat bacon round. Put in a flat stewpan a carrot, onion, and turnip, cut in slices, some little pieces of ham and bacon, a bunch of sweet herbs, J pint of white wine, and the Partridges. When the liquid is boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire and braise the birds, occasionally turning them. When cooked, take the Partridges out, cut the strings off, divide each into five pieces, and put them in a stew- pan, which stand in a bain-marie; skim the fat off the liquor in which they were cooked, and put the backs of the Partridges in with 1 pint of rich brown gravy and 1 tea- cupful of sherry. Boil the liquor up, pass it through a fine hair sieve, skim it again, and boil it till reduced to half its original quantity; then stir a little thick tomato sauce in. Pour the sauce over the pieces of Partridges, and keep it hot without boiling in the bain-marie. Boil some polenta in salt and water till thick, then stir in a lump of butter and some grated parmesan cheese. Butter a border mould, fill it with the polenta, and leave it till set. When ready to serve, turn the border on to a dish, put the legs of the Partridges in the centre, place the breasts and fillets on the top, pour the sauce over, and serve. Braised Partridges a la Fortugaise.—Singe, draw, and truss two Partridges with their legs inside, put them in a saucepan with two slices of ham cut in large pieces, three onions, one carrot, two or three cloves of garlic, a piece of celery, a sprig of thyme, one bay-leaf, and two or three peppercorns and cloves; pour a little oil in, and fry all over a brisk fire for eight or ten minutes; then pour in | pint of broth, and boil it quickly till reduced to glaze. Add £ pint of vinegar and sufficient broth to reach to three-parts the height of the birds, put a sheet of oiled paper on them, place the lid on the saucepan with some live embers on the top, stand it by the side of the fire, and let the Partridges finish cooking. Put 3 teacupfuls of rasped breadcrumb in a frying-pan with a little oil, and fry them till nicely browned and dried; then move the pan off the fire, and drain out all the oil. When cooked, take the Partridges out, pass their cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve, and skim the fat off. Move the breadcrumbs on to the fire again, and mix with them gradually the strained sauce. When boiling, move theTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 96 Partridges—continued. pan to the side of the fire, and let the sauce simmer for twenty-five minutes. At the end of that time it will he sufficiently thick. Put the Partridges, which should have been kept hot during the time the sauce was being pre- pared, on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Braised Partridges a la Regence.—Truss six Partridges, having previously singed and drawn them, put a thin slice of fat bacon round each, place them in a braising-pan with some mirepoix, and cook them. Prepare a rice socle on a dish and put a plain block of rice in the middle of the socle. Cook six small larded heart sweetbreads and six chicken forcemeat quenelles, the same size as the sweet- breads. Drain, and arrange the birds on the socle against the block of rice, put a large turned mushroom on the top and a truffle at the bottom of each bird. Put the sweet- breads and quenelles alternately round the socle, and fill up the spaces between the birds with cocks’ combs and mushrooms. Stick six silver skewers garnished with cocks’ combs and crayfish in the top of the block (see Pig. 112), and serve with a sauceboatful of sauce a la rdgence. Braised Partridges and Cabbage.—(1) Truss a couple of old Partridges as for boiled chickens. Put them in a saute- pan, and brown them slightly over a brisk fire. Cut some gammon of bacon and two onions into dice, put them in a braising-pan with the Partridges, surround them with stock, and braise till three parts done. Thoroughly wash a. young cabbage, then blanch, drain, and dry it; put it in with the Partridges, and finish cooking them together. When cooked make a bed of the cabbage on a hot dish and put the Partridges on it with the pieces of bacon round. Strain the cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve, boil it until reduced, keeping the Partridges hot at the same time. When ready, pour the sauce round and serve. (2) Clean and truss a couple of old Partridges with their legs inward. Put them in a pan with a little boiling water, and let them simmer till the flesh is firm. Wash and cut two large cabbages into quarters and blanch them in boiling water, with 141b. of breast of bacon cut in small pieces. When the cabbages are blanched, put them in cold water till cool. Put the bacon in a small braising- pan, then put in the birds, > cabbage well drained of water, a few turned carrots, two or three onions, a bunch of thyme and parsley, two or three bay-leaves, a little allspice, salt and pepper; put some slices of bacon over and a sheet of buttered paper on the top, moisten with a little well-seasoned broth, and put the braising- pan over the fire till boiling, then move it to the side, and let the contents simmer for three-hours-and-a-half. Take out the bacon, carrots, and onions. Put a large sieve over a dish of the same size, and place the birds in the sieve. Mould the cabbages with a clean towel into a large roll and squeeze them so as not to leave any fat. Get a plain mould, line it with thin layers of the bacon, make a kind of flower in the middle of the mould with the carrots, and put a border of small glazed onions all round the top; For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Partridges—continued. next take some of the cabbage with a spoon and fill the mould with it, making a rosette of carrots on each side of the mould, which should be full to the brim. Put the mould in the oven for a short time. When ready to serve turn the contents of the mould on to a hot dish, put a bird at each end, and cover it with Spanish sauce. (3) Prepare and truss two Partridges as for boiling, and lard them with thin fillets of fat bacon; trim off the out- side leaves of two large savoys, cut each into quarters, wash them well, and partially boil them. Drain the savoys, put them in a stewpan with the Partridges, an onion stuck with three or four cloves, a small quantity of all- spice, a hay-leaf, and a small bunch of sweet herbs, cover- ing the whole with a few thin slices of bacon and moisten- ing to height with stock. Put the lid on the stewpan, and braise the contents at the side of the fire for an-hour- and-a half. At the end of that time take the Partridges out, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze, and place them in the centre of a hot dish. Drain the savoys, pressing them well, and arrange them round the birds. Strain 1 pint of the cooking-liquor of the birds into a small stewpan, and boil it quickly until reduced to half-glaze; then mix with it 1 breakfast-cupful of brown sauce and 1 wineglassful of sherry, season it to taste, and pour it over the cabbages. Serve while very hot. (4) Prepare four birds, put them in a stewpan with some trimmings of fat bacon, a few sliced vegetables, a bunch of sweet herbs, salt and spices to taste, moisten them to height with broth, and braise them. Trim off the out- side discoloured leaves of a nice large cabbage, wash it in several waters, divide it into four pieces, put it in a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt, a piece of loaf sugar, and a small lump of soda, and boil it, keeping the lid partly off' the saucepan. When cooked, drain the cabbage well, put it in a saute-pan ■with butter, and saute it. Put the cabbage on a hot dish, stalk to stalk. Drain the Partridges, and lay them by it two on each side (see Fig. 113). Strain the cooking-liquor of the birds into a small stewpan, put a piece of glaze about the size of a small walnut in it, and boil until somewhat reduced; then pour it over the birds, and serve. Braised Partridges with Game Puree.—Pluck, draw, and truss two young Partridges with their legs turned inwards, and lard the breasts with fillets of hacon. Line the bottom of a flat stewpan with bacon, put in the birds with two peeled onions, each stuck with two cloves, a small bunch of parsley, and two bay-leaves; cover the birds with a few thin slices of bacon and a sheet of buttered paper, moisten to height with white stock, and stew gently. When cooked drain and glaze the Partridges, and brown their breasts lightly under a salamander. Finely chop the livers of the birds, ' put them in a basin with 4oz. of finely- chopped beef suet, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of breadcrumbs, and season with i table-spoonful of chopped thyme and parsley in equal quantities, salt, pepper, and a small quantity of nutmeg. Pound the chopped mixture well in a mortar, bind it with beaten egg, spread thickly on two pieces of toast, lay them in a buttered baking-dish, and bake for twenty minutes. Chop and pound in the mortar about lib. of cold cooked game. Put a chopped shallot in a stewpan with ia small lump of butter, toss it over the fire for a few minutes, then put in the pounded game; pour in 4 breakfast-cupfuls of half-glaze of game and uces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads.97 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Partridges—continued. 1 teacupful of stock. Boil the sauce for ten minutes, and season it with small quantities of salt and pepper and 4 teaspoonful of sugar. Place the pieces of toast on a hot dish, put the birds on them, pour the sauce round, and serve. Braised Partridges with Truffles.—Prepare and truss three Partridges as for boiling, put them in a stewpan with some mirepoix, and ccok them; when done, drain, and arrange them on a hot dish to form a hollow triangle. Put round some sliced truffles that have been mixed in supreme sauce, fill a sauceboat with supreme sauce, and serve. Broiled Partridges.—(1) Put Jib. of butter and 4 table- spoonful of minced parsley into a stewpan: when it has melted put in the Partridges and turn them about over the fire until lightly browned. Take the birds out, roll them in finely-grated breadcrumbs that have been seasoned with minced parsley, salt, and pepper, lay them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire. Prepare the following sauce: Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 teaspoonful of flour, mix them over the fire, and stir in gradually 1 pint of milk; continue stirring until boiling and thickened, then move the stewpan to the side of the fire. Stir quickly into the sauce the yolk of an egg that has been beaten up with a small quantity of water, and season to taste with salt' and pepper. Put a can of French peas into a saucepan of boiling water, and leave them until they are hot; then turn them into the centre of a hot dish, arrange the Partridges on the top, pour the sauce round, and serve. (2) The bird must not be high; split it lengthwise down the back, lay it open, and beat it as flat as possible with a cutlet-bat. Brush it over on all sides with a paste- brush dipped in olive oil, season it with salt and pepper, lay it on a double gridiron, and broil it in front of a clear fire, turning when done on one side. Lay the bird on a hot dish, put a large piece of maitre d’hotel butter on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (3) Clean and truss two Partridges as for roasting, cut them in halves, wipe them well, sprinkle plentifully with pepper and salt, and broil them over a clear lire for twenty minutes. When done, place the pieces of Partridge on a hot dish, put a small lump of butter on each half, and serve while very hot, with a sauceboatful of rich brown gravy. Broiled Partridges a l’Americaine.—Singe, draw, and wipe neatly three tender Partridges; cut them in halves, lay them on a dish, and season with 1 pinch of salt, A pinch of pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of oil. Boll them in well, and put them to hroil for seven minutes on each side. Prepare six slices of fried hominy, arrange them on a hot dish, place the Partridges over, and pour 1 gill of maitre d'hotel butter on top; place six slices of broiled bacon over the birds, and serve. Broiled Partridges a la Chasseur.—(1) Draw and split in halves three young and fresh Partridges, cut off the tip of the legs, split the skin of the drum-stick, and thrust the legs underneath ; slightly beat each half, sprinkle salt and pepper over them, dip them in oil and then in bread- crumbs, put them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire, turning to do both sides equally. When cooked, put them on a hot dish, pour round a little hot Madeira sauce, and serve. (2) Pluck, draw, and singe some fat young Partridges, split them in halves lengthwise, sprinkle pepper and salt over them, dip them in oil and breadcrumbs, put them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire. Put a finely- chopped onion and shallot in a saucepan with 3 table- spoonfuls of streaky bacon cut in dice and two or three sprigs of sweet herbs, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes; then put in 1 teacupful of chopped mush- rooms, the chopped livers of the Partridges, and A- pint of gravy. Boil the sauce for ten minutes. Work 2oz. of butter with 2oz. of breadcrumbs, then put them in the sauce and stir over the fire till thick. Mix a little glaze with the sauce, then take it off the fire and add the strained juice of two lemons. Arrange the Partridges on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Partridges—continued. Broiled Partridges a la Crapaudine.—Empty, clean, and truss the birds with their thighs inside their bodies; singe them to make the flesh firm, pinch the breast with the left hand, and scallop it without quite reaching the skin. Turn the flesh over on the table, beat the bird flat, sprinkle salt and pepper over, dip it in clarified butter then in breadcrumbs, again in the butter, and finish with the crumbs. Broil them over a clear fire. When cooked, arrange the Partridges on a hot dish, and serve with an Italian sauce. Broiled Partridge Cutlets with Colbert Sauce.—Chop three tender Partridges each in halves lengthwise, sprinkle salt and pepper over them, dip them in warmed butter, then in breadcrumbs, put them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear slow fire; turn them when done on one side and finish the other. When cooked, put the Partridges on a hot dish, pour over them some colbert sauce, and serve. Broiled Partridge Cutlets with Truffles.—Skin five young Partridges, cut off the outside fillets and the small inside ones, take the second skin off them, point the small bone of the wing, and stick it into the end of the large fillet; season with salt and pepper, egg-and-breadcrumb them, dip them in oiled butter and again in breadcrumbs, and broil them over a very sharp lire. Fry the small fillets lightly, make a forcemeat with them, and mix it Fig. 114. Broiled Partridge Cutlets with Truffles. with some glaze of game. Put the forcemeat in the centre of the dish and arrange the broiled fillets round it. Cover the fillets with game glaze. Garnish the dish with croutons of fried bread (see Fig. 114), and serve hot. Broiled Partridge's Legs.—Bone the legs of six uncooked Partridges, leaving only the pinion-bones, and cutting the claws at the joint. Put them in a deep frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry them till nicely browned on both sides ; then put in with them a few chopped fresh mushrooms and 2 table spoonfuls of chopped onions. Stand the frying- pan at the side of the fire, and ccok the contents slowly till almost diy; then take it oil', and leave all till cold. Take the legs out, and mix with the mushrooms and onions half the quantity of rasped bacon and 1 table-spoonful of chopped truffles. Cover the legs with the above prepara- tion, wrap each one separately in a sheet of paper that has been dipped in oil, put them on a gridiron, and stand it over a very clear, slow fire. The legs should be thoroughly heated without blackening the paper. Arrange them on a hot dish when done, and serve. Celestines of Partridge. -This supreme dish is attributed to Dubois. Cut in small dice the meat of two cold cooked Partridges, and mix with it an equal quantity of cooked truffles, also cut in dice. Cut the meat off the legs, and finely chop it with a few cooked poultry livers; pound it in a mortar, then pass it through a fine hair sieve into a small saucepan, and mix with it an equal quantity of tepid game chaudfroid sauce. Stand the stewpan on ice and stir the contents till thick, then put the chopped meat and truffles in with it, take it oil the ice, flatten the preparation, and cut it into twelve oval slices to the shape of a large sandwich. Trim and coat the slices with a thick layer of the above preparation, then stand them on ice till the coating is quite firm. Dip the celestines one by one in the chaudfroid sauce so as to cover them completely with it (it should not be too thick, and quite smooth). Cut For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, £c., referred to, see under their special heads. VOL. II. BTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 98 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Partridges—continued. some slices of cooked black truffles to an oval shape, and put one on each of the celestmes. Mask the celestines with aspic jelly, arrange them in a circular order on a layer of aspic-jelly that has set on a dish, put some cooked truffles in the circle, arrange some jelly croft tons round the base, and serve. Chartreuse of Partridge.—(1) Cut a cabbage into quarters, wash it well, plunge it into boiling water, then steep it in cold water for two hours. Drain and squeeze all the water out of the cabbage, cut the stalks out, tie the pieces together, and put them in a stewpan with two or three slices of streaky bacon previously blanched; pour some general stock, mixed with essence of Partridge, over it, put in some clarified fat, and finish as described for Cabbage for Garnishing. Cut some carrots and turnips into slices 2in. long with a vegetable-cutter, and cook them separately as described for Garnishes. Put a round of paper at the bottom of a plain entree-mould that has been buttered, garnish it with the pieces of carrot and turnip, and put, a layer of cabbage in the mould. Cut up three roast Partridges, put four fillets on the cabbage, then put another layer of the cabbage on them; continue with alternate layers of Partridge and cabbage till the mould is full. Stand the mould in a bain-marie till the contents are warm. When ready to serve, turn the char- treuse on to an entree-dish, and arrange alternately round the base some rounds of carrots and turnips, with a French bean between each. Put some rings of turnip round the top of the chartreuse, and put a Brussels sprout in each. Make a sort of cup or vase with a carrot, fill it with French beans, and place it in the centre. Reduce some Spanish sauce with some essence of Partridge, fill a sauceboat with it, and serve with the chartreuse. (2) Empty and clean two full-grown Partridges (old ones are the best, but they should be quite fresh), lard them with bacon, and put them in a stewpan with a little well- seasoned stock, some bacon cut in dice, and some sausages cut in slices. Braise them till the Partridges are tender; the bacon will require a little longer cooking. Partially cook some cabbage, carrots, and turnips. Get a plain mould that is not very deep, line it with the vegetables, arranging them in patterns, put in the Partridges, sausages, and bacon, pressing them down tightly, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, stand the mould in a bain- marie, and finish cooking.* Turn the chartreuse on to a hot dish, pour the sauce round, and serve. (3) Cut the breast and wings of a pair of plump Partridges into neat pieces ; break up the carcases of the birds, put them with any trimmings into a saucepan, and add a bunch of sweet herbs, a couple of sliced shallots, a sliced carrot, some trimmings of ham, a moderate quan- tity of spices, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour in a sufficient quantity of clear stock to cover all, and let it boil gently at the side of the fire for two hours. Peel and boil sepa- rately an equal quantity of turnips and carrots, drain them before they are too much cooked, then with a small round cutter cut the turnips and the red part of the carrots into as many rounds as possible. If the vegetables are cut before the bones are put on to stew, their trimmings can be used to flavour the stock. A little sugar should be put in the water that the vegetables are boiled in. Wash a nice large cabbage, and boil it; when tender, drain and press out as much of the water as possible. At the end of the two hours, strain the liquor from the bones into a clean stewpan, put the wings and breasts of the Par- tridges in it, and keep them simmering gently until tender. Oil the interior of a plain round mould with salad-oil, then line the mould with well-oiled paper cut to fit it exactly, and cover the bottom with circles of carrots and turnips, making each piece overlap the other a little. When that is done, line the sides of the mould in the same way, making the pieces keep in position by pressing them with the fingers. Next line the mould with some of the cabbage, fill the centre with the wings and breasts of the Partridges, and moisten with a small quantity of their cooking-liquor; fill up the spaces between the pieces of meat with cabbage, then over the top put what cabbage there is left, and press it tightly down. Tie __ a Partridges—continued. sheet of paper over the top of the mould, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam it for an hour. Boil the remainder of the gravy until slightly reduced, and thicken it with a brown roux. When the chartreuse is ready, remove the paper off the top, put a hot dish in its place, and turn it gently over. Leave it in that position for a minute or two, then drain off' any water that may have run in the dish, and carefully remove the mould. Pick all the paper oft' the chartreuse, pour the gravy round it, and serve. Chartreuse of Partridges a la Moderne.—Pluck, singe, and draw two Partridges, truss them with their legs forced in, and lard them lengthwise with thin fillets of bacon. Trim off the discoloured and outer leaves of two savoys, cut them into quarters, wash them well, and boil for five minutes; then plunge them into cold water, drain them well on a sieve, and squeeze as dry as possible in a cloth. Cut out the stalks, and put the cabbages in a stewpan with two onions, each stuck with three cloves, one carrot, a bunch of parsley and thyme, two bay-leaves, and fib. of streaky bacon. Pour in lqt. of white stock, put the lid on the stewpan, and boil the contents gently until the liquor has reduced to a thin glaze. Cover the Partridges with sheets of buttered paper, and roast them before a clear fire, keeping them well basted. When cooked, remove the paper and trussing-skewers from the birds, and put them in with the stewed cabbage, which should be removed from the fire. Butter a large plain oval- shaped mould, and line it with buttered paper. Peel several large turnips and carrots, and cut them into thin strips about tin. in length. Stew the carrots and turnips separately in white stock with a small quantity of sugar, and when tender drain them; also peel and stew in the same manner several small onions. Place a row of the onions round the bottom of the mould, above them put a row of the strips of carrots slantwise and touching each other, next a row of turnips, then another of carrots, and so on until the mould is full. Drain the cabbage, put a thick layer of it at the bottom of the mould and a thinner layer round the sides, place the Partridges in the centre with the bacon cut into thin slices, and cover witli a layer of the cabbage. Stand the mould in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, care being taken not to let the water enter the mould, and stand it over the fire to get hot. Peel eighteen or twenty small young carrots, turning them to the shape of pears; put them in a saucepan with a little sugar and white stock, and boil them. Boil separately a small very white head of cauliflower and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of green peas. Prepare a thin border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, cut a little piece off the end of each carrot, and stick them round on the potato border; turn the chartreuse into the centre, place the cauliflower on the top, and pour the peas between it and the potato border. Strain the cooking-liquor of the cabbage into a clean stewpan, mix with it lqt. of brown sauce, and boil until reduced to the consistency of half-glaze. Pour the sauce round and carefully over the chartreuse, and serve. If a little care and taste are exercised in the arrangement of this dish, the effect will be very pretty. Chaudfroid of Partridges.—(1) Cut off the legs and wings from a couple of uncooked birds; chop the carcases into small pieces, put them in a mortar, and pound them. Put the pounded carcases into a stewpan with some chopped trimmings of bacon, one or two onions and carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a lump of butter; season to taste with salt, pepper, and spices, and toss the whole over the fire for a few minutes. Moisten gradually with 2 wineglassfuls of sherry, toss them about for a few minutes longer, then pour in 1} pints of clear stock ; move the saucepan to the edge of the fire, and let it simmer for an-hour-and-a-half. At the end of that time, strain the liquor into a basin, and let it cool a little; then skim off all the fat. Put 1 table spoonful each of flour and butter into a saucepan, and stir them over the fire until mixed and browned ; then pour the above liquor in slowly, and add 1 breakfast-cup- ful of unclarified aspic jelly. Cut up two cold roasted99 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Partridges—con ti n tied. Partridges as for serving, trim each joint neatly, and dip them in the above sauce, coating them well. Leave the Fig. 115. Chaudfroid of Partridges. pieces of Partridges until the sauce lias cooled on them, then arrange them in a pyramid on a dish, garnish with chopped aspic jelly (see Fig. 115), and serve. (2) Truss four Partridges, bind some buttered paper round them, fix them on a spit, and roast without browning them. When done, leave them till cold, then take off all the skin, cut the meat in pieces, and dip each piece in Partridge chaudfroid sauce. Put some decorated minion fillets of Partridge in a round border mould, fill it with aspic jelly, and leave it till set. Turn the border out of the mould on to a dish, and put a block of fried crumb of bread in the centre. Dip the pieces of Par- tridges in the sauce again, and arrange them round the bread. Garnish a silver skewer with a cock’s comb and truffle, stick it in the top of the bread, and serve. Chaudfroid of Partridges with Game Sauce.—Cut off the breasts, wings, and legs from any uncooked game; pound the carcases in a mortar, then put them in a stewpan with some chopped trimmings of bam or bacon, a bunch of sweet herbs, one or two small onions and carrots, loz. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, and a moderate quantity of spices. Toss the contents of the saucepan over the fire until very hot, then pour in 2 wineglassfuls of Marsala, and toss them about for a few minutes longer; add 1J pints of clear stock, and simmer gently at the edge of of the fire for an-hour-and-a-half. Strain the liquor, and when somewhat cooled, skim off' all the fat. Put a lump of butter in a saucepan with a moderate quantity of flour, and stir over the fire until browned; next stir in the strained liquor and 1 teacupful of unclarified aspic jelly, and when boiling move it to the side of the fire. Cut two cold roasted Partridges into joints, trimming them neatly and freeing them from all skin. Dip the pieces of Partridges in the sauce, coating them well, and leave them until the sauce is cold. Arrange the pieces of Partridges in a pyramid on a dish, garnish them with croutons of as[)ic jelly, or a border of the jelly, and serve. The wings breasts, &c. of the birds can be utilised for fillets, stews, &c. Chaudfroid of Partridges with Truffles.—Cut the breasts off five or six cold roasted Partridges, divide each into three pieces, and trim the skin and pinion-bones off. Pre- pare some chaudfroid sauce with two-thirds of brown sauce and one third of aspic jelly. Dip the pieces of Partridge in the sauce, lay them on a dish, and leave them till cool. Prepare a wooden stand with steps, mask it with fat, and fix it on a dish, placing on top a small cast subject in fat or stearine. Arrange the side fillets of the breast on the lower step, upright and overlapping, and surround them with a circle of chopped aspic; put the middle pieces of the breast on the upper step. Garnish the base of the stand with some small folded paper-cases each filled with a small glazed truffle, and serve. Compote of Partridges.—Prepare these as for Comfote of Partridges a Blanc, using, instead of broth, a little veal gravy to moisten them. The onions should be fried in butter till brown, then boiled in a little veal gravy. Truffles and mushrooms should be put in the sauce previous to reducing. Place the Partridges on a hot dish; when the sauce is thick enough, pour it over them, and serve. Compote of Partridges A, Blanc.—Singe and truss four young Partridges with their legs inward. Cut a little of the breast of bacon in small pieces, and boil them for half-an-hour in water. Drain the bacon, put it in a stew- Partridges—continued. pan, and fry lightly, but without colouring. Take the pieces of bacon out of the stewpan, put the Partridges in with a little more butter to the fat of the bacon, and fry them. When the flesh is quite firm, take them out (they should not be coloured). Put 1 table-spoonful of flour in the stewpan, and fry it lightly; pour in a little broth, till the sauce is thin enough to be skimmed, then put in some trimmings of mushrooms, a bunch of parsley and thyme, a few green onions, two or three bay-leaves, a clove, a little salt, a very small lump of sugar, and the Partridges, and let the birds stew gently till done. When cooked, drain, and put the Partridges in another stewpan with the pieces of bacon. Skim and reduce the sauce, strain it through a fine hair sieve over the birds, and set the stewpan in a bain-marie. Have some small white onions, previously boiled in a small quantity of broth in which has been put a little sugar, also some mush- rooms fried white in butter. Thicken the sauce with the yolks of four eggs that have been beaten with a little cream and lemon-juice, but do not let it boil after the eggs have been added; then put in the small onions, mush- rooms, and pieces of bacon. Put the Partridges on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Crepinettes of Partridge Fillets.—(1) Finely mince an equal quantity of raw ham, fat bacon, and truffles, and mix with it a little chopped shallot and 1 pinch of salt and pepper. Cut the fillets oft' four young Partridges, and remove all skin and bones. Split the fillets on the thick part, and stuff them with the mince. Cut some pig’s caul into squares, wrap one round each fillet, dip them in melted lard and then in breadcrumbs, put them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear moderate fire. When done one side, turn them and finish the other. They will require from twelve to fourteen minutes’ cooking. Put the crepi- nettes on a hot dish, pour a little half-glaze round them, and serve. (2) Cut the fillets off' the bones of some young Par- tridges, trim off the skin, and split open the thickest part. Finely chop in equal quantities some raw ham, raw truffles, fresh fat bacon, and a small quantity of shallot. Season the mixture with salt and pepper, and stuff the split fillets with it. Season the fillets, lay a few thin slices of raw truffles on each, and wrap them separately in a square of pig’s caul, fastening them securely at the ends ; dip them in melted lard, then roll them in bread- crumbs, put them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear moderate fire, turning when done on one side and cooking Fig. 116. Crepinettes of Partridge Fillets the other. They will take from ten to fifteen minutes. Arrange the fillets on a hot dish, baste them with a small quantity of half-glaze, garnish \\ ith fried parsley (see Fig. 116), and serve. Curried Partridges.—Cut some Partridges into pieces, disjointing them as when served at table, put them in a saucepan with three sliced onions and a lump of butter, and fry them till well browned. Mix 1 table-spoonful of flour with 1 table-spoonful of Madras curry powder, put it in the saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of butter, and stir it over the fire till mixed; then pour in gradually, while still stirring, 1 pint of stock; put in three apples, a small cabbage heart, and one pickled capsicum, all finely minced, the juice of a lemon, a little salt, and b pint of cream. Put the cover on the saucepan, stand it at the side of the fire, and stew the contents till done. When cooked, take the pieces of Partridge out, and arrange them on a hot dish; boil the sauce till reduced, then pour it over the birds, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Epigramme of Partridges.—Cut the large fillets off two roasted Partridges, leaving the minion fillets on the birds; it 2100 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Partridges—continued. trim the fillets and put them in a frying-pan with a little butter. Cut the minion fillets off, lay them on the table, and slightly beat them; trim them like the others, fix them together, two and two, using a little forcemeat to fix them, sprinkle salt and pepper over, and put them in with the large fillets. The forcemeat should be prepared with the flesh of a raw Partridge and a few trimmings of poultry. Put the bones and backs, broken up into small pieces, into a saucepan with two or three slices of carrots, turnips, and onions, two or three little pieces of ham, a few sprigs of sweet herbs, and some Madeira wine and gravy mixed in equal quantities; simmer for lialf-an-hour, then skim the fat off the liquor, pass it through a fine hair sieve, and with it prepare a little brown sauce. Sprinkle some flour on the table, put the force- ' meat on it, cut it into six equal portions, roll them out to a pear shape, and flatten them. Butter the inside of a stewpan, put the pieces of forcemeat in it, pour some water in, add a small lump of salt, and poach them. When cooked, drain and leave them till cool; then dip them in beaten egg, roll them in breadcrumbs, put them in a frying-pan with a little warmed butter, and fry on both sides till nicely browned. Fry the fillets to lightly colour them, but not to overdo them. Drain the fillets and pieces of forcemeat when done, arrange them alternately in a circular order on a hot dish, fill the centre with some minced mushrooms that have been mixed with the sauce, and serve. Escabecliar of Partridges.—This famous Spanish dish is a great favourite. Singe three Partridges, divide each into five parts, and put them in a saute-pan with a gill of oil and sweet herbs, a few peppercorns and cloves, and two un- peeled cloves of garlic; fry the pieces of Partridges till nicely browned, then pour in some broth mixed with a little vinegar, and move the pan to the side of the fire so as to let the contents cook quickly. Take the pieces of Partridges out when very tender, and put them on a dish. Stir into the cooking liquor 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of aspic jelly and boil it for three minutes longer; then pass it through a fine hair sieve over the Partridges. This dish is to be served cold. Essence of Partridge.—Break up the bones of six Partridges (having first removed the fillets and put them by for further use), and place them in a saucepan with a carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and 1 pint of Madeira. Boil the wine till reduced to a glaze, then pour in 3qts. of broth. Boil it up, move it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for an-hour-and-a-half. Strain the essence through a broth-napkin, skim it well, and bottle for use. Pillets of Cold Partridges Glazed.—Fillet some cold roasted Partridges, and put all the meat oft’ the carcases in a mortar with a few mushrooms and truffles. Put the bones, the trimmings off the truffles, some eschalots, and a laurel- leaf in a saucepan with \ pint of white wine, and boil it till reduced to three-quarters the original quantity. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve, and mix 2 table spoonfuls of clear stock with it. Put half of the sauce in a sauce- pan with the pounded meat, &c., and stir it with a wooden spoon over the fire till boiling; then pass it through a fine hair sieve, and leave it till cold. Arrange the fillets round an entree-dish, with alternate slices of truffles cut in the same shape, turn the puree in the centre, pour the remainder of the sauce over, put some croutons of clear meat jelly round, and serve. Fillets of Partridges a la Financiere.—Trim and lard the fillets of six Partridges with thin strips of fat bacon, put them in a saute-pan with a little melted glaze, and cook them. Make a croustade of paste, the same size as the dish on which the fillets are to be served and 2in. deep. Prepare a financiere ragout of foies gras, truffles, mush- rooms, cocks’ combs and kernels, and chicken forcemeat quenelles, mixed in financiere sauce. Trim the minion fillets into scallops, and mix them in the ragout, half of which should be turned into the croustade. Arrange the fillets on it in a circle, pile the remaining ragout in the centre, and serve with a sauceboatful of financiere sauce. - Partridges—continued. Fillets of Partridges a la Florentine.—Cut the fillets off the breasts of some cold roasted Partridges, trim them nicely, put them in a stewpan with some white stock and a small piece of glaze, and make them hot. Take the fillets out, and reduce the stock to a glaze. Put 1 pint of half- glaze of game into a saucepan and boil it till reduced to a third its original quantity; then mix with it the glaze in which the fillets were warmed, some dressed cocks’ combs, and an equal quantity each of blanched mushrooms and small French truffles, adding a little sugar. Put the fillets in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce, cocks’ combs, &c., in the centre, and serve while very hot. Fillets of Partridges d la Toulouse.—Cut the fillets off six Partridges, and trim and curve them slightly; put the large ones in one buttered saute-pan and the minion fillets in another. Stick a little piece of truffle with the white of egg on the round ends of each of the small fillets. Fry the large fillets, and when cooked drain and arrange them round a croustade on a hot dish. Cook the small fillets in the oven, and when done put in a circle on the others. Fill the croustade with cocks’ kernels mixed in supreme sauce, pour some supreme sauce over the fillets, and serve. Fillets of Partridges with Lentils.—Remove the fillets from some Partridges, skin them, beat them lightly, and trim them to a nice shape. Season the fillets with salt and pepper, lard them, wrap each in a slice of fat bacon, and then in a sheet of paper. Thickly spread the interior of a saute-pan with butter, lay the fillets in it, and cook them in the oven for eight or ten minutes. Prepare some Partridge forcemeat, put it into a buttered border mould, and poach it in a bain-marie. The inside of the mould can be decorated with fancy-shaped pieces of truffles. Turn the border out on to a hot dish, and when the fillets have been divested of the paper and bacon arrange them on it; fill the centre with a puree of lentils, pour a little melted glaze over it, and coat over the border and fillets with Spanish sauce that has been re- duced with essence of Partridge. Fillets of Partridges Sautes.—Procure four young Par- tridges (rather stale if possible, as they will then have more flavour), flay them, and separate the small inside fillets from the upper ones; remove all the sinews from the small fillets, and flatten them with the handle of a knife dipped in cold water ; then dip the blade in, and take off the second skin of the fillets with it. Trim and arrange the large fillets in a sautd-pan, put the small ones over them, place a lump of butter on the top, sprinkle a little salt over, and leave them till ready to fry. Put the rem- nants of the birds in a stewpan with some thin slices of veal and ham, pour in a little stock broth (see Broth), and let it heat slowly over the fire ; then pour in some boiling broth, a few mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, and two or three green onions, and let it simmer by the side of the fire for an-hour-and-a-half. Strain the liquor through. a fine hair sieve into another stewpan, and re- duce it to glaze. Fry the fillets in the saute-pan over a brisk fire, browning them equally all over; drain the butter off, put in 4 or 5 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce and an equal quantity of the above glaze of game, and stir them over the fire, but do not allow it to boil; then pour in a little thick cream, adding more seasoning if required. Cut as many slices of bread as there are fillets, and fry them till nicely browned on both sides in butter. Arrange these croutons of bread on a hot dish, put a large fillet on each, then a smaller one on the top, pour the sauce over, and serve. Fillets of Partridges with Small Vegetables.—Cook in front of a clear fire some young Partridges, keeping them rather underdone; leave them till nearly cold, then remove the fillets from the breasts, trim each fillet, and put them in a flat stewpan with a small piece of glaze and sufficient white stock to cover them. When the liquor boils, take the fillets out, keep them hot, and reduce the liquor to a glaze. Peel and cut some carrots, turnips, and button- onions into small rounds, using a vegetable-cutter for the purpose, and boil all separately in water till partly cooked. Drain them, put them in a saucepan 'with a littleTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 101 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Lc., referred to, see under their special heads. Partridges—continued. butter and sugar, and stir about for a few minutes; then pour in the glaze from the saute-pan, 1 pint of game sauce, and barely J pint of broth. Cook the vegetables till quite tender, then skim the sauce and turn it into the centre of a hot dish on which lias been placed a border of mashed potatoes. Glaze the fillets, arrange them on the potatoes, and serve. Fillets of Partridges with Truffles.—(!) Cut the fillets off the breasts of some Partridges, making four fillets of each breast; trim them to a nice shape, lay them in a thickly- buttered baking-tin, dust them over with salt, and cover with a sheet of buttered paper. Slightly roast the birds from which the fillets have been removed, cut them into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with a few trimmings of ham, two or three cloves and peppercorns, a bunch of sweet herbs, two shallots, salt to taste, and a sufficient quantity of clear stock to cover; 1 wineglass- ful of claret may he also added if l.ked. Let the whole boil gently at the side of the fire for an-hour-and-a-half or two hours. At the end of that time put loz. of butter and toz. of flour into a stewpan and mix them over the fire. Skim and strain the liquor from the birds and stir it in gradually with the butter and flour; put in a few button mushrooms and truffles, and boil them gently until cooked. Put the fillets in the oven and bake them until just set. When the truffles and mushrooms are cooked, take them out of the sauce and pile them in the centre of a hot dish; drain the fillets from the butter, arrange them round the truffles, pour the sauce over them, and serve. (2) Cut the fillets off’ four roasted Partridges, trim them, [ put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter, and warm them. Turn the trimmings and carcases into a mortar, pound them, then mix them with a little stock: put the mixture in a saucepan, stir it over the fire till warm, pass it through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan with 3 table-spoonfuls of stock, and boil it till reduced to half-glaze. Cut the fillets of Partridges into scallops, and put them in the sauce with tlb. of truffles previously cooked in a little butter; warm them, but do not let the sauce boil again. Turn the fillets, &c., on a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. (3) Cut the fillets and minion fillets off six Partridges; trim and put the large fillets in one buttered saute-pan and the minion fillets in another; they should all be slightly curved. Put a small piece of tongue on the round end of each minion fillet. Cook the minion fillets in the oven, and fry the large ones. Arrange the large fillets in a circle round a croustade, alternating each one with a thin slice of truffle cut the same shape. Put the minion fillets on the large ones. Fill the croustade with truffles turned to an olive shape, pour some half-glaze over them, and serve with a sauceboatful of supreme sauce. Fried Partridges.—(1) Singe some young Partridges, cut off their claws, and truss them with their legs inward. Cut some breast of bacon into small pieces, and boil them for half-an hour; then drain them, put them in a frying- pan, and fry without browning them. Put the Par- tridges in with the bacon-fat and a lump of butter, and fry them till firm, but keeping them white. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour into a saucepan, drain the frying-fat into it, and stir it over the fire till mixed, but not coloured ; then pour in gradually some chicken broth. The sauce must be thin, so as to be able to skim it. Flavour the sauce with some mushrooms, a bunch of spring onions, a bunch of thyme and parsley, two bay-leaves, a few cloves, and a small lump of salt and sugar. Put the birds into the sauce with the pieces of bacon and stew them till tender. When cooked, take the birds and pieces of bacon out of the sauce, put them together in a stewpan, and stand this in a bain-marie. Skim the fat off the sauce, boil it till reduced somewhat, then strain it through a fine hair sieve over the birds. Boil some small white onions till tender in stock broth, adding a small lump of sugar. Put some mushrooms in a frying-pan with butter, and fry them without colouring. Place the stewpan containing the Partridges over the fire. Boil the sauce Partridge s—con tinued. up again, move it to the side of the fire, stir in the yolks of four eggs that have been beaten together with a small quantity of cream and lemon juice, and add the mushrooms and onions. Put the Partridges on to a hot dish, pour the sauce, &c., round them, and serve. (2) Clean two Partridges. Cook the livers, chop them, and mix with them 1 pinch of chopped onion and parsley, a little crumb of bread that has been soaked and pressed, and season with salt and pepper. Stuff the Partridges with this, truss them, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry over a quick fire until nicely browned. When done (they will take from fifteen to twenty minutes) sprinkle a little salt over, take them out, drain and untruss them, and put them on a hot dish. Fry a pinch of chopped shallots for a few minutes in the stewpan that the birds were cooked in, then add 2 handfuls of breadcrumbs, and slightly fry them. Stir in gradually 1 teacupful of broth and a little glaze, boil it, then take it off the fire, squeeze Fig. 117. Fkied Pautridues. in the juice of two lemons, add a little pepper and 1 pinch of parsley, pour it over the Partridges, which should have been kept hot, garnish with cooked mushrooms and fried parsley, and serve. See Fig. 117. Fried Partridges a la Portugaise.—Singe and draw some Partridges, cut them into joints, and put them in a frying- pan with a sliced Spanish onion, a clove of garlic, and just sufficient oil to cook them in; fry till nicely browned, then stir in a little thick tomato sauce. Simmer the whole over the fire for a few minutes longer, then turn them on to a hot dish, garnish with stoned olives, if liked, and some crofitons of fried bread, and serve. Galantines of Partridges. -(1) Singe, draw, and bone three Partridges. Prepare some game forcemeat with the flesh from the legs and an equal quantity of ham. Peel four truffles, cut them in dice, and mix them with the forcemeat, seasoning well. Sprinkle pepper and salt inside the Part- ridges, stuff them with the forcemeat, roll them round, and sew them up. Tie each one in a cloth, put them in a sauce- pan of boiling stock, and boil them for an-hour-and-a- quarter. Take the galantines out, and leave them till cold. Trim and cut the galantines into small slices with- out separating them, dip a paste-brush in melted glaze, and brush them over. Embed three galantine-moulds in pounded ice, and pour at the bottom of each a thin layer of clear aspic jelly; when the jelly has set, put a galan- tine in each mould, pour gradually round them some aspic jelly till the moulds are full, then leave them in the ice till the jell}1' has set. Mould some fancy subject in fat, and fix it in the centre of a pain-vert on a dish. When ready to serve, dip the moulds in tepid water, wipe them, and turn the galantines out round the design. Fill some small fancy paper cases with cooked truffles that have been glazed, arrange them round the base of the pain-vert, and serve. (2) Clean and bone three Partridges, stuff them with a salpi9on of tongue and truffles mixed with a little galantine forcemeat, and roll them. Mask the interior of three Partridge galantine-moulds with aspic jelly, decorate each rib with some hard-boiled white of egg and truffles cut in patterns, set the moulds in ice, pour in a layer of aspic jelly Him in thickness, and leave it till set. Trim and glaze the Partridge galantines with game glaze, put one in each mould, and fill them up with aspic jelly. Cover the moulds with a baking-slieet, put some ice on the top, and leave them. Prepare a round rice socle on a dish, mask it well with ravigote butter, turn the galan- tines out of the moulds on to the socle, put some croutons of meat jelly round the base of the socle, and serve.102 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Partridges—continued. (3) Pluck and bone eight Partridges, spread them out on the table, coat them with a thick layer of game force- meat, then sew them up, giving them a round shape ; tie the birds separately in some small cloths, put them in a stewpan with some vegetables and a bunch of sweet herbs, cover with broth, and boil gently. When tender, which can be ascertained by running a larding-needle into the flesh, drain the birds, put them on a deep dish, place another dish over them with a weight on the top, and leave them till cold. Fix a pain-vert on a dish, with a support of fat, or of wood masked with fat, in the centre. When quite cold, remove the cloths oil' the birds, and coat them all over with a light brown chaudfroid sauce. Decorate the galantines with a row of cooked truffles cut into small squares on each side of the breast, and glaze them over with aspic jelly. Place the birds on the pain-vert leaning lengthwise against the support of fat. Fix a garnished attelette-skewer in each, and garnish the base of them with truffles. Arrange croutons of aspic jelly round the base of the pain-vert, place the dish on a decorated stand, and serve. (4) Having prepared and cooked a galantine of Par- tridge and allowed it to become cold, cut it across into slices of a moderate thickness, and trim them to an equal size and an oblong shape; dip a paste-brush in melted glaze, brush them over, and put a slice of cooked truffle in the centre of each. Put the galantines side by side in a saute-pan that has been coated at the bottom with a layer of aspic jelly and allowed to set; stand the saute-pan on ice, pour between the galantines some cold liquid aspic jelly, allowing it just to reach the height of the slices, and leave it till well set. When ready to serve, cut through the jelly round the slices with the point of a knife, dip the bottom of the saute-pan in warm water, then take the galantines out with the jelly, arrange them on a dish, and garnish with croutons of aspic. (5) Bone the birds, stuff them with a game forcemeat, roll to a round shape, and sew them with packthread. Tie each bird separately in a cloth, put them in a stewpan with sufficient broth to cover, and cook them slowly. When the birds are tender, drain them, place them between two dishes with a weight on the top to keep them in shape, and leave them till cold. When cold, unwrap the birds, glaze them, and cut them into slices of the same size and thickness. Pour a thin layer of aspic jelly into a square shallow baking dish, and place it on ice till firm; then lay the slices side by side on the jelly, and pour round to the level of each some almost cold aspic jelly which should not come over the slices. When the jelly is quite firm, place the baking-sheet over some hot water, and with the point of a knife cut round each galantine, and take it off. Arrange the galantines in a crown on a stand of fat, which should be slightly concave, round in form, and ornamented with a friese cut with a knife. Put a small support that has been coated with aspic jelly in the centre, and round that place some fillets of very red tongue masked with red jelly. Garnish an attelette-skewer with a round truffle and a cock’s comb. Place the dish on an ornamented stand, and serve. Minced Cold Partridge.—Cut off the meat from a cold roasted Partridge, mince it very fine, put it into a sauce- pan with Hoz. of butter and loz. of flour, and fry to a light brown. Add the liver and broken-up carcase of the bird, also a bay-leaf, a sprig of parsley, and two shallots Fig. 118. Minced Cold Partridges. stuck with a clove each, and continue to cook until the whole is well coloured ; then pour in 1 teacupful of rich stock, reduce it to half, strain it, and add it to the mince again, having removed the carcase and liver; stir until Partridges—continued. it is quite smooth and thick and as hot as possible without boiling. Pour it out on to a dish, and serve with poached eggs and croutons of fried bread. See Fig. 118. Minced Cold Partridges served in a Loaf of Bread.— Mince the fillets of some roasted Partridges. Put some butter and a little flour into a frying-pan; when hot, add to it the livers and lights of the birds, a leaf of sage, a bay-leaf, three shallots, and a clove, and let these simmer two or three minutes; then add 1 pint of stock, and let this boil gently till it is reduced to 4 pint. Strain it, put it into a saucepan with the minced Partridges, and stir it over the fire till it is thick and smooth. Take a well- shaped loaf weighing about lib., make a hole in it, and through this scoop out the crumb; rub the outside of the loaf with a little butter, and put it in the oven for a few minutes to dry. When dry, take it out of the oven, and fill it with the minced Partridges; then put the loaf bottom upwards into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of veal broth, and leave it over the fire until the bread is sufficiently soft to be pierced with a straw. Put it on to a dish, and garnish either with poached or hard-boiled eggs. Minced Cold Partridges with Partridge Balls and Truffles.—Cut the meat off two small cooked Partridges, chop it, then put it in a mortar and pound together with a piece of butter; mix with it 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of gravy that has been prepared with the bones and backs of the Par- tridges; season it with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Finely chop the flesh of a raw Partridge, and mix with it half its quantity of panada, a little butter, and the yolks of two eggs. Put the minced Partridge-flesh, &c., in a biscuit-forcer, and with it squeeze symmetrically round the bottom of a dish some small round balls. Trim some truffles to rounds, cook them for two or three minutes in hot wine and melted glaze, drain, and put one on each of the balls; cover the dish with a sheet of buttered paper, put it in an oven, and bake them for ten minutes. Put the puree in a saucepan, and stir it over the fire till thoroughly hot, but do not let it boil. Take the dish out of the oven, remove the buttered paper, brush the truffles over with melted glaze, fill the centre with the puree, pour a little melted glaze over it, and serve. Partridges a la Crapaudine.—Split the birds open down the back, beat them flat, and put them in a stewpan with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of olive oil, and a small quantity of chopped parsley, and toss them about for a few minutes over a brisk fire. Take them out of the oil, roll them in breadcrumbs that have been seasoned with salt and pepper, lay them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire. When cooked, put the Partridges on a hot dish on a bed of tartar sauce, and serve them. Partridges a la Mecklenburg.—Clean three large but young Partridges, leaving the skin long at the neck to lap over. Prepare 41b. of game forcemeat, mix with it 3 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped cooked ham, 1 table- spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, the beaten yolks of two eggs, and.^ teacupful of thick cream; add a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and mix well. Stuff the breasts of the birds with the forcemeat, wrap each in thin slices of fat bacon and then in sheets of oiled paper, tie them round with twine, and lay them side by side in a stewpan, with two peeled onions, an apple, and a bunch of parsley; pour over them 1 pint of stock and 4 pint of bucellas wine, place the stewpan over a moderate fire until the liquor begins to boil, then put it in the oven. In three quarters- of-an hour take the birds out of the paper and bacon, put them on a dish, and keep them hot whilst preparing the following sauce: Strain the cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve into a clean saucepan, skim it well, and boil it until reduced to half its original quantity. Mix 2 tea- spoonfuls of arrowroot smooth with a little cold stock, then stir it into the reduced liquor, and add 4 teacupful of tomato sauce. Continue boiling and stirring it until reduced to a half glaze. Stir 1 small table-spoonful of red-currant jelly in the sauce, pour it over the birds, and serve. The sauce should be highly seasoned. Partridges a, la Princess Beatrice.—Prepare three Par- tridges, truss them for roasting, and lard their breasts withTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 103 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Partridges—continued. thin strips of fat Cumberland smoked bacon. The larding can be done in a fancy design. Lay the birds in a basin with some verjuice, and leave them for an hour or two. When ready, drain and wipe them very carefully on a dry cloth, without disturbing the pattern of the larding. Butter some sheets of grilling-paper, wrap each bird separately in it, fix them on a spit, and roast in front of a clear fire, keeping them well basted. In about half-an- liour remove the paper and brown the birds. Lay them on a hot dish, garnish with watercress and barberries, and serve with a clear sauce. Partridges a la Supreme.—Singe, draw, wipe neatly, and remove the skin from the breasts of three Partridges; make an incision on the top of each breast-bone from end to end, then with a keen knife carefully cut off the entire breast on both sides, including the small wing-bone, which should not be separated from the breasts, and seeing that the entire breasts are cleanly cut away, without leaving a particle of meat on the carcases. Under each breast will be found a small fillet, which remove, and place on a dish for further use. With a small, sharp knife, make an incision in each breast at their thinner side 3in. in length by lin. in depth. Season the inside of each breast with 1 pinch of salt and J pinch of pepper, equally distributed. Stuff the breasts with 2oz. of chicken forcemeat mixed with two finely-sliced truffles and four finely-sliced mush- rooms. Butter well a well-tinned copper saute-pan, and gently lay in the six breasts ; take the small fillets, press them gently with the fingers, giving them a boat-like form, make six slanting, small incisions on top of each, and insert in each a small slice of truffle cut with a tube Jin. in diameter. Lightly wet the top of each breast with water, then lay one fillet on top of each lengthwise. Sprinkle a little clarified butter over all, using a feather brush. Pour into the pan (not over the supreme) J wine- glassful of Madeira wine and 2 table-spoonfuls of mushroom liquor, tightly cover the pan with a lid, and place it in the hot oven for ten minutes. Pour in a hot dish 1 pint of hot Toulouse garnishing, remove the supreme from the oven, neatly dress over the garnishing, adjust paper nifties on each wing-bone, and serve immediately. Partridge Cheese or Pain.—Trim the fillets taken from six Partridges, and cut them into small pieces. Put an equal quantity of fat bacon cut in dice in a saute-pan, toss it over the fire till melted, then put in the pieces of meat, some thyme, a bay-leaf, a little parsley, and pepper and salt. Fry all for a few minutes over a sharp fire, then turn it into a mortar with half the quantity of bread panada; pound them well, then press the whole through a fine hair sieve, and mix with it J- pint of Spanish sauce that has been reduced with a little essence of Partridge, three eggs, and a few truffles cut in small dice. Fill a buttered plain round cylinder-mould with the forcemeat, and also a small plain round mould. Stand the moulds in a bain-marie and poach the pains. When cold, turn the pains out of the moulds, and trim and glaze them with game glaze. Prepare a round rice socle on a dish, mask it with montpellier butter, and put the large pain on it first, the smaller one on the top. Garnish round the socle with croutons of aspic jelly, put a crouton on the top of the pain, and serve. Partridge Cheese (Pain) with Olives.—With the flesh of two Partridges prepare a quenelle forcemeat, pass it through a fine hair sieve, and mix with it 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of brown sauce which has been reduced with a little meat glaze and wine. Cut some black truffles into small dice, and sprinkle them round the sides and bottom of a plain cylinder-mould that has been buttered. Stand it on ice for ten minutes, then fill the hollow with the forcemeat, set the mould in a bain-marie, and poach it. Take the mould out, wipe it, turn the contents on to a hot dish, and fill the hollow with stoned and blanched olives (see Fig. 119). Pour over the pain some rich brown sauce that has been reduced with Partridge fumet and Madeira wine, and serve. Partridge Collops.—Cut the fillets oft' four Partridges, collop them, put them in a saucepan with a little butter, and cook ' till firm; take the collops out, drain the Partridges—continued. butter out of the saucepan, and put in 3 table-spoonfuls of game stock and 2 table-spoonfuls of German sauce; when boiling, put in some peeled mushrooms or sliced truffles, a lump of butter, the strained juice of one lemon, and the collops. When ready, arrange the collops in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce in the centre, and serve. Fig. 119. Partridge Cheese with Olives. Partridge Collops a la Chef de Cuisine.—Cut the flesh of the bird into nice shaped pieces, put them in a frying- pan with a lump of butter, and fry to a pale brown. Season some potato-flour with salt and pepper, and roll the fried fillets in it; next brush them over with beaten egg, roll them in breadcrumbs and minced truffles, lay them on a balting-disli, and put them in a brisk oven. Pour 2 breakfast-cupfuls of stock into a small saucepan with a piece of glaze about the size of a hazel-nut and J teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, and boil it until somewhat reduced. Pass two boiled turnips through a fine wire sieve and mash them up together with a lump of butter, seasoning with salt and pepper. Butter some cold scallop shells, pack the mashed turnips into them to gain their shape, then turn them out on to the bird, pour the sauce round them, and serve. Partridge Collops in Paper Cases.—Oil the interior of some paper cases about 2in. in diameter and put them in a slack oven for five minutes. Trim some fillets of Par- tridges, cut them into thin collops, and put them in a saute-pan with some truffles, cut the same way; add clarified butter, and fry them. When cooked, drain the collops, and fill the cases with them. Pour in some Spanish sauce that has been reduced with a small quantity of essence of Partridge, arrange the cases on a hot dish, and serve. Partridge Cromeskies.—Chop some cold remains of Par- tridges, put them in a mortar with a small lump of butter, and pound until quite smooth ; pass it through a fine liaii- sieve, and season to taste with salt and pepper, also a moderate quantity of spices. Melt a lump of butter in a stewpan, put in the mixture, and stir it over the fire until hot; then move it to the side. Beat the yolk of an egg with the juice of half a lemon, strain it, stir it in with the mixture, and leave it until cold; then divide it into small equal-sized quantities, and roll each in a thin rasher of partially-boiled bacon. Prepare a good frying- batter, and dip the rolls into it, coating them well. Put a large piece of fat or lard into a stewpan ; when boiling, put in the cromeskies, and fry them until nicely browned. Drain and pile them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper, garnish with parsley, and serve. Partridge Croquettes.—(1) With the flesh of two uncooked Partridges prepare some quenelle forcemeat, pass it through a fine hair sieve, and keep it on ice for half-an-hour. Divide the forcemeat into small equal quantities with a table-spoon, drop them on a floured table, and roll them to a cork shape; make a hollow in each with a wooden spoon dipped in warm water, fill them with chopped raw truffles, and cover the opening with some of the forcemeat. DipTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 104 For details respecting Culmary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, *kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Partridges—continued. the croquettes in beaten egg, and roll them in bread- crumbs. Put some lard in a frying-pan, and when boiling plunge the croquettes in. When cooked, arrange them in a pyramid shape on a folded napkin spread over a hot dish, and serve. (2) Remove the flesh from some roasted Partridges, cut it into dice of an equal size, put them in a basin, pour over them some bechamel sauce that has been boiled with a little game glaze till brown, and leave them till cool. Shape the preparation like small corks, and dip them into beaten eggs and then in breadcrumbs. Put some butter in a frying-pan; when boiling, put the croquettes in, and fry them till lightly browned all over. Drain and arrange the croquettes on a hot dish, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. (3) Pick out the best meat from some cold remains of Partridges, and mince it linely. Melt loz. of butter in a stewpan, mix 1 table-spoonful of flour in with it, and put in the minced Partridge, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, Stir the mixture over the fire for a few minutes, then move it to the side, and stir in the yolk of an egg that has been beaten up with the juice of half a lemon and strained. Spread the mixture out on a dish, and leave it until cold. Divide the mixture when stiff into small quantities, make them into the shape of corks, dip them in beaten egg, roll them in baked breadcrumbs, and leave for about half-an hour. Put a large piece of lard or clarified fat in a stewpan, and place it over the fire; when blue smoke rises, put in the croquettes, and fry them until equally browned. Drain the croquettes, pile them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Partridge Croustades. (1) Truss eight Partridges as for braising, fasten a thin slice of bacon on each one, put them in a stewpan with some mirepoix, stand them over a. slow lire, and simmer till done. Prepare fourteen truffles, eight cocks’ combs, and eight large crayfish as for garnish. Cut an oval-shaped piece of bread, fry it, put it on a dish, and place a block of fried bread in the centre. Drain the Partridges when cooked, arrange them, necks down- wards, against the block of bread, and put a crayfish between each. Stick a silver skewer garnished with cocks’ combs and truffles in each bird so as to form a circle, and place the remaining truffles inside the circle. Fill a silver casserole with a financiere ragout that has had some Spanish sauce reduced until essence of Partridge mixed with it, and serve. (2) Boil ilb. of well washed rice in salted water, moisten- ing it with milk occasionally as it becomes dry. When very tender, • stir in with it 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and season until salt and pepper. Spread the rice out on a dish in a layer about 2in. thick, and leave it until quite cold; then cut it into rounds until a tin cutter 2in. in diameter. Cut some pieces of cold cooked Partridge into small pieces, put them in a stewpan with an onion stuck with three cloves, a carrot, a small piece of celery, half a blade of mace, a bay-leaf, and salt and pepper to taste; cover the whole with water, and boil gently for two hours; then strain the liquor into a basin. Pick all the flesh off the pieces of Partridge, and chop it Fig. 120. Partridge Croustades. with an equal quantity of lean beef. Put the mince into a mortar, and pound it until quite smooth. Moisten the meat with some of the above liquor, pour it into a stew- pan, add more seasoning if required, and stir it over the fire until hot. Dip the rounds of rice in beaten egg and roll them in grated breadcrumb, coating them well. Make an Partridges—co n ti nned. impression with a smaller cutter on the top of each. Put a large lump of fat into a deep frying-pan; when boiling, put in the croustades, and fry them a nice golden brown. When ready, drain the croustades as free from fat as possible, and lift out the centre marked by the smaller cutter. Scoop out some of the rice, and fill the hollow with the puree. Spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper over a hot dish, pile the croustades on it, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 120), and serve. Partridge Cutlets.—Bone and skin some Partridges, shape them like cutlets, cut them across in thin slices, mask them with a few cooked poultry livers that have been pounded into a paste, and then mask them with brown chaudfroid sauce; arrange them side by side on a baking- sheet, and bake. Glaze them with aspic jelly when done, and as soon as the jelly has set trim off the superfluous sauce and fasten paper ruffles round the bones. Put in the centre of a dish some small glazed truffles, arrange the cutlets round them, finish with a chain of small aspic- jelly crofitons round the cutlets, and serve. Partridge Cutlets a la Muscovite.—Trim one or two whole galantines of Partridge into the shape of cutlets, then cut them transversely in thin slices. Chop the meat of a cooked Partridge with a few cooked poultry livers, put it in a mortar,- and pound it; add 1 teacupful of brown sauce that has been reduced with the trimmings of a few raw truffles and strained, and rub all through a fine hair sieve. Mask the slices of galantine with a layer of this preparation, and leave it till cool. Cook the cutlets with brown chaudfroid sauce, lay them on a baking-disli, glaze them with jelly, and leave them till set. Glaze some small truffles. Trim the cutlets, put ruffles on them, arrange them in a circle on a dish, fill the centre with the glazed truffles, garnish round the cutlets with some croutons of jelly, and serve. Partridge Forcemeat.—(1) Put an equal quantity of Partridge and chicken-flesh, cut in small pieces, in a mortar, and pound it. Rub it through a fine hair sieve, and mix with it lOoz. of udder of veal, that has been boiled, pounded, and passed through the sieve. When well mixed, add 10oz. of bread that has been soaked in a little stiffly-reduced stock, and season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Mix the whole thoroughly, then add 1 teacupful of Spanish sauce that has been reduced with essence of Partridge. It is then ready for use. (2) Cut two breasts of Partridges into large pieces, pound them well in a mortar, gradually adding the same quantity of bread soaked in milk, four egg yolks, one after another, and 1 teaspoonful of butter. Season with 1 teaspoon- ful of salt, h teaspoonful of pepper, and the same quantity of grated nutmeg; thoroughly pound all together, then rub through a sieve. If not stiff enough, add one more egg yolk. Partridge Fatties.—Chop the remains of some cold roast Partridges, put them in a stewpan with a carrot, an onion, two or three pieces of celery, one bay-leaf, half a blade of mace, a few cloves and peppercorns, and salt to taste. Cover the whole with water, put the lid on the stewpan, and boil gently for two hours at the side of the fire. Strain the liquor into a basin, and when slightly cooled skim oft’ the fat. Pick out some of the best pieces of the Partridges, chop them with an equal quantity of lean beef, then put all into a mortar, and pound until smooth. Bring the pounded meat to the desired consistency with some of the above liquor, pass it through a fine hair sieve into a stewpan, and stir it on the fire until hot, then move it to the side. More seasoning should be added to the puree if necessary. Peel and partially boil in salted water 21b. of potatoes, then drain off the water, put in with them a large lump of butter and a moderate quantity of salt, and steam until quite tender, keeping the lid on the stewpan. Mash the potatoes, heat in with them the yolks of three eggs, season with a small quantity of grated nutmeg, stir them over the fire for a minute or two, then pass them through a fine hair sieve. Spread the potato paste out on a dish to about lin. in thickness, and leave it until cold. When ready, cut the paste into roundsTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 105 For details respecting Culinary ProcessesUtensils, Sauces, <be., referred to, see under their special heads. Partridges—continued. with a tin cutter 2in. in diameter, and roll them in beaten egg and grated breadcrumb. Mark a circle on the top of each patty with a smaller cutter, and fry them in boiling lard until nicely browned. When fried, drain the patties, Fig. 121. Partridge Patties. lift off the cover round the marked circle, and scoop out some of the inside with the handle of a spoon. Fill each patty with the puree, arrange them on a hot dish, and serve while very hot. See Fig. 121. Partridge Pie.—(1) Singe, draw, and clean three Partridges, put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, season them well, and fry lightly. Line the inside of a pie-dish with some veal cutlet, and over that put a slice of bacon, a little chopped parsley, and two chopped mushrooms. Cut the Partridges in halves, put them in, and place two more chopped mushrooms and a little chopped parsley over; cut some hard-boiled eggs in halves, put them on the top, and pour in J pint of gravy. Put a strip of puff paste round the edge of the dish, place a cover of the paste on the top, damp the edges of the paste slightly, and press them together; dip a paste-brush in beaten egg, brush the top of the pie over with it, and make a small hole in the centre. Put it in a hot oven with a piece of paper on the top to prevent it browning too much, and bake it for an hour. Serve either hot or cold. (2) Butter an oval pie-mould, Sin. long, and line it with short paste, raising the paste Jin. above the top of the mould. Clean and bone sufficient young Partridges to fill the mould, lard them with strips of highly-seasoned fat bacon, and roll them. Prepare a forcemeat with 14oz. of cushion of veal freed of skin and gristle, and the same quantity of bacon; chop and pound it in a mortar, and season with salt and mixed spices. Line the paste with forcemeat, put the Partridges in, cover with a layer of forcemeat, place a thin slice of fat bacon on the force- meat, and a bay-leaf on the top of that. Cover the pie vitli a flat of paste, moistening and pressing the edges together. Trim round the edges of the paste to make it even with the mould. Roll a second cover of paste out, damp it underneath, and lay it on top of the other. Brush the top of the pie over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, make a hole in the centre lin. wide, and carve a pattern on the top with the point of a small knife. Put the pie in the oven with a sheet of paper over to prevent it getting too brown, and bake for two hours. Make a gravy jelly with the bones of the Partridges; the trimmings of bacon and veal, one calf’s foot boned and cut into small pieces, a bunch of sweet herbs, one onion stuck with two cloves, and a pinch of salt, simmered in 3 pints of broth till the calf’s foot is tender; then strain it through a fine hair sieve. Half-an-hour after the pie is done, pour the gravy in through the hole in the centre of the cover, and close it up with a piece of paste to prevent evaporation. Serve when cold. (3) Butter a pie-mould and line it with a sliort-paste in which has been mixed the yolks of three eggs. Draw and clean three Partridges, cut them in pieces, put them in a saute-pan with a little clarified butter, and fry for five minutes. Cut Jib. each of bacon and calf’s liver in small pieces, put them into a saute-pan, season with a little thyme, salt, pepper, and a bay-leaf, and fry them. When cooked, take the pan off the fire, and leave the liver and bacon till cold. Pound the liver and bacon in a mortar, then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Put a layer of the forcemeat at the bottom of the mould, leaving a hollow in the centre; lay one half of the pieces of Par- tridges on the forcemeat, putting a little between each piece to keep them together, put another layer of force- I Partridges—continued. meat on the top, with the remainder of the Partridge put in the same way, and finish with a layer of forcemeat. Wrap a thin slice of bacon round a piece of bread that should have been cut to fit the hollow in the centre, and put it in. Put a cover of paste on the top, moistening and pressing the edges together, brush the pie over with a paste brush dipped in beaten egg, place the pie in the oven, and bake. Reduce some Spanish sauce with essence of truffles and sliced truffles. When cooked, take the cover off and the piece of bread from the centre of the pie, put the pie on a dish, fill the hollow with the sauce and truffles, place a circle of cocks kernels on the top of the forcemeat, pile up some more sliced truffles in the centre, and serve while hot. (4) Clean and bone four red Partridges, lay them open on the table, and sprinkle mixed spices and salt over them. Remove all the skin and gristle from 1 Jib. of veal, chop it with an equal quantity of bacon, put it in a mortar, and pound. Place a layer of the forcemeat and three slices of truffles on each bird, and roll them to an oval shape. Butter a pie-mould, line it with short-paste, put a layer of forcemeat at the bottom, two of the Partridges on that, with a few slices of truffles over them, another thin layer of forcemeat, then the other two Partridges, some more sliced truffles, and a layer of forcemeat. Put some thin slices of fat bacon on the top, cover the pie with a fiat of paste, and make a hole in the centre, moisten- ing and pressing the edges together; dip a paste-brush in beaten egg, brush the top of the pie over with it, and bake. Half-an-hour after the pie has been taken out of the oven, pour in through the top some melted meat jelly that has been mixed with reduced essence of Partridge, close the hole in the cover with a little piece of paste, and serve the pie when cold. (5) Procure a pair of Partridges that are not high, split them lengthwise down the back, and dust them over well v itli salt, pepper, and powdered spices. Put some thin slices of ham in a pie-dish, then put in the birds; add some button mushrooms, strew over them in moderate quantities some finely-minced parsley and shallots, and three-parts fill the dish with liquid calf’s-foot jelly. Cover the pie with puff paste, trimming it off neatly round the edges, and bake it in a moderate oven for about an hour. Serve it either hot or cold. (6) Clean the birds, and season them inside and out with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of pounded cloves. Cover the bottom of a stewpan with a few thin rashers of fat bacon, put in the birds, pour in a small quantity of water, put the lid on the pan, and cook the birds slowly on a smothered fire until tender; but they must not be too much done. Mix in equal quantities of finely-chopped veal, fat bacon, and calf’s liver, and season the mixture with salt, pepper, spice, and a small quantity of grated lemon-peel. Line a buttered pie-mould with a good pie crust, spread in a layer of the forcemeat, on which lay two or three of the rashers of bacon that were cooked with the birds; put in the birds, cover with the remainder of the forcemeat, place two or three slices of bacon on the top, and cover the whole with a fiat of paste. Trim round the edges, moisten these slightly with water, and pinch them together, making a small hole in the centre for the steam to escapeTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 106 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec.. referred to, see under their special heads. Partridges—co ntinued. during the cooking. Cut flowers or leaves out of the trimmings of paste, damp them underneath with water, and arrange them on the top of the pie. Brush the pie over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake it for about two hours. It should be covered with a sheet of paper when it begins to colour, to prevent it getting too brown. Skim the fat oil'the cooking-liquor of the Partridges, strain it through a fine hair sieve into a small saucepan, season highly, and give it a slightly acid flavour with lemon-juice; mix in an equal quantity of clear broth, and boil it for a few minutes over a brisk fire. When the pie is baked, pour the gravy in at the top, and leave it until cold. When ready to serve, lift the pie out, put it on a folded napkin or a lace-edged dish-paper on a dish, cut it open to show the contents, and garnish it with a few sprigs of parsley. See Fig. 122. Partridge Pudding.—(1) Cut a pair of plump Partridges into convenient-sized pieces, and trim them neatly, skinning each piece. Butter a pudding-basin, line it with a good suet-crust, and put in the pieces of birds, with a few mushrooms, 2 table-spoonfuls of minced shallots, 1 table-spoonful of minced parsley, and a moderate quantity of salt and pepper. Moisten with a small quantity of water, and cover with a flat of the crust. Tie a floured cloth over the pudding, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for three hours, adding more boiling water occa- sionally to keep the pudding well covered with it. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the basin on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Clean two Partridges, cut them into joints, and trim them. Butter a pudding-basin that will hold 1 \ pints, and line it with a suet-paste. Cut till, of veal into thin slices, lay them at the bottom of the basin, put the Partridges in, and sprinkle over some salt, pepper, chopped shallot, and chopped mushrooms; pour in 1 teacupful of stock, put a round of the crust on the top, damping and pressing the edges together, tie a cloth over, plunge the pudding into boiling water, and boil it for two hours. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the basin on to a hot dish, and serve. Partridge Quenelles.—(1) Trim and cut the fillets of two fresh Partridges into pieces, put them in a mortar, pound them, and mix with them a third of their quantity each of panada and butter; when well mixed and smooth, stir in the beaten yolks of three eggs, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and pass all through a fine hair sieve; work the mixture in a basin with a spoon, adding gradually 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of melted glaze. Mould fifteen quenelles out of the forcemeat with two table-spoons, and put them side by side on a buttered baking-sheet. Place the legs and backs of the Partridges in a saucepan with some trimmings of ham and bacon around them, minced vegetables, a few peppercorns, and a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, brown them lightly over the fire, pour in some broth and white wine mixed in equal quantities, skim it well, put the lid on, stand the saucepan at the edge of the fire, and let the contents simmer for thirty-five minutes. Strain through a fine hair sieve. Let it cool, then skim the fat off, and clarify it with 5oz. of lean veal, b wine- glassful of Madeira, and one egg. Put the liquor when clear into a small saucepan, boil it, thicken it very slightly with a little flour mixed with water, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes longer. Have a saucepan of boiling salted water, and plunge the quenelles in. When cooked, drain them on a cloth, arrange them pyramidically on a hot dish, porn- the sauce over, and serve. (2) Take the fillets of three young Partridges, trim off the skin and sinews, chop the meat, put it in a mortar, pound it, then rub it through a fine hair sieve, and mix with it an equal quantity of bread panada. Boil a calf’s udder in plain water. When it is done, leave it till cold; then trim all the upper part, cut it into small pieces, pound it in the mortar, pass it through the sieve, and mix it with the other ingredients. Beat in two whole eggs and the yolk of one, and season with pepper, salt, and allspice. The preparation is then ready for use. (3) Trim off the skin of some Partridge-flesh, pound it in a mortar, and mix with it a third of its bulk of panada and Partridges—continued. the same of butter. Work the mixture till quite smooth, season with salt and grated nutmeg, and mix with it sufficient yolks of eggs to bring it to a good consistency. Pass the mixture through a line hair sieve, and stir in gradually 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of melted glaze. With the aid of two table-spoons mould the mixture into quenelles, and slip them out of hand into a buttered flat stewpan. Put the bones and trimmings of the birds into a saucepan with some pieces of bacon and ham, chopped vegetables, a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, and seven or eight peppercorns. Stand the saucepan over the fire till the contents have browned slightly, then pour in sufficient broth and white wine in equal proportions to cover. When boiling, skim the liquor, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Pass the liquor through a fine hair sieve into a basin, skim off the fat, and let it cool. Clarify the liquor, turn it into a small stewpan, and boil it up again. Blend 1 table-spoonful of arrowroot with a little milk, and when smooth add it to the fumet, and stir over the fire till slightly thickened. Have ready a saucepan of boiling salted water, plunge the quenelles into it, and poach them for fifteen minutes. When cooked, drain them, pile them in a pyramid on a hot dish, pour the fumet over them, and serve. Partridge Rissoles.—(1) Cut the flesh of three roast Par- tridges into small dice; mince four or five mushrooms, mix them with the meat, sprinkle a little salt and pepper over them, and add a little grated nutmeg and the strained juice of one lemon. Put 1 teacupful each of butter and flour in a saucepan, and stir it over the fire till mixed; then pour in gradually b pint each of broth and cream, and continue stirring the sauce over the fire till cooked ; then put in the meat and mushrooms, and set it back to become cold. When ready, shape the preparation into rolls the size of the finger, and flour them well; dip a paste- brusli in beaten egg, brush them over, and breadcrumb them. Put some lard in a frying-pan, and when boiling put the rissoles in and fry them till nicely and equally browned. Drain and arrange the rissoles on a hot dish, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Cut the fillets from two raw Partridges, pare and chop them finely, and mix with them 5oz. each of blanched bacon and raw ox-marrow, also chopped small and seasoned with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; mix with this two raw truffles chopped, and the beaten yolk of one egg. Shape the preparation into rissoles, put them in boiling fat, and fry them till nicely browned on both sides. When cooked, drain them, put them on a folded napkin on a hot dish, and serve. Partridge Salad.—(1) Cut the meat off the bones of some cold roast Partridge, trim off the skin, and cut the meat into small nicely-shaped pieces; pour over it a plain salad dressing of oil and vinegar, and let it mace- rate for an hour. Wash a large cabbage lettuce, pull the leaves apart, and put them on to a dish. Mix a small quantity of minced pickle and chopped parsley with the Partridge, then turn the whole into the dish over the Fig. 123. Partridge Salad. lettuce-leaves, garnish with quarters or slices of hard- boiled eggs (see Fig. 123), and serve. Another way of prepar- ing this salad is to cut up some celery, put it in a bowl, drain the Partridge-flesh from the plain dressing, put it in with the celery, pour a mayonnaise dressing over, garnish, and serve. (2) Cut some cold roast Partridges into joints, skin them, and trim each piece neatly. Make a dressing with one part of tarragon vinegar to two parts of salad-oil, mixTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 107 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Partridges—continued. with it some finely-minced chervil and tarragon, and season with salt and pepper; arrange some washed endive in a salad-howl, put in the pieces of Partridges, and pour the dressing over them. Ornament the top with some slices of hard-boiled eggs, pickled gherkins, and fillets of anchovies that have been well washed. Strew over some chopped capers, and serve. Partridges Sautes.—Cut the legs off two Partridges, remove the meat, chop it with an equal quantity of veal or chicken, put it in a mortar, and pound it; mix with it a third of its quantity of panada and a little butter, work it till smooth, and season with salt and nutmeg. Mix in the beaten yolks of two or three eggs, pass it through a fine hair sieve into a basin, and add 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of thick cream. Fill a border mould with the above preparation, and stand it in the bain-marie. Divide each breast of Partridge into three or four pieces, and put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, a bunch of sweet herbs, and three or four peppercorns. Put the bones and backs of the Partridges in a saucepan with two slices of bacon and ham, a bunch of sweet herbs, and some peppercorns, and brown them over a quick fire. Pour in sufficient white wine and gravy to make the sauce, and boil it for twenty minutes. Reduce J pint of bechamel sauce with the trimmings of some truffles, then strain into it the liquor that the bones were boiled in, and keep it hot. Put the frying-pan containing the breasts and fillets of Partridges over a quick fire, and fry them, turning to brown them equally. When nearly done, put in five truffles that have been cut in small dice and 1 tea- cupful of Madeira, move the pan to the side of the fire, and cook the truffles gently. Turn the border out of the mould on to a hot dish, and put the breasts and fillets of Partridges in the centre; boil the sauce up again, then strain it over the Partridges, and serve. Partridges Sautes a la Chasseur.—Singe, draw, and wipe two fine, tender Partridges, cut them into twelve pieces, place them in a saute-pan with loz. of butter, seasoning well with 1 pinch of salt and h pinch of pepper, and brown well for three minutes on each side; add a finely- chopped shallot, J wineglassful of Madeira wine, J pint of Spanish sauce, and twelve whole mushrooms. Finish cook- ing for fifteen minutes, then serve, with six bread croutons round the dish for garnish. Partridge Soup.—(1) Cut up a brace of old Partridges, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter and a slice of ham, and toss them about over the fire until somewhat browned; then put in an onion, a few pieces of celery, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Pour hi 5 pints of water, and boil them gently for three hours. Strain the soup, make it hot again, turn it into a soup-tureen with some stewed celery, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or small croutons of fried bread. (2) Make a good stock of a knuckle of veal, a piece of lean ham, three good-sized onions, three good-sized carrots, a white pepper whole, two blades of mace, and 5qts. of water. Half roast four Partridges, then stew them in the stock till they are quite tender; cut off all the best of the meat, put the bones and trimmings into the stock, and pound the meat quite fine, moistening it with 1 or 2 spoonfuls of the stock; then rub it through a sieve. Strain the stock, and mix the pounded meat into it, together with 1 spoonful of sugar, pepper and salt to taste, a small quantity of cream, and H wineglassfuls of port wine. Serve very hot. (3) Old birds are generally used for making soups. Procure four Partridges, skin and disjoint them, and put them in a large saucepan with 3ill), or 41b. of gravy beef cut into moderate-sized pieces, and Jib. of ham in slices; also add four moderate-sized onions, peeled and sliced, a small head of celery cut into lengths, and a lump of butter. Place them over the fire, and toss them about well until lightly browned; then drain off as much of the butter as possible, pour in 7 pints of boiling water, and season with salt and a few peppercorns. When boiling, skim the soup, move it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for three hours. At the end of that time, Partridges—con tinued. strain the soup, boil it up again, pour it into a soup- tureen, and serve with croutons of fried bread. (4) Wrap a few slices of fat bacon round four Partridges, and roast them. Let them get cold, cut off all the meat from them, pound it in a mortar, and add 2oz. of bread- crumbs and loz. of lice boiled in broth; put them all into a saucepan with 1 table spoonful of Spanish sauce, 2 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce, and 8 table-spoonfuls of rich consomme. Stir well over a slow fire until the puree is quite hot, pass it through a sieve into a tureen, pour over a sufficient quantity of soup made from the bones of the birds, and serve with pieces of bread fried to a light colour in butter. Partridge Soup with. Lentils.—Put 1 pint of lentils in a saucepan with two or three carrots, turnips, and onions, a piece of raw ham, and two Partridges without their fillets; pour in sufficient broth to cover them, and simmer by the side of the fire till the meat is done. Strain the soup through a fine hair sieve. Put the lentils and flesh of the Par- tridges in a mortar, and pound it; then pour in the soup, pass all through the sieve into the saucepan again, and stir it over the fire till very hot, but do not allow it to boil. Prepare some Partridge quenelles with the fillets of the Partridges, cook them, and serve with the soup in a soup-tureen. Potted Partridges.—(1) Mix together the following spices: 1 teaspioonful of ground cloves, \ teaspoonful each of ground *■ mace, allspice, and white pepper, J table-spoonful of salt, and a small quantity each of nutmeg and cayenne pepper. Prepare the Partridges as for roasting, season them both inside and out until the spice, and truss them. Put a thick layer of vine-leaves at the bottom of a stewpan, put the birds in, breasts downwards, and cover them with clarified butter; place the lid on the stewpan, and cook the ' birds over a very gentle fire. When cooked, take the birds out and drain them well. Clarify their cooking- butter and let it get cold, then take the solid butter that is free from the gravy and melt it again. Put the birds in jars, pour the warmed butter over them, and when it has cooled again tie parchment over the jars. Should it be required to keep the birds longer than a week, pour a layer of melted paraffin-wax in each jar. (2) Clean some Partridges well, and dry them. Mix together a seasoning of finely-powdered allspice, white pepper, salt, and mace, and rub the birds all over with it; then lay them breasts downwards in a pan, packing them as close as possible. Put plenty of butter over them, cover the pan with a common paste of flour and water, tie a piece of strong paper over, and bake the Partridges in the oven. When quite cold, pack the birds tightly into pots, and cover them with butter. Puree of Partridge.—(1) Empty and clean three Partridges, put them in a braising-pan with a little game broth, and braise them. When done, let them cool. Strain the cooking- liquor through a fine hair sieve, skim off all the fat, put it in a stewpan with double its quantity of veloute sauce, and boil till reduced to the thickness of thick supreme sauce. Take all the meat from the Partridges when cold, chop it, put it in a mortar, and pound, pouring in gradually at the same time the sauce. Pass the puree through a fine hair sieve, and it is then ready for use. (2) Peel fifty roasted chestnuts, put them in a sauce- pan with some strong broth, and let them simmer for a time. Cut off all the meat of a roasted Partridge, and put it, minus the skin, in a mortar. Drain the chestnuts, put them in with the Partridge meat, and pound them; then pass all through a fine hair sieve. Mix with the puree some breadcrumb that has been soaked in the chestnut stock, put the puree in a saucepan, stir it over the fire till thoroughly heated again, then turn it on a hot dish, garnish with croft tons of fried bread, and serve. Puree of Partridge with Plovers’ Eggs.—To Jules Goutle is due the arrangement of this pretty dish. Draw and clean four Partridges, and remove the fillets of three, keeping the other one whole, for roasting. Cut the fillets into three pieces each lengthwise; trim fourteen of the pieces, 3in. long, Jin. broad, and Jin. thick. Shape the remaining108 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes% Utensils, Sauces, dc.y referred to, see under their special heads. Partridges—continued. pieces and the minion fillets like pears, ‘2in. long. Cut a block of bread without any crust, 8in. long, 3in. high, and liin. wide. Put a thin slice of fat bacon over it. Contise the fourteen pieces of fillets with some round slices of truffles, lay the fillets across the bread, and cover them with another thin slice of fat bacon. Roast the three Partridges and the whole Partridge. When cooked, leave them till cool; then take the skin and fat off', chop the meat, put it in a mortar, and pound it, adding grad- ually at the same time some game broth that has been reduced with double the quantity of veloute sauce. Pass the puree through a fine hair sieve, and put it in a bain-marie pan. Put the piece of bread with the fillets on in a saute pan, and put it in the oven till the fillets are done. Boil fourteen plovers’ eggs. Prepare a rice croustade on a dish, pour a little more than half of the puree in the croustade, put the contised fillets and plover’s eggs alternately round the top of it, turn the remainder of the puree in the centre, arrange the ten small fillets on the top, the points to the centre, put a small truffle in the middle, and serve. Puree of Partridge with Poached Eggs.—The following- dish can he made with the remains of cold roast Partridges. Cut the meat up, put it in a mortar with 3 table-spoon- fuls of cooked rice, and pound; stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of brown sauce, then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Put the puree into a saucepan with a piece of fresh butter, a little glaze, and seasoning to taste; stir it over a slow fire till thoroughly hot, but do not allow it to boil. Turn the purde on to a hot dish, pour over it some gravy that has been made with the bones of the Partridges, garnish round with eight or ten poached eggs, and serve. Roasted Partridges.—(1) Pluck the Partridges, draw and trass them, and fasten some thin slices of fat bacon round them. Fix the birds on a spit, put them before a sharp clear fire, and roast for fifteen minutes. Five minutes before dishing, take the bacon off, sprinkle a little salt over the birds, and brown them. Put the Partridges on a hot dish, and serve them with a sauceboatful of brown gravy. (2) Dress and prepare a pair of Partridges, put them before the fire, or in a very hot oven, and brown them quickly; then season them with salt and pepper, baste with a little butter, and allow them to cook for about half an hour. In the meantime, fry 1 pint of coarse breadcrumbs brown in a frying-pan, taking care to have the fat smoking hot; when they are brown, [ take them up with a skimmer, and lay them on brown | paper to free them from grease. Serve the roasted Par- Fig. 124. Baiided Partridge. tridges on the fried breadcrumbs. If gravy is desired, make it from the drippings in the pan. Garnish round with potato croquettes. (3) Prepare the birds, and truss them for roasting, fasten- ing a slice of bacon over the breast (see Fig. 124); fix them on a spit, and roast before a clear but not too fierce fire. Five minutes before taking the Partridges up, remove the bacon, so that they may brown slightly. Put l pint of milk into a saucepan with a small onion stuck with three cloves and half a blade of mace; let the milk simmer at the side of the fire for a-quarter-of-an-liour, then strain it, return it to the saucepan with f breakfast-cupful of Partridges—continued. very fine breadcrumbs, season with salt and pepper, and keep it at the side of the fire until the birds are ready. Also prepare the following gravy: Put a finely-chopped onion in a stewpan with a small lump of butter, and fry it until a dark brown; then put in a small quantity of minced lean ham, two or three sprigs of thyme and parsley, and a few drops of Worcestershire sauce, and boil for ten minutes, then strain. When the birds are cooked, put them on a hot dish, and serve with the sauce and gravy in sauceboats. (4) Clean and truss the Partridges, chop the livers with a little butter, season them with salt and pepper, and stuff the Partridges with them. Bind some sheets of buttered paper round the Partridges, fix them on a spit, and roast them in front of a clear fire. Mix some breadcrumbs with a little butter, chopped parsley, chives, shallots, and a little salt, black pepper, and nutmeg. When three-parts done, take the birds off the spit, slightly raise each joint with a knife, and add the above forcemeat; put the birds in a stewpan with a little stock and champagne mixed in equal quantities, stand the stewpan over a slow fire without the lid on, and let the liquor simmer till reduced. Put the Partridges on a hot dish, squeeze a little lemon- juice over, pour the sauce round, and serve. (5) Clean a Partridge, and make a stuffing with its liver, some grated ham, minced parsley and chives, and season with salt. Stuff the Partridge with the forcemeat, put a slice of bacon round it, wrap it in a sheet of buttered paper, fix it on a spit, and roast it before a clear fire, basting occasionally. When cooked, remove the paper and bacon from the bird, pour a little rich gravy round it, and serve. Roasted Partridges a la Montglas.—Roast three young Partridges, and cut out the whole of the breast of each in a square piece, so as to leave a square aperture ; clean away from the interior all the spongy substance, in order to put a salpicon inside the breasts of the birds. Cut Fig. 125. Roasted Partridge a la Montglas. into very small dice the pieces from the breasts of the birds and some cooked mushrooms and tongue, adding if convenient a few truffles also cut in dice. Mix a little game glaze with some reduced Spanish sauce, add it to the dice, season well, and fill the aperture in the birds with it; brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, then brash them over with warmed butter, and breadcrumb them again; put them on a baking-disli and roast in a hot oven. Mix a little game glaze in a brown sauce, put the Partridges on a hot dish (see Fig. 125), and serve with the sauce. Roasted Partridge a la Perigord.—Pluck, singe, and draw three Partridges. Put 4oz. of scraped fat bacon in a stewpan with two bay-leaves, a blade of mace, and two or three cloves, and place over the fire until boiling; then take out the bay-leaves, cloves, and mace. Finely chop three large truffles, put them in with the fat, also put in ten sliced truffles, pour in lqt. of white sauce, and boil it until thickly reduced, keeping it well stirred at the same time. Move the stewpan to the side of the fire, stir in quickly the beaten yolks of two eggs, and pour it on a plate. When the truffle mixture is cold, stuff the Par- tridges with it, then hang them up and leave them forTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 109 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Sec., referred to, see under their special heads. Partridges—continued. a few days, so as to lie well flavoured with the truffles. When ready for cooking, wrap the birds separately in sheets of buttered paper, fix them on a spit, and roast them in front of a clear fire for half-an hour. Pour 2qts. of white sauce into a saucepan with 1 pint of veal broth, put it over the fire, and when it boils put in a few thinly-sliced French truffles and 1 scant teaspoonful of sugar. Stir and boil it until thickly reduced, then mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of whipped cream. When cooked, take the birds out of the sheets of paper, put them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve while very hot. Roasted Partridges a la Sybarite.—Singe and draw two Partridges and bone two snipe. Put the livers of the Par- tridges and snipe in a mortar, having previously fried them, add the peel of two raw truffles and a piece of beef marrow, and pound them. Season the mixture, and pass all through a fine hair sieve; cut the peeled truffles into dice, and mix it with the above. Sprinkle some pepper and salt inside the snijie, put a small quantity of the mixture on each, roll them up, put one in each of the Partridges, and fill the crops with the remainder of the preparation. Cut two squares out of some pig’s caul, and wrap the birds in them, previously sprinkling a little salt over them. The Partridges should not be cooked till the following day. Run a thin iron skewer through them, fix them on the spit, bind a sheet of buttered paper round each, and roast them in front of a clear fire. They will take about twenty minutes to cook. When cooked, take them off the spit, remove the paper, put them on a hot dish, pour some rich gravy that has been reduced to half- glaze over them, and serve. Roasted Partridges Stuffed with Truffles.—Singe and draw two young red Partridges. Peel six black truffles, cut them in quarters, and sprinkle salt and pepper over them. Chop the livers of the Partridges that have been cooked with two chickens’ livers, an equal quantity of fat bacon, and the trimmings of the truffles ; put the mince in a mortar, pound it, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Put some bacon-fat in a frying-pan, and when melted put in the truffles ; toss them about over the fire for two or three minutes, then mix them with the force- meat, and stuff the Partridges with it; truss them, run a skewer through them, tie them on a spit, and roast them in front of a clear fire, basting occasionally with butter. When the birds are cooked (they will take from fifteen to twenty minutes, according to their size), sprinkle salt over, and put them on a hot dish. Mix a little gravy in the drippings, skim the fat off, and boil it till reduced to half its original quantity, then strain it through a fine hair sieve. Garnish the Partridges with slices of lemon, and serve them with the sauce in a sauceboat. Salmis of Partridge.—(1) Truss three perfectly fresh Par- tridges as for roasting, put them in a saute-pan with a little butter, and brown them over a brisk fire. Leave them till half cold, then cut the wings and legs off', and separate the breasts; pare and trim each piece. Put the carcases, trimmings, and some fat bacon in a stewpan, and with them prepare a little rich gravy. Fry the livers in butter, then put them in a mortar, and pound them; add them to some brown sauce, stir it over the fire till hot, then skim and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Put it again in the saucepan, strain the gravy in, turn the limbs of the Partridges in, and warm them. Arrange the six legs on a hot dish, put the six wings on them, and the three breasts at the top. Put some croutons of fried bread, mushrooms, and truffles round the dish, pour the sauce into a sauceboat, and serve. (2) Clean and truss five rather stale young Partridges, cover them with paper, and roast them underdone. Carve the birds as when served at table, flay them so as not to leave a particle of skin, and trim them nicely. Put four shallots, some small pieces of ham, one carrot cut in dice, three or four mushrooms, a bunch of thyme and parsley, a bay-leaf, three or four cloves and peppercorns, and a little allspice in a stewpan with some butter, and fry Partridges—continued. them lightly; then pour in 2 wineglassfuls of Madeira, 6 table-spoonfuls of Spanish sauce, 2 table-spoonfuls of broth, and the lungs and skins of the birds. Stand the stewpan by the side of the fire, and let the contents stew for an- liour-and-a-half; then skim the fat off, and put in a small piece of sugar to lessen the bitter taste of the lungs. Put the flayed limbs of the Partridges in a stewpan, strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve over them, and stand the stewpan in a bain-marie. Cut some slices of bread in the shape of a kite, and fry them in butter; then drain and arrange them on a hot dish, turn the salrnis over them, and serve. (3) Cut three cold roasted Partridges into pieces, trim them, and put them in a stewpan. Place the bones and trimmings in a mortar, pound them, turn them into a stewpan with 4 pint each of Madeira and mirepoix, and boil it quickly till reduced to half its original quantity; then pour in 1^ pints of Spanish sauce, and let it simmer for an hour. Skim the fat off the sauce, strain it through a fine hair sieve, pour half of it in the stewpan with the pieces of Partridges, and stand them over the fire till thoroughly hot. Arrange them on a hot dish, garnish with glazed croutons of fried bread, pour the remainder of the sauce in a sauceboat, and serve. (4) Put 2 table-spoonfuls each of butter and flour into a saucepan, and stir them over the fire till mixed, but do not allow them to brown. Pour in some red wine and stock mixed in equal quantities, a bunch of sweet herbs, one shallot, and pepper and salt to taste, and simmer gently for half-an-hour. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, put in some ccoked Partridges cut into joints and fillets, and let the sauce simmer without boiling; then squeeze in the juice of one. lemon, keeping back the pips. Put the Partridges on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, garnish with croiitons of fried bread, and serve. (5) Lard and roast three Partridges, keeping them rather underdone. Let them get cold, then skin and cut them into pieces. Put them in a stewpan with a few shallots and a small piece of lemon-peel, moisten with a few spoonfuls of good broth and about 4 breakfast cupful of reduced Spanisli sauce, and stew very slowly over a smothered fire. When the liquor has reduced to half its original quantity, take out the pieces of Partridges, and mix in with the sauce 1 table-spoonful of aspic jelly. Put the stewpan over ice, and shake it occasionally until the sauce begins to set; then dip each piece of Partridge in separately, so that the sauce may adhere all over. Arrange them tastefully on a dish, pour what is left of the sauce over them, garnish with croutons of aspic jelly, and serve. (6) Prepare and roast three Partridges, keeping them rather underdone; leave them until cold, theri skin and cut them into pieces. Put 2 wineglassfuls of claret or other red wine into a stewpan with 3 table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, the juice and grated peel of one lemon, and a seasoning of salt and pepper, with a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Put the Partridges in the sauce, and keep them at the side of the fire until very hot. When ready, turn the salmis on to a hot dish, and serve without delay. (7) Lard three Partridges and roast them, keeping them rather underdone and basting frequently with butter. °Leave them until cold, then trim off' the skin, cut them into pieces, lay them in a stewpan, pour over a small quan- tity of good broth, and put the pan over a smothered fire so that the contents will not boil too quickly. Put in six shallots, a small piece of lemon-peel, and 1 tea- cupful of reduced Spanish sauce, and stew slowly until the liquor has reduced to half its original quantity; then take out the pieces of Partridges and lay them on a hot dish with a crouton of fried bread between each. Pour the sauce round them, squeeze over a small quantity of lemon-juice, and serve. J (8) Prepare and roast three Partridges, and when cooled cut them into pieces. Put loz. of butter into a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir them over the lire until mixed, but do not brown them; next put in twoTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 110 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <ic., referred to, see under their special heads. Partridges—continued. shallots, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 1 teacupful each of white wine and stock, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stir over the lire until boiling. Turn the pieces of Partridges into the sauce, move it to the side of the fire, and leave them until hot through. Fry some slices of bread in butter until nicely browned, then drain and place them on a hot dish; put a piece of the Partridge on each slice of bread, strain their gravy round them, and serve. Salmis of Partridge a l’Ancienne.—Lard and roast three Partridges, letting them be underdone, and leave them until cold; then cut them into pieces, removing the skin and paring them nicely. Put the pieces in a stewpan with stock to nearly their height, a few shallots, a small piece of lemon-peel, and J breakfast-cupful of reduced Spanish sauce, and stew them gently until the liquor has reduced to half its original quantity; then take out the pieces of Partridges, and strain the sauce through a tammy. Put the trimmings of the Partridges in a mortar, and pound them, moistening them occasionally with a few drops of the sauce. Rub the pounded mixture through a fine hair sieve into a stewpan, add the pieces of Partridges, and warm them up again in a bain-marie; make the sauce hot again. When ready, arrange the pieces of Partridges and the puree on a hot dish, with a crouton of bread fried brown in butter between each piece, pour the sauce round, and serve very hot. Souffle of Partridge.—(1) Cut the flesh off some roasted Par- tridges, chop it, put it in a mortar, and pound it together with a few table-spoonfuls of veloutd sauce and a lump of butter; season to taste, beat in the yolks of four eggs, then pass all through a fine hair sieve. Beat the whites of six eggs well, and mix them with the puree. Butter a baking- dish, put the souffle in, cover the top with paper, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. When cooked, it is ready for serving. (2) Pound the flesh of some roasted Partridges in a mortar, having previously removed the skin and tendons; moisten the purde with a little rich gravy, season with pepper and salt, then pass the whole through a fine hair sieve. Put it in a stewpan with a little butter, and stir it over the fire till warm; then add the beaten yolks of four eggs, and when well mixed stir in the whites, which should have been beaten to a stiff froth. Pour the preparation into a silver souffle case, and bake it in a moderate oven till well risen. The souffle should be served very hot, with a sauce- boatful of rich brown sauce. (3) Cut the flesh off three roast Partridges, removing all skin and tendons; chop it finely, then put it in a mortar, pound it, and rub it through a line hair sieve. Prepare a thick butter sauce, mixing a little mushroom liquor with it if convenient. Measure the Partridge paste, and for each 4 break fast-cupfuls use I \ cupfuls of the sauce; season with salt, pepper, a little grated nutmeg and lemon- peel, and 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, stir it over the fire till boiling, then set it away to cool. Whip the yolks of eight eggs, mix them with the preparation, then beat the whites to a froth, and put them in also. Turn the souffle preparation into twenty fancy paper cases, put them in the oven, and bake for fifteen minutes. When done, put the cases on a large dish, and serve them at once with a plate of buttered toast. Stewed Partridges.—(1) Procure three Partridges, old ones will do, lard them, and truss them as for boiling. Line a stew- pan with slices of fat bacon, put in the Partridges, breasts downwards, with a slice of lean veal, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a few chopped savoury vegetables; pour in a teacupful each of gravy and white wine. Let all simmer gently at the side of the fire for an-liour-and-a-half; at the end of that time put the Partridges on a hot dish, strain their cooking-liquor over them, garnish with cut lemons and fried parsley, and serve. (2) Clean, truss, and lard some Partridges; put them in a stewpan with two slices of fat pork, two carrots and an onion cut in slices, a bunch of sweet herbs, and sufficient ordinary white wine and stock mixed in equal quantities to cover them. Season with salt and pepper, put the lid on the stewpan, and let the contents simmer gently till the birds are | Partridges—continued. cooked. Take the Partridges out and keep them hot; boil the cooking-liquor till reduced to half, then skim off all the fat, pass the sauce through a fine hair sieve over the birds, which should have been put on a hot dish, and serve. (3) Singe, draw, and truss a Partridge as for roasting; put it in a saucepan with sufficient stock to cover, and let it simmer gently for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, take the Partridge out, brush over the breast with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, sprinkle breadcrumbs over with a little pepper and salt, and brown it under a salamander. Thicken the sauce with a little flour and butter that has been kneaded together, put the Partridge on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. (4) Lithuanian Style.—Work Goz. of butter with sufficient breadcrumbs to make a stiff paste, seasoning with salt, pepper, and a little chopped parsley. Truss two young Partridges, lix them on a spit, and roast them under done. When nearly cold, divide the birds into three lengthwise, and sprinkle salt over them. Divide the paste into four equal parts, put one on each side of the breasts, then tie the birds in their original form again; put them side by side in a narrow stewpan, put the lid on, and keep them by the side of the lire, basting them occasionally. In fifteen minutes, take the Partridges out, drain them, put them on a hot dish, put a little meat glaze and the strained juice of three lemons in the stew- pan with the butter, and stir over the fire till boiling; then pour it over the Partridges, and serve. Stewed Partridges a la Barbarie.—Truss two or three young Partridges, and stuff them with chopped truffles and rasped bacon that have been seasoned with salt, pepper, and allspice, pounded in a mortar to a stiff paste, and mixed with some peeled and cleaned whole truffles. Cut a few more truffles in little pieces, make some incisions in the breasts of the birds with a sharp-pointed knife, stick the pieces of truffles in in regular order, and finish them as described for Partkidges a la Montmorency. When ready to serve, put some Italian sauce boiled with truffles on a hot dish, place the Partridges on it, taking care first to drain them well, otherwise the fat will spoil the sauce. Stewed Partridge a la Chipolata.—Cut a Partridge into quarters, put it into a pan with butter, and fry it until brown, dusting it over with flour. Put in two dozen small onions, 4lb. of sausages cut into thin slices and fried, six chopped mushrooms, and twelve roasted chestnuts; add seasoning to taste, pour in 2 or 3 wineglassfuls of white wine, and stew until all is tender. Thicken the sauce, turn the whole on to a dish, and serve with croutons of fried bread. Stewed Partridges a la Chivry.—Truss and stew the Partridges as for Partridges a la Montmorency. Stew some rings of white onions in a little game broth. Take a cutter, the same size as the inner rings of the onions, and with it cut some round pieces out of some truffles that should have been braised with the birds, reserving the trimmings of the truffles to mix with the sauce. When the birds are done and put on a hot dish, place the round pieces of truffles over the breasts, three on each side, with the rings of onions round the truffles, and one on each pouch; a little glaze may be used to make the truffles stick on. Prepare the Italian sauce with the trimmings of truffles and a little game glaze. Pour the sauce round the birds, but not over, and serve. Stewed Partridges a l’Espagnole.—Clean two or three Partridges carefully, so as not to injure the skin; pick them, cut off the sinew that is under the joints of the legs, and skewer the legs up towards the breast. Fill a needle with packthread, run it through the stump of the right wing, then through the thick joint of the leg, next across the body, and then again through the other stump ; then tighten the packthread and fasten the knot. Run the needle through from the back to the side beneath the leg, and then .above the pinion below the breast, so as to perforate the breast-bone; let the needle come out from the part parallel to that where it was first introduced,THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Ill For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Partridges—continued. and then through the side to the back, and fasten the packthread. Care should he taken to give the birds as nice a shape as possible. Put some slices of bacon at the bottom of a large stewpan, put the Partridges in, cover them with more bacon, pour in some rich fowl broth, put the lid on, and let them simmer for twenty minutes over a slow fire. Drain the Partridges when done, put them on a hot dish, pour over them some Spanish sauce in which has been mixed a little glaze, and serve. Stewed Partridges a la Montmorency—Trass some young Partridges as for STEWED PARTRIDGES A L’ESPAGNOLE. Dip the breasts into boiling water to make them firm, then dip them into cold water, and lard them with bacon. Put some slices of fat bacon at the bottom of a stewpan, put the Partridges in, put some more rashers of fat bacon on the top of them, and moisten to half their height with fowl broth. Stand the stewpan oyer a brisk fire for a few minutes, then move it to the side, and let the Partridges cook for twenty minutes Glaze them, take them out, drain, and glaze them again. Put them on a hot dish, and serve with a Dutch sauce. Stewed Partridges a, la Parisienne.—Clean and truss some Partridges, put them in a stewpan with a little butter, and brown them over a brisk fire; then pour in an equal quantity each of stock, white wine, and reduced Spanish sauce, put the lid on the stewpan, and let the con- tents simmer for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Take the Par- tridges out when cooked, put them on a hot dish, and keep them hot till the sauce is ready. Skim the sauce, and boil till reduced; then stir in a lump of butter, strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve over the birds, and serve. Stewed Partridges a la St. Clair.—Draw and clean the birds, cut them in pieces, put them in a saucepan, cover them with stock, put the lid on, and stew them till tender. Put a finely-chopped small onion, 1 wineglassful of port wine, 1 dessert spoonful of ketchup, 1 teacupful of cream, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy paste, and a little pepper and salt in with the birds. When ready, turn it all on to a hot dish, and serve at once. Terrine of Partridge.—Empty two Partridges, bone them, cut them in two lengthwise, put them in a frying-pan with a little bacon-fat, and fry them lightly till the llesli is set, then take them out. Cut 'the half of a calf’s liver in slices, fry it quickly in a little bacon-fat, with a pinch of chopped onion, a sprinkling of fine herbs, and two or three little pieces of raw ham. When cold, put the liver in a mortar, pound it, then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Put half as much pork and bacon as there is liver in the mortar, pound it, then mix it with the liver, and season well with mixed spices, salt, and pepper. Line a terrine with thin slices of fat bacon, then fill it with the halves of the partridges and the forcemeat; add some sweet herbs and a little madeira; put a layer of forcemeat on the top. Cover with a flat of paste, put Fig. 126. Terrine of Partridges. it in the oven, and bake it for two hours, basting it occasionally. When cooked, take the flat of paste oft", put a light weight on the terrine, and let it cool; then take the fat off, and cut the preparation up. Wipe and fix the terrine on a dish: garnish round the base with a folded napkin or ornamental dish paper (see Fig. 126), and serve. FASCALINE SAUCE.—See Sauces. PASCH EGGS.—See Easter Eggs. PASSA SOUP.—See Soups PASSOVER CAKES.—Unleavened cakes made by the Jews from matso or purified flour. The following is a good receipt: Warm 1 teacupful of slightly-salted water; beat together four eggs and Jib. of matso-flour, and work in 1 teacupful of milk in which a few lumps of sugar have been dissolved, and add as much of the warm water as is required to make a rather soft mass. Turn it into a buttered tin and bake. PASTAFROIiXiE.—The literal translation of this term is “ light pastry.” Francatelli was especially famous for the manufacture of pastry to which he gave this Italian name. He manufactured it in many different ways, the two following being considered the favourites. Other varieties can be made according to the taste of the pastry-cook. (1) Slightly warm 3oz. of butter and beat it with a wooden spoon until creamy; stir in gradually C table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, and when well-mixed, whip in the yolks of five eggs, one at a time. Add 4oz. os blanched and pounded sweet almonds, twelve pounded bitter ones, and ilb. of flour. Work this mixture well, then put the paste on a floured table, and roll it out. Cover a baking- sheet with white paper, lay the paste on it, mark it into any shape desired, and place it in a moderate oven. When baked, break the Pastafrolle in the places where it is marked. (2) Beat 3oz. of slightly-warmed butter together with 6oz. of caster sugar until creamy, then whip in, one at a time, the yolks of five eggs, add 9oz. of flour, 4oz. of blanched and pounded sweet almonds, and ten bitter ones, and work the mixture well. Dredge a little flour over a table or paste- board, put the paste on it, roll it out thin, and with a tin cutter Sin. in diameter cut it out in rounds. Butter some baking-sheets, lay the flats on them, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, lay the cakes on a slab, put a dish with a very heavy weight on it over them, and leave until cold. Stick the flats together in twos, with a layer of any kind of jam spread between them. Mask the tops of the cakes with chocolate icing, and leave until it has dried upon them ; then arrange tastefully on a fancy dish, and serve. PASTE and PASTRY (Fr. Pate, Patisserie; Ger. Pastete, Pasteten hackwork; Ital. Pasta, Pasticceria; Sp. Pasta, Pasteleria).—Old-fasliioned words are these that head this article, and yet, although they, or words very much like them—probably derived from the Greek passein, to sprinkle, in allusion to the mode adopted for moisten- ing the meal—are found in the oldest English, the art of making and using Paste and Pastry is quite modern in its perfection. Indeed, so rapidly has the Pastry-cook’s art developed, that it is considered of sufficient importance to form a separate and distinct branch of cookery. To what nation we are indebted for the introduction of Pastry-making is very uncertain; probably all nations may be considered as equally concerned in the primary manufacture of flour-and-water Paste, from which primi- tive source, cakes, puddings, and pies have originated. It is to the French cook, however, that we must accord the credit of the perfection to which Pastry-making has now arrived. French Pastry is famous all over the world; this is not due to any secret of mixing or mysterious handling, but simply to skill and care. It would be impossible in the limited space available for the subject in this Encyclopaedia to produce a complete work on the art of Pastry-making; but by reason of the liberal assistance given by some of the best Pastry- makers of the world, foreign and British alike, this article will be found to give ample instruction for the pre- paration of all kinds of Paste, even to the very finestTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 112 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Paste and Pastry—continued. produced in this or any other country. Its adaptation to the uses of the table must depend in a great measure upon the ingenuity of the operator, and the instructions hereunder given, being of a typical character, should suggest innumerable others. The Pastry-cook requires utensils that are especially adapted to the purposes for which he intends to use them. These, however, may be very simple, consisting principally of a Paste-board, rolling-pin, and basin for mixing; but an artistic Pastry-cook could not be expected to turn out any very great results with such utensils only: many others would be required for high class work, and these will be described further on. Pastes.—In making Paste much confusion has arisen in the minds of domestic Pastry- makers, owing to the varia- tions and modifications of ingredients, and modes of mixing adopted by individual cooks; the names given to Pastes being also somewhat misleading. As a matter of fact, by disregarding variations Pastry-making is exceedingly simple. There are two kinds of Pastry, from which all others take their origin; these are known as Puff Paste and Short-Paste, the difference between them being not so much the question of ingredients as the mode of mixing. All Pastes consist more or less of flour, water or milk- and-water, and greasy matter of some kind; any sort of flour may be used, provided it is of a starchy character; but as a rule the best white wheat-flour is used for fine Pastry; it should be dried, and passed through a sieve Fig. 127. Flour-sieve (Mathews and Son). Fig. 128. Egg-bowl. (see Fig. 127) to remove lumps and lighten it. Eggs mixed with milk or milk-and-water, or sour milk, may be used to moisten; the latter requires an antacid with the flour. In such a case this would answer as well as, and instead of, baking-powder or yeast. A very superior quality flour, called pastry whites, should alone be used for best Pastry ; commoner kinds being made from what is called seconds or household flour. Eggs when used should be the very Fig. 129. Egg-whisk (Mathews and Son). freshest, and are better if well beaten in a large bowl (see Fig. 128), with a strong wire whisk (see Fig. 129). The greasy matter may consist of a variety of kinds: fresh butter, suet, lard, dripping, &c. In every case it should be perfectly pure, clean, and fresh. Puff Paste differs from Short-Paste in one essential particular, and that is the mode in which the fatty matter is blended with the flour. The best Puff Paste is made by Paste and Pastry—continued. rolling in the butter after the flour-and-water dough is made. Short-Paste is made by working the fatty matter into the flour before making it into dough. Accepting Fig. 130. Making Puff Paste—Bay or Well. these two kinds as the types from which numerous varieties spring, they shall be described separately. Puff Paste.—By the French cook this is styled Feuille- tage, and is prepared as follows : Weigh out the flour, best Vienna for choice, previously dried and shaken through a sieve, and use an equal amount of best fresh butter. In the summer keep this butter on the ice till wanted; in winter knead it in a cloth to make it supple. Then spread the flour on a table or marble Paste-slab; make a bay or well in the centre (see Fig. 130). Into this bay put a little salt, and gradually pour in water whilst the flour is worked in by a circular motion of two fingers round and round the inside of the well until sufficient moisture has been added to work the remainder of the flour into a firm pliant dough. If this is well and correctly made it will not stick either to the table or to the hands. Cover the Paste with a cloth, and let it stand for a few minutes to settle, but first be quite sure that the Paste is stiff, as it would be disadvantageous to work in more flour or water, as the case might require, after the dough has settled. In the course of ten minutes or a-quarter-of- an-hour the dough will be ready to work. Sprinkle the slab with flour by means of a dredger (see Fig. 131), Fig. 132. Plain Rolling-pin (Mathews and Son). which should contain very dry flour only, or the per- forations in the lid will get blocked; place the Paste on this, and roll it out with a rolling-pin, which may be either plain (see Fig. 132), or fitted with an axle and two handles (see Fig. 133), so that the hands remain quiet in working—either answers admirably. The one with the handles, which is sometimes preferred, permits Fig. 133. Revolving Rolling-pin. the operator to bear heavily on the Paste, but this is not always an advantage. Roll out the Paste to a square, not more than j-in. thick. Roll out the butter also, on a slab, to a square shape, and lay113 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Paste and Pastry—continued. it on the Paste (see Fig. 134). Fold over the sides (see Fig. 135) and then the ends in such a manner that the butter is entirely wrapped up. Roll this out with the pin, pushing the Paste forward as well as the Fig. 134. Making Puff Paste. butter in its interior; continue rolling until it forms a long strip (see Fig. 136 A), not more than -Jin, or Jin. in thickness, preserving- the regularity of shape as well as possible. Next fold it over in three layers (see Fig. 136 B), and when thus folded (see Fig. 136 C), give it another turn as shown by the dotted line: this is called one turn. Roll it out again to A, and fold again as in B-C : this makes another turn. Every time this process is repeated adds what is termed a turn to the Paste; the very most required at any time for the lightest of French Feuilletage being six turns : five are generally recognised as good enough for most purposes, and many pastrycooks will not exceed three. A very famous French cook advises that under all circumstances, whether in winter or summer, the Paste should be set to cool for ten minutes between each two turns. The greatest care must be taken to prevent the butter escaping from the Paste. This happens, says Dubois, “ if the Paste is too soft, rolled out too thin, or not rolled out regularly to a flat, that is, if it remains thicker on one side than on the other.” The same author informs us that “ In summer it is very difficult to make good Puff Paste without the help of ice ora cool cellar; but this inconvenience may be obviated by replacing the butter with beef-suet. This suet must previously be well picked over, then soaked in fresh water, well drained, and then pounded,” and thus made into a fine smooth Paste. Paste and Pastry—continued. Should it require to be rendered more supple, it can be worked in the cloth as prescribed for the butter. The plan of making Puff Paste, as practised by British professional pastrycooks, differs from the French mode in one or two particulars, as shown in the following in- structions, contributed by Mr. W. A. Rawson to the Cooks’ Journal: Take 31b. of well-dried sifted flour and the same quan- tity of butter; mb a fourth of the butter until it is taken up in the flour, then mix with water, adding the juieq of half a lemon. If salted butter be used, it must be washed in cold water, so as to free it from salt. Let the Paste be firm, for if it is made soft it will not be a success. When you have proceeded so far, roll out the Paste on a slab to about Jin. thick, and spread the remainder of the butter over it, which should not be too soft or too hard, but spreadable. This done, fold over and roll out again; repeat this three times, then roll it up loosely, cover with a floured cloth, and put it in a cool place for two or three hours, or until wanted for use. You will understand from this that Puff Paste consists of a number of layers of butter and dough; these layers should be worked without breaking through into each other. You must therefore use your rolling-pin very lightly, for if you use it too heavily you will perforate the Paste, and the butter will run out in cooking. Fig. 136. Making Puff Paste. The trimmings of Puff Paste or pieces cut away should never be mixed up again with the original mass, as the cut edges would allow the butter to overrun the layers, and spoil its flakiness. It is commonly used for making patties, pies, or decorating tartlets, &c., and is known to the pastrycook as second or patten Paste. Of the varieties of Puff Paste the following may be considered the more important: (1) Sift 21b. of very dry flour, put it on the table, make a hollow in the centre, and throw in 1 pinch of salt and two or three little pieces of butter that have been cut off 21b. In making this Paste, the same quantity of butter as of flour is used. Work the butter and flour together, then add the beaten yolks of three eggs and sufficient water to make a Paste of the consistency of the butter. If the Paste is not of the right consistency, the butter will break through when the Paste is turned. When the dough has been lightly worked, mould it into a ball, which flatten quickly in the middle. Put the remainder of the 21b. of butter on the table, and work it with a little water to extract the butter-milk, then roll it in a cloth, and squeeze till all the moisture is out. Flatten the butter, put it in the Paste, and fold the Paste well over it. Sift a little flour over the table, and roll the Paste out with a rolling-pin into a long strip. Double the Paste in three, For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jtc., referred to, see under their special heads. VOT,. II.TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 114 Paste and Pastry— continued. then roll it out again, sprinkling a little Hour over to prevent it sticking. Sprinkle a baking sheet with flour, double the Paste in three folds, put it on the baking-sheet, and leave for a short time in a cool temperature. Roll the Paste out again twice, proceeding as before; then let it rest again, and give it another two turns, which will make six in all; then roll it out to a long shape, and fold it in two. It is then ready for use. (2) Put lib. of butter in a basin of cold water, and work it with the hands till light and waxy; this frees it of the salt and butter-milk and lightens it, so that the Paste will be more delicate. Divide the butter, flatten it, and if soft put it into a basin of ice-water to harden. Turn lqt. of pastry-flour on to a table, and mix with it 1 table-spoonful each of sugar and salt. Rub with the hands one-third of the butter into the flour, pour in sufficient iced water to make a stiff Paste, and stir vigorously and quickly with a knife. Sprinkle a little flour on the table, roll the Paste on it with a floured rolling-pin, taking care not to break it. Roll from you, and to one side. When the paste is about Jin. thick, drain the water off the rest of the butter, break it into little pieces, and spread them on the Paste. Sift a little flour lightly over, fold the Paste one-fourth from each side, so that the edges meet, then fold it from the ends, but do not let these meet. Double the Paste, beat it lightly, then roll down to about Jin. in thickness. Fold as before, and roll down again. Repeat this operation three times if for pies, and six times if for vol-au-vents, patties, tarts, &c. Place it on ice to harden, where it should be kept for at least an hour before using. In the summer, if the Paste sticks when being rolled down, put it on a tin sheet, and place it on ice. The less flour used in rolling out the Paste, the lighter it will be. (3) Have ready lib. each of flour and fresh butter, 1 pint of ice-water, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. If the butter be salt instead of fresh no salt is necessary, but wash the j butter well before using it. Pour the flour on the table, i make a hollow space in the centre, put in it loz. of the butter, adding the pint of ice-water and the salt, and gradually mix the whole well together. Put it aside in a cool place for five minutes. Sprinkle the space of a square foot of the table with a very little flour, place the dough on it, lengthen and widen it with a roller to the thickness of Jin. and lay the 15oz. of butter (which must be very firm) in one lump in the centre. Fold over the four edges so as to enclose it, flatten again lightly with the roller until it forms a piece 2in. thick, and put it away to cool for ten minutes. Roll it again lengthwise, fold it into four, and let it rest for another five minutes. Then repeat the same twice more, rolling it each time in a different direction. After five minutes it will be ready for use. (4) Sift lib. of flour upon a board or table, and work in Jib. of butter; then add sufficient water to make it the stiffness or softness of butter, work it up smooth, then roll it out lengthwise, Jin. thick; place fib. more butter cut into slices half way over the Paste, dust lightly with flour, and double it up. Press down with a rolling-pin, and let it lie for a few minutes; roll it three times, thinner each tune, letting it lie a few minutes between each roll, and prevent it from sticking to the board or rolling- pin. (5) Sift lib. of flour on a paste-board, and rub in 4oz. of butter until quite smooth. Beat an egg in 1 table-spoon- ful of brandy and J teacupful of milk, mix it gradually into the flour, and work it to a smooth Paste with a knife, moistening occasionally, if necessary, with a small quantity of milk. Knead the dough with the hands on a floured board, roll it out, p>ut Jib. of butter on it, and fold the dough over it. Roll and fold the Paste four times, touching it as little as possible with the hands. It is then ready for use. (6) Make a cavity in about Jib. of sifted flour on a board and work in the white of one egg and yolks of two; also J wineglassful of warm water and 1 table-spoonful of warmed butter. Work well until thoroughly kneaded, roll it out several times, and cut it into two or three pieces. Roll them out quite thin, put them in layers into a For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Paste and Pastry—continued. buttered mould, cutting the Paste to fit them, with a small quantity of butter between the layers, and with a sharp knife mark a cover on the Paste, cutting it to the required depth, but taking care not to injure the bottom. Put the Paste to bake in a moderate oven, remove the cover, fill up the cavity with any desired preserve, remove a portion of the Paste from the cover, replace it, and serve hot or cold, as may be desired. (7) Put flour and butter on a paste-board, allowing fib. of butter for every pound of flour ; add a small quantity of salt, and chop the butter until well mixed in with the flour; then squeeze in a small quantity of lemon-juice and sufficient cold water to mix it into a firm Paste. Roll the Paste out to about Jin. in thickness, then fold it over in three, and roll it out again. After this has been twice repeated the Paste will be ready for use. (8) Prepare lib. of Puff Paste, give it twelve turns, then let it rest for half-an-hour. Butter the interior of a plain round or oval-shaped mould, line it with the Puff Paste, line the Paste with paper, fill it with breadcrumbs to keep it in shape, and bake till rather crisp. When the Sawn is cooked, empty out the breadcrumbs and remove the paper. Turn the flawn out of the mould, dust caster sugar over it, and glaze under a salamander; leave the flawn till cold, then fill it with any kind of fruit that has been cooked and left till cold, and serve. Half Puff Paste.—This is made as for Puff Paste, using 12oz. of flour, Joz. of salt, two eggs, lOoz. of butter, and 1 teacupful of water, keeping the Paste very firm. Puff Paste made with Beef-suet.—To prepare Puff Paste with beef-suet, chop the suet very fine, put it in a mortar, and pound to a pulp, adding gradually sufficient olive oil to give it a body, and to make it as easy to work as butter. When thoroughly worked up, mix in the flour as for ordinary Puff Paste. Lard may be substituted for oil, using half lard and half beef-suet. Puff Paste made with Lard.—To prepare Puff Paste with lard, use 12oz. of flour, 2oz. of lard, the yolks of two eggs, and about 2 drachms of salt. Work these into a Paste, let it stand for a few minutes, then roll it out, brush over with warm lard, fold the Paste in three, roll it out gently again, let it stand for a few minutes, and continue in this way, brushing the Paste with lard until 12oz. have been worked into the flour. It is then ready for use in the ordinary way. Puff Paste made with Oil.—Puff Paste prepared with sweet-oil is made in the same way as for Puff Paste made with Lard, using the same quantity of oil as lard, and working it in in the same manner. Puff Paste made with Veal-suet.—Put three veal udders into a stockpot and boil ; let them get cold, trim off any uneatable parts, put them into a mortar and pound, adding sufficient oil or lard to make it of the consistence of butter. Short-Paste.—This, as lias already been explained, differs from Puff Paste in that the butter or other fat is rubbed into the flour before wetting. In other particulars one Short-Paste may differ from another according to the fancy of the cook as shown in the following receipts : Short-Paste for Savoury Pies.—(1) Sift lib. of dried flour on to the slab or table, collect it altogether in a heap, and make a hollow in the centre. In this hollow put 1 teaspoonful of salt and the yolks of two or three eggs. Put into a small stewpan 1 teacupful of water and Jib. of fresh butter ; set this over the fire till the butter is melted, then pour it, little by little, into the hollow in the flour, and work the flour in with two fingers until it is all taken up and worked into a stiff Paste ; work this on the slab with both hands till it is well kneaded, then gather it together, roll it into a ball, wrap it up in a floured cloth, and let it stand for two or three hours in a cool place ; by this time the dough will have set, and be ready for use. The rolling-out should be done lightly; any heavy handling spoils this crust. (2) Sift lib. of flour on a table, make a hollow in the centre, and pour into it Jib. of well-washed butter, 1 salt- Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads.TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 115 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Sec., referred to, sec under their special hcad6. Paste and Pastry—continued. spoonful of salt, and 1 gill of cold water. Knead the salt, butter, and water well for two minutes, then incorporate the flour gradually, which will take three minutes more, and knead sharply with the hands. Detach the Paste from the table, roll it into a ball, then press it again on the table in different directions for two minutes; remove again from the table, flour the table slightly, lay the Paste over, and with the fingers of the right hand press down the Paste in the centre, and with the left bring up the edges all round to the centre; repeat this three times, and when finished the Paste must have its original shape. Lay it on a dish, cover with a towel, set it in a cool place for twenty minutes, and it will be ready for use. (3) Put lib. of flour into a basin with Alb. of dripping or lard and dripping mixed; work the dripping lightly into the flour with the tips of the fingers, keeping your hands out of the flour as much as possible. When properly mixed the flour should resemble fine breadcrumbs or coarse meal. Then mix in quickly just sufficient water to make it to a stiff Paste. Flour the hands, take the Paste out of the bowl, and put it on a paste board that has been dredged with a little flour; work it a little with your lingers, still keeping the hands from it as much as possible. Flour the rolling- pin and roll the Paste out three times, folding it up twice, and cover the pie. If it is a fruit pie brush over with milk or the beaten white of an egg and dredge powdered white sugar over it. (4) Make lib. of flour quite hot in the oven. Put jib. of butter and j pint of water in a saucepan over the fire, and let it melt. When the flour is hot, mix into it, with the blade of a knife, jib. of cold butter; then pour the water and melted butter out of the saucepan into the middle of the flour, stir it well together with the blade of the knife, and work it a little with your fingers. Flour the rolling-pin and paste-board, put the Paste on the board, roll it out once, put it over the pie, and bake immediately. (5) Put lib. of Hour on a pasteboard with 4oz. of caster sugar; cut 1 Ooz. of butter into slices, put it in the flour, and chop it all well together with a knife. Beat the yolks of six eggs together with 1 wineglassful of brandy, and mix them into the flour gradually, working it until quite smooth. Dredge flour over the paste board, and roll the Paste out thin; fold it over, beat it with the rolling- pin, roll it out, fold it twice, and roll it out again. The Paste is then ready for use. (6) First weigh the necessary quantity of flour and put it into a large bowl, keeping back as much as will more than half fill the flour-dredger; then put into the Hour in the bowl fib. of lard, butter, or dripping to every pound of flour, and work it lightly into the flour with the tips of your fingers, keeping the hands out of the flour as much as possible. The butter, lard, or dripping, whichever is used, must be thoroughly incorporated with the flour so that it resembles fine breadcrumbs or coarse meal in texture. Then mix in quickly barely enough cold water or milk to form a stiff Paste. Dredge a little flour on the paste-board, and flour the fingers; then take the Paste out of the bowl, put it on the paste-board, work it a little with the fingers, still keeping the hands from it as much as possible, and roll the Paste out three times with a floured rolling-pin, folding it up twice, and put it on the tart. (7) Put lib. of Hour into a basin, sprinkle over it 1 saltspoonful of salt, and mix well 'with it All), of finely- chopped suet. Stir in then quickly just enough water to form it to a stiff Paste, dredge the rolling-pin and paste- board with flour, put the Paste on the board, work it a little with your fingers, and then roll it out. Besides Puff Paste and Short-Paste, there are a few others especially recommended for certain reasons, which are explained in the following receipts: They may be regarded as variations of one or both of the two previously described. For other Pastes, such as Brioche, Choux, Fran- gipane, Macaroni, FTouille, Potato, Rice, &c., see those headings. Paste and Pastry—continued. Chopped Paste.—Put lqt. of pastry-flour, 2 breakfast-cup- fuls of butter, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, and 1 teaspoonful of salt on a chopping-board and chop them all together till well mixed; add j breakfast-cupful of iced water, and continue chopping. When thoroughly mixed, lift the Paste, sprinkle the board with flour, then roll the Paste out thinly on it. The Paste is better when stood upon ice for a time, as it should be hard before used. Crisp Paste.—Sift jib. of flour and 2oz. of powdered white sugar; and mixing them together, work them into a paste with the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Use a wooden spoon to mix the Paste, touching it as little as possible with the hands. This Paste may be used in making fruit tarts; it should be baked in a hot oven, and imme- diately before putting it into the oven should be brushed over with well-beaten white of egg and sprinkled with powdered white sugar. Croquante Paste.—Mix Jib. of caster sugar with lib. of flour; then stir in a sufficient number of beaten yolks of eggs to form a smooth Paste. When well kneaded, roll it out to the specified shape and about jin. thick. Rub the shape with butter and press the Paste closely over it to cut the pattern well through, then lay it on a baking- tin, dip a paste-brush in the beaten white of egg, and brush the surface of the Paste over; sprinkle with caster sugar and bake it in a slow oven. When cooked, remove it carefully from the tin, and cover with jam. Geneva Paste.—Rub lib. of fresh butter into lib. of finely- sifted dried flour until the butter is entirely absorbed, then work in lib. of caster sugar and jib. of blanched and pounded almonds, adding three bitter almonds to the quantity and a little salt. Mix with sufficient beaten egg to make a stiff Paste. This is useful for making Genevese and other fancy Pastry. Genoa Paste.—Sift Alb. of flour on to a table, make a hollow in the centre, put in 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar and four eggs, mix thoroughly, and afterwards work in 4oz. of melted butter. Let it stand for a few minutes, and it is then ready and may be used for making many kinds of fancy Pastiy. Some varieties of this Paste are given under GENOESE PASTRY. German Paste.—(1) Rub Alb. of butter in jib. of sifted flour; then mix with it Alb. of caster sugar and the grated peel of one lemon. When mixed and rubbed through a fine hair sieve, work it with a little cold water to a stiff Paste. Sprinkle some flour over a paste-board, slightly flour a rolling pin, and roll the Paste to about Ain. in thickness; spread over the surface jib. of butter, then fold it up, sprinkle more flour over the board and rolling-pin, and roll it out again; spread another jib. of butter, proceed as before, use another jib. of butter, making in all lib. The Paste is then ready for use. (2) Sift Alb. of flour into a basin and mix a small quantity of salt with it; beat an egg together with 1 teacupful of water and stir it in with the flour. Put 3 pints of milk into a saucepan, and when boiling drop the mixture into it in flakes. Boil for five or six minutes, then turn the Paste on to a hot dish, dredge over caster sugar, and serve. Italian Paste.—What is known by this name is merely an admixture of fine wheat-flour and water, used chiefly in the manufacture of macaroni and vermicelli. macaroni Paste.—This consists essentially of the best white flour moistened with water. It is more generally known as Italian Paste. Office Paste (Pate d'Office).—(1) Make a bay in l^lb. of flour and work in the whites of two eggs and yolks of five, lib. of crushed loaf sugar, and a little salt, adding if required another yolk of egg so as to have the Paste as firm as possible. Work it five or six times, or until it is quite smooth and well mixed. It is then ready for use, and may be cut into pieces of any desired shape; blit when being baked care should be taken to squeeze the Paste on to the tin or whatever is used so as to exclude the air, which would spoil the Paste by cooking it unevenly. Office Paste is used for making foundations and ornaments for various custards, baked egg puddings, and creamy pies;THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 116 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Paste and Pastry—continued. it is palatable, and more digestible tlian Pastry made with butter or shortening. (2) Sift lib. of flour on a paste board, make a hollow in the centre, and put in Jib. of powdered sugar, two eggs, the yolks of two more, and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Mix these ingredients to a smooth Paste, using the tips of the fingers, and then knead the Paste thoroughly until it is smooth and firm. If the Paste is too dry to knead well, add one or more yolks to produce the proper consistency, and then roll it out and use it. Paste for Borders.—Put into a bowl the yolks of six or eight eggs, a few drops of water, and a little salt, and mix in flour until it is so stiff that it can scarcely lie worked. Beat and work it till quite smooth, and keep it moist until required; roll it out quite thin, cut it in the desired shapes, and then place them upon the dish before they get too dry. Brash over with white of egg. Paste for Cheese Cakes.—Mix until lib. of best sifted flour 3oz. of caster sugar. Beat Jib. of butter till of a creamy consistence, then sift the flour and sugar gradually into it. When well mixed, work in the whole yolks of three eggs and the well beaten whites of two. It is then ready for use. Paste made with Cream.—(1) Mix J teaspoonful of salt and J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda with 1 breakfast- cupful of cream; stir in gradually sufficient flour to make a stiff Paste. Sprinkle a little flour on the table, and roll the Paste out on it to about Jin. thick. Cut about 2oz. of butter into small pieces and put it on the Paste; sift over a little flour, double the Paste, and roll it out thin. It is then ready to be used. (2) Put 4 breakfast-cupfuls of flour in a basin, and mix in 1 pinch of salt and A pint of thick cream. Put the Paste on a floured baking-sheet and leave it for half-an - liour. Sprinkle some flour on a paste-board and roll the Paste out on it; cut Jib. of butter in small pieces, put them on the Paste, roll it out five times, then cut it into any desired shape. Dip a paste-brusli into beaten yolk of egg, brush the Paste over, and bake. Paste for Custards or Preserved Fruits.—Put 6oz. of butter over the fire in a saucepan with 6 table-spoonfuls of water, let it come to the boil, and then mix into it as much flour as will make it into a stiff Paste. Knead and beat it with a rolling-pin till smooth. When quite smooth knead it into a lump and turn a pan down over it or cover with a cloth till it is almost cold. Take a piece of the Paste, large enough for the purpose, knead it into a lump, then press the knuckles of the left hand into the top of this lump of Paste, pretty nearly in the middle, and with the right hand keep working the Paste up the back of the left hand, shifting it round and round meanwhile, forming the Paste into a circular shape with a flat bottom and upright sides like an ordinary jam-pot. The Paste ought to be stiff enough to keep in shape when the hand is withdrawn if it has not been pressed too thin or into holes. Trim the edges, line the Paste with paper till half baked, then remove the paper, pour in the custard or preserve, and finish the baking. Paste made with Dripping.—This requires great care, as the dripping runs very readily, even the heat of the hand being sufficient to melt it. it should be made in a cool room with cool hands, and the dripping should he clarified. To every lib. of flour allow 6oz. of dripping and 1 tea- spoonful of baking-powder. Mix the baking-powder with the flour, and add at the same tune 1 teaspoonful of fine salt. Break the dripping into small pieces about the size of peas, and rub these pieces into the flour until all have been taken up; then moisten the flour with a teacupful of cold water, and work until it is a stiff Paste, adding a little more water now and again if necessary. It can then be rolled out on a well-floured board, folding it over and over again to three turns. Paste for Meat and Game Pies.—Use Alb. of butter to ilh. of flour; chop one half the butter into the flour, and add 1 teaspoonful of salt and enough cold water to mix it to a smooth Paste just soft enough to roll out. If ice-water is used, and the Paste is mixed with a knife instead oi Paste and Pastry—continued. the hand, it can be kept cooler, and will be lighter and more delicate than if mixed with the hands. In making, touch the Paste as little and as lightly as possible with the hands, because heating and pressing heavily upon it make it dense and tough. After the Paste is mixed and rolled about Ain. thick, dredge it with flour, cut half the remain- ing butter into slices, and lay them on the Paste, leaving a space of about lin. all around the edges; dredge the butter with flour, turn the edges in all round to enclose the outside layers of butter, and then double the Paste, and again roll it out about Ain. thick; put the rest of the butter on it in slices, dredge with flour, fold in the edges, double it, and roll out as already directed. If any Paste remains after the pie is made, wrap it in a floured cloth, and keep in a cool dry place; it will be good for several days, and only requires to be rolled out two or three times before using to make it quite light. Paste for Ornamenting Tartlets.—Rub loz. of butter into 4oz. of flour. Mix it to a stiff Paste with a little cold water, rub it well on the board till it begins to string, then cut it into four or five pieces and roll them out: draw it into fine strings, and lay them across the tartlets in any fancied pattern. Paste for Oyster Patties.—Put fib. of well-sifted flour in a basin, and mix in with it the strained juice of a lemon that has been mixed with a sufficient quantity of water to form a light dough. Dredge a marble slab with flour, put the dough on it, and knead it well; then roll it out, spread fib. of butter over, fold it again, and roll out four times, then fold it in three and stand it in a cool place. In about two hours’ time, roll the Paste out to about Jin. in thickness, and cut out several large rounds and the same number of small rounds, using two different-sized Paste-cutters, which should be dipped in flour each time they are used to prevent them sticking. Lay the rounds on a baking-tin, and bake them until lightly browned. When cooked, scoop a little of the Paste out of the centre of each round, fill the hollow with whatever may have been prepared for it, and cover with the smaller rounds. Paste for Patties.—Sift lib. of the best white flour through a fine wire sieve on to a marble slab; mix with it a few drops of lemon-juice, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and stir it into a smooth stiff Paste with cold water. Squeeze the water out of lib. of butter by putting it in a cloth and working it well with the hands; then put it in the middle of the Paste, fold the edges round it, and roll it out. Fold the Paste in three, turn it round and roll it the other way. Let it rest for twenty minutes, then roll it twice more, and so on until it has been rolled six times. Next roll the Paste out to the thickness of Ain., and with a plain tin cutter, 2Jin. in diameter, cut the Paste into rounds; the cutter should be dipped into boiling water each time it is used. Place the rounds on a baking-tin, brush them over with a paste-brusb dipped in beaten egg, then with a tin cutter about lAin. in diameter cut half-way through the centre of each round. Bake them in a brisk oven, taking care not to let the Paste brown too much. When the patties are cooked, lift the Paste where the circle is marked, that being to form the covers, scoop out some of the Paste, and fill them with whatever has been prepared for them. Paste for Pies. —(1) Put 31b. of well-sifted flour on to a board or table, work in 20oz. of butter, make a bay, and work in the yolks of four eggs, loz. of salt, and 1 break- fast-cupful of cold water. Should the Paste while being used be too hard and crack, it may be rolled out again and slightly damped with water before being worked up. If preferred, the butter may be worked in with the liquids before being introduced to the flour, which must be well worked in, adding it gradually. It is far easier to make this Paste in winter than in summer. (2) Put 4oz. of butter and 4oz. of lard into a saucepan with 1 pint of water, and place it on the fire until boiling. Put in a small quantity of salt, and stir in gradually about 31b. of flour. Work and beat the mixture, dredging it occasionally with flour until a smooth firm Paste is formed. Let it get quite cold before using.117 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Paste and Pastry—continued. (3) Work into lib. of sifted flour Jll>. of lard or besf- dripping and 1 dessert-spoonful of salt. When thoroughly mixed, pour in enough cold water to bind it together. Flour a paste-slab or table and rolling-pin; take a part of the Paste and roll it to les; than Jin. in thickness. For the upper or outside crust of a pie, roll the Paste out thin, spread a hit of butter half the size of an egg over it, fold it up, roll it out again, and cover the pie. Place a narrow rim of Paste round the edge of the dish, and fill with the desired fruit, either raw or stewed, and cover with the rolled Paste. (4) Sift 12oz. of flour on to a board, make a bay, and work in Goz. of butter, the yolks of two eggs, joz. of salt, and about 4 teacupful of cold water. Continue to work the Paste as for ordinary Puli' Paste, hut giving it one more turn for having more butter in it. It is more difficult to blend in summer. Should the butter be too oily in summer-time, it should he iced before being used. If the Paste becomes heated it should be cut into thin slices, moistened with water, and then worked together. (5) Sift on a table lib. of flour, make a bay in the centre, pour in 1 pint of cold water, and add 2oz. of butter and J table-spoonful of salt; knead the ingredients well together with the hand for two minutes, and gra- dually and slowly incorporate the flour with the rest. Lay the Paste on a dish, and put it in a cool place for three minutes. Have ready Goz. of well-washed butter in one lump, return the Paste to the table, flatten it slightly, put the lump of butter in the centre, fold over the edges so as to enclose the butter, roll it out lengthwise with the roller, and refold the Paste into three folds. Put it again in a cool place for three minutes, then roll it again, fold it as before, and set it on the ice for five minutes. The Paste will now be ready to use, and by keeping it in the ice-chest it will remain in good con- dition for three days. Paste for Savoury Pies.—Boil about 2oz. of lard and 2oz. of dripping with 1 teacupful of water. While this is hot, mix with it smoothly sufficient flour to make a stiff Paste. Knead it well, and beat it with the rolling- pin till quite smooth. Knead it into a lump, and turn a pan down over it till it is almost cold. Then roll it to a proper thickness on a floured paste-board with a floured rolling-pin. Cut out a piece for the bottom of the pie, a piece for the top, and a long narrow piece to form the sides. Fasten the bottom to the sides by brushing egg over the edges and then pressing them well together, joining up the side edges in the same way. Fill the pie, then put on the cover, brushing the edges over with beaten egg, and pinching them together. If the pie is made in a tin mould, all the edges must be fastened together in just the same way. The tin must be well buttered before putting the Paste in, and when the pie is baked it should be slipped out of the tin and put back again into the oven to brown the sides, first brushing beaten egg all over. Paste made with Suet.—(1) _ Take all the skin off, and finely chop lib. of beef-suet, using a little flour to prevent it sticking to the knife. Mix 1 teaspoonful of baking- powder and 1 pinch of salt with lib. of flour, then put the suet in; work it into a light Paste with a little cold water, but do not make it too wet. It may be used for boiled or baked puddings and pies. (2) Put 31b. of beef suet that has been melted in a saucepan with 3 pints of cold water and 31b. of butter. Put it over the fire till nearly boiling and the suet and butter are dissolved; then pour it at once over the flour. The exact quantity cannot be stated, as some flours absorb more liquid than others. The preparation is then ready for use. (3) Boil about 2oz. of lard and 2oz. of dripping in 1 tea- cupful of water. While this is hot, mix with it smoothly flour enough to make a stiff Paste, knead it well, and beat it with a rolling-pin till quite smooth; make it into a lump and turn a pan Gown over it till it is almost cold. Then take a piece large enough for the pie, knead it into a lump, then press the knuckles of the left hand into the Paste and Pastry—continued. top of the Paste nearly in the middle, and with the right hand keep working the Paste up the back of the left hand, shifting it round and round meanwhile, forming the Paste into a circular form with a flat bottom and upright sides like an ordinary jam-pot. The Paste ought to lie stiff enough to keep in shape when the hand is withdrawn if it has not been pressed too thin or into holes. When properly raised or pressed into form the meat may be put into it and another piece of the Paste, rolled out, laid on for the cover. Brush the edges over with a little beaten egg, trim, and press them together. A small ornament for the top may be made of the trimmings of Paste. When the pie is finished, brush beaten egg over the top and sides, and bake it. Transparent Paste for Tartlets.—Warm fib. of butter without oiling it; when nearly cold again, stir in one beaten egg, and continue beating for a little while ; sift in with the butter and eggs lib. of the finest dried white flour, and make a thin Paste with it. Butter some patty- pans or tart-dishes, line them with the Paste, brush over a little water, and sift some caster sugar over; bake them at once in a moderate oven. Pastry.—Having made the Paste, the next thing for the pastrycook to do is to use it; and this brings him to the threshold of his art. He sees before him a vast array of ingenious and beautiful subjects, amongst which are to be found Patties, Pies, Tartlets, Souffles, Cakes, Yol-au-Yents, Plawns, Puddings, Bouchees, Crou- stades, Puffs, Biscuits, Decorative and Fancy Fig. 137. Dough-knife (Mathews and Son). Pastry. Most of these are described under special head- ings ; in this article the details necessarily must be of a limited character, illustrating the prime features of the art rather than the details of execution. The artistic pastry- cook, however, requires certain aids to his work beyond those already named, and these will be found described hereunder. Fig. 138. Palette-knife (Mathews and Son). One of the essentials of Pastry-making is a knife (see Fig. 137) shaped conveniently for cutting dough, such as would be required for shaping or trimming. A palette- knife (see Fig. 138) is also found very useful as well as a little instrument called a jigger (s?e Fig. 139), which has a fluted cutting-wheel at one end and corrugated pincers at the other for nipping and stamping the edge of a pie Fig. 139. Jigger. and other Pastry. Ho pastrycook would consider his apparatus complete without a set of Pastry-cutters, plain and fluted rounds, ovals, and other shapes (see Figs. 140 and 141) suitable for cutting out patterns to be used for various pimposes. The value of these cutters is shown in the manufacture of bouchees (see Fig. 142) or rissoles (see Fig. 143); they are also very useful for cutting118 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Paste and Pastry—continued. out Paste-leaves, &c., to be used for decorating raised and other pies. Tlie pastrycook should provide himself with a brush (see Pig. 144) for moistening the edges of the Paste with water to make them adhere, or for other purposes Fig. 140. Pastry-cutters, various designs (E. Cox). such as glazing, as well as a brush (see Pig. 145) for applying softened butter; these will be found most useful. Another important requisite is a Pastry-bag (see Pig. 146), this is also known as a biscuit-bag, being used chiefly for apportioning and depositing such small quantities of soft Fig. 141. Fluted or Scalloped Pastry-cutters (E. Cox). dough as would be required for the manufacture of macaroons, lady’s fingers, and other biscuits. For making tartlets, patties, and other such goods, a great variety of pans or moulds (see Fig. 147) are designed by manu- facturers. In the making of cakes, the pastry- Fig. 142. Bouchee. cook has an immense variety of tins for shaping; first of all he has the round cake-ring (see Pig. 148), which answers so well for the manufacture of wedding- cakes ; then the shallow cake-ring (see Pig. 149), for flat Paste and Pastry—continued. cakes; the oblong tin (see Pig. 150), for Genoa and similar cakes; square (see Pig. 151), for spiced loaves; round (see Fig. 152) with straight sides; round with sloping sides (see Fig. 153), and oval (see Pig. 154). In the way sponge baba cakes (see Fig. 157). Although the dawn (see Fig. 158) seems to have gone out of date to some extent, probably because it requires a ring, it is neverthe- FiG. 145. Butter-brush (Mathews and Son). less one of those productions that give the pastrycook almost unlimited scope for the exercise of his talent. The old-fashioned puff (see Fig. 159) is another species of Pastry that deserves encouragement; it is easily manufactured and gives most satisfactory results pro- vided the Pastry be light, although not necessarily so Fig. 147. Tartlet- and Patty-moulds. light as that required for a vol-au-vent (see Fig. 160). In the way of fancy Pastry, some very pretty designs are occasionally prepared, such as bird’s-nests (see Fig. 161),119 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, efee., referred to, see under their special heads. Paste and Pastry—con tinned. walnuts (see Fig. 162), and a variety of other tasty designs, even to the extent of making a cornucopia (see Fig. 163). To produce cornucopias, special moulds Fig. 148. Round Cake-ring (Mathews and Son). (see Fig. 164) are required, which open by means of pins and hinges in such a way that the Paste can be removed whole and perfect so soon as it is set by baking. One of Fig. 149. Shallow Cake-ring. the most modern samples of fancy Pastry is the cannelon, which is usually filled with cream and garnished with pre- serves. A cannelon is made by twisting a long narrow Fig. 150. Oblong Cake-tin (Mathews and Son). strip of Puff Paste round a stick prepared for the purpose (see Fig. 165). The stick is removed after the cannelon is baked, and the place where the stick came from filled with Fig. 151. Square Cake-tin (Mathews and Son). Fig. 152. Round Cake-tin with Straight Sides (Mathews and Son). Paste and Pastry—continued. above, completing the drying of all parts equally without making the underneath sodden. Most kinds of fancy Pastry require a little drying in the hot-closet, a sort of Fig. 155. Madeleine Cake and Mould. tin-lined screen (see Fig. 167), fitted with shelves, which is open on one side towards the fire. _ In this, if placed upon a Pastry-wire as described, biscuits containing sugar Fig. 156. Breakfast Cake and Hoop. become crisp and keep better, especially if stored in regular biscuit-tins. Sometimes the pastrycook finds it advisable to decorate his uroductions with little round Fig. 157. Baba-moulds (Adams and Son). balls, or beads of Paste, called quenelles; these may be dipped in different kinds of coloured sugars, chocolate, and other icing, and if carefully used afford a very Fig. 158. Fi.awn and Ring. jam or cream, or both, or any other sweet that the fancy of the pastrycook may suggest. This kind of Pastry being very delicate, it requires great care in handling, and should useful mode of decoration. The balls are prepared by cutting strips of Paste and rolling them into sticks of an equal calibre, they are then cut into equal lengths, say be set to dry after baking on a wire frame (see Fig. 166) raised by legs from the table, shelf, or counter, so that the air can reach the Pastry from underneath as well as from j-in. thick and Jin. long, and rolled into spherical shape with the aid of a small piece of board (see Fig. 168) and a slight dusting of flour, by giving the board a120 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fig. 163. Cornucopia. designs made for all sorts of savoury contents, such as game, pork, veal and ham, or pigeon. The Paste eroustade (see Pig. 171) is made in the same way as the raised Fig. 167. Hot-closet. Genoese Pastry.—(1) Warm 4oz. of fresh butter, beat it, then mix in 4oz. of caster sugar and whip the two together until creamy; beat in, one at a time, four eggs, For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Paste and Pastry—continued. circular motion while pressing lightly upon the balls beneath. The manufacture of Paste puddings is described under Paste and Pastry—continued. pie, but its application is somewhat different and more varied. Fig. 160. Vol-au-Vent. various headings in this Encyclopaedia, so also is the ordi- nary pie; but the savoury raised pie (see Pig. 169), with its concomitant decorations and garnishes is regarded by Fig. 161. Paste Bird’s Nest. all pastrycooks as a work worthy of a master hand. For the preparation of the crust and its ornamental appearance the pastrycook is indebted to the metal mould-maker, who Fig. 165. Plan of making Pastry Cannelon. Genevese Pastry.—Make a Genoa Paste adding a little chopped candied orange, or citron-peel and 1 teacupful of brandy. Spread the Paste over a baking-sheet, level it off with a knife, and bake. When done, with tin cutters cut Fig. 162. Paste Walnut. has provided an apparatus that enables the cook to look with pride upon his work; these are known as raised pie moulds (see Pig. 170), of which there are numerous Fig. 16a. Cornucopia-mould. The following receipts may be considered a useful addition to the examples already described: French Pastry.—Several varieties of this will be found under different headings. See Puff Paste (Feuilletage), page f 14. Fig. 166. Pastry-wire (Mathews and Son). it into any shapes desired, then spread a sheet of paper over another baking sheet, arrange the cakes on it, and brown them on both sides in the oven. /"■V r121 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, See., referred to, see under their special heads. Paste and Pastry—continued. then stir in quickly Jib. of finely-sifted flour, and work it until quite smooth. Thickly hutter a flat tin, pour the mixture on to it, spreading it out to about the thickness of Ain., and bake at once for fifteen minutes in a brisk oven. When cooked, turn the Pastry on to a sieve, and leave until cool, the under-side uppermost. Spread a thin layer of apricot jam over the Pastry, then a layer of chocolate icing, and put it to dry for a minute in the oven. When quite cold, cut the Pastry into various fancy shapes, and serve. (2) Mix together Jib. each of flour and caster sugar and 1 pinch of salt; then stir in four well-beaten eggs and a liqueur-glassful of brandy. Melt ilk of butter, and mix it thoroughly with the Paste till quite smooth. Butter a cake- tin, turn the Pastry into it, and bake. It can be cut in slices when cold and served with jam between them, or it can be baked in dariole-moulds, and served hot with a fruit syrup sauce. (3) Mix 4oz. of flour with 6oz. of caster sugar, then stir in six beaten eggs, a little essence of lemons, and 4oz. of melted butter. Line a copper pan with two thicknesses of paper, pour in the preparation, and bake in a very hot oven. When cooked, take it out, and serve cold, with either fruit or preserves. German Paste Croquettes.—Sift lib. of flour on the table, make a hollow in the centre, then work in a piece of butter about the size of a walnut, a pinch of salt, three or four eggs, and sufficient water to make it of the right consistency. When thoroughly well mixed, roll the Paste out twice on a floured table, sprinkle it with flour, then cut it into small equal portions, which roll into balls. Fig. 169. Savoury Raised Pie. Arrange these on a sheet of paper, and let them dry for an hour, turning occasionally. Dip the balls in beaten eggs, then in breadcrumbs, and fry them in butter. When lightly and equally browned, drain, place them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Neapolitan Pastry.—Make a rich Puff' Paste, roll it out to about Jin. in thickness, and cut it into strips nearly 2in. wide; lay these on a baking-dish a little distance from each other, so that when they spread they will not join, and bake in a quick oven. When done, take them out, mask half of them with strawberry or raspberry jam, and place the other half on top of them. Ice them with coloured icing, arrange tastefully on a fancy dish, and serve. Paste and Pastry—continued. Paste Cases for a Chinese Temple.—Boil loz. of double- refined sugar together with Joz. of butter and a little water, put it away till quite cold, and then mix into it a well-beaten egg. Work flour into this till it is a thick Paste and very stiff, and roll it out extremely thin. Lay it in a set of tins (the Paste should be cut the exact size) in graduated sizes and bake in a slow oven. When cooked, take them out and let them remain in the tins till quite cold; then remove them from the tins and join together with isinglass and water in the shape of a temple. The pieces of Paste for the lower part of the temple should be thicker and stronger than the rest, as they have to sustain the weight of the whole. The cases may after- wards be filled with light confectionery or crystallized flowers. If for confectionery, make the Paste and supports stronger. Fig. 170. Raised Pie Moulds. Paste Crowns.—Sift Hlb. of flour, put it in a basin, make a bay in the centre, into which put fib. of moist sugar, the grated rinds of two lemons, fib. of fresh butter, and ten eggs. Knead all well to a Paste, and if the Paste should be too thin add more flour. Cut this Paste into small pieces, and roll them to the length and thickness of fingers. Form an edge to each of these pieces of Paste by pressing them with a thin rolling-pin or round stick about the size of an office-ruler from about half their own thickness, then turn them into little crowns, the thin edge uppermost. Moisten the ends and anneal them; lay them on white paper, and bake in not too hot an oven. Dip them in white sugar icing and return them to the oven for a minute. Paste Plaits.—Prepare a sufficient quantity of Puff Paste, put it on a floured table, and roll it out to about Jin. in thickness; cut it into three strips of an equal length and width, stick the three of them together at one end with beaten egg, and plait them. When plaited, stick them together at the other ends with the egg. Brush lightly over with a paste-brush dipped in the beaten egg, lay it on a buttered baking-sheet, dust over with caster sugar, and bake in a brisk oven. Cut a few thin strips of red- Fig. 171. Paste Croustade. currant jelly, and twist them round. When cooked, lay the twists of jelly between the plaits of Paste, and serve. Puff-Paste Cakes.—(1) Prepare lib. of Puff Paste of six turns, put it in a cold place for a few minutes, then roll it out to Jin. in thickness. Cut it with a sharp knife into122 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Paste and Pastry—continued. pieces of a rectangular shape, about 4in. long and 2in. broad, which cut again into halves, across and from one corner to the other; mark with the point of a knife in lines converging to the square coiner, so as to resemble a fan. Butter a baking-tin, lay the pieces of Paste on their sides on it, leaving a small space between them, and bake in a very quick oven. Arrange them on a hot dish, dust over with caster sugar, and serve. (2) Melt 1 Jib. of fresh butter, turn it into a basin with ljlb. of caster sugar, and beat it until well mixed; then stir in gradually sufficient flour to make a stiff Paste. Turn the Paste on to a table or paste board over which a small quantity of flour has been sifted, and work it well for a few minutes. Divide the Paste into small portions, shape into round cakes, lay them on a buttered baking-tin, put them in a moderate oven, and bake till of a light golden colour. Puff Paste with Clotted Cream.—Mix four eggs, 1 tea- spoonful of salt, and sufficient water to make a soft Paste with 1 Jib. of flour, and work it Mrell with the hands, dipping them occasionally in warmed butter; dredge flour over the table, roll the Paste out as thin as possible, and cut it into rounds about 6in. in diameter. Butter a baking-sheet, lay half of the rounds on it, and brush over each round with a butter-brush dipped in warmed butter. Divide about It lb. of clotted cream into small pieces, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten white of egg, lay a piece of cream on each piece, and cover them with the remainder of the rounds. The pieces of cream should be brushed all over until the white of egg, as that will prevent it melting during cooking. Bake in a moderate oven. Boil lib. of loaf sugar in lqt. of water until reduced to a syrup. When cooked and lightly coloured, take the Pastry out of the oven, pour over the syrup, dust with caster sugar, and serve. Royal Pastry.—Put J- pint of water in a large saucepan with a little more than Jib. of fresh butter, 2oz. of sugar, the peel of one lemon, and 1 pinch of salt. Boil it till the butter is melted, then take the lemon-peel out; throw in sufficient finely-sifted flour to make a stiff Paste, stir it over the Are with a wooden spoon till the Paste can be easily detached from the saucepan, then take it oft'. Break in, one at a time, five or six eggs, but do not put more than the Paste can absorb, and mix each one in before the next is added. Shape the Paste into equal sized balls, and put them, about lin. apart from each other, on a baking-sheet. Brush over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg and milk, put them in a moderately hot oven, and do not open the door till they are done, or they will flatten. Dry them, detach them from the baking-sheet with the point of a knife, make a small hole in the tops, put 1 teaspoonful of jam or any kind of sweetmeat in each, and serve. Short-Paste Cakes.—Put 12oz. of fresh butter in a sauce- pan, place it over the fire until melted, then mix in gra- dually a little over lib. of the finest wheat-flour, and stir over the fire until the flour is lightly browned. Remove the flour from the fire, and beat it until smooth and cool, then mix in 1,1b. of caster sugar and a small grated nutmeg. Knead the mixture with the hands, then divide it into small portions, which mould into fancy cakes. Butter a baking-sheet, lay the cakes on it, put them in a moderate oven, and bake till of a pale golden colour. These cakes will keep for some months, provided they are put into biscuit-tins and kept in a dry cup- board. Turkish Pastry.—Work Jib. of fresh butter into lib. of ground rice, and when smooth add Jib. of caster sugar and 1 saltspoonful of salt; mix the whole into a rather stiff Paste with orange-flower water. Mould the Paste into rather large balls, lay them on a baking-dish over which has been spread a sheet of buttered paper, cover with another sheet of buttered paper, and bake for half- an-hour in a brisk oven. When cooked, pile the balls on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, sift caster sugar over them, and serve. PASTILLES .—The name given to small lozenges or loaves. Pastilles are made of a variety of aromatics; they derive their title from the Latin pastillus, the diminutive of pastus—food. Receipts for their manufacture will be found under Apricots, Chocolate, Currants, Dam- sons, Ginger, Oranges, Raspberries, &c. PASTRY.—See Paste and Pastry. PASTRY CREAMS.—Another name for Eclairs. PASTY—The name given to a sort of savoury pie, especially used in connection with game and venison. FATfi DE FOIES GRAS.—See Goose’s Fat Liver. PATNA RICE. —See Rice. PATTEN-or PATEN-PASTE. —Literally Paste that is used for spreading over a Paten or dish. See Paste (Puff). FATTIES (.Fr. Pates; Ger. Pasteten). — Although this term has somewhat fallen out of use in this country, being nothing more or less than a corruption of the word pasties, it would he well if it were retained in culinary nomenclature, in order to distinguish between large and small pies. In this way we should speak of oyster or mince Patties as the diminutive of savoury or sweet pies. The following receipts, contributed by famous cooks, give good variety: (1) Take a few small Patty-pans (see Fig. 172) and spread them with short paste. Make a savoury forcemeat of raw calf’s liver, All the pans with it, put over these covers of thin paste, and place them in a slack oven to bake. When done take them out, let them get cold, cut off the covering of paste, take out a little of the inside, Fig. 172. Patty-pans. and put in a little cooked goose’s fat liver. Replace that which was removed, and put it over the goose’s liver, rais- ing the preparation in a dome above the edges of the paste. Set a small jelly crouton on the top. Arrange the Patties in a pyramid on a dish, and garnish with more aspic according to taste. (2) Line some Patty-pans with a light paste at five turns; fill them with quenelle forcemeat, cover each with a round of paste, and trim and press them round the edges. Brush over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake for a-quarter-of-an-hour. When cooked, arrange the Patties on a folded napkin or ornamental paper on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. Cornish. Patties. —(1) Peel Jib. of potatoes, put them into a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of salt, and cover with cold water. Place the saucepan over the fire, and when the water boils take out the potatoes and divide them into small square pieces. Peel and cut up into shreds one onion, and chop into small square pieces fib. of beef-steak. Mix the pieces of steak, onions, and potato well together with a fork, and sprinkle over them 1 saltspoonful of pepper and nearly 1 teaspoonful of salt. Chop fine Jib. of beef-suet, stir it into lib. of flour and 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, and mix this to a light dough, adding 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water. Cut the dough into seven or eight pieces, and roll them out till they are Jin. thick. Divide the steak, potatoes, and onions into as many portions as there are pieces of the rolled-out dough, lay a portion on each piece, gather up the edges of the crust, brush the edges with a little cold water, and pinch them firmly together. Brush over each Patty with a little milk or beaten egg, and bake for three- quarters-of-an-hour in a tolerably quick oven. (2) Trim off the skin and discoloured parts from Jib. of beef-suet, chop it fine, mix it with Jib. of flour, addTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 123 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred, to, see under their special heads. Patties—continued. 1 saltspoonful of salt, and mix it to a smooth paste with cold water; roll the paste out to a moderate thickness and with a tin cutter about 2in. in diameter cut it into rounds. Peel and slice some raw potatoes, cut them into small pieces, mix with them an equal quantity of raw meat, also cut into small pieces, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity each of sweet herbs and finely-chopped onions. Spread the mixture over half of each of the Patties, double the other half over, moisten the edges slightly with water, and pinch them together. Brush over the top of the Patties with a paste-brush dippc ;1 in beaten egg, lay them on a baking-tin, and bake for twenty minutes. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the Patties on it, garnish with parsley, and serve; or they may be served cold. Dresden Patties.—(1) Take Alb. of any kind of cold boiled fish, trim off the skin and bone, and chop the fish fine. Put loz. of butter into a fiat stewpan with 1 table- spoonful of flour, stir over the fire until mixed, then pom- in 1 teacupful of milk, and continue stirring. Put the fish into the boiling milk, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stew gently at the side of the fire for fifteen minutes. Cut two large rounds of bread about 4in. in diameter and 1 Ain. in thickness, and with a 3in. tin-cutter cut half-way through each. Dip the rounds well in cream, then drain, and dip them in well-beaten egg. Season a small plate of finely-grated breadcrumb with salt and pepper and roll the rounds in them, giving a good coating. Put a large lump of clarified fat or lard into a frying- pan, place it over the fire until blue smoke rises, then put in the rounds and fry them until lightly browned. Take them out of the fat until a slice, and put them on a sheet of kitchen-paper to drain for a few minutes. Lift off the inner round of bread with a sharp knife, and scoop out from the centre of the large round all the soft bread. Fill the hollows with the fish mixture, and put the small rounds of bread on the top. Place the Patties on a hot dish c rer which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with a few neat sprigs of fried parsley, and serve while very hot. (2) Cut some thick slices off a stale household loaf and stamp them with a fluted tin cutter; dip each in cream, hollow out the centres, then dip them in beaten yolk of egg; sprinkle raspings over them, put them in a frying- pan with a little fresh butter, and fry a golden brown. When done, drain oil' all the fat, fill them with a hot savoury mince of meat or poultry, put them on a folded napkin on a dish, and serve. Fontange Patties.—Stir up with 4oz. of flour the yolks of three or four eggs, 1 pinch of salt, and 1 teacupful of olive oil; mix with this IA teacupfuls of beer and warm water mixed in equal quantities ; put a cloth over the basin, and keep it in a warm place for two hours, then pour the batter into a stewpan. Warm in boiling fat an iron mould, made for this purpose, of the shape of a little timbale; when hot, dip it nearly, but not quite, to the rim in the batter, take it out again immediately, plunge it into the boiling fat, and leave till the batter is cooked ; then remove it from the mould and proceed as before till all the batter is used. Prepare a salpipon with poultry-meat, pickled tongues, brains, and mushrooms, thicken it with a little sauce, fill the batter shells with it, arrange them on a folded napkin on a dish, and serve. Fried Patties.—Finely chop three or four slices of cold roasted veal and six oysters; mix with them 1 teacupful of bread- crumbs, a little finely-chopped lemon-peel, and the strained liquor of the oysters, and season to taste with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Put the above mixture in a small stewpan, stir it over the fire till hot, but do not let it boil, then take it off and leave to cool. Roll some puff paste out thin, cut it into rounds with a tin cutter 4in. in di- ameter, put a small quantity of the mince in the centre of each of one half of them, fold the round of paste over, damp the edges, pinch them together with the fingers with a twisting motion, and fry till nicely browned; then brush over with beaten egg and put them in the oven for a few minutes. Patties—continued. Arrange the Patties on a folded napkin or ornamental paper on a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. Lent Fatties.—Make fifteen small puff-paste Patties as for Patties a la Yol-au-Vent, and bake them. When done, take them off the baking-sheet, empty the pans, and keep the Patties warm. Beat fifteen eggs, and season them with salt and a little grated nutmeg. Peel and cut into small dice three raw truffles, put them in a saucepan with a small lump of butter, and warm them. Pour the beaten eggs in with the truffles, add a little more butter, broken in little pieces, and stir them over a slow fire till thick. Mix 1 teacupful of bechamel sauce with the above ingre- dients, take them oft’ the fire, fill the Patties with the mixture, arrange them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. Patties a la Dauphine.—Roll out 1 Alb. of brioche paste four times, then with a round tin cutter, 2in. in diameter cut out of this forty round flats; put in the centre of each one of half of the rounds a small ball of croquette prepara- tion, then put the other rounds on top, and moisten and pinch the edges together; cut them again with the same tin cutter to make them round. Spread a floured cloth on a baking-sheet, arrange the Patties on it a short distance from each other, cover with a floured cloth, and keep them in a warm temperature for thirty-five minutes; then put them, a few at the time, in boiling fat, and fry till nicely browned. When cooked, drain the Patties in a cloth, pile them on a folded napkin on a dish, and serve. Patties a la Financiere.—Butter twelve fluted Patty-pans rather high in shape, line them with short-paste, then with paper, fill them with flour, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, remove the paper and flour, coat them inside with a thin lave of forcemeat, and set them at the entrance of the oven to keep warm. Roll out some puff paste, and cut twelve rounds out of it the same size as the inside of the Patty; brush over with beaten egg, mark lines across the top with a sharp-pointed knife, and bake till lightly browned. Prepare a mixture of little collops of fat livers and truffles, some cocks’ combs, and small quenelles; put it in a saucepan with a little reduced brown sauce and warm thoroughly, but do not let it boil. Fill the Patties with the mixture, previously turning them out of the pan ; put on the covers of puff paste, arrange them on a folded napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve hot or cold. See Fig. 173. Patties a la Toulouse.—Boil some calf’s brains, and when cold cut them into small cubes. Mix with them an equal quantity of cold cooked chicken-flesh, also cut into small cubes, and add a few sliced mushrooms. Prepare a white sauce, mix it with the meat, and keep it hot to fill the Patties as wanted. Patties a la Vol-au-Vent.—Roll out a piece of puff' paste to about |in. in thickness, cut out some rounds with a tin biscuit-cutter about 2Ain. in. diameter, then take a smaller cutter about Hin. in diameter, and cut nearly but not quite through in the centre of each one ; put them on a baking-dish, and bake in a quick oven. The paste rises, and the inside becomes a lid that may be lifted out with the point of a knife. Trim off the surplus paste from the inside, fill them with whatever has been prepared for them, put the lids on, and decorate them with a sprig of parsley. Russian Patties.—Divide 6oz. of sweetbread into small pieces, and put them in a stewpan with 2qts. of water and a small lump of salt. Boil till tender, then drain on a124 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fatties—continued. sieve; chop them quickly, and keep hot. Fry a chopped onion in butter, then mix with it some parsley-roots, celery-roots, and mushrooms, all cut in dice. Fry all together for a few minutes, sprinkle salt, pepper, and a little flour over them, moisten with a little broth, and stir the liquid while boiling. Add the chopped sweetbread, continue stirring over the lire for two minutes, then take it off, and mix in five hard-boiled eggs and a little chopped parsley. Roll lib. of short-paste out thin, cut it into small rounds with a tin cutter 2in. in diameter, put on the centre of each round a little of the preparation in the shape of an oval quenelle, then draw up the paste on both sides, and pinch the edges together with the fingers. Arrange the Patties on a baking-sheet, dip a paste-brash in beaten egg, brush them over with it, and bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes. Put the Patties on a folded napkin on a dish, and serve either hot or cold. Swiss Patties.—Cut some thick slices of stale bread into round pieces with a biscuit-cutter; with a cutter a size or two smaller cut a small piece from the middle of each round piece (not right through) and scoop it out so that each round is hollowed without having a hole made right through it. When all the pieces are cut and hollowed, dip them in well-beaten egg, dredge well with cracker-crumbs rolled to a very fine powder, fry them a pale brown in boiling lard or dripping, and drain on kitchen-paper. When all are fried, arrange them on a hot dish, and fill each one with nicely-thickened hot minced veal or chicken. FATJPIETTES.—The literal meaning of this term would probably be little peeps, it being derived from the French paupiere—an eye-lid. This may be in allusion to the forcemeat peeping from between the rolls of the material which encloses it. Nowadays, in a well-made Paupiette, the cook is careful that the forcemeat shall Fig. 174. Paupiette of Beef. not be exposed (see Fig. 174). The following receipts are very good examples of what Paupiettes should be, other receipts being found under special headings, such as Beef, &c. Paupiettes a la Milanaise.—Cut about twelve thin slices, about ‘2in. wide and 6in. long, from a loin of cold roasted veal, trim them, removing all the sinew, and beat them flat. Mince very finely 6oz. each of ham and lean veal and 4oz. of beef kidney-suet. Season to taste with chopped sweet herbs, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and a very small quantity of garlic. Bind the mixture with beaten egg, dust each slice of veal with salt and pepper, and put a small quantity of the chopped mixture on each. Roll them up and tie them with pieces of string. Cut the same number of thin slices of ham, and thread them alter- nately with the Paupiettes on skewers. Butter the interior of a flat stewpan, lay the skewers in it side by side, dredge them lightly with flour, and baste with a few table-spoonfuls of clarified butter. Put them in a brisk oven, and bake until nicely browned. Place the Paupiettes on a hot dish, leaving them on the skewers, pour the re- mains of the basting-butter over them, garnish with cut lemons and parsley, and serve while very hot. Wurtemberg Paupiettes.—Mix 6 table-spoonfuls of flour with six beaten eggs and f A breakfast-cupfuls of milk. Paupiettes—continued. Season with a little salt and pounded mace, then strain the mixture through a fine hair sieve. Fry the above like omelets in clarified liutter, keeping them as thin and broad as possible. When cooked, turn them out on to a plate, leave them to cool, then cut them into squares. Fry six chickens’ livers in clarified butter, chop and pound them, and mix with them Jib. of cooked ham and the meat of a cooked minion fillet of veal, also chopped and pounded. Season the mixture and bind it with the yolks of two and the white of one egg. Pass it through a fine hair sieve, and spread a layer of it on each of the squares. Cut them into strips 4in. long and lin. wide, roll them and tie them round, lay them side by side in a baking- dish, baste with warmed butter, cover with grated stale breadcrumbs, and bake them from fifteen to twenty minutes. When the Paupiettes are cooked, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. FAYSANNE, A LA.—Literally the style adopted by peasants. From the receipts given, as Potage a la Pay- sanne and Petits Pois a la Paysanne, the French Peasant, after whom they are named, might be said to vie with the highest peers in the land, so far as artistic culinary taste is concerned. FEAS (Fr. Petits Pois; Ger. Erbsen; Ital. Piselli; Sp. Guisantes).—The history of the Garden Pea (Pisum sativum) and the date of its introduction into England A, Field Pea ; B, Scimitar Pea; C, Marrow-fat Pea. seems to be rather obscure. The plant is said to be a native of the South of Europe, and to have been introduced into this country through France and Holland in the reign ' of Henry VIII. Since the date of their introduction125 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Peas—continued. Peas have been familiar in every household, either as fresh Green Peas, or dried Split Peas as they are called. Some varieties of these are found in the dried, bottled, or tinned Green Peas, and the ground Split Pea, which is commonly known as Pea-flour or Pea-meal. All authorities acknowledge Peas in any form to be very nutritious as food. According to Poggiale the analysis of Peas gives in 100 parts: Starch ... ... ... ... ... 57-0 Legumin ... ... ... ... ... 21-7 Fatty matter 1-9 Cellulose ... ... ... ... ... 3 2 Ash 2-8 Water ... ... ... ... ... ]2-7 This shows a remarkable proportion of nutrient matter, which goes far to establish Peas in the important culinary position they occupy. Green Peas, as supplied to the vegetable market, are of various kinds, the more familiar being the Field Pea, with a short, pointed pod (see Fig. 175a), the Scimitar Pea, so-called from the pod resembling the scimitar in shape (see Fig. 175b), and the Marrow-fat Pea, large and full (see Fig. 175c). Of the varieties of Peas cultivated for the table Nicholson gives us in his “Dictionary of Gardening ” the following selected list: Earliest Sorts. —Alpha (Laxton’s), wrinkled blue marrow, six to nine in apod; American Wonder, wrinkled marrow; Beck’s Gem, round, white, smooth, about six; Blue Prussian, round, light blue, smooth; Daniel O’Rourke, round, white, smooth, rather large; Dr. Hogg, wrinkled green marrow, seven to nine; Earliest of All (Laxton’s), round, blue ; Early Dwarf Frame, round, white, smooth; Early Frame, small, very round, white, about six ; Early Sunrise (Day’s), white wrinkled marrow, large; Maclean’s Blue Peter, round, blue, very large, six to eight; Maclean’s Little Gem, green wri deled marrow; Ringleader, round, white, smooth, six or seven; William I., smooth, green marrow, of good size, seven to nine. Second Early and Main Crop.—Advancer, wrinkled blue marrow, very large, about eight in a pod; Champion of England, wrinkled blue marrow, six to nine, one of the best; Dickson’s Favourite, round, smooth-skinned; Dr. Maclean, blue wrinkled marrow, very large, about nine; Duke of Albany, wrinkled green marrow, large, about ten; Fillbasket (Laxtons), round, light green, of good size, seven to nine; G. F. Wilson (Carter’s), wrinkled blue marrow, very large, somewhat flattened, six to eight; Gladiator, wrinkled marrow, deep green, of excellent quality; Maclean’s Wonderful, wrinkled marrow, of excellent flavour; Marvel (Laxton s) wrinkled white marrow, very green, seven to nine; Prodigy, green wrinkled marrow, of excellent quality and flavour, about ten ; Stratagem (Carter’s), wrinkled manow, very large, nine to eleven; Supreme (Laxton’s), smooth, green marrow, large, of fine flavour; Telegraph (Culverwell’s), wrinkled marrow, large, deep green, of excellent flavour, nine to eleven; Telephone (Carter’s), wrinkled marrow, large, of first-rate quality, eight to ele\ en; Veitch’s Perfection, wrinkled blue marrow, com- pressed, large, one of the best. Late Sorts.—British Queen, wrinkled white marrow, large, tender, about eight in a pod; Culverwell’s Giant Marrow, blue, wrinkled, large, of the finest quality; King of the Marrows, wrinkled, green, large, oblong, six to eight; Maclean’s Best of All, wrinkled green marrow, large, five to eight; Ne Plus Ultra, wrinkled green marrow, very large, of first rate quality, seven to nine ; Omega (Laxton’s), wri ikied green marrow, very large, dark green, of excellent quality, eight to ten; Prizetaker, green marrow, smooth, misshapen from being, compressed in the pod, six to ten; Sturdy (Laxton’s), wrinkled green marrow, large, dark green, of excellent quality, six to nine. Fresh Green Peas are in season for only a very limited period of the summer months; but as they lend them- selves to the formation of so many good dishes, a system of preserving them soft and green in bottles originated Peas—co ntinued. in France and has been since extensively followed up in America. One grave objection to this mode of preserving was the use of copperas to retain the green colour ; this has however now ceased as a practice, the bottled Peas being perfectly pure and maintaining sufficient of their green colour without the aid of chemicals. The following may be considered reliable instructions for bottling: Shell the Peas, and pick out the largest and best, as these only should be used ; put them into wide-mouthed bottles and cork tightly, rendering them perfectly air-tight. Put the bottles in a saucepan with sufficient cold water to reach to their necks, placing a little hay between each to prevent them knocking together and breaking. Put the lid on the saucepan, place it over the fire, and when the water boils move the saucepan to the side and keep the water at the same heat for nearly two hours; the lid should be on the saucepan all the time. Leave the bottles in the water until cold, when they should be dried and the nozzles dipped in bottle-wax. Keep them in a cool dry place. Tinned Peas, or “canned” as the Americans call them, are not so reliable or tasty as bottled Peas, for some reason or other unexplained. The following is the process by which they are prepared : Shell the desired quantity of young freshly-gathered Peas, put them into a saucepan with plenty of water anil a little salt, and boil for about ten minutes. Strain off the water and put the Peas by means of a large funnel into tins already prepared for them, filling them to within a jin. of the top; stand the tins in a pan of water and boil slowly for an-hour-and-a-lialf. Before the boiling ceases, take the tins out one at a time, dry them, and solder the lids down before they cool so as to exclude the air. Fresh Green Peas.—These should be gathered early in the morning, before the sun has sufficient power to dry any of the moisture they may have absorbed during the night. As soon as they are shelled they should be rinsed in cold water and the defective ones picked out. Some cooks contend that washing spoils them, but that is merely a matter of prejudice, and has no foundation in fact. It is also advisable that all the Peas Fig. 176. Pea-shelling Machine (A. Lyon). forming one boiling should be as near one size as pos- sible. A very ingenious machine (see Fig. 176) has been invented, by which Peas can be shelled with extraordinary rapidity, a very great convenience when large quantities are used. Boiled Green Peas.—Shell 1 peck of Fresh Green Peas; wash them in water. Put the Peas into 2qts. of boil- ing water with 1 table-spoonful of salt, and boil fast until they are tender (they should take about ten minutes), then drain, season with salt, pepper, and butter, and serve at once. If the Peas are to be served with lamb, a small bunch of green mint should be boiled with them. Parsley, and young onions are also boiled with green Peas when their flavours are desired; sometimes 1 teaspoonful of sugar is added to sweeten them. Buttered Green Peas.—Put some Fresh Green Peas into a saucepan with a lump of butter, a little salt, and a small126 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Peas —continued. quantity of water; place tlie lid on, and boil over a quick lire until tender. Knead loz. of butter with some Hour, put it in with the Peas, stir them till thickened, then put m Jib. of butter, broken in little pieces, J teaspoonful of sugar, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Turn the Peas out on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of fried bread, and serve. Pried Green Peas.—Cut a few thin slices of bacon into small pieces, put them in a stewpan, and fry; moisten with water or stock, put in the required quantity of Peas with a few white onions, the heart of a lettuce, and a hunch of sweet herbs, and simmer slowly until tender. Skim off the fat, turn the Peas and bacon on to a hot dish, and serve. Green Peas a l’Ancienne. — Take 3qts. of young tender green Peas, shell them carefully, and keep them wrapped up in a wet napkin until needed. Clean, drain, and tie up a lettuce head, put it in a saucepan with the Peas, season with a pinch of salt, cover with 1 wineglassful of water, and add Jib. of butter. After cooking for a-quarter- | of-an-hour remove the lettuce, and when ready to serve thicken the Peas with 3 table-spoonfuls of cream, diluted with one yolk of egg, adding J pinch of white pepper and 1 table-spoonful of powdered loaf sugar. Let all thicken together for five minutes, and serve immediately in a tureen. Green Peas a l’Anglaise.—Shell and wash 1 peck of green Peas, remove the small ones, put them in a sauce- pan, cover with boiling water, add a handful of salt, and boil quickly, without covering, for fifteen minutes, skim- ming the scum off as it rises. When done, strain through a colander, return them to the saucepan, and toss well, adding ljoz. of fresh butter. Dish them in a vegetable-dish, place another Joz. of butter in the middle, and serve. Green Peas a la Bourgeoise.—Select the required quantity of young Peas, put them into a stewpan with butter, allowing Jib. to every lqt. of Peas; add also the washed heart of a large lettuce, a bunch of parsley, a few small onions, and a small lump of salt. Moisten with a little broth, and stew slowly until tender. Stir in the beaten j yolks of two eggs and 1 teaspoonful of caster sugar, but do not boil after the eggs are added. Turn the Peas on to a hot dish, and serve. Green Peas a la Paysanne.—Wash a few cabbages and long lettuces, a handful of parsley, and tlnee or four green onions ; cut them into shreds and put them in a saucepan with 3qts. of green Peas and a piece of butter; place the lid on the saucepan, and let them steam over a very slow fire without any other moisture, stirring occasionally to prevent them burning. When sufficiently cooked, season with pepper and salt, turn them on to a hot dish, and serve. Green Peas and Cheese.—Put 2oz. of grated cheese in a lined stewpan with ljoz. of butter, 1J teacupfuls of milk, j and J teacupful of cream, and stir the whole with a j wooden spoon over a gentle fire. When the cheese has dissolved add about 3 heaped breakfast-cupfuls of freshly- shelled green Peas that have been boiled in water until tender, season to taste with salt and pepper and a small quantity of cayenne, and stir at the edge of the fire for a few minutes. Turn the Peas on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of bread fried in butter, and serve. If pre- ferred, the beaten yolks of two eggs may be used in place of the cream, only they must not be stirred in until the last, or they will curdle. Green Peas and Crabs.—Shell 1 peck of young Peas and i put them in a small quantity of broth together with a lump of butter and a piece of mint. Pick the meat out of three or four young crabs, put it in with the Peas, add about 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and season I to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Mix the whole well over the fire, turn them on to a hot dish, garnish with a few small claws of the crabs, and serve. Green Peas for Garnish.—Boil the required quantity of Peas in salted water, taking care not to cook them too 1 Peas—continued. much, drain, put them in a saute-pan with a little butter, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes. Green-Pea Griddle Cakes.—Boil some green Peas, and before they are quite done drain off the water, mash them, and pass the pulp through a strainer. Mix with every breakfast-cupful of pulp J pint of boiling milk and 1 table-spoonful each of butter and sugar. W hen cool, add 1 breakfast-cupful of flour in which has been mixed 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder anti J teaspoonful of salt; stir in one beaten egg, and if it is then thicker than stiff batter dilute with more milk. Butter a griddle-iron, and when hot pour J teacupful of the batter on it and cook the cake, beating up the mixture before each lot is taken out. Serve hot with butter. Green-Pea Pie.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of green Peas (shelled) into a saucepan with J table-spoonful of sugar, J saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and sufficient water to cover; place the pan without a lid on the fire, and boil the Peas until quite tender; when done, drain them. Line a pie- or tart dish with a thin layer of puff paste, pour over 2 break fast-cupfuls of custard flavoured with noyau, place the dish in the oven for the custard to set, then put the Peas on top; pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of rich cream, cover with more paste, hake in a moderate oven, glaze, and serve. Green-Pea Salad.—(1) Shell sufficient Peas to fill two break- fast-cups, put them in a saucepan with a lump of butter the size of an egg and a very small quantity of water, and let them simmer till tender, keeping them constantly stirred. When cooked, take them off the fire and leave till cold. Thoroughly wash and drain a nice lettuce, pull the leaves apart, and put them into a salad-howl. Chop some cold remains of roast lamb or other cold meat, 2'ut it about on the top of the lettuce, then pour the Peas over. Prepare a plain salad-dressing with oil, vinegar, a few chopped tarragon- and mint-leaves, and season with pepper and salt. Pour the dressing over the salad, toss it lightly, then serve. (2) Put some green Peas in a saucepan with a lump of butter and a very small quantity of water. Boil them slowly till tender, keeping them well stirred, then take them off tlie fire and leave till cool. Cut up into small pieces Jib. of cold roast lamb; put some washed and well-drained lettuce-leaves into a salad-bowl, then add the lanib and Peas. Mix in equal quantities some oil anil vinegar, season with salt and pepper, and pour it over the salad. Sprinkle with chopped tarragon- and mint-leaves, toss the salad lightly about, and serve. Green-Pea Soup.—(1) Put J peck of freshly-shelled green Peas into a stewpan with a lump of salt, a small onion, a few sprigs of mint and parsley tied together, and water to cover. Boil the Peas until tender, then strain, remove the onion, mint, and parsley, and mb the Peas through a fine hair sieve into a basin. Have ready boiling as much clear stock as will make the required quantity of soup, seeing that it is perfectly free from fat, put in the Peas, with about loz. of butter and 1 or 2 teaspoonfuls of spinach-green to give it a brighter colour, and boil up again, then turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve with sippets of toast. (2) Put 1J pints of green Peas in a saucepan of water with a small lump of salt and a few sprigs of mint, and boil until tender. When cooked, pound the Peas, and rub them through a fine hair sieve. Peel an onion and a carrot, and cut them into thin slices ; put a small lump of butter in a. saucepan, and, when melted, put in the sliced vegetables and fry them until browned. Next pour in lqt. of clear stock, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of loaf sugar, and boil for fifteen minutes. Stir the puree of Peas into the soup, and boil up again. Strain the soup through a fine hair sieve into a soup-tureen, and serve while very hot with a plate of sippets of toast, or small croutons of biead that have been fried golden brown in butter. (3) Pare half-a-dozen cucumbers; and cut them in slices; also chop in pieces the hearts and best leaves of a dozen cos lettuces. Put the sliced cucumbers and lettuces into referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec.,For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF Peas—co n tinned. a stewpan, together with 1 pint of young Peas, two spring onions nicely washed (the root trimmed, but the leaves left on), a small bunch of parsley, a seasoning of salt and black pepper, and lib. of butter. Cover the pan closely, and let the vegetables stew for two bom's, shaking the pan frequently, but not uncovering it. Poil 1 pint of young Peas very soft, rub them through a sieve, and add the pulp to the vegetables in the stewpan when removed from the fire. On the following day, warm up the vege- tables in the stewpan, and add to them another pint of young Peas, boiled and passed through a sieve, adding at the same time as much of the water the Peas were boiled in as will reduce the soup to the required thickness. If a smooth soup is preferred all the vegetables may be rubbed through a sieve. (4) Boil 1 pint of old Peas and a French roll in 4qts. : of water until the Peas go to a mash, then rub them through a coarse sieve, put them again over the fire, and j add a seasoning of whole pepper and mace, also 1 pint of young Peas, and let them boil. Cut in pieces, but not very small, two or three cabbage lettuces, a few green onions, and a handful of spinach-leaves; put them over the fire with about 4oz. of butter, and let them cook till very tender. When the Peas are sufficiently boiled, add a few marigold-leaves, and let them boil ; then put in the vegetables stewed in butter, mix together, and serve hot with little squares of bread fried very dry. (5) Shell 1 peck of Peas, and put the old ones into one vessel and the young ones into another. Have a large saucepan half-full of water on the fire. When the water boils, put in the old Peas (reserving the young to boil separately), together with 1 table spoonful of salt, and let them boil for from twenty minutes to half-an-hour, according to their size and age; then drain them in a colander, and put them into the soup-kettle with 3qts. of unseasoned veal or mutton broth. Place the lid on tight, set the pan over a slow tire, and let the contents stew gently for an hour; then add 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, and rub all through a sieve into a stewpan. Boil the young Peas in hot water, drain, and add them to the soup. Should the soup be too thick, mix with it a little more stock before putting in the freshly-boiled Peas. Then season to taste with salt and sugar, pour it into a tureen, and serve. A few thin slices of cucumber, floured and fried brown, may be added the last thing. If the soup should not be green enough, pound some spinach, and squeeze the juice into it through a cloth. A few leaves of mint may also be added. (6) Boil slowly 31b. of lean beef in 3qts. of water, and skim it well. Boil separately ‘2qts. of green Peas with two or three lumps of sugar, and a little salt. When quite soft, strain the Peas, and pass them through a hair sieve. Strain the soup, mix the pulp with it, and warm all up again together. Turn the soup into a tureen, and serve with squares of toast or croutons of fried bread. (7) Warm Jib. of butter in a saucepan, then put in 3 pints of young green Peas, two onions peeled and sliced, two cucumbers also peeled and sliced, and two chopped cabbage lettuces. Fry them sharply, tossing well, then pour in gradually 3qts. of veal broth; add two or three slices of lean ham, 1 breakfast-cupful of cooked and mashed potatoes, and 1 dessert-spoonful of flour, previously worked smooth vdth a little of the broth. Let all simmer for two hours, stinnng occasionally to prevent them burning at the bottom and skimming off all fat as it rises. Boil 4 pint of green Peas separately in a little broth. Turn the soup into a tureen, put in the boiled Peas and their cooking-liquor, and serve with a plate of croutons of fried bread. (8) Without Meat.—Trim and cut up two or three small lettuces, two or three onions, and two moderate sized cucumbers; put them in a stewpan with 4oz. of fresh butter, dust over with moderate quantities of salt and pepper, put the lid on the pan, and stew at the side of a moderate fire. Boil lqt. of Peas in lqt. of water with a small piece of mint. When the Peas are tender, rub them through a fine hair sieve, mix them with their cooking-liquor, and add them to the other ingredients. Add more seasoning PRACTICAL COOKERY. 127 Peas—continued. to the soup if required, turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve while very hot. (9) Imitation.—Put 1 table-spoonful of flour in a basin with 1 saltspoonful of salt, and stir in gradually 4 pint of milk and one beaten egg. Put a lump of lard in a frying-pan, place it over the fire until blue smoke rises, then pour the batter into the fat through a colander with large holes. The batter will then be like Peas, and should be fried a pale brown. Drain the Peas, put them into a soup-tureen, pour over them 3 or 4 pints of boiling clear soup, and serve. Kedgeree of Green Peas (Indian).—Put 4oz. of fat into a frying-pan, let it boil, put in twelve large onions, cut in slices, and let them brown slightly. Push them on one side of the pan, add about f breakfast-cupful of rice and 1 teacupful of ground wheat, and fry until they have absorbed all the fat; then mix in a few slices of green ginger, some peppercorns, three or four cardamoms, a few cloves, six bay-leaves, six small sticks of cinnamon, and 1 dessert-spoonful of rice. Pour over sufficient water to cover, place a lid on the pan, set it over a slow fire, and cook until all the water is absorbed or evaporated, allowing the lire to gradually lessen in heat. A few minutes before the rice is cooked, add 1 breakfast-cupful of green Peas, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. Omelet of Green Peas.—Break twelve eggs into a bowl, adding 4 pint of boiled green Peas, 1 pinch each of salt and pepper, and beat well for four minutes; then make it into an omelet in a saute-pan, as described under Omelets. Pea Shells iBrowning) for Soups. -When shelling Peas, pick out the cleanest and plumpest of the shells and put a layer of them on an iron baking-sheet; place them in a slow oven and brown them, taking great care they do not burn or char. Keep them in a dry place when done. A few of these thrown into broths or soups will improve the flavour and colour them nicely. Puree of Green Peas.—(l) Put some green Peas in a saucepan with a very small quantity of water and boil them till tender, then pass the whole through a fine hair sieve. Put the puree in a saucepan with a little broth, and stir it over the lire till boiling. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire, put in 4 teaspoonful of sugar, salt to taste, and a moderate-sized lump of butter. Cut some slices of bread, shape them into small croutons, and fry them in butter. When lightly browned, drain the croutons, put them in a deep dish, and pour the puree over them. Serve it with a separate dish of boiled rice. (2) Shell and wash the Peas, put them in a saucepan with one onion, a little salt and sugar, and sufficient water to cover them. Boil till the Peas are soft, then drain and press them through a fine hair sieve; put the puree in a stewpan, and mix with it a small quantity of bechamel sauce. Stir it over the fire for a few minutes, then turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Puree of Green Peas for Garnish.—Put the Peas in a saucepan with a few sprigs of mint and parsley, a small onion, and a lump of salt; cover with water, and boil them until tender. Drain the Peas, mb them through a fine hair sieve, moisten with clear stock, bringing them to the con- sistency of a thick puree. Put loz. of butter and 1 tea- spoonful of flour in a stewpan, mix them well over the fire, then stir in the puree of Peas. Stir them over the fire for two or three minutes, and when thoroughly hot again they are ready for serving. Puree of Green-Pea Shells for Soup.—Pick out all the discoloured shells and wash the remainder; put them into a saucepan with water to cover, and boil them until tender. Drain the shells and mb them first through a coarse colander and then through a finer one. The puree can be then flavoured and used either with or without Peas as stock for vegetable soup. Stewed Green Peas.—(1) Blanch 2oz. of streaky bacon, cut it into small squares, and put it in a stewpan with loz. of butter; fry for two or three minutes, then dredge in a small quantity of flour, pour in 4 pint of water, and stir until boiling. Put in the Peas with a small onion,128 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Feas—continued. and boil them very gently. In about three-quarters-of-an- hour’s time remove the onion, turn the Peas on to a liot dish, and serve. (2) Put the Peas in a stewpan with two small lettuces washed and cut up, 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped onion, a few sprigs of mint, and about h teacupful of oil; add 1 dessert-spoonful of moist sugar and a sufficient quantity of water to cover the Peas. Stew them gently until tender, taking care that they do not become too dry. When cooked they should have a yellowish brown appear- ance; turn them on to a hot dish, and serve. (3) Cut up small three cabbage lettuces, first washing them well, put them into a stewpan with a rasher of ham or bacon, an onion stuck with three or four cloves, 2oz. of butter, lqt. of green Peas, and a small quantity of chopped mint (1 teaspoonful of powdered white sugar may be added to the Peas if liked). Put the stewpan at the side of the fire, and let all stew very slowly till the Peas are half done, then add 1 pint of good gravy. When the Peas are nearly cooked thicken with butter and Hour, stir till quite thick, and then add the yolks of two eggs beaten up with 1 gill of cream. Stir till thoroughly hot, and then serve. (4) Peel and chop two or three onions, wash a lettuce, and cut it into thin shreds; melt Jib. of butter in a stew- pan, then put in the above vegetables with lqt. of freshly - shelled green Peas; add a small quantity of finely-chopped mint, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stew gently until tender. When the Peas are cooked, move the stewpan to the side of the fire and stir in the yolk of an egg that has been beaten up with 2 table-spoonfuls of milk. Turn them on to a hot dish, and serve while very hot. (5) Put lqt. of green Peas and Joz. of butter into a saucepan, pour over as much warm water as will cover them, and let them stand (but not over the fire) for ten minutes; then strain off the water, cover the saucepan, and stir frequently. When they begin to get tender, add a bunch of parsley, 1 dessert-spoonful of powdered white sugar, loz. of butter with 1 teaspoonful of flour rubbed into it, and a young onion. Keep stirring occasionally till the Peas are tender. If they get too thick add 1 table- spoonful of hot water. When tiie Peas are done take out the parsley and onion, and serve hot. Stewed Green Peas with Bacon.—Remove the rind from Jib. of streaky bacon; cut the bacon into small pieces, blanch them for a few minutes, then drain; put them in a saucepan with loz. of butter, and fry for five minutes; put 1 table-spoonful of flour in with the bacon, stir it over the fire for a few minutes, then add lqt. of young green Peas, one onion, and 1 pint of water. When the liquid is boiling, put the lid on the saucepan, move it to the side of the fire, and let the contents stew gently for half-an-hour; take the onion out, skim the fat off the liquor, add salt and pepper to taste, turn all into a hot dish, and serve. Stewed Green Peas and Buttered Bggs.—Put 2 break- fast-cupfuls of freshly-shelled green Peas into a stewpan with loz. of butter, 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and salt and pepper to taste, and stew over a gentle fire until quite tender. Beat three eggs thoroughly, and when the Peas are cooked stir them in quickly; turn the whole on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of bread fried in butter, and serve. Stewed Green Peas with Cream.—Put in a saucepan loz. of butter well kneaded with 1 table-spoonful of flour, dissolve it, then add 3qts. of shelled young Peas, a bouquet garni, a quarter of a bunch of chives, 1 pinch of salt, and l pinch of pepper; cook in their own liquor for twenty minutes, then take the saucepan of!' the fire. Pour the gravy from the Peas into another vessel, add to it 4 breakfast-cupful of cream and 1 teaspoonful of powdered loaf sugar; pour this sauce over the Peas, and beat up once again (without boiling) for two minutes before serving. Stewed Green Peas and Ham.—Cut some ham into small squares and fry them with some slices of onion in a saucepan; then put in the Peas and sufficient broth to cook them in. When done (the time will depend on the age of the Peas), thicken the liquor with 1 table-spoonful Feas—continued. of flour that has been kneaded with butter; turn all on to a hot dish, and serve. Stewed Green Peas with Spanish Sauce.—Put some young Peas in an earthenware pan with a small piece of butter and plenty of fresh water; rub them well with the hands, then drain. Put them in a stewpan with a bunch of parsley and two or three green onions, place the lid on, ami let them sweat. When nearly done, pour in with the Peas 1J teacupfuls of Spanish sauce, season with sugar and salt, skim off all the fat, and boil the sauce till reduced; thicken it with the beaten yolks of two eggs, and serve. This is a very flavoursome dish, and should be freely garnished with a border of small croutons of bread fried in bacon-fat. Sugar-Peas.—These are quite a variety by themselves, the pods not having the inner film peculiar to all other Pea-pods. They are consequently more fleshy and crisp, and admit of being cut and dressed like French beans, or in other ways in which the pod is cooked with the Peas. There are several varieties of Sugar-Peas, the best being Butter-Pea, Dwarf Dutch, Early Dwarf Brittany, Forty Days, Giant, and Large Crooked. Boiled Sugar-Peas.—Put the required quantity of Peas in a saucepan of water, leaving them in their shells, and boil for half-an-hour. Drain the water off the Peas and put a lump of butter in with them; beat the yolks of two eggs with a small quantity of cream, then stir them in with the rest, adding a few drops of vinegar; when quite hot (do not let them boil again), turn the Peas on to a hot dish, and serve. Stewed Sugar-Peas.—(1) Boil 2qts. of young Sugar-Peas, and when done, drain them. Put them in a stewpan with six young green onions, IA teacupfuls of white sauce, 2 teaspoonfuls of fine moist sugar, and a small quantity of pepper and salt; stir all gently over a slow fire and let them simmer for ten minutes ; then stir in the yolks of two eggs beaten with a little cream. Move the stewpan to the side of the fire, stir the contents till thick, but do not let them boil again ; take out the onions, turn the rest on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Put 2qts. of Sugar-Peas in a large saucepan with six young onions, Jib. of fresh butter, a bunch of parsley, and sufficient water to cover the Peas; rub them together for a few minutes with the hands, then strain otl the water, and put in 1 table-spoonful of moist sugar and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Place the saucepan over a sharp fire and toss the Peas about occasionally; a little water may be added if too dry. When the Peas are tender, take out the onions and bunch of parsley; mix 1 table-spoonful of flour with 2 table-spoonfuls of butter and stir it in with the Peas over the fire till thick; then stir in a liaison of two yolks of eggs, but do not let it boil; add more seasoning if required. When moderately thick (it should be neither too thick nor too thin), turn the Peas on to a hot dish, and serve. (3) Wash the pods, shred them like French beans, cut them into pieces about lin. long, and stew them gently with butter, allowing 2 table-spoonfuls to each quart of Peas, a seasoning of salt and pepper, and enough water to prevent burning. They will cook tender in from twenty to thirty minutes. Serve them in their sauce. Sugar-Pea Salad. -Pick some Sugar-Pea pods when they are about lin. or so in length; put them into a dish with an equal quantity of garden cress, and arrange some slices of tomatoes on the top (see Fig. 177). Prepare a plain dressing of oil and vinegar, season with salt and pepper, pour it over the salad, and serve.1. -Kipper Herring. 2. —Bloater. 3. —-Sprats. DRIED FISH. 4. —Haddock. 5. —Digby Chick. 0. Salted Cod. 7. —Salted Newfoundland Capelins. 8. —Salted Cod’s Sounds.129 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. K Peas—continued. Tinned Green Peas.—Although these admit of al- most precisely the same treatment as fresh green Peas, the following receipts for their preparation are given by cooks who have thus used them: Stewed Tinned Green Peas.—Empty a quart tin of preserved green Peas into a colander, then dip the colander in boil- ing salted water. Put ‘2oz. of butter into a stewpan; drain the Peas well, put them in with the butter, and season with salt, sugar, and grated nutmeg. Stir them over the fire till hot, then mix with them a small quantity of white sauce or loz. of butter that has been worked with 1 table-spoonful of Hour. In the latter case the Peas must be stirred over a moderate fire till the flour is cooked. Turn the Peas on to a hot dish, garnish them with sippets of toast, and serve. Tinned Green Peas a la Frangaise.—Empty a quart tin of green Peas into a saucepan, and put in with them 2 table-spoonfuls of butter mixed with 1 table-spoonful of flour; stir over the fire for six or seven minutes, then pour in h pint of cream, and let them simmer for ten minutes. Serve the Peas with the sauce over them in a hot dish. Tinned Green Peas in Sauce.—Strain the liquor off a tin of French tinned Peas and stand them on the stove to get warm; put 1 teacupful of milk in a small sauce- pan with 1 teaspoonful of butter and h teaspoonful of salt, and stir it over the fire till boiling. Blend 1 teaspoonful of flour in 1 teacupful of milk, then mix it in with the sauce and stir it a minute or two longer over the fire; put the Peas in, heat them thoroughly, then turn all into a hot dish, and serve. Tinned Green-Pea Salad.—Empty a tin of preserved green Peas into a stewpan, put in with them a few sprigs of mint and a pat of butter, and stew them over a gentle fire; afterwards let them get cold. Put the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs in a basin, and mash them up with 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, salt and pepper to taste, and a few drops of the best salad-oil. When quite smooth work in with the paste some more oil, making 4 table- spoonfuls in all, | teacupful of tarragon vinegar, and a few chopped leaves of mint and tarragon. Mix all well with the Peas, pile them on a dish, and serve. Tinned Green-Peas Sautes.—Open a tin of green Peas, drain, wash them in cold water, drain again, and put them into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and | saltspoonful of pepper, and shake them over the fire until they are hot; then serve at once. Dried Green Peas.—Many cooks use these in pre- ference to any other mode of preparing green Peas for winter use. The following receipts for drying them lias been contributed by one of our staff, who states that he is never without a goodly supply of them, so highly does he esteem their culinary qualities. These Peas are some- times put on a dish, sprinkled with water, and placed in a warm place until they commence to sprout; they are then used as green Peas. Procure freshly shelled Peas, put them in a saucepan of boiling water and leave them for five minutes; next turn the Peas into a colander and drain them. Lay them on a cloth spread over a table until the moisture has been absorbed, then put them on dishes, and place them in a cool oven for a short time to harden. Afterwards put them in paper bags, tie them up, and hang them in a warm dry closet. Before cooking these Peas they should be soaked all night in soft water, or water with a pinch of soda in it. Dried Green Peas with Sweet and Sour Sauce.—Soak the Peas and then put them in a saucepan with a little water to keep them from burning, and boil until tender, which will take from three to four horn's. When done, strain the water off the Peas and take a little of it to make the sauce with. Thicken the water with 2 table- spoonfuls of flour; mix with it 111), of treacle and 1 dessert-spoonful of vinegar, and stir over the fire till Peas—continued. boiling; put in the sauce some fried bacon cut in small pieces, and some fried onions also finely cut. Turn the Peas on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Puree of Dried Green Peas.—(1) Soak lqt. of these Peas overnight, and next morning drain them, put them in a saucepan with an onion stuck with four cloves, a few sprigs of thyme and parsley, and 2 bay-leaves tied together, several peppercorns, and a moderate-sized lump of salt, pour in plenty of cold water, and boil the Peas until tender. When cooked, strain off the water and mash the Peas through a fine hair sieve. Melt a large lump of butter in a saucepan, put in the Peas and stir them over the fire until quite hot, adding a small quan- tity of milk or broth if too stiff. Turn the puree on to a hot dish, and serve with boiled bacon. (2) Put the Peas, previously soaked, in a saucepan with a piece of the back of bacon, three or four carrots and onions, a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaves, and some cold water; boil them about four hours or till the Peas are soft. Pass all through a hair sieve. Warm the puree again thoroughly, colour it green with a little extract of spinach, turn the puree into a hot dish, and serve. Stewed Dried Green Peas.—Put the Peas to soak in soft water all night; if very good boiling Peas a shorter tune will do. Put them over the fire with just enough water to cover them, a bit of pork or beef, and a gcod- Fig. 178. Stewed Dried Green Peas. sized piece of butter. Let them stew very gently till the meat is done and the Peas are quite soft. If the meat is not salt, add salt and pepper, lay the meat in the centre of the dish, put the Peas all round (see Fig. 178), and serve hot. Split Peas.—The common field Pea is the one that is usually used for the preparation of these. They are shelled when old, dried, and then split. Sometimes they are ground into flour, in which form they are exceedingly liable to adulteration. It is therefore advisable to pur- chase only such Pea-flour that bears the name of some re- liable firm on the packets. When ground, Peas quickly lose much of their flavour. Peas Porridge.—Peel and cut in slices two Spanish onions, fry them with a stick of celery and a little butter till nicely browned, then put them in a saucepan with two anchovies, a crust of bread, a bunch of sweet herbs, a small quantity of pepper and salt, and 3qts. of water; boil them gently for an-liour-and-a-half. Skim and strain the liquor; grate lib. of raw potatoes, put them in the soup with 1 pint of split Peas; boil the Peas till soft, then pass them through a sieve into the porridge again. Put in six leeks that have been cut up, and cook them in it. If not thick enough a little flour and butter may be mixed with the Porridge. Turn it into a hot dish, and serve. Peas Pudding.—(1) Take lib. of split Peas, put them into enough soft water to cover, and let them steep for twelve hours. Then tie them in a cloth, leaving room to swell, and boil for nearly four hours. Take them out of the cloth, rub them through a hair sieve, then mix into them a little salt and a small quantity of butter; put them into the cloth again, tying tightly, and boil for half-an-hour, and serve. (2) Put 1 pint of split Peas to soak the night before they are wanted, and on the following morning drain For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tfcc., referred, to, see under their special heads. VOL. II.130 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Peas—continued. them; put them into a saucepan with plenty of fresh water and boil until tender. When cooked, drain all the water off the Peas and rub them through a fine hair sieve. Beat the Peas up together with a lump of butter, the yolks of two eggs, and salt and pepper to taste. Butter a mould, turn the mixture into it, tie a cloth over the top, and put it into a saucepan of boiling water. Boil the pudding for two hours, then turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. (3) Tie 1 pint of split Peas loosely in a cloth, leaving them plenty of room to swell; put them in a saucepan of water and boil gently for about three hours. When cooked, turn the Peas on to a fine hair sieve and rub them through with the aid of a wooden spoon. Beat well in with the Peas two eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, and loz. of butter, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. Turn the mixture into a cloth, tie it up tightly, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for lialf-an- hour. Turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve. Peas Soup.—(1) Put over the fire in 4qts. of water or broth a ham-bone, bones of roasted beef or mutton, two heads of celery washed aud trimmed, four onions peeled, and l|lb. of split Peas. Let it boil till the Peas are quite soft, take out the bones, and mb the Peas and vegetables through a sieve, return them to the soup, add salt and pepper to taste, and boil it for an hour, skimming when required. Spinach or green Peas added when the bones are taken out improves the soup very much. (2) Put 6 breakfast-cupfuls of split Peas into a sauce- pan with a small lump of butter, salt to taste, and more than sufficient cold watei to cover them; put in a slice or two of lean ham and simmer gently for about two hours. Take out the ham, mb the Peas through a fine sieve into another saucepan, add the required quantity of consomme, and boil for an hour to clarify it. Put a little spinach colouring at the bottom of the tureen, remove the saucepan with the purde of Peas from the fire, stir in a little sugar and butter, pour it gradually into the tureen, stirring well, and serve with pieces of toasted bread. (3) Without Meat.—Boil \ pint of split Peas in 3qts. of water for three hours, then fry in dripping a carrot, scraped, washed, and cut in slices, two onions peeled and sliced, and a head of celery washed and cut up; add them to the boiling Peas, together with pepper and salt to taste, and simmer gently for an-hour-and-a-half. (4) Imitation.—Put a saucepan containing some well- flavoured stock on the fire, season to taste with herbs, especially mint, and add sufficient revalenta Arabica or other farina to make it of the consistence of thin cream. Pour the soup into a tureen, and serve with pieces of toasted bread. A little butter or thick cream may be added if desired. (5) It may be made by mixing some revalenta with water, or milk and water in equal parts, and stirring in some extract of meat, and salt and pepper to taste. PEAFOWL (Fr. Paons; Ger. Psauen; Ital. Pavona; Sp. Pavoes).—These very beautiful birds do not often find their way to the table, nor, according to some, is this much to be regretted. The flesh is tough, having something of the flavour of the pheasant, if properly hung. The great attraction of the male bird is its beautiful plumage, which proved too great a temptation for some of our old time cooks, who stuffed the carcase of the bird with savoury meats, and dressed the cooked body in its gaudy plumage stripped from the bird together with the skin soon after death. It is usual to leave the head on, feathers and all, and to wrap it round with several folds of paper to prevent it being spoiled in the cooking. This custom was not practised by our ancestors, who served the peacock at Christmas; they preferred to skin the bird as before mentioned, and then the whole plumage, head, feathers, and tail could be mounted beforehand, and all set on the cooked bird at once. See Pig. 179. The Peafowl, either peacock or peahen, can be cooked in every respect like the pheasant; but the two following receipts are especially recommended: Peafowl.—continued. Braised Peacock.—.The bird should not be plucked, but carefully skinned, so as not to disturb the plumage. Care should also be taken not to disturb the neck and head. Cover the bird with slices of bacon seasoned with finely-chopped parsley, chives, shallots, half a head of garlic, sage, thyme, grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper. Put some slices of bacon at the bottom and round the sides of a braising-pan, put in the bird, cover it with more bacon, and moisten with equal quantities of water, white wine, and stock. Put round the peacock some pieces of knuckle of veal, a few carrots, turnips, a parsnip, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few cloves and peppercorns, and some mixed spices. Put the lid on the braising-pan and let the contents simmer for four hours. When cooked, take the bird out, leave it till cold, then put the plumage on in its original position, raise the head and neck with a piece of wire, spread out the tail in a fan shape, and serve. Boasted Peahen.—Trass a young peahen, lard its breast and legs, stuff it with a veal or turkey forcemeat, fix it on a spit, and roast it for an-hour-and-a-half in front of a clear fire. Put the bird, when cooked, on a hot dish, remove the buttered paper from the head, glaze the body, pour a little rich brown gravy round it, garnish with watercress, and serve with a sauceboatful of bread sauce. Fie. 180. Pea-nuts; PEA-NUTS.—The remarkable plant (Arachis hypogsea) which bears Pea-nuts is said to be a native of the western coast of Africa; but it is now cultivated very extensively131 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COO KELT. K Pea-nuts—continued. in India for tlie sake of its oil, which has many peculiar merits. The pods containing the seeds (see Tig. 180) are usually found either on or under the ground. The external husk, something of a lobster shape, with a waist or central depression, contains from two to four red coloured seeds about the size of field peas, having also much the same flavour. In Africa the negroes make a food from it called munduli, which they eat with much relish. The Pea-nut which is also known as Monkey-nut, Earth-nut, Ground-nut, and Goober, is not much used in cookery in this country, nevertheless it admits of some useful forms of preparation. Pea-nut Candy.—(1) Dissolve 21b. of sugar and 1 salt- spoonful of cream of tartar in J pint of cold water, then set it over a moderate fire and cook till brittle, adding and stirring in about Joz. of butter. Shell some Pea nuts, and rub off as much of the inner skin as possible. Put a layer of them, two deep, at the bottom of some well- buttered tins, and when the candy is ready, pour it over them, and leave till cold. Then cut it or break it into pieces of a convenient size. (2) Shell lqt. of Pea-nuts (measured in their shells). Put Jib. of molasses in a saucepan over the fire, boil it, stirring constantly till a little dropped from the spoon hardens in cold water. Then stir in 1 table-spoonful of extract of vanilla, 1 saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda (dry), and lastly the shelled Pea nuts. When these are well mixed in, turn the candy into buttered shallow tins, and press it down smooth with the back of a wooden spoon. Pea-nut Sauce.—Remove the shells from 1 pint of Pea- nuts, blanch, and break them in halves, put them in boiling stock, and boil till soft; then mash them fine in the stock in which they were cooked. Brown 1 table- spoonful of flour in 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, then stir it in with the nuts and cook for five minutes. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and serve. Salted Pea-nuts.—Shell and skin about lqt. of Pea-nuts, melt loz. of butter before the fire, put the nuts into it, and stir them about so as to oil them well with it. Put them on another dish, brown them in the oven, sprinkle with fine salt, and serve hot. PEACHES (Fr. Peclies ; Ger. Psirsichen; Ital. Pesche; Sp. Melocotons). — This very delicious fruit {Persica vulgaris) is a variety of the almond tribe; the three fruits Almond, Peach, and Nectarine differ from each other principally in the nature of the covering of the stone. In the Almond the covering, or drupe as it is called, is tough and leathery, whereas in the Peach and Nectarine it is fleshy and succulent. The Peach differs from the Nectarine in that the skin of the former is fluffy and that of the latter smooth. All three fruits are sometimes found growing on the same tree, and at times on the same branch. More than this the fruit is occasionally found to be a Peach on one side and a Nec- tarine on the other. The word Peach is a corruption of Persica, so called because they are supposed to be natives of Persia, and on their introduction in the South of Europe were known as Persian Apples. In many parts of the East, and in the more temperate parts of North and South America, the Peach is grown abundantly, especially in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Maryland. “ The varieties of Peaches and Nectarines,” Lindley informs us, “ are very numerous, and would be difficult to distinguish, were it not for a classification formed from certain characters afforded by the fruit, leaves, and flowers. In some varieties the fruit has firm flesh, ad- hering to the stone ; such are termed clingstones. Others have melting flesh, parting readily from the stone; these are called melters or freestones. The leaves are either glandless, or are furnished with globose, or with reniform glands at their bases. In some the flowers are large, in others small. Formerly the Peaches and Nectarines Peaches—continued. known in Europe had all bitter kernels; but sweet - kemelled varieties have of late years been introduced from Syria. The following are some of the best varieties of Peaches: Noblesse, Royal George, Acton Scot, Gross*; Mignonne, Bellegarde, Late Admirable, and Walburton Admirable.” Although the fruit of the Peach is perfectly harmless the flowers and the seeds contain a quantity of prussic acid. From the crushed fruit and seeds together a very fine nutty-flavoured brandy is prepared in many parts where Peaches are plentiful. In America, more par- ticularly in Maryland, Peaches are used for feeding hogs. The best Peaches for dessert are the freestones; the clingstones being more frequently used for cooking. Large quantities of Peaches preserved in tins are imported from America; and these are considered by many con- fectioners to answer every purpose for cooking, although it must be confessed that they lack somewhat in flavour. See Almonds, Nectarines. Baked Peach Dumplings.—Mix 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar and 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda with lqt. of flour; add a little salt, sift them together, and make it into a paste with a small quantity of milk and water. Sprinkle a little Hour on the table, and roll the paste out several times, putting little pieces of lard on it to the extent of 6oz. Roll out thin the last time, and cut it into rounds with a biscuit-cutter. Put two or three pieces of canned Peaches on each round, 1 teaspoonful of butter, and 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar. Draw the edges firmly together ami place the dumplings on a large deep baking-dish, put them in a hot oven, and bake quickly. When baked, place.them on a hot dish, sprinkle a little caster sugar over them, and serve. Boiled Peach Dumplings.—Put in a basin Jib. of well- sifted flour, mixed with Joz. of baking powder; make a hollow in the centre and pour into it 1 gill of lukewarm milk; add Joz. of butter, J saltspoonful of salt, and break in one whole egg. Mix the ingredients well for two minutes, then incorporate the flour gradually. Lay the paste on a lightly-floured board or table, roll it into a square Jin. thick, then with a plain paste-cutter cut out six pieces, putting in the middle of each piece 2oz. of stewed peaches, fold up the edges all round, so as to enclose the peaches entirely. Have six small pieces of thick white cloth, Sin. square, butter and flour them well, arrange the dumplings in them, tie them firmly, leaving an empty space of lin. to allow the dumplings to swell, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, and let them boil for twenty minutes; remove from the fire, lift them out with a fork, drain for two minutes, cut the strings, and remove the cloths. Dress the dumplings on a hot dish, pour over hot wine sauce, and serve. Compote of Peaches.—(1) Take some ripe Peaches, cut them in halves, peel and stone them, and put them over the fire in a saucepan; cover with thick syrup, and let them simmer till sufficiently cooked. Crack the stones, and when the peaches are done enough lift them carefully out of the syrup with a skimmer, place them in a rather deep dish, and put the kernels in. Let the kernels and syrup boil till pretty thick, add strained lemon-juice to taste, mix it well with the syrup, and then pour it over the peaches in the dish. This may be served either hot or cold. (2) Wipe some Peaches, divide them in halves, and put them in a preserving pan with a little syrup, and let them stew gently for eight or ten minutes. When done, take the Peaches out carefully, drain, and arrange them in a circle on a glass dish. Reduce the syrup with a little raspberry juice, pour it round the Peaches, fill the centre with whipped cream, and serve. Compote of Peach and Orange.—Peaches put up in tins with syrup will do very well for this dish. Cut the tin open, drain the syrup from the Peaches, and add to this syrup as much sugar as it will dissolve. If the Peaches are not already sliced, slice them; to a 2lb. tin of Peaches For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils. Sauces, &c., refetred to, see under their special heads. 2132 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, iIce., referred to, see under their special heads. Peaches—continued. add six medium sized oranges, peel them, slice them rather thin, taking out all the pips; arrange the Peaches and oranges in alternate layers on a dish. Sprinkle over them , plenty of finely-powdered white sugar, pour the syrup over, and serve. Compote of Peaches with Rice.—(1) Boil some rice and slightly sweeten it, flavour with vanilla, and mix up the yolk of an egg with it. Prepare a compote of Peaches. Put the rice in small pats on a dish, place half a Peach on each, pour the syrup over, and serve. (2) Split nine Peaches into halves, take out the stones, and plunge the Peaches in boiling water to loosen their skins; drain, peel, put the Peaches in a basin, and cover them with syrup at 3Udeg. (see Syrups). Wash Jib. of rice, blanch it for eight or nine minutes, then drain and refresh it; put it in a stewpan with sufficient warm milk to cover it, adding more milk as that dries up. When the rice is nearly cooked, put it in together with a stick of vanilla, cut in pieces, and 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of caster sugar. Take the saucepan off the fire and keep it covered for ten minutes. Butter a border-mould; mix 3 table-spoonfuls of butter with the rice and put it in the mould, pressing it well down. Keep the rice warm for ten minutes, then turn it out of the mould on to a dish, fill the centre with the halves of Peaches, building them in a pyramid shape. Reduce some of the syrup with a little apple juice and pour it over them. Blanch and peel some sweet almonds, split them into halves, stick one on each Peach, and serve, with the remainder of the syrup mixed with a little maraschino in a sauceboat. Dried Peaches.—(1) Cut some Peaches into halves and put them in a preserving-pan with some syrup at 22deg. (see Syrup) ; let them simmer for a few minutes till the skins can be easily removed; take them out, peel, and put them back in the syrup; boil for a few minutes, then turn all into a basin and let them be till the following day. Drain the syrup off the Peaches, boil it up again, then pour it over them. Proceed in this manner the two following days. Put the Peaches on drainers, dip a camel’s hair brush in prepared cochineal or carmine, paint the Peaches lightly over, and set them in the screen to dry. Boil 11,1b. of sugar to the pearl degree [see Sugar-boiling), drain the juice of a lemon in with it, and work the sugar at the side of the pan with a spoon until it becomes whitish, then put in the Peaches and shake them gently about. Take each piece out with a fork, arrange them on the brass drainer, anti set them in the screen at a moderate heat to dry. In about an hour’s time pack the Peaches in card- board-boxes, with a sheet of white paper between each layer. (2) Get the Peaches just before they are ripe, peel them and take out the stones. Put the Peaches in boiling water, and leave till they are a little soft, then take them out and throw them into a bucket of cold water. When cold, drain, and weigh them, and to every pound of Peaches, use Jib. of caster sugar. Put the Peaches in a preserving- pan with the sugar, and leave them till enough syrup has run from them to allow of their being put over a slow fire. Boil the Peaches gently till they look very clear, then turn them into a large basin, and leave all night. On the following day, put the Peaches in dishes and set them in the sun or in a warm place to dry, turning them every day. When quite dry, pack them in boxes or jars. (3) Select perfectly sound ripe Peaches, cut them length- wise into halves, and remove their stones. Thread a large needle with very strong thread or twine and pass it through the halves of Peaches. If possible, hang the Peaches in the sun; but, if otherwise, they should be hung in a strong current of air. When quite dry pack the Peaches away in bottles. Tried Peaches.—Take ten or twelve firm ripe Peaches. Have ready on the stove a frying-pan with melted lard to the depth of rather more than Jin. Cut the Peaches in halves and take out the stones. When the lard is smoking hot, put the fruit in the pan, the cut side down, fry them a light brown, and as soon as the side next the pan is done turn them without letting them break and cook the other Peaches—continued. side. As soon as they are hot through take them up, put them on a hot dish with their cut sides up, place a little powdered white sugar in the hollow of each, and serve hot. Frosted Peaches.—Take two dozen ripe Peaches and rub the fur oft' with a soft cloth. Beat the whites of half-a- dozen eggs and 1 teacupful of water to a stiff froth and dip the Peaches into it, one at a time, rolling each one immediately in powdered white sugar, and then laying them, stem end downwards, on white paper laid on a tray in a window well exposed to the sun; when half dry roll them again in sugar and place in the sun till quite dry ; then put in a cool dry place till required. Arrange them in a glass dish, and garnish with green leaves. Frozen Peaches.—Take fresh ripe Peaches (large sized if possible), skin them and cut them in halves or quarters, or even smaller pieces if the fruit is very large; dredge over and among every pound of Peaches Jib. of powdered white sugar, put them into a freezer, and when frozen serve them in a glass bowl, sprinkling on top more powdered white sugar. Serve cream with them. Macedoine of Peaches.—Split nine large Peaches, remove the stones, and put the largest pieces into boiling water to loosen their skins. Drain, peel, and put them in a basin. Prepare a syrup, flavouring it with vanilla, and when cold pour it over the Peaches. With the smallest pieces of the Peaches make a puree, pass it through a fine hair sieve, and mix with it 1 tumblerful of sweet jelly. Wash lib. of rice and boil it in plenty of water; when tender, drain, and pour over it some syrup flavoured with vanilla. Cut out some little balls of apples with a vegetable-cutter and boil them in a little weak syrup; drain, and put them in a basin with a little prepared carmine and 2 table-spoonfuls of vanilla-flavoured syrup, and let them soak in it for half-an-hour. When ready to serve, drain the Peaches, stir the purtle over ice to thicken it, and mix the rice, well drained, with it; fill the halves of the Peaches with the puree and rice; drain the balls of apples, cut them in halves, and arrange them round the prepara- tion in the halves of Peaches, with one piece on the top. Brush all over with half set jelly, fix a gum-paste mound with a support in the centre on a round dish, and garnish with croutons of orange jelly; arrange the Peaches in a circle on the mound, putting one in the middle, and serve. Peaches au Gratin.—Tinned or fresh Peaches can he used; if the latter, they must be cut into halves, their stones removed, and stewed with plenty of sugar and a small quantity of water. Thickly butter a shallow dish; drain the Peaches from their syrup, lay them in the dish, cut side downwards, and strew over them plenty of finely- grated breadcrumbs. Mix with the syrup J wineglassful of noyau and a small quantity of strained lemon-juice; pour it over the Peaches, strew more breadcrumbs over the top, and. baste them with a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter. Put the dish in a brisk oven and bake until lightly browned over the top. Serve the Peaches in the same dish, accompanied by a jug of frothed cream. Peach-and-Apricot Fritters.—Cut some ripe Peaches and apricots in halves and take out the stones; divide them in quarters and peel them; put them in a basin, sprinkle a little caster sugar over, pour in a little cognac, and let them steep in it for half-an-hour. Drain the Peaches and apricots, dip them in frying-batter, and fry them a few at a time in boiling butter. Drain, anil arrange them on a hot dish, sprinkle caster sugar over, and serve. Peach. Bavaroise.—Mash lqt. of canned Peaches, pass them with the juice through a fine hair sieve, and mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar. Soak Joz. of gelatine in 1 teacupful of cold water for two hours. Put the Peaches in a lined saucepan and let them simmer for twenty minutes, stirring often. Mix the gelatine with the 'Peaches and remove them from the fire at once. Whip 1 pint of cream to a froth. Stand the saucepan with the Peaches in a bowl of ice water, and beat them till they begin to thicken, then stir in the cream. When thoroughly mixed,133 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Peaches—continued. pour the preparation into a mould and set it away to harden. Turn the cream out of the mould on to a dish, and serve with whipped cream. Feach Brandy.—Take 51b. of sound ripe peaches, crush them together with the peels and stones, and put all into a tub; pour over them 5qts. of alcohol, of 95 per cent., and 4qts. of water, and let it stand for twenty-four hours, keeping the tub covered. Strain off the liquor, squeezing the Peaches to get all the liquor from them, and strain it through flannel or filtering paper. Make a syrup by dissolving in water as much white sugar as the water will hold in solution, and if the sugar he very pure indeed this need not he hoiled. Should the sugar not he suffi- ciently pure, it must he hoiled till clear, taking off the scum as it rises. Add to the strained liquor 1| pint of this syrup (if hoiled, the syrup must he left till it is cold before adding it to the liquor), then mix it a little and bottle, corking it well. 1 wineglassful of this mixed with 1 table-spoonful of honey makes a nice winter drink. Peaches in Brandy.—Split some large Peaches in halves, put them in a lined pan with some syrup, and boil for two or three minutes; then take them out, peel the skins off, put them hack again in the same syrup, and let them simmer for five minutes; then take the pan off the fire, and leave the Peaches in it till the next day. Drain the Peaches, and arrange them carefully in jars. Boil their syrup to the feather degree (see SUGAR-BOILING), then mix with it an equal quantity of white brandy, and when | nearly cold pour it over the Peaches. When the syrup is quite cold, cork the jars, and tie bladder over the tops. Keep them in a cool dry cupboard. Peach. Brandy and Arrack Punch.—Put loz. of noyau essence and Joz. of essence of lemon into a howl, and mix them well up with 1 qt. of Peach brandy. Now pour in lqt. of essence of arrack, h pint of lime-juice, and stir in 3qts. of plain syrup, bottle it, cork up securely, and it will he fit to use in seven or eight days. Peach-Brandy Fiz.—Mix 1 dessert spoonful of syrup in a small glass with 1 wineglassful of brandy, put in a few lumps of ice, then pour the whole through a strainer into a large glass. Add 1 teaspoonful of Peach brandy, pour in a small bottle of soda water, and drink at once. Peach-Brandy Julep.—Put 1 wineglassful of good Peach brandy or liqueur into a large glass with an equal quan- I tity of syrup and half the quantity of brandy (cognac); then fill up the glass with broken ice; over that place a sprig of balm to flavour. Sprinkle the ice with a little noyau, dust over with sugar, and serve with a few sprays of red and white currants in the glass. Serve with straws. Feach Butter.—Rub ‘2qts. of Peaches with a coarse towel, cut them into slices, and put them in a preserving-pan with 1 pint of water. Place the lid on, move the pan to the back of the fire, and let the contents stew for an hour. Put 4 breakfast-cupfuls of preserving sugar in with the Peaches, and boil them for half-an-hour longer, stirring all the time with a wooden spatula. If left it will burn. Turn the butter into a jar, and keep it in a cool place. Peach Charlotte.—Peel six Peaches, cut them in halves, and take out their stones; chop them in little pieces, put them in a basin, sprinkle some vanilla sugar over them and 1 wineglassful of rum. Cut some thin slices of cake into fingers and line a charlotte-mould with them, letting them overlap each other. Stand the mould in a basin and surround it with pounded ice. In a-quarter-of- an-hour’s time put a layer of the pieces of Peaches at the bottom of the mould. Whip a little unset jelly with some maraschino, then pour sufficient into the mould to cover the Peaches. Leave it till the jelly is set, then put in another layer of the Peaches and some more jelly; continue in the same manner till the mould is full, allow- ing the jelly to set before another layer is put in. Lay a cover over the mould and keep it in ice for lialf-an- hour. Turn the charlotte out of the mould on to a dish; dip a paste brush in some maraschino, and brush all round Peaches—continued. to flavour it. Peel three Peaches, cut them in quarters, garnish round the base of the charlotte with them (see Fig. 181), pour some maraschino syrup over it, and serve. Peach Cheese.—(1) Procure the requisite amount of green Peaches, wipe them with a dry cloth to remove any im- purities, put them in a saucepan, and for each pound of fruit pour in about ^ pint of cold water. Boil them over a gentle fire until quite soft, then rub them through a fine hair sieve. Break some of the stones and mix their kernels with the Peach pulp. Weigh the pulp, and allow half its weight of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar; put it into a preserving-pan, boil it for a few minutes, then put in the sugar with the strained juice of two or three lemons, and stir it with a wooden spoon until reduced to a thick pulp. Turn the pulp into small moulds, keep them in a cool place, and when cold and firm the pulp may be turned out of the mould. The Peaches should be well looked over to see that they are perfectly sound before they are used. If one or two rotten ones are put in they will spoil the whole cheese. (2) Peel eight ripe Peaches, divide them into halves, take out the stones, and stew them in a little syrup till very tender; then drain, and pass them through a fine hair sieve. Crack the stones, peel the kernels, and put them in a mortar, pound them, pass them through a line hair sieve, and mix with the pulp of the Peaches and a little melted isinglass. Beat 1 pint of thick cream to a froth, then add it to the Peaches with more sugar if re- quired ; stand the basin over ice, and continue whipping till the isinglass is melted. Fill a mould with the pre- paration, surround it with pounded ice and salt, and stir the contents till frozen. Dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, turn the cheese on an ornamental dish, and serve. (3) Peel twelve ripe Peaches, take out the stones, and pass the pulp through a fine hair sieve. Dissolve ten or twelve leaves of gelatine, mix it with the puree in a small copper bowl, and add also 4 pint of syrup that has been slightly flavoured with vanilla; stand the bowl on ice and whip the contents till beginning to thicken. Mix with the puree 1 wineglassful of maraschino, a little kirschenwasser, and 1A teacupfuls of whipped and sweetened cream. Pack a jelly-mould in pounded ice, fill it with the preparation, cover the mould, and leave it for an hour. Dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the contents out on to a fancy dish, and serve. Peach. Cheese Cakes.—Soak loz. of gelatine in a small quantity of water, then strain and put it into a stewpan with 1 breakfast-cupful of tinned Peaches and 1 breakfast- cupful of the juice. Stew the whole until the fruit is tender and the gelatine has dissolved; then mash the fruit with a wooden spoon, and mix in \ teacupful of pounded sweet biscuits, two well-beaten eggs, and about 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar; the mixture should be moved off the fire before the eggs are added. Butter sufficient patty-pans for the above quantity of fruit mixture134 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Sec., referred to, see under their special heads. Peaches—continued. and line them with a light paste. Pour the mixture into the pans, put a small lump of butter on the top of each, and put them in a brisk oven. In about half-an-liour’s time the cake should be sufficiently baked; turn them out of the tins and arrange them on a dish that has been garnished with a folded napkin or a fancy-edged disli- paper. They may be served either hot or cold. Peach Cobbler.—Make a short-paste and line a buttered shallow baking-dish with it. Peel some Peaches, cut them into halves, put them an inch deep in the tin and sift a little caster sugar over them; cover with crust, just moistening the edges and pressing them together, and bake for kalf-an-hour. When cooked, take the pie out of the tin, put it on a dish, cut it into squares, and sprinkle caster sugar over. Serve either hot or cold. Peach Conserves.—Peel some Peaches and cut them in thick slices from the stones. Make a syrup, allowing fib. of sugar to each pound of fruit. Boil the Peaches in it, then drain, and put them on dishes till dry. As they dry roll them in granulated sugar, and pack in jars or boxes. Peach Cordial.—Take J peck of very juicy Peaches, peel and stone them, and crack about half the stones. Put the Peaches, the kernels, and the stones that are not cracked into a large jar, pour over them lgall. of double rectified whisky, and add I Alb. of rock sugar-candy. Cork it tight and let it stand three months. Filter through blotting paper, bottle it, and cork well. It is fit to use immediately. Peach Cream.—(1) Peel twelve ripe Peaches and take the stones out. Put the Peaches in a preserving-pan with ilb. of crushed loaf sugar and \ pint of cold water. Boil the fruit gently over a slow fire till it is dissolved, then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Mix with the pulp 1 pint of whipped cream and loz. of dissolved gelatine, colour it with a few drops of cochineal, and mix it well. Wet a fancy-mould with cold water, pour the preparation in, and leave it till firm. "VVTien ready to serve turn it out on to a glass dish. (2) Open a tin of Peaches and strain the juice through a fine sieve into a basin; colour the rounded side of each Peach until cochineal and let them dry. Put loz. of isinglass in 1 pint of cream and stir it over the fire until dis- solved. When the cream is nearly cold, mix it until the juice of the Peaches and the strained juice of one lemon. Pour two-thirds of the cream into a glass dish and put it in a cold place; when set, arrange the Peaches on the top of it, pour the remainder of the cream carefully in between them, and leave until firm; then serve. (3) Put 1 heaped breakfast-cupful of tinned Peaches and then- juice into a lined saucepan, stew them over a slow fire until tender, then pass them through a fine wire sieve. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of condensed milk and 1 teacupful of cream with the fruit and beat well. Put a few rusks in a glass dish, pour the cream over them, and serve. (4) Put Joz. of isinglass and A pint of cream in a small saucepan and stir it over the fire till the isinglass is dis- solved. Take the cream off the fire, leave it till almost cold, then mix with it the strained juice of a tin of Peaches, and pour three-parts of it in a glass dish and leave till set. Brush the rounded sides of the Peaches over with a little prepared cochineal, and arrange them pink sides up on the cream when firm. Pour the rest of the cream carefully between the Peaches and leave till set. Peaches and Cream.—Peel lqt. of soft yellow Peaches, cut them in quarters, put them in a glass dish, sprinkle Jib. of caster sugar over, and leave them for two or three hours. Serve with cream poured over them, or separately. Peach Cream Ice.—(1) Peel six ripe Peaches and boil them in J pint of water until dissolved. Pass the pulp through a fine hair sieve, then mix with it 1 pint of syrup, 1 pint of thick cream, a few drops of essence of kernels, and colour it lightly with a little cochineal. Put the preparation in a freezing-pot (see Ices), and work it till frozen. Fill a plain mould with the Peach ice, put the lid on, and pack , Peaches—co ntinued. it in ice. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the cream out on to a dish. (2) Flavour lqt. of thick cream with some Peach extract, put it in the freezer, and work it till frozen. Peel and cut in halves lqt. of Peaches, mix 2 breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar with them, pour the frozen cream over, and serve. (3) Put in a basin 41b. of powdered sugar and the yolks of six eggs, mix them well with a spatula for ten minutes, add 1 pint of boiling milk, stir for two minutes longer, and pour the whole into a copper basin. Place it on a hot stove and heat it thoroughly, stirring continually, but do not let it boil; remove, lay it on the table, mix in immediately 1 pint of sweet cream, and leave it to cool for thirty minutes. Take six ripe Peaches, wipe them, cut them into halves, remove the stones, and mash them into the cream, mixing thoroughly for three minutes; strain through a fine sieve into a freezer, pressing the Peaches through with a wooden spoon, and freeze. Serve on a cold dish with a folded napkin over. Peaches on Crohtons with Cream.—Peel some Peaches, cut them in halves, and remove the stones; put them in a stewpan with a small quantity of water and plenty of loaf sugar, and stew them gently until tender. When cooked, mix with them 1 wineglassful of white wine. Cut some French rolls into slices about £in. thick. Put a large piece of butter in a frying-pan and, when boiling, put in the rounds of bread and fry them a bright golden brown. As the rounds are fried, take them out of the fat and put them to drain on a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire. Rest half a Peach on each round of bread, the cut side uppermost? put a small piece of black-currant jelly in the hollow left by the stone (see Fig. 182), arrange the croutons tastefully in a dish, dust a little sugar over, strain their syrup round them, and serve with cream. Tinned Peaches may be used if more convenient than the fresh ones; in that case they should be turned with their syrup into a stewpan, and boiled for three or four minutes. Peach Custard.—Make a paste with lib. of sifted flour, two eggs, 2oz. of butter, and a very little salt. Butter the inside of a tin mould, line it with the paste, and bake. Boil the Peaches in syrup; take the paste out of the mould when done, and put the Peaches in. Boil the syrup till reduced, then pour it over the fruit, and serve. Peaches for Dessert.—Wipe the Peaches carefully and lightly over with a clean cloth; put a circle of them on a dish, then over those a narrower circle, and so on, finish- ing off with one at the top, and using Peach-leaves and moss to garnish and build them with. Put a circle of the moss and leaves round the dish at the base of the Peaches (see Fig. 183). Vine or artificial Peach-leaves may be used if the genuine ones cannot be obtained. Peach Flawn.—(1) Butter a shallow baking-dish and line it with a good pie-crust. Cover with quartered Peaches, then fill it with a custard and bake in a moderate oven. Cut into squares when done, and serve. (2) Put eight or ten not very ripe Peaches in boiling water to loosen their skins, then drain and peel them; cut them into halves, remove the stones, and put the half Peaches into a flat stewpan. Mix some kirschenwasser with syrup and pour it over the Peaches. Peel and take out the stones of five or six small Peaches, chop [hem, and put them in a stewpan with a little more than J tumblerful135 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, iSauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. quarter-of-anhour; when done, shake the flour out, take the paste out of the mould, and put it back in the oven to dry and colour. Put lOoz. of caster sugar in a sauce- pan with | pint of water, and the thin peel of a lemon ; peel ten Peaches, put them in with the syrup, and boil them till tender. Fill the paste case with them, and serve. Peach Fritters.—Skin some ripe but firm Peaches, cut them into halves, and take out the stones. Put the Peaches in a bowl with some caster sugar and toss them about well, taking care not to break them. Put lib. of finely-sifted flour into a basin and stir in h pint of water gradually with a wooden spoon. Beat the "whites of three eggs till very stiff, mix them with the batter, and add l£oz. of -warmed butter. Put a lump of lard in a frying pan, make it warm, but not too hot, dip each piece of Peach separately in the batter, then fry them in the lard. When lightly browned, drain the Peaches on a cloth, lay them on a baking-dish, the cut side downwards, sift some caster sugar over, and glaze them under the salamander. Arrange the Peaches in a pyramid on a folded napkin placed on a hot dish, and serve. Peach Ice.—(1) Peel 3 pints of ripe yellow Peaches, cut half of them into pieces, the size of cherries, and put the other half in a preserving-pan with lib. of preserving- sugar and lqt. of water. Crack the stones, put the peeled kernels in, and let them simmer over a slow fire for a few minutes. Then mash the fruit with the back of a wooden spoon; mix with them 1 breakfast-cupful of bright red currant jelly, then pass all, with the exception of the kernels, through a fine hair sieve. Put the prepar- ation in a freezer (see Ices), and when frozen, beat in the whipped whites of four eggs and add the pieces of Peaches. Line some moulds with Peach ice-cream, and fill the centre with the Peach ice. Put the lids on the moulds, embed Peaches—continued. them in ice, and leave them till ready to serve. Then turn the contents on to a glass dish. (2) Peel and stone a few ripe Peaches, and pass their pulp through a fine hair sieve. Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of the puree into a basin, and mix with it the same quantity of vanilla sugar. Then stir in f pint of cold water and the strained juice of three oranges and one lemon. In ten minutes’ time pass the preparation through a fine hair sieve, put it in a freezer (see Ices), and work it in the ice till smooth and frozen. Mix a few drops of carmine in 1 wineglassful of maraschino and 2 table- spoonfuls of the preparation, then mix all together. When frozen, take the ice up with a table-spoon and build it rock shape on a folded napkin on a dish, and serve. Peach Jam.—(1) Procure ripe clingstone Peaches, peel them, crack the stones, and blanch the kernels. Put the kernels in a mortar, and pound them well. Put the skins and broken stones in a pan with twice the quantity of water required for the jam, and boil it until reduced to half the quantity. Afterwards strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve. Put the Peaches in a preserving-pan with the pounded kernels, and for every pound of fruit put in lib. of preserving sugar, and 1 teacupful of the liquor from the stones, &c. Boil the mixture, keeping it well stirred until reduced to a stiff consistency. Fill some jars with the jam and let them stand until the following day. Then sift a small quantity of caster sugar over each, cover them with rounds of paper that have been dipped in beaten egg, and tie round with twine. Keep the jars in a dry store cupboard for use. (2) Put some Peaches, skinned and freed of their stones, in a preserving-pan, with an equal weight of preserving sugar, and boil for fifteen minutes. Skim it, turn it into jam pots, and leave it till cold. Dip some rounds of white paper, cut to fit the jars, in brandy, put one on the top of each jar, cover them with bladder, and tie down. Keep the jars in a cool dry place. (3) Allow for some unripe Peaches an equal quantity of caster sugar. Peel the fruit, cut it into quarters, and remove the stones. Put it in a preserving-pan with the sugar, and let it stand all night. On the following morn- ing, put the pan over the fire and boil the contents until very tender, and the juice will jelly. When ready, turn the preserve into jars. Two or three days later, put in each jar a round of white paper that has been saturated with brandy, cover with parchment, and tie down tightly. Pack them in a dry store cupboard for use. Feach Jelly.—(1) Procure some large Peaches, not too ripe, wipe them well, and take out the stones, cut the Peaches in quarters, and put them in a covered jar. Crack the stones, cut the kernels into small pieces, and put them in with the Peaches. Set the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, taking care it does not come over the top, and let it simmer till the Peaches are soft. Strain them through a jelly-bag to extract all the juice; measure the juice, and put it in a preserving-pan with lib. of loaf sugar for every pint of juice. Boil them for twenty minutes, and skim carefully. Turn the jelly into glasses, and when cold, lay a round of paper that has been dipped in brandy on each, put another paper on the top, and tie down. They will keep in good condition for some tune. (2) Soak lioz. of gelatine in j pint of cold water. Peel, cut in halves, and stone a-dozen-and-a-half ripe Peaches, putting them into a stone jar with sufficient cold water to cover. Crack about a fourth part of the stones, bruise the kernels, and put them into the jar with the Peaches. Cover the jar, not tight, but so that the steam may escape, put it over the fire in a saucepan of warm water, and cook the Peaches till they break in pieces. Put the soaked gelatine into a large bowl, together with the grated rind of one lemon and the juice of two, and lib. of powdered white sugar. Strain the Peaches, scalding hot, upon the gelatine through a colander or very coarse sieve, and stir till the gelatine is quite melted. Then strain through a flannel bag without either shaking or squeezing it. Wet the inside of a mould with cold water and pour the jelly into it. Let it stand in a cold place all night and turn it out next day on a glass dish. Peaches—continued. of syrup; stir it over the fire till boiling, adding gra- dually a little potato flour. When thick, pass it through a fine hair sieve, add 1 wineglassful of kirschenwasser and a stick of vanilla, and keep it hot in the bain-marie. Butter a flawn-mould, line it with short-paste, put a buttered paper round, and bake it in a slack oven; when baked, take the buttered paper out, spread some apricot marmalade all round the inside of the paste, take it out of the mould, and stand it on a dish. Warm the Peaches gradually, but do not boil them. Drain, and pile them inside the crust, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in Peach marmalade, arrange some preserved fruits of various colours over them, mix together in equal quan- tities some kirschenwasser and syrup and pour it over them. Put the Peach puree in a sauceboat and serve it with the Peaches. Fig. 183. Peaches for Dessert. (3) Butter the inside of a mould and line it with a good short-paste, pressing it in to take the shape of the mould. Pinch the paste that rises above with the paste-pinchers, ■fill if. ■vvit.li flmiv fl.ml 1 iD.lcp. in n. mrwlnvQt.o nrmn «TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 136 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Peaches—continued. Peaches in Jelly.—(1) Skin the Peaches very carefully so as not to spoil or bruise them, using a silver knife. As they are peeled cut them into halves, lay them in cold water, first taking the stones out. Crack a quarter of the stones and boil the kernels for half-an-hour in just enough water to cover them. When all the Peaches are peeled and stoned, take them out of the water and weigh them, put them into a preserving-pan in layers, with their own weight of sugar sprinkled over the layers, and let them gradually heat until the sugar melts; then put in the water in which the kernels were boiled and let the Peaches gently boil until they become transparent. Carefully lift them out of the syrup and lay them on sieves; let the syrup boil, keeping it well skimmed till a little of it put into a saucer stiffens slightly as it cools; then put the Peaches into jars, and pour the syrup over them when it is slightly cooled. When quite cold cover the jars down so as to be perfectly airtight. (“2) Peel twelve Peaches, cut them in halves, and put them without the stones in a lined saucepan with a little thin syrup, and boil them gently for four or five minutes. Break the stones, peel the kernels, and put them in with the fruit; in about an hour’s time drain the Peaches on a sieve. Squeeze the juice of six lemons into the syrup through a fine strainer, then pass it two or three times through a jelly-bag till very clear; mix some clarified isinglass with it, pour some of it into a plain mould, and stand it in ice. When firm, arrange the Peaches over the jelly, putting the blanched kernels between them, and sticking them together with a little jelly. When stiff', pour in some more jelly gradually; let it set, then fill the mould; leave the Fig. 184. Peaches in Jelly. mould in the ice, which should have been broken and mixed with a little salt. When ready to serve dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the jelly carefully out on to a glass dish (see Fig. 184). Peach Leather.—Allow Jib. of sugar to each pound of stoned Peaches; put sugar and fruit together over the fire, and let them stew together, mashing it smooth as it cooks. When it has cooked tolerably dry, take it from the fire, butter a board well, and spread the stewed Peaches over it in a thin sheet; put it in the sun to dry, and when quite dry roll it up and wrap it in a cloth. It keeps very well from one season to another. Peach-leaves Flavouring (Persica).—Cut about a hundred Peach-leaves, wipe them quite clean, put them into a jar or a large bottle with a wide mouth, and pour over them lqt. of best French brandy. Cork it well and let it stand three weeks; strain it, and add to it an equal quantity of capillaire; bottle and cork it tightly. It makes a nice flavouring for puddings and custards, or may be served as a liqueur. Peach Leche Crema.—Put lqt. of milk over the fire in a double-boiler; when very hot stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of cornflour blended with a little cold milk, keep stirring till it begins to thicken, then take it from the fire and stir in loz. of butter. Beat up the yolks of three eggs very light, and when the cornflour is only just warm stir them in, and whisk all together till quite light and smooth. Butter a pudding-dish; peel, halve, and stone some ripe Peaches, strew over them sufficient sugar to sweeten, put them into the buttered dish, pour the custard or crema over, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. Beat the Peaches—continued. whites of five eggs to a stiff froth, with enough powdered white sugar to sweeten them. Spread this over the leche crema after it is baked, and return it to the oven for two or three minutes. If served hot, serve sweet sauce with it; if cold, serve cream. Peach Marmalade.—Put some ripe autumn Peaches that have been peeled and stoned in layers in a deep dish, cover them thickly with crushed loaf sugar, and leave them for a day and night. Place the Peaches in a preserving- pan, putting in 1 lb. of sugar for each pound of Peaches. Boil them till thick, then pass them through a fine hair sieve. Crack the stones, peel a few of the kernels, boil them in a little thin syrup and mix with the marmalade. When cold, put it in a glass dish, and serve. Peach Meringue.—(1) Peel some ripe Peaches and stew them. When nearly done, mix some sugar and 1 tea- spoonful of butter with them. Butter a deep pie-dish, line it with short-paste, and bake. When done, take the crast out of the oven, put the stewed fruit in it, cover with the whites of three eggs, beaten to a stiff froth and sweetened with 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and put it back in the oven and brown lightly. Serve either hot or cold. (2) Boil together 1 breakfast-cupful of granulated sugar and l pint of water. Peel three dozen ripe Peaches, cut them in quarters, then put one-third of them in the boiling syrup, and let them simmer for eight minutes. Take them out and put in another third. Continue this till all the fruit is done. Put the Peaches in a basin and boil the syrup till it becomes thick, then pour it over the Peaches. Put the whites of six eggs in an ice-box and beat the yolks with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar. Put 1J pints of milk in a double boiler, and when boiling stir in 3 table- spoonfuls of cornflour that has been mixed smooth with J pint of milk, and boil it for five or six minutes, stirring all the time; pour the preparation gradually over the beaten eggs and sugar, then return all to the boiler and stir it over the fire for four minutes longer. Take the preparation off’ the fire and put it away to cool. Pile the Peaches in the centre of a shallow dish. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, adding gradually 5 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, pour it over the Peaches, put them in the oven, and bake till lightly browned. Take the pudding out, and leave it till cold. Flavour the cornflour pre- paration with a few drops of essence of almonds, pour it round the Peaches, and serve when cold. Peach Miroton.—Put 1 table-spoonful of butter in a sautd-pan, and when melted lay in lib. of tinned Peaches that have been previously drained of their syrup, and steeped for an hour in brandy. As the Peaches get warm, dust caster sugar over them freely. When they are soft remove the pan from the fire, squeeze the juice of a lemon over the Peaches, stir them gently with a wooden or silver spoon, pile them in a glass dish, and pour 1 wine- glassful of madeira wine over. A little red-currant jelly makes an appropriate garnish. Peach Paste.—Peel and stone some ripe Peaches, cut them into little pieces, and put them in a preserving pan with a very small quantity of water. Boil and stir them till reduced. Weigh the pulp, and for every pound use Jib. of loaf sugar: clarify it and boil it to the feather [see Sugar- BOILING), then stir the pulp in with it, and keep it over the fire for a short time. Dry the paste in any shape required. Peach-Paste Drops.—Put lib. of thick Peach pulp in a pre- serving-pan with lib. of preserving sugar, a few drops of oil of almond (see Almond), and enough prepared cochineal to give it a light pink colour. Stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until reduced to a stiff paste. Lay the preparation out in drops on sheets of polished tin, using a spouted sugar-boiler for the purpose. Put the sheets of tin in a screen of moderate heat to dry the drops. In an hour’s time move the drops from the tins with the aid of a sharp-pointed knife, pack them in boxes between sheets of paper, and keep them in a cool dry place. Peaph Pickle (Souk).—Take ljgalls. of freshly-gathered Peaches not quite ripe, but still pretty hard. Lay them137 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Peaches—continued. carefully without bruising them in a stone jar, and cover with weak brine. Let them stand in it for twenty-four hours. Then take them out and carefully wipe each Peach dry. Place them over the fire in a large pan, cover with cider vinegar, put in with them 1 dessert spoonful of sliced horseradish, three or four blades of mace, Joz. of stick cinnamon, a drop or two of oil of cloves, and sufficient sugar to temper the acidity of the vinegar. As the vinegar begins to get warm watch the Peaches, turning them with a wooden spoon that they may all get done evenly. As each one gets tender enough to run a needle into it, take it out and lay it in the jar. Do not let them remain over the fire long enough to shrivel or become very soft. When all the Peaches are in the jar, boil the vinegar and spices for an hour and then pour it over them. Put on the top of the jar 1 table-spoonful of olive oil. The pickle will be ready for use in a few days. Peach. Pie.—(1) Peel the Peaches, cut them in slices, and put them in a preserving-pan ; crack the stones and put in the peeled kernels, using for every pound of Peaches Jib. of crushed loaf sugar and 1 cupful of water. Put the lid on and let them stew slowly; mash the Peaches in a colander, line some buttered shallow tins with pie-crust, fill them with the Peaches and bake. Serve either hot or cold. (2) Peel lqt. of Peaches, and put them in a lined sauce- pan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar and a little water. Boil them till nearly as thick as marmalade, stirring frequently, then take them off the fire and leave till nearly cold. Mix with the Peaches 1 table-spoonful of butter; butter three shallow tin dishes, line them with short-paste, and bake them. When done, take the crusts out, and spread some of the fruit on each. Serve either hot or cold. (3) Peel some ripe Peaches and stew them till nearly, done, then sweeten to taste and boil them for two or three minutes longer. Line a buttered pie-dish with short- paste, turn the Peaches in it, place some little bits of butter in and sift dour over; put a crust on the top, moisten the edges and press them together, trimming all round close to the edge of the dish. Bake it in a quick oven. When ready to serve, sprinkle some caster sugar over the pie. (4) Butter a pie-dish and line it with a fine flaky crust; roll out a flat of paste large enough to cover the top of the pie, and bake the crust in a brisk oven for a-quarter- of-an-hour. Peel 21b. of very ripe Peaches and cut them into slices, removing the stones; put them in a basin with 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and 1 teacupful of cream. When the crust is baked, put in the Peaches, place the crust cover over them, and return to the oven for five minutes. Stand the pie-dish on a flat dish, strew caster sugar over the top of the pie, and serve either hot or cold. Peach Pudding.—(1) Peel twelve ripe Peaches and cut them in pieces, put them in a basin, sprinkle caster sugar over, and let them stand for an hour. Put 1J pints of milk in a double boiler. Before preparing the Peaches, put loz. of gelatine or isinglass in 1 teacupful of milk and let it soak for an hour. Stir four beaten eggs with 2 table spoonfuls of caster sugar and the gelatine in the milk when boiling, and continue stirring for four or five minutes. Take the double boiler off the fire, and mix with the custard 1 pinch of salt and 1 wineglassful of madeira. Put the Peaches in a glass dish, and when the custard has partly cooled, pour it over and leave them for a few hours before serving. It is better if possible to make this pudding the preceding day. (2) Make a batter of 6oz. of flour, 1 saltspoonful of salt mixed in it, six well-whisked eggs, lqt. of milk, and loz. of butter warmed quite soft. Peel the Peaches but do not stone them, and lay them close together in a pudding-dish; when the oven is hot, stir into the batter J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda and 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, pour it quickly into the dish over the Peaches, and put it instantly into the oven and bake. Serve sweet sauce with it. (3) Peel and stone sufficient ripe Peaches to make lqt. of pulp, masli them and put them in a lined saucepan with Jib of butter and the Peach kernels. Mix 2oz. of cornflour with Jib. of caster sugar, put it in with the Peaches—continued. Peaches, stir them over the fire for three or four minutes, then take the saucepan off. Beat in with the Peaches the yolks of eight eggs, 1 teacupful of cream, and J tea- cupful of Peach brandy. Butter two shallow baking- dishes, line them with pie-paste, pour in the Peach preparation, about 1 Jin. thickness, and bake for twenty minutes. Beat the whites of eight eggs with 6oz. of caster sugar, spread it over the pudding, and serve. (4) Put 2 gills of milk with 2oz. of butter into a sauce- pan, and when they boil drop in Jib. of flour, and stir immediately with a spatula as briskly as possible for two minutes; remove the pan from the fire, add the yolks of three eggs, and stir again vigorously for two minutes. Add 3oz. of powdered sugar, continue stirring, pour in 1 gill of cold milk, and mix well. Beat to a stiff froth the whites of the three eggs, and add them gradually to the prepara- tion, mixing slowly for two minutes. Butter and sugar a mould holding 3 pints, put a layer of the preparation Jin. thick1' at the bottom; have eight peeled and finely- sliced Peaches, cover with 2oz. of them, then another layer of the preparation, again the same quantity of Peaches, and repeat twice more. Place the mould in a pan, fill it to half the height of the mould with warm water, and set it in the oven to steam for an hour. Remove, turn it on a hot dish, and serve with the following sauce: Pour into a saucepan 1 pint of cold water, add Jib. of granulated sugar, and place the pan on a hot stove. Dilute loz. of cornflour in a cup with 1 gill of cold water, and when the water in the saucepan- is boiling, add the cornflour to it, stirring well for two minutes with a whisk. Take it from the fire, add immediately J gill .of kirschenwasser, and mix again for one minute; strain through a fine sieve into a sauce-bowl, and serve very hot with the pudding. (5) Italian.—Put the yolks of two eggs into a basin with 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar and 1 teacupful of boiling milk, whisk them all together, and add 1 tea- spoonful of lemon-juice. For 1 pint of tinned Peaches allow 1 breakfast-cupful of breadcrumbs. Put a layer of the Peaches on a flat dish, cover with a layer of the breadcrumbs, and proceed in this way until all are used, then pour over a small quantity of the liquid mixture, and let it absorb before pouring in more. When all the liquid is used, place the pudding in a moderate oven and bake for half-an-hour. Beat the whites of the two eggs to a stitt' froth. When cooked, take the pudding out of the oven, spread the frothed egg on the top, and over that strew 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar. Put it in the oven for five or six minutes to brown slightly, then take it out, and serve at once. Peaches-and-Rice Meringue.—Divide fifteen ripe Peaches in two, remove the stones, and put the Peaches in boiling water to loosen the skins; drain and peel them; put them in a basin and cover with a syrup at 28 deg. (sec Syrups). Wash Jib. of rice and boil it for ten minutes; drain it, put it in a stewpan with some cream, flavoured with vanilla, and boil it, adding more cream when likely to become too dry. When the rice is done and nearly cold, dish it, dome shaped, in the centre of a dish, in layers, alternating each layer with half of the Peaches. Coat the rice with meringue, smooth the surface, then orna- ment it with meringue squeezed through a pastry-bag. Sprinkle a little caster sugar over the shape, and put it in a slack oven to dry and lightly brown. Take the dish out of the oven and put the rest of the Peaches round the rice. Mix a little maraschino with the syrup, colour it with a few drops of vegetable carmine, put it in a sauceboat, and serve with the meringue. Peach-and-Sago Pudding.—Put Jib. of sago into a pie-dish, pour in 1 pint of cold water, and leave it to soak for three hours. At the end of that time, skin and stone lqt. of Peaches and stand them upright in the sago; strew 3oz. of caster sugar on the top. Put the pudding in a moderate oven and bake it for one hour. When cooked, stand the pie-disli with the pudding on a flat dish, and serve it while very hot. Peach. Short-Cake.—Peel lqt. of ripe Peaches, cut them into small pieces, mix with them 1 breakfast-cupful ofTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 138 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Peaches—continued. caster sugar, and set them in a cool place. Rub |lb. of butter in fib. of flour, make a hollow in the centre, then pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of ice water, and mix it up soft. Sprinkle a little flour over a paste-board, and roll the paste out on it, folding and rolling it out three or four times to make it flaky; gather the paste into a lump, let it stand five minutes, then roll it out to about fin. in thickness, and bake it on a baking-sheet. Split the cake in two when baked, spread some of the Peaches and sugar on the lower half, put the top on, the split side upwards, and spread more Peaches and sugar over that; put it on a dish, and serve with cream. Peach Sponge.—Strain the juice from a tin of preserved Peaches and pass the fruit through a fine hair sieve, then beat it up with the juice and a small quantity of caster sugar. Put loz. of isinglass in a basin with J pint of cream, let it steep for some tune, then stand the basin in a stewpan containing boiling water, and stir the con- tents until the isinglass has dissolved. Mix the fruit pulp with the cream and stir it, out of the water, until nearly cold. Whisk the whites of three eggs to a stiff' froth, stir them in with the cream, and pile it up high in the centre of a glass dish. Select several small thickly - berried sprays of holly, and brush each leaf carefully over with a strong solution of gum Arabic, strew caster sugar over, and leave them until dry. Arrange the sprays of holly round the sponge, and serve. Peach Spongeade.—Peel and stone sufficient ripe Peaches to make If pints of pulp. Pass them through a fine hair sieve, put it in a basin with the whites of six eggs, not whipped, and If pints of syrup at 38 deg. (see Syrups) ; pass the preparation through the fine hair sieve into the freezer (see Ices), and work it till frozen. Mix 2 table- spoonfuls of maraschino with a little syrup, then mix it in gradually with the spongeade. Serve the spongeade in ice-glasses. Peach Sweetmeats.—Dissolve lib. of brown sugar in 1 pint of water and clarify it with an egg. Wipe 21b. of Peaches, put them in a lined pan with the sugar and boil, skimming off' the egg as it rises to the top. The Peaches should not be peeled if done whole; but previously put in a little boiling water and boiled, then taken out and wiped dry. Peach Syrup.—Select some perfectly ripe Peaches, split them and remove the stones, then put them into a mortar and pound. Keep the pulp for about twenty-four hours, in a temperature between 70 and 80degs., stirring occasionally and pressing it. Strain the juice from the pulp, leave it for twelve hours, then weigh it, and for every pound of the juice, mix in loz. of Cologne spirit or deodorized alcohol; leave it for twelve horns longer, then filter the juice through paper. For each pound of the filtered juice, use 1 lib. of preserving sugar, and put them together in a syrup-boiler, stir them over the fire till on the point of boiling. Remove the syrup from the fire, skim well, and bottle it, first rinsing the bottles with a small quantity of Cologne spirit. Peach Tart.—(1) Line a pie-dish with puff paste, put twelve half Peaches at the bottom, dust over with 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, pour over \ wineglassful of any white -wine; over this put six chopped apples, and 1 break- fast-cupful of rich custard flavoured with noyau, cover with more paste, put a piece of paper over that, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, spread over the top with two well-whipped whites of eggs, mixed with 1 table- spoonful of caster sugar; over this arrange preserved cherries and imitation leaves cut out of angelica, arranging them according to fancy. Place the pie in the oven for a few minutes so as to set the egg, and it is then ready for serving, or may be served cold. (2) Wipe on a cloth eight or ten good-sized Peaches, cut them into slices, put them in a basin with 4oz. of powdered sugar, and let them remain for some time. Line a pie-dish with paste, spread over a little apple preserve, place the Peaches over it, moisten the edges of the tart with beaten egg, put a rim of paste round, brush this over with more egg, and bake in a moderate oven for about Peaches—continued. fifty minutes. Sprinkle over a little more sugar, glaze it in the oven, spread over a little sweet jelly, and serve hot or cold as desired. Peach Tartlets.—(1) Sift lib. of flour through a fine sieve on to a table, make a hollow in the centre, and put in fib. of butter, broken in little bits, 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, 1 pinch of salt, the yolks of three eggs, and a little water, and work them gradually together. Line a dozen or more buttered tartlet-moulds with the prepared paste, put a thin layer of apple marmalade on the bottom of each and half fill them with rice boiled in milk; cover each with paper and bake in a moderate oven. When baked, take the tartlets out of the oven and leave them for ten minutes; then spread in a layer of marmalade, fill up the spaces with rice that has been boiled and mixed with cream, and put half a preserved Peach on each round side upward. Squeeze some meringue through a biscuit- forcer in little beads between the paste and Peaches, sprinkle caster sugar over, and put them in a slow oven for ten or twelve minutes. Reduce the Peach syrup, take the Fig. 185. Peach Tartlets. tartlets out of the oven, dip a paste-brush in the syrup, and brush the Peaches over with it. Arrange them in a group on a dish covered with an ornamental dish-paper (see Fig. 185), and serve. (2) Take lib. of puff paste, roll it out 12in. long by 8in. wide, cut out six pieces with a paste-cutter, and arrange them neatly on six scalloped tart moulds, each 31in. wide. Take each mould in the hand, and with the thumb press the paste gently at the bottom and sides so as to give it the perfect shape of the mould, but avoid pressing the paste on the edge, so that in baking it will swell and rise. Divide 3oz. of apple marmalade into six equal parts, and fill the bottom of the tarts with it; then wipe six good- sized Peaches, peel and cut them into six pieces, arrange them over the marmalade in the tarts, sprinkle over 2oz. of powdered sugar, lay them on a baking-sheet, put them in a moderate oven for twenty minutes, draw them to the door, and sprinkle the edges lightly with powdered sugar, then leave them in the closed oven for two minutes to allow the sugar to melt thoroughly. Remove them from the fire, put in a cool place for twenty minutes, then spread evenly over the Peaches l£oz. of apple jelly. Dress the tartlets on a dish with a folded napkin, and serve. (3) Peel and stone some ripe juicy Peaches. Cut them into small pieces, dredge over sufficient powdered white sugar to sweeten well, and let them stand till the juice mns from them. Make some puff paste, line some medium- sized patty-pans with it, bake them, and let them get cold. Crack half the Peach stones, blanch the kernels, and add them to the Peaches; put the Peaches over the fire in a saucepan together with the sugar, the blanched kernels, and their own juice, and let them stew till soft, then take them from the fire and mash them. When both fruit and pastry-shells are quite cold, mix some cream with the stewed Peaches and fill the pastry-shells with them. Dredge powdered white sugar over the tops, and serve. (4) Butter twelve tartlet-moulds and line them with short paste. Boil some rice, mix some cream with it, flavour with a few drops of essence of vanilla, and put a layer of it in each of the moulds. Bake them, and when done, take them out and fill them with the rice and cream. Peel some Peaches, cut them in halves, and boil them in a little syrup. Drain the Peaches, and put half a one on each tartlet; boil the syrup till reduced, then mask the130 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. for details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Peaches—continued. Peaches with it. Crack the stones, blanch, and split the kernels, put half a one on the top of each Peach, and serve. Peach Trifle.—Put the Peaches into a saucepan with plenty of sugar and a small quantity of water, and stew them over a gentle fire until quite tender. When ready, drain the fruit and mb them through a fine hair sieve, then beat the pulp up with the syrup. Cover the bottom of a glass dish with slices of sponge cake, and moisten them with a little sherry. Sweeten 1 pint of thick cream to taste with caster sugar, flavour it with ratafia, and whip it to a stiff froth, which skim off as it rises to the top, and place on a fine sieve to drain. Spread the Peach pulp over the cake, pile the cream on the top, and serve. Peach Water Ice.—(1) Slice ten ripe Peaches, but do not peel them, boil till soft in J pint of water, then rub them through a fine hair sieve. Mix with the pulp 1 pint of syrup, the strained juice of one lemon, three or four drops of oil of almonds, and colour it with a little carmine or cochineal. Put the preparation in the freezer (see ICES), turn it till frozen, then fill a plain mould with it, put the lid on, and pack it in ice. When ready to serve, turn the contents of the mould on to a fancy dish. (2) Procure eight medium-sized ripe Peaches, wipe them, cut them into halves, remove the stones, mash them in a vessel with Mb. of powdered sugar, and squeeze in the juice of three lemons; mix well with the spatula for two minutes, and pour in lqt. of cold water, mixing for two minutes longer. Strain through a fine sieve into the freezer, cover, and freeze. Serve on a cold dish with a folded napkin. Pickled Peaches.—(1) Allow to 141b. of Peaches, weighed after peeling, 2qts. of vinegar and 61b. of brown sugar. Mix together in a plate or saucer 1 table-spoonful of blades of mace, 2oz. of stick cinnamon broken up into small pieces, and 1 teaspoonful of cloves. Lay at the bottom of a 2gall. jar about lqt. of the Peaches, cover with sugar, and sprinkle over them a portion of the mixed spices. Then lay in more Peaches, covering them as before with sugar, and sprinkling in some of the mixed spice. Proceed in this manner till the jar is full, or till all the Peaches, sugar, and spice are in. Then pour in the vinegar, put a plate or saucer over the fruit to keep it well under the vinegar, tie a cloth tight over the top of the jar, and set it over the fire in a saucepan half full of cold water. Let the water boil till the Peaches are soft enough to pierce with a straw. (2) Take 1 peck of common Peaches, and, without peel- ing them, put them into a jar with a wide mouth or into a bowl. Place over the fire lqt. of red or white vinegar, 41b. of sugar, either loaf or moist will do, loz. of cloves, and loz. of stick cinnamon. Let these simmer gently for half-an-hour, and then pour this syrup over the Peaches. Lay something over them sufficiently heavy to keep them down in the syrup, and let them stand for three days. Put fruit and syrup together into a preserving-pan, and let it boil till the Peaches are soft, then lift them out of the syrup carefully and put them into jars. Let the syrup boil fast until it thickens, and when sufficiently thick pour it over the Peaches in the jars, putting some of the spice into each jar. Tie the jars down airtight, and the pickle will keep for twelve months. It is very nice with cold meat. (3) Choose perfectly sound Peaches of medium-size and brush them all over with a soft brush. Boil together 6qts. of water and 1 pint of coarse salt, and skim it until clear; then cool it. The quantity may be increased or diminished to suit the quantity of Peaches, enough being used to cover them; but this proportion of salt and water must be observed. When the brine is cold, put the Peaches into it and let them stand for forty-eight hours; then rinse them in cold water, dry them on a soft towel, and stick half-a-dozen cloves in each one. Boil and skim till clear as much vinegar as will well cover the Peaches (the quantity may be gauged by measuring the brine), allowing for each quart of vinegar four blades of mace and Joz. of stick cinnamon. When Peaches—continued. the vinegar has boiled for about fifteen minutes, put in the Peaches and remove the preserving-pan containing them to the back of the fire, where its contents will not boil. Let the Peaches stand in the hot vinegar for five minutes, and then put both Peaches and vinegar at once into glass jars and seal them airtight. (4) Get the Peaches when they are fully grown and just before they begin to turn ripe; they must not be in the least bit bruised. Put the Peaches in a brine strong enough to bear an egg, place a thin board over them to keep them under water, and let them stand for three days. Take the Peaches out, wipe them with a soft cloth, and lay them in a glass jar. Fill the jar with vinegar, and for every gallon put in three heads of garlic, plenty of ginger, cut fine, and Joz. of mace, cloves, and nutmeg; put a bladder over the jar, and then a leather, and tie it closely round. At the end of three months the Peaches will be fit for use. (5) Peaches for yellow pickle must lie for three days in salt and water; they will then be soft enough for the down to be nibbed off and for the stones to be taken out, which should be done very carefully. Keep the slice cut from the bottom in removing the stone. Stuff the cavity made by the removal of the stone with a paste composed of Jib. of white ginger, soaked in salt water till soft, Jib. of horseradish, scraped and soaked for twelve hours, J pint of garlic, soaked and dried, J pint of onions, chopped small, loz. of long pepper, dried and salted, Joz. of common black pepper, 1 table-spoonful of mace, 1 table-spoonful of cloves, loz. of celery-seed, 2oz. of black mustard-seed, 2oz. of white mustard-seed, and a little turmeric pounded to powder and mixed with perfectly fresh butter or olive-oil. Sew the piece cut from the bottom of the Peach on again. Put the Peach mangoes into a jar and cover them with vinegar, then tie them down. (6) Canadian.—Put 11 pecks of Peaches that have not been peeled into a large stone or earthenware jar. Put 3 pints of white vinegar into a lined pan with 61b. of coarsely- crushed loaf sugar and ljoz. each of stick cinnamon and whole cloves; boil the mixture for about forty minutes, then pour it, while boiling, over the Peaches. Press the Peaches well under the syrup and let them steep in it for three or four days. Next put them with their syrup into a pre- serving-pan and boil them gently until soft. Lay the Peaches carefully into jars, and continue to boil the syrup until thickly reduced, then pour it over the Peaches and leave them until cold. Cover the jars with parchment and tie them down securely. This is a very good relish for cold meats and will keep good for a year or more. (7) American.—These are styled pickled Peach mangoes. Take large-sized black Georgia Peaches, full grown, but not at all soft. Cover them with brine salt enough for a fresh egg to float in, and let them remain in it for a week. Take them out, then wipe them dry, and very carefully take the stones out. Have a paste ready, made of 5 table- spoonfuls of ground mustard, Jib. of chopped onion, Jib. of white mustard-seed, Jib. of black mustard-seed, Jib. of long pepper, 4 table-spoonfuls of black pepper, loz. of mace, Joz. of cloves, and Jib. of horseradish, all pounded together and mixed with olive-oil. First rub the inside of each Peach with 1 teaspoonful of celery-seed, then stuff into each as much of the paste as it will hold, and sew it up with strong linen thread or fine twine. Put over the fire lgall. of vinegar with lib. of brown sugar and a pod of red pepper cut in slices, or 1 teaspoonful of cayenne in it, let it come to a boil, then take it off. Put the Peaches into jars and pour this vinegar over them. When perfectly cold tie the jars down closely. Pickled Stuffed Peaches.—Choose fresh sound Peaches, brush them with a soft brush, and lay them in a cold brine for three days. Then remove them from the brine, cut a piece out of the top of each one, and take out the stone without enlarging the hole. For two dozen large Peaches, mix together 21b. of brown sugar, one onion, and a clove of garlic, chopped fine, 4oz. each of grated horse- radish and white mustard-seed, loz. of powdered cinnamon, and Joz. each of ground cloves, mace, and turmeric. Use sufficient salad-oil to moisten these ingredients. Fill the140 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Peaches—continued. Peaches with them, close the cut with a piece of Peach, and either sew or tie it in place. Put the stuffed Peaches into glass jars, cover them with cold vinegar, pour 2 table- spoonfuls of salad-oil in each jar, and seal them. Preserved Peaches.—(1) Take some large juicy Peaches, peel, and quarter them. Crack half the stones and blanch the kernels. Weigh the Peaches, lay them in a deep dish, mixing with them the blanched kernels and lib. of powdered white sugar to every pound of Peaches; cover and let them remain all night. Next day put Peaches, kernels, sugar, and any juice that has run from them into a pre- serving-pan and boil them till they look clear and are quite soft, skimming off’ all scum as it rises. When the fruit is soft and looks clear take the pan from the fire, let it cool a little, and then put the preserve into jars. When quite cold lay a piece of white paper dipped in brandy on top of the preserve in each jar, and cover the jars airtight. (2) Mix together an equal quantity of honey and spring water, beat well, and put it into an earthenware vessel. Place some freshly-gathered Peaches in and cover them closely. Wash the fruit when taken out in cold water, and it is fit for immediate use. (3) Canadian.—Make a sufficient quantity of thin syrup (allowing Jib of coarsely crushed loaf sugar to every pint of water) to cover the fruit well. Peel the Peaches and drop them carefully into the boiling syrup. Boil them for ten minutes, then take them out, a few at a time, and put them into wide-mouthed bottles or jars. When the jars are full, pour in a sufficient quantity of the syrup to cover the fruit, and, should any air bubbles have formed on the top, remove them with the handle of a spoon. Cover the jars immediately with rounds of white paper, three thick, pasting each round down separately with boiled flour-and-water paste, and stow them away in a dry store-cupboard. Stewed Peaches.—(1) Peel and cut into quarters ten medium-sized ripe Peaches, removing the stones, put them into a saucepan with I pint of cold water, and add Jib of granulated sugar. Place the pan on the stove, and when boiling skim well; cook for five minutes, meanwhile stirring slowly from the bottom, to avoid mashing the fruit; remove from the fire, and immediately add 1 gill of kirschenwasser, mixing well together for about half a minute. Pour the preparation into a bowl, let it get cool, turn it out on to a dish, and serve. (2) To lib. of loaf sugar allow J pint of sherry, madeira, or marsala wine. Put the wine and sugar into a pre- serving-pan on the stove and let it boil slowly, removing the scum as it rises. Skin the Peaches, cut them into halves, and lay them in cold water as they are done to keep their colour. When the syrup is clear, put in as many Peaches as will boil without crowding, let them boil gently till they begin to look clear, then take them care- fully out of the syrup without breaking, and put them into glass jars, if to be kept, or if for immediate use, into glass dishes. Continue cooking the Peaches, a few at a time, till the syrup is reduced to f pint; boil this till it is reduced to J pint and pour it over the Peaches. If they are not for immediate use be careful when they are cold to cover the jars airtight. Stewed Peaches a la Conde.—(1) Wipe the Peaches, put them in a preserving-pan with some clarified sugar, and stew them. Prepare a croustade of rice, bake it, and when done turn it out on to a hot dish; ornament it with dried cherries and strips of angelica, and put the stewed Peaches round it; make a sauce with apricot marmalade and madeira in equal parts, and pour it over. (2) Split twelve Peaches into halves, take out the stones, put them in boiling syrup for a few minutes, then drain and take off the skins. Mix 1 teacupful of cornflour with 3oz. of crushed loaf sugar, 1J pints of milk, and a stick of vanilla; stir it over the fire till a thick paste; spread half of the paste on a dish, and when cold shape it into croquettes the size of a cork; dip them in beaten egg and breadcrumb them. Prepare a savarine socle and put it on a dish. Fry the croquettes in boiling butter, drain Peaches—continued. them, and garnish round the socle with them; arrange the Peaches in two circles on the socle; stir some hot cream in with the remainder of the paste till it becomes thick, then put it in the circle of Peaches; reduce the syrup, pour it over them, and serve. FEARS (Fr. Poires; Ger. Birnen; It at. Pere; Sp. Peras).—The tree that bears this fruit (Pyrus communis) is of the same tribe as the apple, and is a native of Europe, Circassia, Central Asia, and the north of China; but it is not met with in Southern India. Lindley, in the “ Treasury of Botany,” in- forms us that from the Wild Pear have arisen improved varie- ties in different countries, which instead of being hard and gritty, as the earlier cultivated sorts generally were, become at matu- rity as melting as a Peach. Many of the French Pears, raised up- wards of two centuries ago, are no longer reckoned worthy of cultivation. A collection of them, consisting of fifty sorts, existed at Chelsea 150 years ago, and are figured in an early volume of the “ Transactions ” of the Horticul- tural Society. Most of the kinds imported from France have been superseded by Belgian varieties, which have proved in general of better quality, and more suitable for the climate of England. Some of these improved varieties, only known comparatively recently in this country, existed in the latter part of the last century, chiefly in the gardens attached to numerous religious establishments in Belgium; and it was only after the close of the war in 1815 that they were obtained in England and other countries. The varieties of Pears are now very numerous. After excluding a vast number of worthless kinds, up- ward of a thousand of excellent quality exist in some collections. The following are of established merit: Passe Colmar, Glou Morceau, Winter Nelis, Beurre Bose (see Fig. 186), Thompson’s, Louise Bonne, Autumn Bergamot (see Fig. 187), Jargonel, Fondante d’Automne, Fig. 187. Autumn Bergamot Pear. Comte de Lamy, Passe Crassane (see Fig. 188), Easter Beurre Bergamotte d’Esperen, Williams’ Bon Chretien (see Fig. 189), Josephine de Marines, Easter Beurre (see Fig. 190), Uvedale’s St. Germain (see Fig. 191), Beurre Sterckmans (see Fig. 192), and Beurre Ranee. Mr. Knight, when president of the Horticultural Society, devoted great attention to crossing and raising new Pears from seed. A considerable number of those which he obtained were very good; but perhaps the best is Knight’s Monarch. Besides its use for dessert, the Pear is employed Fig. 186. Beurre Bose Pear.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 141 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Fears—continued. for stewing, baking, compotes, and for making of perry. The latter is described under its own beading. Baked Pears.—(1) Peel, core, and cut in halves twelve large Pears, put them into a pan with two dozen cloves, Fig. 188. Passe Crassane Pear. lib. of sugar, and nearly enough water to cover them. Bake them in a moderate oven till tender, keeping the pan covered ; then put them over a slow fire, and let them stew gently. Grate a little lemon-peel over them, and add more sugar if it is required. Fig. 189. Williams’ Bon Chretien Pear. (2) Peel a dozen Pears and cut them in halves. Cut a lemon in thin slices, picking out the pips. Lay the Pears in an earthen jar in layers, covering each layer with sugar and some slices of the lemon, and putting in a Fig, 190. Easter Beurre Pear. clove here and there. When all are in, pour over sufficient water to cover the Pears completely, set the jar in a moderate oven, and bake for five hours. Fears—continued. (3) Peel 2qts. of hard Pears, core and cut them in quarters, and put them in a deep pie-disli, with 1 break- fast-cupful of moist sugar and a little water; cover them, and bake in a moderate oven for several hours. Pears cooked in this way will keep for an indefinite time if put in jars and sealed down. Bavaroise of Fears.—Peel and core some moderately large Pears, slice them into a preserving-pan, and squeeze in the juice of two lemons and the thinly-pared rind of one. Blanch about seventeen or nineteen bitter almonds, chop them finely, put them in the pan with Jib. of loaf sugar and loz. of dissolved isinglass, place the pan over a moderate fire, and stew the Pears till tender. Rub the Pears through a fine hair sieve into a basin, stand them on ice, and stir them till cold. Mix 1 pint of welbwhipped cream in with the Pears, pour the mixture into a mould, cover it, and pack it in ice. When set, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, turn the contents out on to a fancy dish, and serve. Fig. 192. Beurre Sterckmans Pear. Candied Knots of Pear Paste.—Boil 14oz. of sugar to the ball degree (see Sugar-boiling), then mix with it lib. of Pear-pulp, colour it a delicate pink with a few drops of prepared cochineal, and boil it till reduced to a stiff consistency. Pour the paste out on a baking-sheet, level it off, and dry it for four or five hours in a screen; at the end of that time, turn it, and dry for an hourTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 142 For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils,*Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. fears—continued. longer. When quite cold, cut the paste into strips about ■gin. thick and 6in. long. Tie the strips into knots, re- sembling the figure of 8, place the knots on wire trays, and put them for another hour in the screen. Candied Pears.—(1) Peel and core some Pears, and let them simmer in syrup with a squeeze of lemon-juice in it for ten minutes; turn the Pears out, pour the syrup over them, cover the basin, and leave them till the next day. Strain the syrup off the Pears, boil it up again, then pour it over the Pears. Repeat this operation the two follow- ing days, giving in all four syrapings. Drain the Pears on a cane sieve, then, when quite free from moisture, put them a little apart from each other on wire trays, rest them on dishes, and put them in a screen at a slow heat to dry them. Take the Pears off the trays when cold, and dry and pack them in boxes lined with white paper. (2) Put the Pears just as they are into boiling water, and leave them till soft; then take them out, peel them carefully, put them on a strainer, and catch the juice. Place the Pears in the oven, heated to the ordinary tem- perature for bread, and leave them there for three or four hours. When taken out and cold, press the Pears flat, plunge them into their own juice, and pack them in stone jars. Many uses can be found for Pears prepared in tliis way, and many a tasty supper-dish can be put on the table with a few minutes’ notice when the dried Pears are in the store-room ready to be worked up. Candied Pear Paste.—Boil some Pear marmalade till greatly reduced in quantity. Colour half of it with a few drops of prepared cochineal, turn each half on to a clean plate, and leave them till they are cold. With some tin-cutters cut the paste into squares, diamonds, ovals, leaves, rings, &c.; dip each with a fork in caramelled syrup, place them out of hand on a trellised wire drainer, and leave them till dry. Compote of Pears.—(1) Cut four large baking Pears into six pieces each lengthwise, but keeping one whole half for the centre of the compote; pare and core the pieces of Pears and put them in a lined pan with some 16deg. syrup (see Syrup), 1 teaspoonful of prepared cochineal, and a little lemon-peel. Boil them, and when done, drain, and arrange the quarters in a compote dish, putting the half pear in the centre. Boil the syrup till reduced to 30 deg., pour it over the Pears when cold, and serve. Compote of Pears la Princesse.—Use nine large Pears, as near one size as possible. Scrape the stalks, turn the Pears spirally from head to stalk, put them in a preserving- pan with a little syrup, and let them simmer till tender, but not too soft. A little lemon-juice squeezed in the water will keep the Pears white. When done, remove the pan off the fire and leave them till cold in the syrup. Cut off the ends of the Pears so as to leave about Jin. surface in diameter , at the stalk end. Cut some rings of angelica the same diameter as the cut part of the Pears, and put one on each. Pass some strawberries or cherries through hot syrup, then place one in each of the rings. Cut some strips of angelica and ran them through the cherry and angelica rings to imitate the stalks of the Pears. Arrange them in a compote dish, pour some syrup over them, and serve. Compote of Pears a la Victoria.—Peel seven Pears and core them through the thick ends lial f-way down the fruit; turn them spirally, and let them simmer in syrup delicately coloured with a little prepared cochineal. Drain the Pears on a cloth when done, fill the interiors with strawberry jam, put a ring of angelica on the surface of each Pear, and put a mirabelle plum in each ring, previously passing them through a little hot syrup. Arrange the Pears in a compote dish in an upright position, flavour the syrup with vanilla, pour it round the Pears, and serve. The rings are cut with two different vegetable cutters, cutting the out- side with the large cutter first. Compote of Pears a la Zing’ara.—Peel and core some Pears, cut them into thick slices, and let them simmer in syrup; when tender glaze the Pears in their own syrup Fears—continued. Cut three,oranges in slices, and remove the rind and pips, pour some boiling syrup over them and leave them to steep in it for 1 hour. Arrange the slices of orange and Pear alternately, leaning against each other in the same manner as cutlets are dished; build up the compote three tiers in elevation, and ornament them tastefully with angelica on the pieces of orange and currant jelly or damson cheese on the Pears. Flavour the syrup with brandy, pour it round them, and serve. Crisped Pears.—Peel and core some Pears (those that easily cook soft are the best), cut them into halves if large, and steep them for several hours in a syrup well flavoured with lemon. Take the Pears out, roll them in flour, and fry them in boiling lard. Drain, put them on a hot dish, and serve with a sweet sauce. Pear Charlotte.—(1) Cut some thin slices of stale bread, without the crust, and cut out a round with a ljin. in diameter tin-cutter, then cut some heart-shaped pieces of bread, and dip them and the round piece in warmed butter. Put the latter at the bottom of a plain round cliarlotte-mould, arrange the heart-shaped pieces overlapping each other round it, cut the slices of bread into strips ljin. wide and of the height of the mould, dip them in butter, and stand them all round the mould, also overlapping each other. Pare and core fifteen Bon Chretien Pears, cut them in quarters, put them in a saute-pan with a little butter and vanilla sugar, and fry them. Put the Pears in the mould when cooked, and brown the charlotte in the oven. Turn the charlotte out on to a hot dish, mask it over with reduced apricot jam, and serve. (2) Peel and core a dozen good-cooking Pears, cut them into several pieces lengthwise, and put them in a flat stewpan with a little warmed butter and half a stick of vanilla ; toss them over the fire for a few minutes to cook them slightly, then sift in a little caster sugar, and finish cooking till their moisture is reduced. Drain the Pears, mask them with a little apricot marmalade, and leave them till cool. Put Jib of butter in a saucepan and melt it, cut some thin slices of household bread, and shape the pieces like a longish triangle, the long side of which should be exactly half the diameter of the mould, slightly rounding the shorter side of the triangles; dip them one at a time in the melted butter, and arrange then rosette fashion at the bottom of a charlotte-mould with the pointed ends towards the centre. Cut some strips, lin. wide, and the same height as the mould, off some slices of household bread, dip them in the warmed butter, and range them like horses in a stable against the sides of the mould, and resting on the bread at the bottom. Warm the Pears and fill the charlotte with them; dip some broad slices of bread in the butter, lay them on the top, put the mould in the oven, and bake for twenty-five- minutes. Turn tlie charlotte out of the mould on to a hot dish, sift caster sugar over it, and serve quickly. (3) German.—Peel and core six Pears, mince them, and put them in a flat stewpan with a very little water and 1 teacupful of caster sugar; add a little lemon-peel, put the cover on the stewpan, and boil the Pears quickly for a few minutes to reduce their moisture without dissolving the Pears. Move the pan off the fire, take out the lemon- peel, and stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of apricot marmalade. Butter a charlotte-mould and line it with brioche paste; fill the mould with the Pears when cool, and put a round of the same paste on the top, trimming and pressing it round the edges. Put the charlotte in a moderate oven and bake for thirty-five minutes, turn it on to a hot dish, mix a little apricot marmalade with some light syrup and 1 teacupful of rum, pour it over the charlotte, and serve. Pear-Cream Ice.—Peel twelve mellow Pears, core and cut them in quarters, pass them through a fine hair sieve with 1 pint of cream, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and squeeze in a little lemon-juice. Turn the preparation into a freezing-pot, working it from the sides to the middle as it freezes. When frozen, put the cream in an ice mould, cover, and pack it in ice. When ready to serve, turn the contents of the mould on to a fancy dish.143 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Pears—continued. Pear Drops.—Put the required quantity of crushed loaf- sugar in a preserving-pan, using enough water to make it drop off the spoon without adhering to it; flavour with essence of jargonel Pear, colour it lightly with a little prepared cochineal that has been finely ground and moistened with a little water. Stir the sugar over the fire with a spatula until it dissolves and makes a slight noise, hut on no account should it boil; take it off the fire when on the point of boiling, continue stirring with the spatula until it is sufficiently thick not to spread much when dropped from the spoon, but remain rounded in form; if too thin, more crushed loaf sugar may be added. Fill a small drop-pan with the preparation, and drop it from the lip on to a copper plate at regular intervals, separating the drop of sugar from the lip of the pan with a piece of straight wire. Leave the drops for an hour or so till firm and dry, then detacli them from the sheet with a thin knife, bottle them, and keep in a dry place. Pear Dumplings.—Make a good pastry, and cut it into pieces large enough to enclose a medium-size Pear; peel some Pears, leaving them whole, and keeping the stem intact; enclose them in pastry, brush them with beaten egg, and bake them in a moderate oven. Serve the dump- lings, either hot or cold, with powdered sugar or sauce. Pear Flavour with Cream.—Mix 5oz. of caster sugar and 1 pinch of salt with 4oz. of flour; then stir in one whole egg and the yolks of three; add 3oz. of butter and a piece of lemon-peel, and stir it over the fire till cooked but do not let it boil; then keep it at the side till ready to use. Line a flawn-circle with short-paste, put some buttered paper all round the inside, fill it with common flour, and bake it. When baked, take the flawn out of the oven, empty it, and turn it out of the mould; nearly fill the crust with the prepared cream; have some small Pears cooked whole in syrup, colour them slightly with prepared cochineal, and arrange them in an upright position on the cream, pour a little of the syrup in which the Pears were cooked over them, and serve. Pear Flawn.—Prepare a good paste with Jib. of flour and some butter, roll it out into a round about lOin. in diameter, then gather it up about 2in. all round the edges, which crimp and decorate with a wreath of paste leaves. The edges of the flawn should be moistened with a little water to make them stick. Peel some fine Pears, cut them in halves lengthwise, and put them in a preserving-pan, with some sugar, the juice of one or two lemons, and the thinly-pared and shred rind of one lemon. Cook the Pears slowly till tender, then leave them till cold. Bind a strip of buttered paper round the flawn, fill it with the Pears and their syrup, and bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, take the paper oft' the flawn (see Fig. 193), glaze it over with apricot marmalade, and serve it. Pear Fritters.—Put as many good-cooking Pears as are required for the dish, cut them into slices lengthwise, cover with caster sugar, dip them in batter, plunge them into boiling oil, and fry a delicate brown. Take them out, drain, dust over again with sugar, place them on a napkin over a dish, and serve with sweet or wine sauce. Pear Jam.—Peel some ripe Pears, cut them into quarters, take out the cores, weigh them, and put them into an earthenware jar, packing them closely. Put the jar into a saucepan of water on the stove, cover the jar with a : piece of strong paper tied over, and let the water round the ' Fears—continued. jar boil till the fruit is soft enough to break; then put the same weight of sugar as there is fruit on the stove with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water to each pound of sugar, and boil and skim till it is a clear syrup; put the fruit into it and stir till it boils, and boil for twenty minutes, stirring all the time ; then let it get a little cool, put it into jars, and when quite cold cover as for other marmalades. Pear Jelly.—Select ripe juicy Pears and cut them into quarters. Put them in a preserving-pan with 1 pint of water for every 41b. of Pears. Place them over a slow fire and boil until reduced to a pulp. Put the Pears in a jelly-bag, which should be hung over a basin, and let them drain for twelve or fourteen hours. At the end of that time, squeeze the bag to obtain any juice that has not run through into the basin, measure the juice, and put it into the preserving-pan with 4oz. of loaf sugar for every breakfast-cupful of it. Flavour with a small quantity of lemon-juice, and boil it over a brisk fire, stirring continually until reduced to a jelly. Turn the jelly into small jars, leave it until cold, then put a brandied paper on the top of each, and cover with parchment, tying it down securely. Keep the jars in a dry store cupboard for use. Pears in a Jelly Border.—Peel some nice-sized ripe Pears, cut them in halves length-wise, core and put them into a preserving-pan, squeeze in the juice of two lemons, and add Jib. of preserving sugar ; stew the Pears n tlier quickly till tender, then take them carefully out so as not to break them, and lay them on a dish till cold. Flavour lqt. of jelly with any liquor preferred; stand a cylinder mould, one not too deep must be used, on ice, pour in a layer of the jelly Jin. thick, and leave it till set. Dress the Pears round in a border, the reverse way, so that when the mould is turned over they will be in the right position, fill the mould up with jelly, and leave it till cold and set. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, turn the contents out on to a fancy dish, and fill the hollow in the centre with whipped red jelly. Pear Marmalade.—(1) Peel some ripe Pears, cut them into quarters, core and weigh them, put them into a preserving-pan, add sufficient water to cover, and bring very slowly to the boil, and simmer till they are tender; then take them out of the water, put into the water the cores and peel, boil for an hour, strain the water off into a basin or jug, and allow to every half pound of fruit, 1 breakfast-cupful of this water, and Jib. of sugar. When the requisite quantity of water is measured, and the sugar weighed, boil both together in the preserving- pan, keeping it well skimmed; try it now and then by putting a little in a saucer to cool; if it jellies slightly as it cools, then stir the Pears into it, boil for five minutes stirring all the tune, let it partly cool, then put it into jars. When quite cold, cover with white paper dipped in brandy, and fasten with paper dipped into white of egg beaten up, but not to a froth. (2) Peel and core 61b. of ripe cooking Pears, cut them in slices, and put them in a preserving-pan with 1 pint of water. Boil the Pears till thoroughly dissolved, keep- ing the cover over the pan, then mix with them 41b. of crushed loaf sugar, and stir it with a wooden spoon till reduced to a stiff paste. Turn the marmalade into pots, dip some rounds of paper in brandy, put one on each jar, and tie them down with paper and string. This is best done on the fol lowing day, or care must be taken that the marmalade is first quite cold. (3) Put 91b. of Pears in a saucepan over the fire in water, and boil them till they begin to soften. Take them up, drain them from the water, peel, quarter, and core them, and throw each piece as it is done into a saucepan of cold water. When all are in the saucepan, set it over the fire till the Pears are soft. Then teke them from the fire, and mb them through a sieve. Clarify 61b. of loaf sugar and boil it to the thread (see Sugar-boiling). Put the pulp of the Pears into a preserving-pan, pour the boiling sugar over it, set it over the fire, and keep stirring till the marmalade is of the proper thickness. Take itTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 144 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred to, see under their special heads. Fears—continued. from the fire and put it into pots, and when quite cold, lay on top of each a piece of white paper dipped in brandy, and cover the pots airtight. Fear Paste Drops.—Peel and core sufficient Pears to make lib. of pulp, put them in a lined pan, with \ pint of cider or perry, and boil them to a pulp. Rub this through a coarse hair sieve, and mix with it lib. of crushed loaf sugar. Stir the pulp and sugar over the fire till reduced to a stiff paste. Put this into a small round-bottomed sugar- boiler with a pointed spout. Lay the paste out in drops upon square sheets of polished tin, and dry them in the screen. When dry, detach the drops from the sheets by the aid of a thin knife. Keep them between sheets of paper in closed boxes, and they are ready when wanted. Fear Fie.—Peel and slice six medium-sized fine Pears, place them into a basin with 3oz. of powdered loaf sugar, put this over a pie-dish lined with paste, and cover over with more paste, moistening the edges with beaten egg, and pressing them down with the hand. _ Brash the surface over with more beaten egg, put the pie in a moderate oven, and bake for alrout fifty minutes. Remove it to the oven door, sprinkle powdered loaf sugar over the top, push it into the oven again for two minutes to melt the sugar, put the pie on a fiat dish, and serve either hot or cold. Pear Preserve with Cream.—Peel and cut in halves about six Pears, put them in a stewpan with an equal weight of sugar, and a small quantity of water to prevent them burning, and boil slowly until clear and tender, and the moisture reduced to a jelly. When the Pears have cooled a little, turn them on to a glass dish; and when quite cold, serve them with whipped cream. Pear Puffs.—Peel and core five or six Pears, cut them into small pieces, and put them into a saucepan with 1 table- spoonful of cold water, the juice of half a lemon, and 1\ table-spoonfuls of caster sugar. Put in also Jib. of raisins, and stew the whole slowly for half-an-hour. When cooked, turn the mixture on to a plate and leave it until cold. Put ill), of flour and Jib. of butter on a paste- board, and rub them together until quite smooth, then mix in the yolk of an egg, and sufficient cold water to knead it into a a slight paste. Dredge flour over the paste board and roll the paste out on it to about the thickness of lin., and divide it into pieces about 3in. square. Beat the white of the egg lightly and brush it round the edges of the paste with a paste-brush. Put an equal quantity of the cold Pear mixture in the centre of each of the pieces of paste, and fold the edges together; brush over each a little of the white of egg and dust them over with a small quantity of caster sugar. Dredge a baking-sheet lightly with flour, place the puffs on the baking-sheet, leaving a short space between, put them into a moderate oven and bake them for half-an-hour. When cooked, arrange the puffs on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, and serve them. Pear Pulp for Ices.—Take off the peel from the required quantity of Pears, cut them up into slices, remove the cores, put them into a preserving-pan with a little water and the strained juice of a lemon, set the pan on the fire, and let it remain until the slices are quite soft. Take them out carefully and drain, put them into a copper pan, reduce them to a pulp over the fire, rub the pul]) through a coarse sieve, and mix in 3oz. of crushed loaf sugar to each pound. Put the mixture into wide-mouthed bottles, cork and tie down securely, place them in a deep pan with hay between them to prevent breakage, pour in water to half their height, and simmer gently to steam the pulp for fifteen minutes. Remove the pan from the fire, let the bottles cool in the water, take them out, seal the corks, and put them in a cool place until wanted. Pear Quenelles.—Peel five or six large Pears and cut them into rather small pieces, throwing away the cores. Beat four eggs with 2oz. of slightly-warmed butter, and mix with them 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, 1 teaspoonful of grated lemon-peel, a small quantity of grated nutmeg or cinnamon, and sugar to taste. Mix the Pears with the Fears—continued. other ingredients, and stir in sufficient grated breadcrumbs to form a stiff mixture. Put a saucepan of water over the fire, and when boiling, take up the mixture in table- spoonfuls, and lay them in gently. Keep the quenelles boiling slowly at the side of the fire for half-an-hour. When cooked, drain and put them on a hot dish, strew caster sugar and powdered cinnamon over them, and serve with a sauceboatful of sweet milk sauce. Fear-and-Quince Marmalade.—Peel and core twelve juicy Pears and five ripe Quinces. Stew the parings and cores in sufficient cold water to just cover them. When they have stewed to pieces strain the liquor off, and when it is quite cold slice the fruit, weigh it, and put it over the fire in the liquor strained from the cores and parings, bring it quickly to a boil, let it boil till thick and smooth, and then stir in the strained juice of a lemon and a half, and the sugar in the proportion of fib. of sugar to each pound of sliced fruit. Let it boil steadily for an hour, working it up and mashing the fruit with a wooden spoon to a smooth jelly. When sufficiently boiled take the pan from the fire, let it cool a little, and then put the mar- malade into jars; when quite cold lay on top of the marmalade in each jar a piece of white paper dipped in brandy, and cover them down airtight. Pear Salad.—(1) Peel and core some ripe Pears, cut them in thin slices, and lay them in a glass dish; sprinkle caster sugar over them, pour in a little brandy or ram, and serve. (2) Peel, core, and cut five large mellow Pears in slices, put them into a glass bowl, cover them with caster sugar, and squeeze the juice of one lemon over them. Keep them in a cold place till ready to serve, then pour 1 wineglassful of kirschenwasser over, and shake them about well to mix them. Pear Soup.—(1) Peel about 21b. of large Pears, cut them into thin slices, put them in a saucepan with a sliced penny French roll, half-a-dozen cloves, and 3 pints of water, and boil them gently until quite soft. Strain the soup through a coarse sieve, return it to the saucepan, flavour it with 1 teacupful of wine and the juice of one lemon, and sweeten to taste with sugar. Boil the soup up again, then pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve it while very hot with a plate of sponge cake or macaroons. (2) Remove the peel and cores from six large Pears, put them into a saucepan with 6 break fast-cupfuls of rain water and a roll cut into slices, also a few cloves, and boil them until they are quite soft. Pass the whole through a fine sieve into another saucepan, add sufficient sugar to sweeten, 1 or 2 wineglassfuls of wine, and the strained juice of a medium-sized lemon. This sweet soup should be served in glasses with sponge or other cake. Pear Tart.—(1) Core and peel a dozen or so cooking Pears, fill up the cavity with sponge cake soaked in cowslip wine, place them in a pie-dish, pour over a liqueur-glass- ful of orange-flower water, sprinkle over a good supply of caster sugar, about half-fill the dish with cold water, cover over the top with puff paste, glaze the surface, and bake in a moderate oven. This tart may be seived either hot or cold at discretion. (2) Peel and slice six medium-sized Pears, place them in a basin with 3oz. of powdered loaf sugar, and mix well. Line a pie-dish with paste, spread over 1 table- spoonful of apple sauce, and arrange the slices of Pears over this. Roll out 3oz. more of the paste to 2ft. in length, fold it over to make a long narrow strip, and roll it slightly until about 30in. long. Moisten the edges of the pie with beaten egg, place the strip round, fastening the ends together, one overlapping the other, glaze the surface with beaten egg, put the pie in a moderate oven, and bake for about fifty minutes. Bring the pie to the oven door, sprinkle over powdered loaf sugar, return it to the oven for two minutes to melt the sugar, cover over evenly with about 2oz. of sweet jelly, and serve hot or cold. (3) Peel, core, and cut ten Pears in halves, put them in a lined stewpan with lqt. of water and Jib. of crushed loaf sugar, and simmer gently by the side of the fire till145 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. VOL. II. L Fears—continued. the Pears are tender. Fry some slices of apple in butter and sugar. Line a buttered mould with puff paste, and bake it. Put a layer of the apples at the bottom of the paste, first turning it out of the mould, and put the Pears on the top. Strain the syrup, .boil it till reduced to 32 deg., and pour it over the tart, which should be served cold. Fear Tartlets.—Roll out ilb. of puff paste, 12in. long by 8in. wide, cut it into six pieces with a cutter, arrange them on six scalloped tart pans, 3iin. wide, and press down the paste at the bottom and sides, so as to have the im- pression of the moulds, but without touching the rim, which will rise considerably when baked. Mask them with 3oz. of apple marmalade, equally divided; on top of this put half a large Pear, dust them over with caster sugar, put them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Bring them to the oven door, dust the edges over lightly with more powdered sugar, melt this in the oven for about two minutes, take them out, and let them cool for twenty minutes. Spread over each a little apple jelly, turn them out carefully on to a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. Pear Timbale with Raisins.—Butter a timbale-mould and line it with short-paste. Peel, core, and mince twelve Pears, put them in a preserving-pan with a piece of butter, and cook them over a slow fire till half-done. Put in with the Pears a quarter of a stick of vanilla, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of picked Smyrna raisins previously softened in warm water, 3 table-spoonfuls of apricot marmalade, and a small quantity of caster sugar. When done leave the Pears to cool. Dilute a little apricot marmalade with kirsehenwasser. Fill the lined mould with the Pears, put a flat of the same paste over it, and bake it in a slack oven for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When done, turn the timbale on a dish, sprinkle over some chopped pistachios, pour over the apricot sauce, and serve. Fear Vinegar.—Select small Pears of an equal size, all of them having the stems on, and peel them thinly and evenly. For every pound of Pears put in a saucepan J pint of vinegar, Goz. of loaf sugar, a stick of cinnamon, and eight or ten cloves. Boil the vinegar mixture for five minutes, then put in the Pears, and let them simmer until tender. The Pears must not be very soft, or they will break. Place them on a sieve until well drained, then put them carefully into jars. Boil the syrup until thickly reduced, leave it until cold, then pour it over the fruit. Fear Water-Ice.—(1) Peel a few ripe Pears and grate them into a kitchen basin; mix with them ilb. of caster sugar, the strained juice of two oranges and one lemon, a little of the peel, and 2 table-spoonfuls of vanilla sugar. Leave it for half-an-hour; then pass the preparation through a fine hair sieve, mix a little cold water with it, and freeze Fig. 194. Pear Water-ices. it in the ice-box. When firm, take the ice up with a large spoon, and pile it like a pyramid on a folded napkin. Put some little fancy cakes round the dish, and serve. (2) Fill some pear-shaped moulds with pear-water ice (No. 1), coloured with infusion of saffron, and pack them in ice and salt until set firm. Turn them out and with a fine camel’s-hair brush ornament them artistically with dry Fears—continued. powrdered carmine on one side, giving them a slight shade. Into the narrow end stick a real pear-stalk with an artificial leaf attached, and into the thick end push a dried currant to give the appearance of the eye of the Pear (see Fig. 194). Put them into the ice-box until wanted, and serve. To prepare these well great care is required. Fickled Fears.—(1) Peel 61b. of Pears, stick 2 cloves in each, put them in a lined preserving-pan, in which 31b. of crushed loaf sugar and 1 pint of vinegar are boiling. Cook the fruit till tender, then turn all into stone jars. AYlien cold, tie them down. (2) Select some sound Pears, not too ripe, peel them, and leave them whole with their stems on. For 81b. of fruit use lqt. of vinegar, 41b. of brown sugar and 1 tea- cupful of mixed whole spices and a stick of cinnamon, cassia buds, allspice, and cloves. Tie the spices in a piece of muslin, and boil them with the vinegar and sugar. When boiling, skim the liquor, put in the Pears, and boil them till tender; then take them out and put them into stone jars. Boil the syrup five minutes longer, then pour it over the fruit. On the following day, strain the syrup off and boil it up again. Perform this operation for three mornings, pouring the syrup over the fruit each time, and keeping the spices in it. Tie the jars down wdien the syrup is cold, and keep them in a dry store cupboard. Preserved Fears.—(1) Pears for preserving should be firm and rather sour ; if they are small, they should he preserved wdiole; if medium-sized, cut into halves; or if very large, into quarters. Peel them with a silver knife, dropping each Pear into a basin of cold water as soon as peeled to keep the colour nice. When the Pears are all peeled, and if necessary cut, weigh them, allowing an equal weight of sugar; put the fruit into a saucepan on the stove with enough cold water to cover it completely, and let it boil gently till soft enough to yield slightly to gentle pressing with the fingers. While the Pears are in the saucepan boiling, put the sugar into a preserving-pan, to each pound of sugar adding 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold water, and to every 5lb. or 61b. of the juice the rind of two thinly-pared lemons, and 2oz. of green ginger-root scraped and scalded; boil the syrup, taking off the scum as it rises. When the fruit is tender, put it into the preserving pan with the syrup, and boil till the Pears look clear; when they are so, and the syrup has penetrated them, take the pan off the fire, let the preserve cool in the syrup, and then put into jars, which cork and fasten in such a way as to be air-tight. (2) Parboil a dozen large Pears; as soon as they are tender, take them out of the saucepan and lay them in a pan of cold water. Peel them, cut them into halves, core them, and put them into a syrup made of 3 pints of water, 2ilb. of loaf sugar, ami a little thinly-pared lemon- peel. Put into this with the Pears a little cochineal, bruised and tied in a muslin bag. Cover the pan, and let the Pears boil quickly in the syrup till they are a good colour and quite tender. (3) Peel one hundred medium-sized ripe Pears carefully, keeping them in their original form, split them into halves, and cut out the cores and seeds. Fill ten jars with them and pour over 5qts. of syrup. Put on the covers very tightly. Place them in a large saucepan, taking care that they do not touch one another, and put a little hay or straw between them. Fill the pan with cold water so as to cover them, and boil for fifteen minutes. Take from off the fire, stand the pan on a table, and with a towel lift up the jars one by one, laying them carefully in a dry but not cool place. Let them stand until cold, and put them away until wanted for use. (4) Peel and core some Pears, cut them in halves or quarters according to the size, and put them for a few minutes in acidulated water to preserve their whiteness. Put the pieces of Pears in syrup (see Syrups), and let them simmer till half-done; then take the pan off the fire, and leave the Pears till next day in the syrup. J>ain, and put the Pears in wide-mouthed bottles. Bon the syrup to the feather degree (sec Sugar boiling), mix For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, icc., referred to, see under their special heads.146 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads- Pears—continued. Fears—continued. with an equal proportion of pale brandy, and leave it till nearly cold. When quite cold, pour the syrup and brandy on the Pears, cork and tie bladders over the bottles, and keep them in a cool store cupboard. (5) If the Pears are not large, peel them whole, leaving the stalks on and just scraping off the outside. Have ready a lined pan containing cold water, slightly acidu- lated with lemon-juice and a pinch of bruised alum, and drop the Pears in it as they are done. Let the Pears simmer till half done, but do not boil them. Refresh the Pears in two separate cold waters, drain them on a sieve, then put them carefully in some wide-mouthed bottles, but do not press them down. Fill them up with syrup boiled to 38 deg. (see Syrups), and slightly acidulated with citric acid and alum. Cork and tie the bottles down, stand them in a deep saucepan with water to half their height, and let it boil for fifteen minutes. To keep the bottles from breaking, a good plan is to put some straw or hay between them, so that they cannot knock together. The Pears should be kept in a dry store cupboard. (6) Pare some Pears very thinly, cut them lengthwise in halves, and remove the cores. Weigh them, and for every pound allow fib. of loaf sugar that has been crushed for preserving. Put the Pears and sugar, evenly propor- tioned, into jars, and moisten with a small quantity of water. Put into each jar a moderate quantity of lemon- juice and thin strips of lemon-peel, stand the jars in a saucepan of boiling water, and keep simmering gently until the Pears are tender. When cooked, colour the Pears with a few drops of cochineal, stand the jars in a dry place, cover with a cloth to keep out the dust, and leave them all night. On the following day cover the jars with bladder, tie down securely, anil stow them away in a dry store cupboard. Stewed Pears.—(1) Cut some Pears lengthwise in halves and remove the cores. Place them in a stewpan, the cut side upwards; put in ill), of caster sugar, pour over them \ pint of red wine and a sufficient quantity of cold water to cover them. Add a few cloves and the thinly-pared rind of a lemon, and stew them gently at the side of the fire. When tender, arrange the Pears on a dish, strain their syrup through a fine hair sieve over them, and serve. (2) Wash the required quantity of dried Pears, remove the stalks, and cut them each into four pieces across. Arrange the Pears in a large stone jar, cover them with hot water, put the lid on the jar, and leave them for twelve or fourteen hours. At the end of that time, strain some of the liquor off the Pears into a stewpan, sweeten it to taste ■with caster sugar, put in about | table-spoon- ful of cloves, and boil it for two or three minutes, then take it off the fire, and leave till cold. Arrange the Pears in a glass bowl, pass the liquid through a fine hair sieve over them, put in five or six small lumps of ice, and serve. (3) Peel six Pears, cut them into quarters, and lay them in a saucepan with 1 pint of cold water, adding |lb. of granulated sugar. When the contents of the pan come to a boil, skim well, and flavour with the juice of half an orange or the same quantity of lemon, and 1 salt- spoonful of ground cinnamon if desired. Cook for five minutes longer, and with a spatula stir slowly from the bottom to avoid mashing the Pears. Remove from the fire, pour into a bowl, and cool thoroughly before serving. (4) Select nice-cooking Pears of as near one size as possible, peel them carefully, leaving the stalks on, and scoop out the cores from the broad ends. Lay them closely together in a lined stewpan, the stalks uppermost, put in plenty of sugar, a stick of cinnamon, five or six cloves, the juice of half a lemon, 1 wineglassful of port wine, and sufficient water to reach to height. Cover the stewpan with the lid, and stew the contents at the edge of the fire until the Pears are tender. When cooked, drain the Pears and arrange them carefully and prettily in a glass dish. Mix a small quantity of arrowroot with the syrup and boil until thickened, stirring at the same tiraq, being very careful not to let it burn at all. When ready, strain it, and leave tiil cold. Afterwards pour the syrup over the Pears, and serve them. Stewed. Fears with Rice.—(1) Peel and cut four large Pears in halves, put them in a lined pan, with Jib. of caster sugar and 1 pint of claret, and let them boil gently till tender. Wash |lb. of rice and boil it in milk, sweet- ening to taste. Turn the rice on to a hot dish, drain the Pears, and arrange them on it. Reduce the cooking liquor of the Pears to half its original quantity, then pour it over the Pears, and serve either hot or cold. (2) Peel four large cooking Pears, cut them in halves and core them, put them in a stewpan with Jib. of loaf sugar, a quarter of a stick of vanilla, and 3 pints of water, and let them boil gently till cooked. Wash 6oz. of rice, put it in a saucepan with I \ pints of milk, 4oz. of caster sugar, and a quarter of a stick of vanilla, and boil it gently for an hour. Put the rice when cooked on a hot dish, drain the Pears, and arrange them on it; boil the syrup till reduced, then pour it over the Pears, and serve. (3) Peel and core fifteen Rousselet Pears, put them in a preserving-pan with some syrup and a smali quantity of prepared cochineal, and boil them till tender. Prepare a rice croustade 2in. high and the same size as the dish on which it is to be served. Wash \ pint of rice in two or three waters, and boil it in lqt. of milk, adding sugar to taste. When tender, turn it on to the croustade. Drain the Pears, arrange them on the rice, ornament them with preserved cherries and heart-shaped pieces of candied angelica. Strain the syrup and boil it till reduced, pour it over the Pears, and serve. Almost any stewed fruit makes a nice dish if prepared as described above. Stewed Pears in White Sauce.—Select small Pears as nearly as possible of one size, peel them, put them in a saucepan, cover them with a thin syrup, add the thinly- pared rind of a lemon, and stew them gently until tender. When cooked, arrange the Pears in a glass dish; thicken | pint of milk with potato flour, mix it with the syrup in which the Pears were stewed, and strain it over the fruit. Serve when cold. Stuffed Pear.—Select a large beurre Pear, not too ripe, and peel it, but do not remove the stalk. Cut the Pear lengthwise about two-thirds of its height from the side on which it is lying. Empty the thick part by means of a vegetable spoon. Cook the pieces of Pear by boiling in a little sugar and water, but keep them firm, then leave them till cool in the syrup. Drain the Pear on a cloth. Put a layer of cooked rice and cream on a dish, put the thick part of the Pear on it, fill the hollow with a salpifon of fruits thickened with a little apricot marmalade, put the other piece of Pear on the top, and arrange a circle of crystallized greengages round it (see Fig. 195). Reduce the syrup, flavour with a little vanilla extract, and pour it when cold over the Pear. FEAR, PRICKLY.—See Prickly Pear. PEARL-BARLEY—See Barley. PEARL-MOSS .—Another name for Carrageen. PEEL.—See Candied-Peel. FEELING-.—Although this operation can scarcely be regarded as one presenting any great difficulty, yet, unless judiciously performed, it may cause great147 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. L Peeling—continued. waste. Apples, potatoes, and other thin-skinned fruit and vegetables, require a very thin removal, and the better to secure this a knife-blade fitted with a guard is recommended; but most kitchen-hands are content to rely upon the dexterity of their fingers. A Peeling machine has been invented, which answers admirably, and is of much value when large quantities are included in the operation. Special information concerning the preparation of vegetables, &c., for use by Peeling is given, when necessary, under the particular headings to which the instruction refers. PEGEE.—A water-bucket made by the natives of Australia from the leaves of a Palm. PELLOW, or POOLOO.—-See Pilau. PEMBROKE PUDDING—See Puddings. PEMMICAN.—This is the name given by North American Indians to meat cut in thin slices, divested of its fat, and dried in the sun. It is then pounded and mixed with melted fat, and sometimes dried fruits, and then compressed into cakes, or stored in bags. As it contains much nourishment in a small compass, it is greatly used by explorers and other travellers over the American Continent. This word is sometimes spelt Pemican. PENELOPE PUDDING.—See Puddings. PEPPER (Fr. Poivre ; Ger. Pfefer; Ital. Pepe; Sp. Pimienta).—Kettner gives ns in his “ Book of the Table ” the following interesting piece of information: “ Much as we value Pepper, it is difficult to think of it as being at one time in Europe so precious and so scarce that it was as good as money. In Prance at that time, the taxes might be paid in Pepper; so also church dues and rents. We have all heard of peppercorn rent. Pepper was in fact cash; and to pay in Pepper, in spice, or in specie—all words meaning the same thing—became equivalent to paying in cash. In token of which, to this day specie is a common name for the hardest of hard cash—gold and silver-—as distinct from paper money.” What we term in our kitchens black Pepper is the immature fruit or berry of the black Pepper vine (Piper Fig. 196. Pepper-plant. nigrum), an Oriental climbing shrub (see Fig. 196) which is found growing wild in the East Indies, but cultivated in other tropical climates; but that which comes from Malabar is held in highest esteem for the sake of the fruit. Pepper—continued. Peppercorns may produce either black Pepper, or white Pepper. Black Pepper is the dried berry picked before it is ripe; white Pepper is produced from the ripe berry, which is red, the pulp and skin being removed and the enclosed corn dried separately. Before the corns ai-e ground they are known to cooks as mignonette Pepper, the unground black Pepper maintaining the name which should be common to both peppercorns. Red Pepper, or cayenne, will be found described under Capsicum. Long Pepper is composed of the immature fruit (dried female spikes) of the long Pepper vine (Chavica Roxburghu). The spikes are about 11 in. in length, with an indented surface, and are of a dark grey colour. In its general properties it resembles black Pepper, but it is less aromatic, though equally pungent. Elephant Pepper is merely a larger variety of this species. The root and stems, sliced and dried, form the “ pippula moola ” of the East Indies. In Cooley we find the following unsatisfactory state- ment: “The ground black Pepper of the shops is uni- versally adulterated; in fact, the public taste and judg- ment are so vitiated that the pm-e spice is unsaleable. A most respectable London firm, on commencing business supplied their customers with unadulterated ground Pepper; but in three cases out of every four it was returned on their hands and objected to, on account of its dark colour and rich pungency, which had induced the belief that it was sophisticated. The house alluded to was therefore compelled by its customers to supply them with an inferior but milder and paler article. The substances employed to lower black Pepper are known in the trade as —‘P.D.,’ ‘H.P.D.,’ and ‘ W.P.D.’—abbreviations of ‘Pepper ' dust,’ ‘hot p.d.,’ ‘white p.d.’ The first is composed of the faded leaves of autumn, dried and powdered; the second the ground husks (hulls) of black mustard, obtained from the mustard mill; and the third is common rice, finely powdered. Equal parts of black peppercorns, H.P.D., and W.P.D., form the very best ground Pepper sold. The ordinary Pepper of the shops does not contain more than ’ tli to jrth of genuine Pepper, or 2oz. to 2ioz. in the lb. Very recently ground oil-cake or linseed meal has been employed as the adulteration, instead of the old ‘ P.D.’ ” With such a record as the above it would certainly be worth the cook’s while to use a mill and grind his own Peppercorns. See Capsicum. PEPPER-BOX (Fr. Poivrier; Ger. Pfeffer-buchse). —The best kind of Pepper-box for kitchen use is one made of tin with a rather large top, somewhat closely perforated. The Pepper-caster is one of the cruet set. A very ingenious mill has been invented by which the peppercorns can be ground as used at table; but whilst deserving of every attention, it has not found much favour as yet, probably owing to the extra trouble entailed in its use. PEPPER, JAMAICA.—-See Allspice. PEPPERMINT.—The name of this plant is a com- pound of the two words pepper and mint, the plant itself being a variety (Mentha piperita) of the mint tribe. It is occasionally found growing wild in this country, but is more often cultivated for the sake of its volatile oil, which is much used by confectioners for flavouring. Extract of Peppermint for Flavouring.—1 pint of essence of Peppermint, added to h pint or 1 pint of alcohol will give the extract; or the essence may be used by itself. Peppermint Brandy.—To 40galls. of proof spirit add 4oz. of essence of Peppermint, dissolved in 95 per cent, alcohol. Colour with tlb. of powdered turmeric infused in lgall. of spirit, 95 per cent. Use this infusion in such quantity as to get the proper shade. Peppermint Candy.—Put the required quantity of clarified sugar into a sugar-boiler on the fire, and boil to the ball For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads.148 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Peppermint—con tinued. degree (see Sugar boiling) ; add sufficient essence of Peppermint to flavour, and with a spatula rub some of the sugar against the sides of the pan until the sugar has a white appearance. Have ready some well-oiled tins, pour the candy into them, let it cool, and mark it with a knife into squares; when cold, break them where marked, and put them away in boxes or tins. Peppermint Candy Drops.—Boil 1 lb. of crushed loaf sugar to the ball degree in just enough water to dissolve it; then put in a few drops of essence of Peppermint and a few drops of acetic acid. Work the sugar with the back of a spoon (a silver one is best) against the sides of the boiler, to give it a granular appearance. Pour the sugar at once into a shallow tin dish. When half-set, mark it with the back of a knife into small tablets, so that when quite set they can be easily snapped asunder. Previous to pouring in tbe candy rub the tin over with oil of almonds. Peppermint Cordial.—(1) Put 1 gall, of plain syrup at 45deg. containing 61b. of sugar per gall, into a vessel that has a tightly fitting lid, and add 1 drachm of Peppermint oil and 10 minims of best crystallised carbolic acid. Set the vessel with the lid on in such a position that it can be shaken continually for an hour or so. Bottle the liquor if bright; if it is not, filter it through a jelly-bag lined with paper-pulp before bottling. If possible, the cordial should go through the process of churning to mix thoroughly. (‘2) Put Joz. of oil of Peppermint with 3 fluid ounces of rectified spirits of wine into a bottle, cork it securely, and shake it for some time. Have ready a cask that will just contain 5 galls., pour in 14J pints of white and flavourless proof spirit, add the oil of Peppermint, and shake well for ten minutes or so; add lOJlb. of best double refined lump sugar dissolved in 7qts. of water (filtered rain), and shake up for fifteen minutes longer; add sullicient clear rain water with joz. of alum dissolved in it to fill up the cask, and shake well for fifteen minutes longer. Let it stand for fourteen days with the cask bunged-up, and it will be ready for use. Should it be too thick, add a little salt of tartar dissolved in hot water, and leave it for a few days before using. Peppermint Drops.—(1) Pour over 21b. of the best sugar J pint of cold water, and let it stand for half-an-hour; put it then over a moderate fire, and stir it till it nearly boils. Remove it from the fire as it just comes to the boil, add oil of Peppermint, and stir till the mixture is quite smooth. Drop it in small drops on a smoothly-oiled marble slab, or on oiled paper, and keep them in a warm place till they are quite dry. (2) Beat 6oz. of finely-powdered white sugar with the whites of three eggs till quite smooth, add then 90 drops of oil of Peppermint, and beat all well together. Drop it in small drops on white paper, and dry them at a little distance from the fire. Peppermint Liqueur.—This is prepared in the same way as Liqueur des Eveques (see Cordials and Liqueurs), using 1 Jib. of bruised Peppermint leaves, 1 Joz. of ground or crushed aniseed, 9Jqts. of spirits of wine, 3Jqts. of capillaire, 3qts. of Peppermint water, and 4qts. of pure water. Peppermint Lozenges.—Put loz. of picked gum-dragon into a jar with about J teacupful of tepid water, and leave it to soak for six hours. When ready, work the gum on a marble slab with the doubled fist until it becomes white and elastic; then work in with it ljlb. of fine icing sugar, and when quite smooth add 1 teaspoonful of essence of Peppermint, and a few drops of thick wet cohalt blue ; continue working the paste till it assumes a brilliant whiteness. Sift some caster sugar over the slab, and roll the paste out on it to nearly Jin. in thickness, using if possible a ribbed rolling-pin; then roll it again in cross directions, so as to imprint on the surface a diamond pattern. With a tin-cutter about Jin. in diameter stamp out the lozenges; sprinkle caster sugar over some baking- sheets, and put on the lozenges as they are cut. Put the sheets in the screen and leave them till the lozenges are dry. Keep in well-stoppered glass bottles. Peppermint—continued. Peppermint Pastille Drops.—Put 3J table-spoonfuls of coarsely-sifted sugar into a sugar-boiler with 4 drops of essence of Peppermint and 1 table-spoonful of water; place the pan on the fire, and as soon as the contents begin to dissolve, stir with a wooden spoon for a minute or two; then take the pan off the fire. Drop the mixture in small drops from the lip of the pan, using a curved piece of wire to cut them off, and let them fall in rows on a sheet of stiff paper; leave them until firm, then turn the paper of drops over, and brush the back of it with a brush that has been dipped in water. When sufficiently moistened, pass the blade of a knife between it and the drops, and let them fall on to a sieve. Move the sieve backwards and forwards over a very slow fire until they are thoroughly dry. Pack the sweets in glass bottles, cork them tightly, and keep them in a dry place. Peppermint Stick Candy.—Mix together J pint of water, 21b. of sugar, and 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and cook over a moderate fire till brittle. This may be ascer- tained by putting a little into cold water. Wlien the candy is brittle, stir into it twelve drops of oil of Pepper- mint. Pour about 1 pint of the syrup, or rather less, into a separate vessel, and mix with it about six drops of cochineal. Pull the rest till it is white, and before cutting it into sticks twist round it a small quantity of the red candy. Peppermint Syrup.—Put 3Mb. of crushed loaf sugar into a sugar-boiler with lqt. of water and 1 loz. of" soluble essence of Peppermint, and boil it for one minute. PEPPER-POT.—The name given to a soup or stew which is very highly esteemed in the West Indies. The following receipts will be found to give an excellent variety for its preparation: (1) Partially boil 31b. or 4lb. of lean pork and cut it into small slices; put the pork into a saucepan with a sufficient quantity of the water in which it was boiled to cover it, and J pint of cassareep; season to taste with salt and peppercorns, and boil the whole gently for several hours, taking care it does not burn. The meat should be always well covered with the gravy. (2) Put into a saucepan 31b. of beef, Jib. of lean ham, two large potatoes peeled and sliced, a couple of onions and a bunch of dried thyme, pour over them 4qts. of water, and let all simmer gently till the liquor is reduced to 3qts. Then strain through a colander, return the liquor to the saucepan, and add to it a fowl, skinned and cut into joints, 41b. of slices of pickled pork, some suet dumplings about the size of walnuts, and the meat of a lobster chopped small. When the fowl is cooked, add J peck of boiled spinach that has been rubbed through a sieve. Season the Pepper-Pot with cayenne pepper and salt. Serve hot. (3) Wash as much spinach as will fill a good-sized dish, put it into a saucepan without any water, and let it boil; then drain off the liquor and chop the spinach fine. Return the spinach with its liquor to the saucepan, add a little water to it, one or two onions, a lettuce or a head of endive, cut small, about lib. of potatoes, Jib. of bacon, and any bones of roasted meat that may be at hand. Put the saucepan over the fire. When it has boiled for an hour, add a few cold boiled suet dumplings, and boil for twenty minutes longer. Season with cayenne pepper, pick out the bones, and serve. (4) Put a shin of beef and a knuckle of veal into a stock-pot, with a large slice of ham, cover over with cold water, and bring it slowly to the boil. Skim well, and simmer on the side of the fire for three hours, or until the meat is tender. Strain off the liquor, return it to the pot, and add six potatoes peeled and cut into small pieces, two onions cut into slices, half a red pepper cut up, six cloves, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, summer savoury and sweet basil mixed, a pinch of sweet marjoram, and a bay-leaf. Cut the beef and veal into small pieces and the ham into dice, put them into the pot, together with Jib. of tender well-boiled tripe cut up into small pieces, and boil up once more; add two dozen small dumplings149 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Joe., referred to, see under their special heads. Pepper-Pot—continued. made of flour, eggs, and milk or water, simmer gently for fully lialf-an-hour, and serve as hot as possible. (5) If in the winter time, such vegetables as beetroot carrots, turnips, onions, and celery may be used; but if in the summer, French beans, cauliflowers, peas, lettuces, and spinach, also onions. Prepare the vegetables and cut them up into small pieces. Clean a fowl, disjoint it, cut the carcass across into four pieces, and put them in a large saucepan with the vegetables, about fib. or lib. of pickled pork cut into pieces about 2in. square, and about 1 tea- cupful of rice. Pour in 5 pints of water, and let the whole boil gently at the side of the fire for three hours, keeping it well skimmed. Pick the meat out of a lobster or crab, and put it in with the above ingredients twenty minutes before removing them from the fire. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of flour smoothly with a small quantity of cold water, stir it into the hotch-potch, season to taste with salt and pepper, and serve it very hot. (6) Put 21b. of gravy beef into a saucepan with a bundle of sweet herbs and 3qts. of cold water, and place it over the fire until boiling ; then move it to the side and let it simmer for three or four horn's, keeping it well skimmed, When all the goodness is thoroughly extracted from the meat, leave the liquor until cold and then free it of fat. Pour the liquor into a saucepan, and place it over the fire until hot. Pick the flesh out of a large crab, cut it into small pieces, and put it into the soup with 4oz. of cold boiled pickled pork cut into small pieces, and some boiled and chopped spinach. Prepare a few small dumplings with 2oz. of chopped beef-suet, flour, the beaten yolk of one egg, and a small quantity of water to mix it into a paste. Put the dumplings in the soup with the juice of half a lemon, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Let it simmer gently for half-an-hour, stirring it occa- sionally to keep it from burning. Turn the soup when ready into a soup-tureen, and serve while very hot. PEPPER PODS.—See Capsicums. PERCH (Fr. Perche; Ger. Barsch; Ital. Berticlie; Sp. Pereas).—Tlie Perch (Perea jiuviatilis) is found in most of the rivers, canals, and lakes of Great Britain, and numerous fish of the same tribe are found in various other Fig. 197. Perch. parts of Europe and also in America. The Thames Perch is famous (see Fig. 197); but not so famous perhaps as is the Giant Perch of Germany. This is known as the Zander, is especially abundant in the Elbe, and is cooked to perfection in Dresden. Prepared according to any of the following receipts, the flesh of the Perch is delicate and dainty. Perch are in season from the latter end of May to the beginning of February, during which time their con- dition may be judged by the rosy appearance of then- gills and general rough appearance. Boiled Perch.—(1) Clean and scale the fish, leaving the roe and liver inside. Pour a small quantity of water in a fish-kettle with a bunch of parsley, a lump of salt, and a small quantity of pepper, and boil the water until the parsley is soft; then put in the fish with a lump of butter, and boil it gently for ten or twelve minutes. When cooked, take the fish gently out of the fish-kettle, Perch—continued. lay it on a hot dish, strain the cooking liquor over, and serve it with Dutch sauce. (2) Clean and scale the fish, then put it in a fish- kettle with an onion, one bay-leaf, a small quantity of pepper, and boiling water to cover it. Finely chop two hard-boiled eggs and a few sprigs of parsley, and mix with them nearly double their quantity of finely-grated breadcrumb; season the mixture with grated nutmeg, salt and pepper. When the fish are cooked, take them out of the fish-kettle, being careful not to break them, and slip them on to a hot dish; spread the egg-and- breadcrumb mixture thickly over them, baste them with a few table-spoonfuls of their cooking-liquor, also a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, and serve. (3) Scrape off the scales, remove the spines from the back, and thoroughly clean and wash the Perch. Put them in a fish-kettle, cover them with cold water, and boil them very gently for twenty minutes or half-an-hour, according to the size of the fish. Drain the fish, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve with a fish sauce. (4) Scale and clean some large Perch and put them in a saucepan; work a little flour with 11 table-spoonfuls of butter, then put it in with the fish, adding also a bunch of finely-chopped sweet herbs, two or three small onions, and b pint of white wine. Let them simmer gently for twenty minutes. Drain the Perch when sufficiently cooked, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish round with fried parsley, and serve. (5) Scale and clean the fish, leaving the milt and liver inside; put it in a fish-kettle with a small bunch of parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and a lump of butter. Pour in a small quantity of boiling water, and boil gently until it is cooked, which will take from ten to fifteen minutes. Take the fish carefully out of the fish-kettle, lay it on a hot dish, strain its cooking liquor over, and serve. (6) German Style.—Scale and clean the fish, put it in a fish-kettle with an onion, a bay-leaf, and a small quantity of water, season with pepper, and boil it until tender. Grate about 1 breakfast-cupful of stale crumb of bread, and mix with it two chopped hard-boiled eggs, 1 table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, and season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. When the fish are cooked, drain them carefully, put them on a hot dish, cover them with the breadcrumb mixture, baste them with 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of their cooking liquor, pour about Jib. of warmed butter over them, and serve. (7) Dutch Style.—Put 2qts. of water in a fish-kettle with two bay-leaves, a few sprigs of parsley, 1 teacupful of vinegar, and 1 pinch of salt; when boiling, put in two Perch that have been cleaned, but not scaled. Let them simmer by the side of the fire for a-quarter-of-an-hour, then drain them, and take off their skin and scales together. Wash the Perch in their liquor, put them on a hot dish, garnish with quarters of lemon and sprigs of parsley, and serve them with a sauceboatful of butter sauce, in which has been mixed a little chopped parsley and lemon-juice. Broiled Perch.—(1) Choose Perch of a moderate size, fresh from the water; scale and clean them, and dry them in Fig. 198. Broiled Perch. a napkin. Melt a good quantity of butter with some salt; let it be thick when it is cooled a little; dip tlie Perch in it, and roll it about till the butter sticks well to every part of it; then set a gridiron over a very clearTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 150 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Perch—continued. and brisk fire, but let it stand at a very great height above the fire, for the Perch must be cooked well before it is brown. Serve on a bed of fried parsley, garnish with quarters of lemons (see Fig. 198). (2) Scale and clean the Perch, put them in a deep dish, sprinkle in with them some pepper, salt, finely-minced parsley, and sweet herbs; pour a little olive oil over them, and let them steep for several hours. When ready to cook, dip the fish in beaten egg, sprinkle over them finely-grated stale breadcrumbs and minced sweet herbs, put them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire, turning them so as to cook both sides equally. When done and nicely browned, put the fish on a hot dish, on which has been laid a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper; serve it with oiled butter in which has been stirred a dash of vinegar. (3) Clean the Perch through the gills, wash and dry them, thinly lard the backs, and stuff them with a veal stuffing with a little curry powder mixed in. Wrap them separately in buttered paper, and grill them over a clear fire. Serve on a hot dish with mango chutney and cream sauce in a sauceboat. (4) Clean the Perch carefully, grease a gridiron, and lay them on it side by side. Place the gridiron over a clear fire, and turn the Perch constantly until they are nicely cooked. Melt about 6oz. of butter, beat it up with the strained juice of a lemon, and season it to taste with salt and pepper. When the fish are cooked, lay them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish it with fried parsley, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Fried Perch.—(1) Scale, clean, and wash the Perch, dry them thoroughly and flour them. Put some dripping in a frying-pan, and when boiling put the fish in, and fry them till nicely browned on both sides. Put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of butter-sauce (see Sauces). (2) Scrape off the scales and thoroughly clean the Perch, egg them well, and roll them in plenty of bread- crumbs. Put some lard or fat in a frying-pan, and when boiling put the fish in and fry them till lightly and equally browned. Drain the fish, and arrange them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with anchovy or butter- sauce. (3) Scale and clean two Perch, flour them, and season with salt; put them in a frying-pan with some slices of fat bacon, and fry them till nicely browned both sides. Place them on a hot dish, garnish round with the bacon, and serve with any fish sauce preferred. (4) Choose large Perch for this; scale, wash, and dry them, cut them deep into the sides and back, dredge them with flour with a little salt in it, and fry them till they are thoroughly done and perfectly brown. When the fish is ready, make a sauce by melting in a saucepan 2oz. of butter; put in some flour and brown it, some chives and parsley, a few mushrooms, all shred fine, and add a little boiling water. Lay the Perch into a small stewpan, pour the sauce over them, and let them simmer in it two or three minutes; then take them out, and lay them on a warm dish. Add to the sauce 2 table-spoonfuls of capers cut small, thicken it up, and then pour it over the Perch. There is no way in which they eat better than this, the frying giving them a firmness and crispness. The soaking in the sauce does not take this off, although it mellows the flesh very finely, and gives the whole of the flavour of the ingredients that are put in the sauce. Mayonnaise of Perch.—Cut out the fillets of three or four middle-sized Perch and season them with pepper and salt; butter the bottom of a flat stewpan, put the fillets in, pour a little white wine over them, and boil them, keep- ing them rather firm. Take them off the fire when done and leave till cold; then divide the fillets in two parts, put them in a deep dish, sprinkle in some salt and pepper, and pour some oil and vinegar over them; let them steep for an hour. Arrange the fillets in layers on an aspic border, building them in a dome-like shape, and( Perch—continued. masking each layer with mayonnaise sauce. Cover the top with mayonnaise sauce, and serve. Perch a l’AHemande.—Scale and clean two moderately large Perch and put them in a stewpan. Finely mince the red part of a few carrots, some roots of parsley and celery, put them in the st wpan with the fish, with a bunch of parsley, a small quantity of salt, and one onion ; cover the Perch with white wine and let them boil over a moderate fire for twenty minutes. Take the fish out when cooked, drain them, and put them on a hot dish. Take the bunch of parsley and onions out of the stewpan, then put in with the vegetables some finely-minced raw mushrooms, and cook them for five minutes ; then stir in a piece of butter kneaded with flour to thicken it; take the stewpan off the fire, put in it some more butter, cut in small pieces but not kneaded, add the strained juice of two lemons, pour it over the fish, and serve. Perch a la Normande.—Scale and clean the Perch; put some chopped onions at the bottom of a flat stewpan and put in the Perch, with a bunch of parsley, some trimmings of fresh mushrooms, a small quantity of salt, and white wine to cover. When the liquid is boiling, move the stew- pan to the side of the fire and keep the contents simmer- ing for a quarter-of-an-hour. Prepare a garnish with some quenelles, mushrooms, oysters, and mussels, reserving the liquor of the oysters and mushrooms. Drain the liquor off the fish, through a fine hair sieve, into a saute-pan, and boil it till reduced to half; then take the pan off the fire, thicken the sauce with kneaded butter divided into little pieces, stirring all the time ; then add a liaison of three yolks of eggs. Put the Perch on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, put the prepared garnish round, glaze it under a salamander, and serve. Perch d la Silesienne.—Draw and clean two or three fine Perch, but do not scale them. Put some water in a sauce- pan with a bunch of parsley, a small quantity of vinegar, and a little salt, and boil it; then plunge the Perch into it and boil for twenty minutes. Make the following sauce: Put in a stewpan 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, a few sprigs of parsley, a little tarragon, two chopped shallots, a bay-leaf, and four or five peppercorns. Boil the liquid till reduced to half its original quantity (see Reducing). Leave it till cool, then mix with it 1 teacupful of melted glaze, the beaten yolks of six eggs, |lb. of butter, and a little salt; stir the sauce over a very slow fire to thicken, without letting it boil. Place the sauce in the bain-marie and whisk it, adding gradually some small pieces of butter. When frothy, put in 1 teacupful of brown sauce and about 2 table-spoonfuls of grated horseradish. Take the Perch out carefully with a skimmer, scrape the scales off, dip the fish in the cooking liquor, then wipe them in a cloth ; put them on a hot dish, pour the prepared sauce over them, first mixing with it a little chopped parsley and a few capers, and serve. Care must be taken to remove the scales quite cleanly, or they will spoil the dish. Perch Soup.—Clean five or six Perch and boil them in white wine and fish-broth, mixed in equal quantities; when done, drain them and leave till cool. Cut the fillets from the Perch, divide them, put them in a small stew- pan, and keep them warm. Put 3oz. of butter in a sauce- pan with 3oz. of flour, and stir it over the fire till warm, but do not brown it; pour in 2qts of the Perch-stock, and stir it over the fire till it begins to boil; move the saucepan to the side of the fire, put some vegetables and a bunch of parsley in, and let it simmer for thirty-five minutes. Skim and strain the liquor, mix with it some parsley, celery roots, and carrots previously blanched and chopped, and boil it for ten minutes longer; stir in a liaison of yolks of eggs, to thicken it, put in the Perch fillets, pour all into a soup-tureen, and serve. Perch. Stewed in Wine.—(1) Clean and scale the Perch and put them in a saucepan, with some white wine and broth, mixed in equal quantities, a bunch of parsley, a clove of garlic, a laurel-leaf, one onion, three cloves, and a small quantity of salt. Let the contents of the sauce- pan simmer for twenty minutes or till the fish are done. Put the fish on a deep hot dish; pass their cooking liquor151 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details rejecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred to, see under their special heads. Perch—continued. through a strainer, then stir into it a little butter and flour that has been kneaded together, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, black pepper, and essence of anchovy; stir it over the lire for a few minutes, then pour it over the fish, and serve at once. (2) Scale and clean a few Perch; thickly butter a flat stewpan and put the fish in it, arranging them one beside the other; season with pepper and salt, and cover them with white wine; sprinkle in a little chopped parsley, put the lid on, and boil the Perch over a brisk lire, so that when the fish are cooked, the liquid will be reduced to half its original quantity. Put the fish on a hot dish, thicken the cooking liquor with a piece of butter that has been worked up with a little flour, pour it over the fish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Scalloped Perch.—Pick some cold fish from the bones, and mix with it 1 teacupful of milk, \ teaspoonful of made mustard, a few drops of anchovy sauce, and salt and pepper to taste; put it into a small saucepan, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes. Turn the preparation into scallop- shells, sprinkle grated breadcrumbs thickly over them, put a few little pieces of butter on each, and brown them under a salamander. Put the shells on a dish, garnish round them with slices of lemon and parsley, and serve them hot. Watersouchet of Perch.—(1) Scale and clean four Perch, cut oft' the red fins, and keep them for future use. Put the Perch into a stewpan with a celery-root and carrot cut into small shreds, and a few sprigs of parsley; sprinkle in a little salt to taste, moisten to the height of the fish, &c., with white wine, and boil all over a sharp fire. When cooked, take the fish out with a skimmer, put them on a hot dish, stand them on their bellies, fix the red fins on the top (see Fig. 199), and keep the fish warm. Boil the cooking liquor till reduced to half its original quantity, garnish round the fish with the vege- tables, pour the sauce over, and serve with a sauceboatful of butter-sauce. (2) Scale and thoroughly clean the Perch, put it into a fish-kettle of boiling water with one onion, a bunch of parsley, It teacupfuls of milk, and a small quantity of salt, and boil it for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Put the Perch in a deep dish, put in with it the parsley and onion, and pour a little of the liquor over. Serve with a sauceboat- ful of parsley-sauce and some thin slices of brown bread- and-butter. PERCOELL.—This is a sort of stew prepared by the Hungarians, amongst whom it is held very highly in esteem, being declared by some to be their national stew. The following receipt is contributed by one of our staff: Cut up in squares lib. of lean veal and lib. of loin of pork. Thinly slice an onion, and put it in a flat stewpan with a piece of lard, half a bay-leaf, and a small quan- tity of paprica (a sort of pepper) sprinkled over; fry it lightly, then put in the meat, season with pepper and salt, and fry it for seven or eight minutes longer. Place the lid on the stewpan, put hot ashes on the top, stand it over a moderate fire, and cook the meat, giving it an occasional stir. Prepare a border of rice on a dish, turn the meat, &c., on to it, pour 2 table-spoonfuls of brown sauce over, and serve. PERIGORD FIE.—This pie is named after Perigord, formerly a province of France. It is made from truffles, Perigord Pie—continued. which are very plentiful in that locality. A very good Perigord pie can be made as follows: Cut off the meat from the breasts and wings of any game intended to be used, and prepare a forcemeat of the entrails of the birds, brown breadcrumbs, sweet herbs, spices, truffles, and bacon-fat. Line a pie-mould with paste; over this at the bottom and round the sides place slices of cooked ham; over these place a layer of the forcemeat, and then put in the game meat, filling up with rich consomme or melted aspic jelly. Place a layer of the ham on top, cover over with more of the paste, brush over with glaze, bake in a moderate oven, brush over with brown glaze wdien done, and serve cold. PERIGUEUX SAUCE.—See Sauces. PERIWINKLES (Fr. Bigomeaux).—The old Anglo- Saxon name from which the modern term is derived was pinewin cila, signifying any form of shell fish generally. The common European Periwinkle (Lit- torina littorea) (see Fig. 200) is very abundant along our shores, and has recently been introduced into America, where it seems to thrive consider- ably. Periwinkles are in season almost all the year round, and can be dis- tinguished from other shell fish of a similar character by the roundness and blackness of their shells. They require about twenty minutes’ boiling in salt water. Periwinkle Patties.—Boil some Periwinkles, pick them out of their shells, mince them fine, mix with them pepper, salt, and lemon-juice to taste, and moisten them with a little stock and a very small quantity of cream. Line some small patty-pans with puff paste rolled out very thin, put a good spoonful of the mixture in each, cover them with puff paste, trim the edges, and press them together. Brush the patties over with the beaten yolk of an egg, and bake them. Periwinkle Salad.—Put the fish in a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt, 1 wineglassful of vinegar, and four cloves, and boil them slowly for two hours. At the end of that time, drain the winkles, pick them out of their shells, cut them into halves, and put them in a salad-bowl. Prepare a plain salad-dressing of oil and vinegar, seasoned with pepper and salt, pour it over the winkles, and let them stand an hour. Wash a quantity of watercress, drain it thoroughly, anti put it into a salad- bowl; skin and bone three anchovies, cut them up, put them in the bowl with the watercress, and add the winkles: pour in the remainder of the dressing, garnish with hard- boiled eggs, and serve. PERRY (Fr. Poire).—A pleasant and wholesome liquor prepared from pears, in the same way that cider is prepared from apples (see Cider). It is said to be very wholesome, and makes an excellent champagne. The fruit from which it is generally prepared are so rough and harsh that they are only fit for this purpose or for cooking. Perry Jelly.—Beat up the white and shell of one egg with a little water, then put it in a saucepan with f pint of water, loz. of leaf gelatine, the rind and juice of one lemon, and 3oz. of sugar. Stir the mixture over the fire till boiling, and allow the scum to rise to the top. Move the saucepan off the fire, cover it, and let it stand for ten minutes. Make 1 pint of Perry warm, then mix it with the jelly; warm a jelly-bag by pouring hot water through it, then pour the jelly through several times till clear. Pour a layer of jelly in a mould, and leave it till set; then put in a layer of stewed pears cut into halves, pour another layer of jelly over them, and let this set. FillTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OP PRACTICAL COOKERY. 152 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Perry—continued. the mould with layers of pears and jelly, proceeding as before; then put it in a cold place till well set. When ready to serve, turn the jelly out on a dish, and garnish it with stewed pears. PERSICOT.—See Cordials and Liqueurs. FERSILLABE.—A French dish, consisting of sliced cold boiled beef, vinegar, and parsley. PERSIMMONS.—The fruit of the Virginian Date Palm (Diospyros virginiana). They are an inch or more in diameter, nearly round, and of a yellowish-orange colour. In taste very rough and harsh, even when quite ripe, and can only be considered eatable when softened by the action of frost. In the Southern States of America, Persimmons are pounded and made into cakes with bran; they also make a good beer when prepared as follows: Mix together some Persimmons and one-third of their quantity of corn-meal; divide the mixture into loaves, and bake them in a slow oven till firm and hard. Care should lie taken not to burn them. Then put the loaves into a clean tub, and pour over them sufficient warm water to soften them, mash them well to a thin dough, then pour in as1 much boiling water as there is dough; when well stirred, strain the mixture through a sieve and pour it into a keg or barrel. In two or three days’ tune the beer will be ready for use. PESTLE and MORTAR.-—Very useful items of the kitchen furniture are the Pestle and Mortar. Most large kitchens are fitted with metal Mortars let into a strong wood block, the Pestle having a long handle and being supported in an upright position by a slot fixed in the wall, through which the handle works. In smaller kitchens Pestles and Mortars of wedge-wood (see Fig. 201) are found sufficient for all purposes, especially if two sizes be kept, one from Gin. to 8in. diameter at the top, and another much larger. Pestles and Mortars are sometimes made of hardwood, especially for pounding meat. PETTITOES.—See Pig’s Feet. PHEASANTS (.Fr. Faisans; Ger. Fasanen; Ital. Fagiani; Sp. Faisans).—According to some authorities the word Pheasant signifies a Phasian bird, as being a native of the banks of a Grecian river, in Colchis, named Phasis. There are several varieties of Pheasants, but the common or English Pheasant (Phasianus colchicus) is now found over most of temperate Europe, and is that upon which the cook is chiefly called upon to exercise his skill. Pheasants are in season during the winter months commencing with October, and are usually sold in pairs, constituting what is called a brace. The young birds may be distinguished from the old ones by the shortness and roundness of the spur. They require to be hung until the game flavour is pronounced. They should , Pheasants—continued. be hung up by the tails and not by the necks, as is so frequently done, and the French cook says that they are fit only when the bird falls away from the tail. When preparing a Pheasant for cooking, it should be caref nlly plucked of its feathers; the tail, head, and breast being sometimes preserved for the sake of garnish- ing. Directions for carving are given under headings; some instructions are also given for trussing, the Fig. 202. Pheasant Trussed for Roasting. principle being very simple, consisting merely of bringing the legs close to the breast (see Fig. 202), then passing a skewer (a b) through the pinions and thick part of the thigh bones and securing the ends of the legs by a little skewer passed through the legs above the joints. Boiled Pheasant.—Cut off the feet, head, and neck of a Pheasant, leaving a portion of the neck skin to turn over. Mix together a scant breakfast-cupful of breadcrumbs and 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped beef-suet, season with pepper, salt, and minced lemon-peel, and bind the mixture with beaten egg and 1 teaspoonful of thick cream. Stuff the bird with the mixture, fastening the skin over with a skewer, put it into a stewpan that will just contain it, cover it with cold water, and place it over the fire. When the water boils, move the pan to the edge of the fire, Fig. 203. Boiled Pheasant. take the scum off the top, and keep it simmering gently for half-an-hour. When cooked, place the Pheasant on a hot dish and serve it with a white sauce over it. Garnish with parsley and cooked button-mushrooms. See Fig. 203. Boudin of Pheasant.—(1) Cut the flesh off the bones of a cold roast Pheasant, and trim off all the skin and sinewy parts. Put the trimmings into a stewpan with about \ pint of stock, and boil them gently to make a little rich gravy. Finely mince two onions that have been boiled until tender in a little broth; mince the flesh of the Pheasant, mix it with the onions, strain the gravy over it, add 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped veal fat and sufficient breadcrumbs to render the whole consistent, and season with salt and pepper. Turn the mixture into a mortar, and pound it well; then beat in the yolks of six raw eggs. Stuff the mixture into skins, and boil themTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 153 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£c., referred to, see under their special heads. Pheasants—continued. gently for half-an-hour in milk. Take them up and let them get cold; prick the boudins here and there with the point of a skewer, wrap each one separately in a sheet of buttered paper, and put them in a quick oven until they are thoroughly hot through. Remove the paper, and arrange the boudins on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental disli-paper, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. (‘2) Prepare a forcemeat as directed for No. 1. Fry a small chopped onion in butter without browning it, then mix it with the forcemeat. Cut some sheets of paper into strips, 4in. long and 2Jin. wide, butter them, and put on each, with the handle of a spoon, a piece of forcemeat 3Jin. long, 1 Jin. wide, and about Jin. thick or thereabouts. Move part of the forcemeat from the centre of each boudin, so as to form a hollow Jin. deep and fin. wide; put in the hollow a salpifon, made with truffles, fillets of cooked pheasant and tongue, and some stiffly reduced Spanish sauce, without quite filling it; and cover the salpifon with forcemeat. Put the boudins in a saute-pan with some general stock, and let them simmer for fifteen minutes. Boil some Spanish sauce with essence of game till reduced to half. When cooked, drain the boudins on a cloth, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pour the reduced sauce over, and serve. Braised Pheasant.—Prepare and truss a Pheasant as for boiling. Line a stewpan with slices of fat bacon and one or two thick slices of veal, put in the bird, seasoning it well with salt and pepper; add a few sweet herbs, cover it with more slices of bacon and veal, cover the stewpan down perfectly air-tight, and put it into a moderate oven and cook it for two hours. When done, put the bird on a hot dish, strain over it some of the gravy that will have run from it whilst cooking, garnish it with sliced lemons, and serve. Braised Pheasant a la Finaneiere.—Prepare and braise two Pheasants. Then prepare a finaneiere ragout with foies gras, cocks’ combs, truffles and Pheasant forcemeat quenelles, and mix with them some finaneiere sauce. Put a block of fried bread in the centre of a dish, sticking it on to the dish with white of egg and flour-paste; arrange the Pheasants leaning against each end of the bread, put the ragout in the dish in order, put a row of Pheasant forcemeat quenelles below each Pheasant, a cooked and larded sweet- bread each side of the bread, with cooked truffles on each. Put four crayfish and some cocks’ combs in the spaces, and put another larded and cooked sweetbread on the top of the bread. Get five silver attelettes and garnish them with cocks’ combs, truffles, and crayfish, stick them in the Pheasants and sweetbreads, and serve with a sauceboat- ful of finaneiere sauce that has been reduced with essence of Pheasant. Braised Pheasants a la Soyer.—Singe and draw three young Pheasants and truss them as for boiling. Chop the livers and Jib. of beef-suet, and put them in a mortar with lib. of breadcrumbs, a small quantity of chopped thyme and parsley, and a seasoning of pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Pound the mixture well, and bind it with four beaten eggs. Stuff the birds with the forcemeat and braise them, with vegetables. Shape a croustade like the bow of a ship and dress it at the head of the dish; or- nament a large quenelle with pieces of truffles, stick it through lengthwise with a silver skewer, and fix it at the top of the croustade. When cooked, arrange two of the Pheasants on the dish, with their tails touching the croustade, and the other between with its breast towards the end of the dish. While the Pheasants are cooking, pre- pare the following sauce: Put 2qts. of essence of game in a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of clear broth, and boil it till of a thick creamy consistency; then put in some heads of mushrooms and dressed cocks’ combs. Mask the Pheasants over with the sauce, and serve. Braised Pheasants with Pat Goose Liver and Truffles. —Cut lib. of fat liver (foie gras) and lib. of truffles into small squares, and sprinkle over them a small quantity of salt and pepper. Stuff two Pheasants with this preparation, and truss them as for braising; tie some thin slices of fat Pheasants—continued. bacon over them (see Bakding), and put them in a braising-pan with the drainer in it. Pour in with the Pheasants H breakfast-cupfuls of mirepoise and 1 break- fast-cupful of white wine, put the lid on the pan, with some live embers on it, and let the contents simmer gently over a slow fire for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Lard and braise two fat livers. Prepare as for garnish 1 dozen or so cocks’ kernels, 1 dozen or so truffles, and 1 dozen large and white cocks’ combs. Cut a block of bread 4in. long and 2in. wide, and cut it out at each end on the top for the Pheasants to rest against, fry the bread in boiling lard, then drain and fix it in the centre of a hot dish with a little fiour mixed in the white of egg. When cooked, drain the Pheasants, untie them, and put them, resting against the bread crop upwards, one at each end of the dish. Fill the spaces with truffles, fat livers, cocks’ combs .and kernels in such way as to completely cover the bread. Garnish three attelettes (skewers) with cocks’ combs and truffles, mask them with a little Spanish sauce that has been reduced with essence of truffles, and serve with a boatful of the same sauce. Broiled Cutlets of Pheasant.—(1) Draw and clean two well-hung Pheasants and cut them up; take out the bones from the legs and breasts, and put them with the trimmings into a saucepan; put in also a carrot and turnip, two or three sprigs of sweet herbs, a small quantity of pepper and salt, and about f pint of water or stock. Let it simmer by the side of the fire for three-quarters-of- an-hour. Trim the pieces of Pheasant into cutlets, stick a small bone at the end of each, dip them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, and broil them over a clear fire. When the cutlets are cooked, arrange them in a pyramid on a hot dish; strain and thicken the gravy with a little flour and butter mixed together, pour it over the cutlets, and serve. (2) Cut out the fillets of three young Pheasants, trim them, and divide the fillets of each Pheasant into six cutlets, reserving the small bones to stick at the end of each; then dip them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, put them on a gridiron, and broil them over a clear fire, turn- ing to do both sides equally. Arrange the cutlets when cooked on a hot dish, pour over them some brown sauce flavoured with fumet of game, and serve. s, (3) Prepare some cutlets from the fillets of some young Pheasants, making two with the large ones and one with the small ones. Beat the cutlets lightly to flatten them, trim them to a nice shape, dip them in beaten egg and then in breadcrumbs, and broil them over a clear fire. When nicely browned, arrange the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with a brown sauce flavoured with fumet of game, and serve them. Broiled Pheasant.—Cut the bird into four pieces and fry them in lard; when nicely browned all over and half-done through, take them from the fire, drain the lard from them, brush over with beaten egg, roll them in a paper of breadcrumbs mixed with salt and cayenne, put them on a hot well-greased gridiron, and broil them for ten minutes over a clear fire. Chaudfroid of Pheasants.—Pluck and trass two Pheasants, wrap them in buttered paper, and roast them without colouring. When cold, cut them up into several pieces, strip oft’ the skin, dip them in chaudfroid sauce, and leave on a dish to set. Arrange some small evenly-cut pieces of the fillets in a border-mould; fill it with half-set savoury aspic jelly, and when the jelly is quite set turn out the border on to a dish. Fix a crouton of fried bread in the centre, and pile the pieces of Pheasant over it. A few sprigs of parsley may be tucked in here and there to complete the effect. Collops of Pheasant in Cases.—Cut off the meat of some Pheasants, cut it into thin collops, put them in a saute- pan_ with a couple of minced truffles, and fry them in clarified butter. Oil slightly some paper-cases, about 2in. in diameter, and put them in a slack oven for five minutes. Drain the Pheasant collops and truffles when done, put them in the cases, pour in a little Spanish sauce that has been reduced with essence of truffles, and serve,THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 154 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Pheasants—continued. arranging on a dish covered with an ornamental paper, and garnish with parsley. See Fig. 204. Fig. 204. collops of Pheasants in Cases. Consomme of Pheasant.—Remove the skin from anout lib. of the flesh of a cooked Pheasant, chop it up small, and cover it over. Meanwhile, take an onion, a leek, and half a root of celery, mince them very fine, put them into a stewpan with a little butter, and fry them, adding tire backs and bones of a Pheasant broken in pieces, and any other raw trimmings that are at hand; also add a few pieces of ham, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 3qts. or 4qts. of good broth. Put the pan on the fire, boil up the con- tents, skim it, and then put it on the side of the fire, and leave it for one-and-a-half hours. Strain it through a cloth and take off the fat. During this time put the cooked meat of the Pheasant into a mortar, pound it well, add 4 table-spoonfuls of the stock, the yolks of eight eggs, and rub it through a sieve, adding a little grated nutmeg to season it. Take a mould, put a layer of buttered paper at the bottom, butter the sides, and pour it in. Put the mould in a stewpan, and put the pan in the bain-marie to poach the contents. When thick, remove it from the fire, let it get cold, turn it out, and cut it up into squares. Put these in the soup-tureen, and pour the consomme over. Curried Pheasant.—Disjoint a Pheasant as for serving, and partially fry, so as to nicely brown it, in butter with three or four sliced onions. Mix 1 table-spoonful of flour with 1 table-spoonful of curry-powder and a lump of butter, put it in a stewpan, and pour in gradually 1 pint of stock, stirring it over the fire till quite smooth. Finely chop three or four apples, and mix with them an equal quantity of chopped heart of cabbage, 1 finely- minced pickled capsicum, the strained juice of one lemon, and a small quantity of salt. Put these and the fried Pheasant in the stock, add h pint of cream, and let it boil gently by the side of the fire till the meat and vegetables are done, stirring occasionally. Arrange the meat, when cooked, on a hot dish; reduce the cooking liquor by boiling, then pour it over the meat, and serve. Devilled Legs of Pheasants.—Take the legs of cold roast Pheasants, score them across four or five times, rub mustard, pepper, and a little salt into the cuts, and broil them on a hot gridiron with a piece of cold butter laid on each leg. Serve as hot as possible. Essence of Pheasant.—Put the bones and trimmings of about six Pheasants into a saucepan, having removed the flesh and put it by for other uses, such as entries, &c. Slice a small onion with two cloves, and put it in with the bones, adding also a carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and 1 pint of madeira. Boil the mixture till reduced to a glaze, then pour in 3qts. of broth, and let it simmer for one-and-a-half hours by the side of the fire, skimming it occasionally. Strain the essence through a broth-napkin, cool it a little, then skim off the fat, and bottle it for use. Fillets of Larded (Pique) Pheasants served with Potatoes and Mushrooms.—Remove the fillets from two or three Pheasants, trim them neatly, lard and braise them. Cut some slices of cucumber, the same size as the fillets, put them into a saucepan with a little stock and h teaspoon- ful of sugar, and boil them gently till tender. Put a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish; mix some blanched mushrooms with some jardiniere sauce, and pile it in the centre of the dish. Arrange the fillets Pheasants—continued. and slices of cucumber alternately on the potato, and serve. Fillets of Pheasants d la Financiere.—Cut the fillets off six Pheasants, trim them, and put them in a buttered saut6-pan, covering them with a sheet of buttered paper. Trim and put at each end of the minion fillets a small square of truffle, put them in a buttered saute-pan, curving them slightly, with some quenelles, fat livers, mushrooms, and truffles. Prepare a ragout, and mix them with financiere sauce. Saut6 the fillets and minion fillets. Prepare a croustade and fix it on a dish with white of egg and flour; drain the fillets and put them round it. Put the prepared ragout in the centre of the croustade, and arrange the minion fillets round the top, placing a cock’s comb in the centre. Reduce some finan- ciere sauce with essence of Pheasant, mask the fillets with it, and serve with a sauceboatful of the same sauce. Fillets of Pheasants with Brussels Sprouts.—Remove the fillets from the bones of some young Pheasants, lard them, and braise them the same way as fowls. Wash some Brussels sprouts, plunge them into boiling water, add a lump of salt, and partly cook them. Drain the sprouts, put them into a stewpan with 4oz. of streaky bacon and 1 pint of stock, season them with salt and pepper, and boil them over a moderate fire till the stock is reduced to a glaze. When the fillets of Pheasants are cooked, lay them in circular order on a hot dish. Press the sprouts in a colander, turn them into the centre of the dish, pour some game sauce round, and serve. Fillets of Pheasants Sautes a la Maintenon.—Take the fillets from two large young Pheasants and cut each into two slices, beat them lightly, season with salt and pepper, put them into a saute-pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of olive-oil, and saute them over a quick fire, keeping them rather underdone. When cooked, take the fillets out and drain them. Put two chopped onions into the saute-pan and fry them till lightly browned, adding more oil if necessary; then mix in 2 table-spoonfuls each of chopped mushrooms and chopped parsley, and 1 pint of white sauce, seasoning with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and | teaspoonful of sugar. Boil the sauce till thickly reduced, stirring it at the same time; put the fillets in the sauce, move it away from the fire, and leave it till cold. Cut as many pieces of white paper as there are fillets into heart-shaped pieces, put a fillet on each, with the sauce divided equally, and wrap the papers over, twisting them well at the ends. Broil the fillets over a clear but slow fire. When cooked, put them on a hot dish, leaving then in their papers, and serve with a sauce- boatful of rich gravy. Fried Fillets of Pheasants with Cream Sauce.—Remove the fillets from four young Pheasants, trim them neatly, lard four of them, and braise them as for fowl. Finely mince some ham, and mix it with an equal quantity of grated breadcrumbs. Brush the remaining fillets over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and roll them in the mixed breadcrumbs, giving them a good coating; then put them into a frying-pan with some clarified butter, and fry them till lightly browned. Meanwhile prepare the following sauce: Chop the bones of the Pheasants, put them into a saucepan with an onion, a small quantity of chopped carrot and turnip, two or three sprigs' of thyme and parsley, a bay-leaf, and 1 teacupful of white wine; stir the mixture over the fire for a few minutes, then pour in lqt. of bechamel sauce and 1 pint of veal stock. Reduce the sauce till thick, stirring it at the same time; then pass it through a fine hair sieve, return it to the sauce- pan with 1 teacupful of cream and 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and boil it up again. Mix some white dressed cocks’ combs with the sauce. Glaze the braised fillets, and arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, alternating them with the fried fillets; pour the sauce in the centre, and serve. Fried Fillets of Pheasants with Green Sauce.—Prepare a Pheasant, cut off the fillets from the breast, spread them over with truffle forcemeat, roll them up, fasten withTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 155 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, See., referred to, see under their special heads. Pheasants—continued. skewers, brash them over with egg, (lust with breadcrumbs, plunge them into boiling fat, and fry them a golden colour. Colour 1 pint of bechamel sauce with parsley or spinach juice, and stir in a little minced pickled samphire. Arrange the pieces of Pheasants on a dish, pour round the sauce, arrange a few sprigs of parsley round the top, and garnish until slices of tomato and button mushrooms. Pried Fillets of Pheasants with Quenelles.—Cut out the fillets of six Pheasants, trim them, and put them in a buttered saute-pan until a sheet of buttered paper on the ' top. Trim the minion fillets and fix a small square of truffle at the end of each, put them in a buttered saute - pan, curving them to a crescent shape, and fry them. Prepare some Pheasant forcemeat quenelles, and shape it into pieces the size of olives. Fix a croustade on a dish, arrange the fillets round it, and fill it with the quenelles. Reduce some Spanish sauce with essence of Pheasant, pour some over the fillets, and serve until the remainder in a sauceboat. Pried Fillets of Pheasants with Truffles.—Cut off the fillets of two young but well-liung Pheasants; put them in a saute-pan with some thin slices of truffles, and fry , them in clarified butter. When nicely browned on both , sides, drain the fillets, put them on a sheet of paper on the table, and trim them to the same shape, leaving the truffles to cook a little longer ; put the fillets into the saute- pan again, and give them one or two turns over the fire. Reduce some bechamel sauce with essence of truffles, and Pheasant. Drain the fillets and truffles, arrange , them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Pried Legs of Pheasants Stuffed with Forcemeat.—Bone one dozen legs of Pheasants, but do not remove the shanks. Prepare lib. of forcemeat as for Pheasant A. la Perigueux, mixing with it four chopped truffles. Season the legs, and stuff them with this mixture. Sew them up, put them in a stew- pan with 1 pint of madeira and the same quantity of stock, and stew them till the liquor is reduced one-half; then, take the legs off' the fire, and leave them to cool in the liquor. Untruss the legs, shape them nicely, dip them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, and fry them in boiling fat. When nicely browned, fasten a ruffle on each bone (see Fig. 205), put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish- cover on a hot dish, garnish round with fried parsley, and serve. Galantine of Pheasant.—(1) Select a large Pheasant, pluck and draw it, split it down the back and bone it, spread the bird open upon a cloth, and stuff it with a forcemeat composed of tongue, veal fat, truffles, white meat of poultry, and larding bacon, seasoned well with spices. Sew the bird up, bringing it back to its original shape as nearly as possible, wrap it in slices of fat bacon, fasten- ing this on with small skewers, put it in a stewpan, pour over in equal quantities sufficient white wine and broth to cover it, and stew it gently for three hours. Afterwards remove the stewpan from the fire, and leave the bird in the liquor for an hour; then take it out, clarify the liquor and strain it, and leave it until set. Remove the bacon, place the bird on a dish, garnish round with the jelly cut into nice-shaped pieces, and serve. (2) Pluck the bird with the exception of the neck, wings, and tail, which should be left with the plumage on, then bone it carefully. Chop some game flesh, half the quantity of chicken flesh, and an equal quantity of fat bacon; put the chopped meats in a mortar, pound them well, season- ing them, and mixing a third of the quantity of chopped truffles and fat liver with them. Bind the mixture with beaten yolk of egg, and stuff the bird with it. Trass the Pheasant and wrap it in a cloth to a round shape. Put the bones and trimmings of the Pheasant, truffles, and bacon in a saucepan with some good broth, boil it up, then put the bird in, and boil it gently for an-hour-and- Pheasants—continued. a-half. When cooked, drain the galantine, untie it, and wrap it up again, keeping it in a rounded oblong shape, and leave till cooled. Line an oblong-shaped mould with pie-crust, and bake it till a light brown. When the galantine is cold, cut it crosswise and glaze it. Fill the interior of the pie-crust with bread, and turn it over on to a pain-vert fixed on a dish ; then place the Pheasant on it, ornament it with the wings, tail, neck and head, which should be kept upright by means of a bit of wire, fastened on to the crust support. Garnish the base of the crust with a thick string of chopped aspic jelly, and some chicken legs that have been boned and stuffed with galan- tine forcemeat to resemble ducks. Garnish the base of the pain-vert with croutons of aspic jelly, in the centre of each of which is placed a small quantity of chopped jelly. Place the dish on an ornamented stand, and serve it. Hashed Pheasant.—Cut some cold cooked Pheasant into small pieces, and put them in a frying-pan with a little flour and butter, and fry them till lightly browned. Put in a small saucepan 1 breakfast-cupful of water, 1 wine- glassful of port wine, a small quantity of browning, and pepper and salt to taste; when boiling, skim it, stir it over the fire till very thick, then put in the pieces of Pheasant to warm them, but do not boil the sauce again. Arrange the meat on a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Minced Pheasant.—Cut the meat off two cooked Pheasants into small slices, removing all skin and tendons, put them in a stewpan and keep them covered. Put the bones, broken up, in another stewpan with 1 teacupful of finely chopped vegetables, half that quantity of trimmings of ham, a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, and 1 teacupful of white wine and broth, mixed in equal quantities; stew them to make a Pheasant extract. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms and the same quantity of chopped onions into a stewpan and fry them. When the moisture of the mushrooms has evaporated somewhat, sprinkle in a handful of breadcrumbs, and the strained gravy from the bones of the Pheasant; stir them over the fire and then boil it for three or four minutes; put in the pieces of Pheasant, and warm them without boiling. Sprinkle in the mince a little pepper and chopped parsley, and add the strained juice of a lemon and 1 table-spoonful of Harvey sauce. Turn the mince on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Pheasants a, la Bohemienne.—Truss the Pheasants, prepare a forcemeat with chopped truffles, foies gras, mixed herbs, pepper and salt, and stuff the birds with it; then put them in a stewpan with some mirepoix, and 1 wineglass- ful of Madeira, and stew them gently till done. Put the Pheasants on a hot dish, garnish them with stewed truffles, foies gras, cocks’ combs and cocks’ kidneys. Pass the sauce through a fine hair sieve over the birds, and serve. Pheasant a la Diplomate.—Pluck and singe a young Pheasant that has hung long enough to be tender, split the skin of the neck down lengthwise, remove the bone, slightly split the back bone, so as to widen the opening of the stomach, and draw it without making another opening. Bone and skin a large woodcock that lias hung till tender, cut the flesh into squares, and put it in a basin with three or four raw truffles, also cut into squares; sprinkle over them some mixed spices, pepper and salt; pour in 2 table-spoonfuls of madeira, and let them steep for two hours. Put the livers of two fowls in a stewpan with the liver and trail of the woodcock, a little chopped shallot, half the trimmings of the truffles, and a small piece of butter; fry them, season with pepper and salt, and let them cool. Put this fried liver mixture into a mortar, pound them, and pass them through a sieve; mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of melted glaze and 1 pinch of cayenne. Coat six oval-shaped croutons of fried bread with the preparation. Chop and pound 5oz. of bacon, mix it with the squares of woodcock and truffles, stuff the Pheasant with it, and sew up the skin underneath. Sprinkle a dust of salt over the bird and wrap it up in a square of pig’s caul, tie it round with string, and make it fast to a spit; roast it in front of a clear fire, putting Fig. 205. Fried Leg of Pheasant Stuffed with Forcemeat.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 156 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, uces, cfcc., referred tot see under their special heads. Pheasants—continued. the six crofitons of bread in the dripping-pan underneath, and basting continually with a paste-brush dipped in wanned butter. W hen cooked, put the Pheasant on a hot dish, garnish round with the crofitons of bread, and serve with a sauceboatful of rich gravy. Pheasant & l'Etouffade.—Singe, draw, and pluck a fine cock Pheasant, lard it, and wrap some thin slices of fat bacon round it. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon, put in the Pheasant, moisten it to height with equal quantities of white wine and rich gravy, and cover the stewpan closely. Stew the bird slowly for two hours, then drain it, put it on a hot dish, pour round it a sufficient quantity of essence of game that has been made hot, and serve. Pheasants a l’Extravagante.—No other cook than Soyer could ever have conceived such a dish as the following : Pre- pare and bone the breasts of two large Pheasants. Make the following forcemeat: fillet six woodcocks, and cut each fillet into halves lengthwise, put them in a saute-pan with lib. of chopped mushrooms, 1 table-spoonful of chopped shallots, and 2oz. of scraped bacon ; season them with salt and pepper, and set them over the fire for ten minutes, turning the fillets at the end of five minutes; then mix in 1 i breakfast-cupfuls of bechamel sauce, fib. of cooked cocks’ combs, and a small quantity of sugar and grated nutmeg. Mix the beaten yolks of three eggs with the other ingredients, and stir them over the fire till the egg sets; then turn the mixture on to a dish, and leave it till cool. When quite firm, divide the stuffing into equal portions, and stuff the Pheasants with it. Sew the skin of the neck over on the back, but take care not to stretch it too tightly across the breast, or it may break; put some slices of fat bacon over the birds, wrap them in sheets of greased paper, and roast them in front of a clear fire. Put the trimmings, &c., of the woodcocks into a saucepan with 1 pint of white stock, 2 wineglassfuls of sherry, two sliced shallots, one bay-leaf, two or three sprigs of parsley and thyme, half a blade of mace, and three cloves. Let the sauce simmer for fifteen minutes, then pour in lqt. of brown sauce, and boil the whole for twenty minutes. At the end of that time, take out the pieces of woodcock, cut the flesh and trails from the bones, and pound them in a mortar, then return them to the sauce, having first passed it through a fine hair sieve into a clean stewpan. Season the sauce with salt, pepper, and b tea- spoonful of sugar, then rub it again through a fine hair sieve. Just before taking the birds up, remove the paper and bacon, to brown them lightly; then put them on a hot dish on which has been placed a border of poached forcemeat, pour the sauce in the centre over the birds, and serve. A very tasty garnish for this dish is made by cutting about twenty-four pieces of bread in the shape of hearts, then masking them on one side with forcemeat, making it rather thicker in the middle, and place a ready dressed cocks’ comb on each. Butter a deep baking dish, lay the pieces of bread in it, cover them over with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake them for half-an-hour in a moderate oven. Pheasant a la Minute.—Cut off the best pieces of meat from a fine large Pheasant, and trim them nicely; put a good-sized lump of butter into a flat stewpan, and place it over the fire until melted; then put in - the pieces of Pheasant with a few chopped herbs and toss them about over the fire for a few minutes. When the meat begins to stiffen, moisten with a few table-spoonfuls of white wine and good gravy, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil gently at the side of the fire for five minutes. Arrange the meat on a hot dish, pour the gravy over it, and serve with a sauceboatful of shallot sauce. Pheasant a la Perigueux.—Pluck, singe, and draw a Pheasant, and make the following forcemeat: Peel tlb. of fresh truffles, chop them, and pound them in a mortar witbr3oz. of bacon-fat. Put the pounded mixture into a Small saucepan, and stir it over the fire until hot through ; then turn it into a basin and let it get cold, and season it to taste. Stuff the bird with this, wrap it in thin slices of bacon, and leave it for two days, to absorb the flavour of the truffles. Wrap it in a sheet of buttered Pheasants—continued. paper, fix it on a spit, and roast it before a clear fire, keeping it well basted. When the Pheasant is cooked, remove the paper, place it on a hot dish, pour round it a rich brown gravy made from the gizzards, neck, &c., and serve, garnished with truffles and potato croquette with a little mushroom ketchup and essence of ham in it. See Fig. 206. Pheasant a la Soubise.—Trass a Pheasant as for Boiled Chicken, put it in a braising pan with a layer of bacon, some chopped vegetables, some sweet herbs, and b pint of stock, and braise it. When cooked, take the Pheasant out of the braising-pan, drain it, and dry it in front of the fire. Put the Pheasant on a hot dish, surround it with soubise sauce, and serve. Pheasant Croquettes.—(1) Cut some of the meat of a cold roasted Pheasant into small pieces, removing all the skin, fat, tendons, and gristle; mix with it an equal quantity of truffles, chopped up in the same way. Boil b pint °f Spanish sauce with 1 wineglassful of essence of truffles till stiffly reduced, then mix it with the meat and truffles, and leave it to cool. Divide the preparation of Pheasant meat and truffles into equal-sized portions, and roll them into balls or “cocks.” Beat two beaten eggs with 1 table- spoonful of oil, pepper and salt to taste; roll the croquettes in it, then in breadcrumbs, and fry them in boiling fat till crisp and lightly browned. When cooked, drain the croquettes, sprinkle salt over them, and put them on an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish; garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of either poivrade, Perigueux or tomato sauces. (2) Trim off all the skin, bones, and sinewy parts from a cold roasted Pheasant, cut the flesh into small squares, put it into a saucepan with a small quantity of thick white sauce, and stir it over the fire until hot. Turn the mixture on to a dish, and leave it until cold; then with two table-spoons mould it into egg-shaped croquettes. Roll the croquettes into breadcrumbs that have been seasoned with salt and pepper, then in beaten raw egg, and again in the breadcrumbs. Put clarified fat or butter into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when the blue smoke arises, put in the croquettes, a few at a time, and fry them a rich golden brown. As each lot are cooked, rest them on a sheet of kitchen paper for a minute to drain off the fat. Spread a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the croquettes on it, garnish them nicely with fried parsley, and serve. (3) Cut the meat of a cooked Pheasant into small squares, and put these in a saucepan with one-third of their quantity of cooked truffles, also cut in squares, and keep them covered. Make a gravy with the bones. Boil some brown sauce till reduced, then stir in gradually with it the gravy, pour it into the stewpan with the chopped meat, and leave it till cool, h orm the preparation into pear-shaped croquettes, roll them in beaten eggs and breadcrumbs, put them in boiling fat, and fry them till nicely browned. Drain the croquettes, put them on a hot dish, garnish until fried parsley, and serve. Pheasant Forcemeat.—Chop fib. of Pheasant and J2lb. of chicken meat together, put it in a mortar, pound it, and then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Pound and pass through the sieve lOoz. of boiled udder of veal, mix it with the pounded meat, and work it up with fib. of bread panada; sprinkle over it a little grated nutmeg, salt and pepper, and mix the whole thoroughly with 1 tea- <157 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Pheasants—continued. cupful of reduced Spanish sauce. Test a small piece of the forcemeat by poaching it in boiling water, and if it is too still’, mix a little more of the sauce with it. Pheasant Forcemeat Cake with Grenadines.—Trim and laid the fillets cut off six Pheasants with thin strips of fat bacon, put them in a buttered saute'pan, sprinkle over with a pinch of salt and pepper, and put a sheet of buttered paper on the top. With some crumb of bread and essence of Pheasant, prepare a panada and put it on a plate to cool. Cut the remaining flesh off the bones of the Pheasant, put them in a mortar with the minion fillets and the fillets of six fowls, and pound them; pass all through a fine hair sieve, then put it in the mortar again, and mix with it an equal quantity of boiled udder, that has been pounded and passed through the sieve, and with this mix half the quantity of the Pheasant-meat and the panada; sprinkle with more salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; pound all together to mix them well, adding three eggs, one at a time, and sufficient reduced (see Reducing) Spanish sauce to make it stiff. Fill a plain oval-buttered border mould, lOin. long and 2^in. wide, with the forcemeat, and poach it in the bain-marie, without boiling. When set, turn the forcemeat out on to a croustade on a dish, glaze it, and arrange the Pheasant fillets, previously cooked and glazed, on the top. Garnish six silver skewers, with cocks’ combs and truffles (see Attelettes), and stick them in the forcemeat. Serve with a sauceboatful of Spanish sauce reduced with an addition of essence of Pheasant. Pheasant in Paste.—Prepare the bird, and put in its inside a small onion and a piece of bacon; then enclose it in a suet crust, and boil or steam it like a beef-steak pudding. Care should be taken to make the paste thick enough not to break when it is taken out of the pot. Place it on a hot dish, cut a circular piece out of the top, through which pour a small quantity of highly seasoned gravy, and serve while very hot. Pheasant Pie.—(1) Cut up a Pheasant and lay the pieces in a pie-dish, putting the breast in the middle; season with salt and pepper, moisten to height with gravy, cover the pie-dish with another dish, and put it in the oven for ten minutes; then dredge the Pheasant with flour, put in two or three hard-boiled eggs, cut into halves, put a few pieces of butter about on the top,- cover the pie with a good crust, and bake it. Make some gravy with the gizzard, neck, &c., of the bird, and season it with a small onion and two or three cloves. When cooked, take the pie out of the oven and strain in the gravy at the top. Serve the pie either hot or cold. A few bones should be boiled with the gravy to make it jelly. (2) Cold.—Take the meat off a young Pheasant, cut it up small, and put it in a basin with six peeled raw truffles; sprinkle with salt and spices, and pour over 1 wineglassful of madeira, and let the pieces macerate in this for one hour. Cut the flesh off two hares’ legs into small pieces, and fry it with the liver of the Pheasant; when done, let it cool, then chop it up with an equal quantity of lean veal or pork and bacon. Put it in a mortar, pound well, season with salt and spices; mix with the pieces of Pheasant and truffles, adding 6oz. of cooked bacon cut in dice. Line a buttered cold-pie mould with short paste, fill it with the Pheasant and forcemeat, in alternate layers, raising them in a dome, and put a round of paste on the top; moisten and pinch the edges together. Cut the paste straight two-thirds of an inch above the rim of the mould, and with paste-pincers pinch this crest on the top as well as on its outside. Roll the parings of the paste out thin, cut it into strips, then cut these into shapes of leaves; lightly brush over the top of the pie with water, arrange the leaves like a rosette upon it, cut four rounds of paste out, each one smaller than the other, and stick them one above the other at the top of the pie, putting the smallest on top, then make an incision right through the top. Brush the pie over with beaten egg, using a paste-brusli, and put it in a moderate oven for a quarter-of-an-hour; then cover it with paper and bake for two hours. With the bones of the Pheasant, together with some trimmings of meat Pheasants—continued. and truffles, a little wine and aspic jelly, prepare a rich gravy; twenty minutes after the pie has been taken out of the oven, pour the gravy in through the hole at the top, and serve when cold. (3) Singe, draw, and clean two Pheasants which have been hanging for about two days to improve their flavour, cut them up into pieces, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and cook them until done. Let them get cold, put them into a pie-dish lined with paste, and mix them up with a few truffles and a little game forcemeat. Cover over with two bay-leaves and slices of very fat bacon, and lastly with more paste, and bake for about an- hour-and-a-half. When done, remove from the oven, take off the slices of bacon and bay-leaves, replace the cover of paste, turn the pie out on to a dish, and serve cold. Pheasant Quenelles with Truffles.—Chop up lib. of cold roasted Pheasant meat, put it into a mortar and pound it, pass it through a fine hair sieve, and mix with it lOoz. of panada, prepared with broth and rice-flour and left till cold. Work it well together in the mortar, and pound them for seven or eight minutes longer. Mix in with the forcemeat lOoz. of butter, the yolks of three eggs, and salt and spices to taste; three minutes after, pass it through the sieve into a basin and smooth it with a spoon. Mould some of the forcemeat with two table-spoons into sixteen or eighteen quenelles, then lay them on the buttered bottom of a flat stewpan, and put the lid on. Shape the rest of the forcemeat into a border on an entree-disli, cover it with buttered paper, and cook it in the oven. Poach the quenelles in broth, take them up with a skimmer, drain them, and arrange in circular order on the border of forcemeat; fill the cavity with small round cooked truffles, pour over them a little brown sauce that has been reduced with the trimmings of truffles and ex- tract of Pheasant, and serve with the rest of the sauce in a sauceboat. Pheasant Rissoles.—Chop up fine the white meat of a Pheasant, add to it four or five chopped mushrooms or truffles, a small quantity (about 2 table-spoonfuls) of sifted breadcrumbs, pepper and salt to taste, chopped herbs and lemon-peel, \ teaspoonful of each; mix all to a paste with 1 table-spoonful of milk and a little white broth. Stir it then in a saucepan over the fire for ten minutes. Turn it out of the saucepan, mix well into it a beaten egg, put it in a cool place, and let it stand six hours, when it well be stiff enough to work into balls, or whatever shape the rissoles are to be. When the rissoles are formed, brush them over with beaten egg, roll them in a paper of breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling lard or dripping. When taken from the frying-pan, lay them on kitchen paper to drain, arrange them on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. Pheasant Saute.—Disjoint two young Pheasants, put them in a saute-pan with a piece of butter, a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, sprinkle in a small quantity of pepper and salt, and fry them over a moderate fire. When the breasts and fillets are done, take them out and finish cooking the legs. Drain the butter out of the saute-pan, put the fillets and breasts back again, pour over them a little melted glaze, and roll them well in it. Reduce some brown sauce with Pheasant fumet. Prepare a purde of apples, seasoning them with a pinch of salt and a small quantity of sugar. Arrange the pieces of Pheasants in a group on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve with a sauceboatful of the apple puree. Pheasant Saute with Truffles.—Pluck, singe, and draw a Pheasant, divide the breast into two pieces, and cut off the legs and wings. Partially fry the legs in a stewpan with butter, then put in the wings and breasts, a small onion, a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, and 1 or 2 pinches of pepper and salt; fry them till nicely browned, then put the lid on the stewpan with hot ashes on it, and finish cooking the contents by the side of the fire. Peel and slice five or six raw truffles, and keep them covered. Cut the back of the Pheasant into small pieces, and put it in a stewpan with the pinions, neck158 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., ■ejerred to, see under their special heads. Pheasants—continued. Pheasants—continued. leg bones, a small piece of raw ham, and a few sliced vegetables, and fry them over a brisk lire. Sprinkle in a little flour to thicken the liquor, and moisten with broth and 1 wineglassful of white wine. Stir the sauce over the fire till boiling, then move the stewpan to the side, put the lid on, and let the contents cook for three-quarters- of-an-hour. Skim the fat off, and pass the sauce through a fine hair sieve into a fiat stewpan. Put in with it the trimmings of the truffles, and reduce it over a brisk fire, adding gradually 1 wineglassful of sherry. When done, strain, and keep the sauce hot. When the Pheasant 'is nearly cooked, remove the onion and herbs, put in with it the sliced truffles and 2 wineglassfuls of sherry, put the lid on, and finish cooking. Place the Pheasant on a hot dish, dividing each wing and leg in halves. Drain the fat off the stewpan, pour the sauce over the truffles, and boil it up; then pour it over the Pheasant, and serve. Pheasant Soup.—Put 6oz. of sago into a stewpan with 2qts. of Pheasant broth, and boil it; then move the stew- pan to the side of the fire. Cut the meat off a cooked Pheasant, put it in a mortar and pound it; mix with it the yolks of four or five eggs; stir this into the soup, and pass all through a fine hair sieve. Cut some macaroni in small pieces, and boil it. Stir the soup over the fire till hot, but do not let it boil. Put the macaroni in a soup-tureen, pour the soup over the macaroni, and serve. Potted Pheasant.—(1) Pluck and draw the Pheasant, wipe it clean with a damp cloth, singe it, and season the inside with pepper, salt, cloves, beaten mace, and grated nutmeg. Break the breast-bones and flatten them down. Put the bird in an earthen bowl with a large lump of ! butter, and bake it for one hour. When cooked, drain I the Pheasant, and leave it till cold; then put it into a large jar, the breast downwards, and pour in clarified butter to |in. in. thickness. Tie the jar over with paper, | and keep it in a cold place. (2) Roast some Pheasants, and let them be rather over than under done. Take the flesh of breast, wings, and merrythought clean from the bones; take oft- the skin, I mince the meat, and then pound it to a smooth paste j with rather less than one-third of its weight of fresh butter. Add and pound in by degrees a seasoning of mace, cayenne, and salt. When sufficiently seasoned, press the paste into shallow glass jars, and cover them with butter warmed till liquid. Keep the jars in a cold place. Fulled Pheasant.—Cut the flesh oft' the breast of a cold roasted Pheasant, remove the skin, and pull the meat into shreds with two forks. Prepare some cream sauce, thickening it with breadcrumbs, and put in it the pieces of Pheasant, warming them up in it. Score across the legs and drumsticks of the bird, season them anti the wings with salt and pepper, dip them in warmed butter, i lay them on a gridiron, and broil them over a clear fire, Fig. 207 Pulled Pheasant. turning them when done on one side. Put the pulled Pheasant meat and sauce on to the centre of a hot dish, arrange the broiled limbs round it (see Fig. 207), and serve. Puree of Pheasant.—Singe and draw two Pheasants, put them in a braising-pan, and braise them with 1 pint of game broth. Take the Pheasants out when done and leave them till cool. Strain the cooking liquor through a silk sieve, skim the fat off, and boil the broth with double the quantity of veloutd sauce till reduced to a creamy consistency. Chop the meat off the Pheasants finely, first removing all the skin and fat; put it in a mortar, and pound it, pouring in the prepared sauce gradually. Pass this purde through the sieve and put it in the bain-marie, when it is ready for use. Puree of Pheasant in a Croustade.—(1) Cut off the fillets of three Pheasants, cut them into halves lengthwise, trim them to a long pear shape, and lard them with thin strips of fat bacon ; put them in a buttered saute-pan and cover them with a sheet of buttered paper. Roast the Pheasants from which the fillets have been taken, first covering them with buttered paper. When done, cut off all the remain- ing flesh, and leave it till cold. Put the meat in a mortar and pound it with 1 table-spoonful of butter; dilute the puree with Spanish sauce that has been reduced with essence of Pheasant, then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Garnish a croustade with the puree, arrange the fillets, cooked and glazed, in a circle on the top; pour the remaimder of the puree in the centre, and serve. (2) Boil some well-washed rice in water until rather dry, then mix a small quantity of butter with it. Sprinkle a little water on a baking-sheet, put the rice on it, and work it well. Butter a deep pan, put the rice in it, press it well, and stand it on ice for several hours, placing a weight on it to keep it compact. When ready for the croustade, take the rice out of the pan, carve it to the desired shape, and make a small hollow in the centre. Put the rice on a dish, and warm it slightly in a moderate oven. Coat the inside of the croustade with some sauce, and fill it with a puree of Pheasant. Cut some truffles into diamond- shaped pieces, and arrange them tastefully on the top of the puree. Brush the truffles and puree over with a paste- brash dipped in melted glaze, and serve. Puree of Pheasant with Macaroni.—Put the meat of a cooked Pheasant (cut into small pieces) in a mortar and pound it, taking care to remove the skin and sinews. Pound also the same quantity of rice, boiled in broth, mix it with the meat, and pass it all through a fine hair sieve to make the puree {see Puree). Put 3 table-spoonfuls of butter and 6 table-spoonfuls of flour into a stewpan, and stir it over the fire till well mixed, but not browned ; then pour in k pint of broth, the bones of the Pheasant, 1 tea- cupful of chopped vegetables, and a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs. When boiling, move it to the side and let it simmer for twenty-five minutes. Skim the fat oft' the liquor, strain it, mix the puree with it, and stir it over the fire till boiling; then season it, and pour it into a soup-tureen. Serve the puree with boiled macaroni. Roasted Plieasant.—(l) Singe and truss the bird, and put inside a shallot with a lump of butter. Lard the breast, close with thin strips of bacon, and tie a slice of bacon over the larded part. Fix the bird before a clear but not too fierce fire, and roast it, basting it constantly with butter. Five minutes before taking the bird from the fire, remove the slice of bacon and brown the larded part. When cooked, place the bird on a hot dish, strew over it some crumbs of bread that have been fried brown.in butter, and serve it with a sauceboatful each of rich brown gravy and bread sauce. (2) When the Pheasant has hung till tender, pluck it, putting the neck by with the skin and feathers on; singe and draw the bird; preserve the feathers of the tail for decoration after cooking. Chop tlb. of bacon with the Pheasant’s liver and two or three cooked chickens’ livers, put them in a mortar, pound them, and pass them through a sieve. Stuff the bird with this preparation, trussing it to a nice shape; lard the breast and legs with thin strips of bacon, and bind some paper round the legs to prevent their breaking off. Fix the bird on the spit, put a large slice of bread underneath it in the dripping-pan, and roast it in front of a clear fire, basting often with a paste- brush dipped in warmed butter. When cooked, take the Pheasant off the spit, arrange the slices of bread out of the dripping-pan on the dish, and stand the bird on them. Pierce the neck of the Pheasant with an iron skewer or wire, and insert in it a croft ton of fried biead, fixing it on the end of the dish in such a way as to keep the head upright; fix the tail feathers at the end of the dish, put a nicely picked and sorted bunch of watercress each sideTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 159 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Pheasants—continued. of the bird, and serve with a sauceboatful of rich game gravy. (3) Prepare a stuffing with the flesh and liver of a woodcock or partridge, the liver of the Pheasant, and the inside fat; chop them all together very finely, Jib. of truffles cut into small squares, season with salt, pepper, and sweet herbs, stir in the yolks of three eggs, and mix them thoroughly. Bone a fine cock Pheasant, stuff it with the above, and sew it up; then fix it in a cradle spit and roast it, hasting occasionally with chablis wine. A piece of toast should he put at the bottom of the pan to catch the gravy. When cooked, put the Pheasant on a hot dish, first having put the toast on, and serve with a sauceboatful of Italian sauce, in which has been mixed some chopped truffles. (4) Let the Pheasant hang till tender, then pluck, draw, and lard it carefully. Bone and draw two woodcocks, keeping the trails separate, and throwing away the gizzards. Chop the flesh of the woodcocks with some cooked beef marrow; mix with it some scraped bacon, pepper, salt, and chopped truffles, and sweet herbs. Stuff the Pheasant with the preparation; cut a thick slice of bread, rather broader than the Pheasant, and put it in the dripping-pan. Put the trails of the woodcocks in a mortar with some truffles, an anchovy, a little scraped bacon, and a piece of fresh butter, and pound them; lay this thickly on the slice of bread. Fix the Pheasant on the spit, over the bread, and roast it. When ready, put the Pheasant on a hot dish, and garnish with the bread cut into pieces. (5) Prepare some young hen Pheasants, and truss them for roasting. Prepare a forcemeat with their livers and Jib. of suet, finely chopped, and put into a mortar with lib. of breadcrumbs, seasoned with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, finely-chopped thyme and parsley, and pounded together. Bind the mixture with three eggs, 1 wineglass- ful each of brandy and cream, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Stuff the birds with the forcemeat, wrap them in sheets of buttered paper, put them on a spit, and roast them for three-quarters-of-an-hour in front of a clear fire. Put loz. of glaze in a saucepan with 2 wineglassfuls of port wine and 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and boil for three or four minutes; then pour in 1 qt. of essence of game, and boil it for ten minutes longer. Skim the sauce, mix 2 table-spoonfuls of butter with it, and stir it over the fire till it has dissolved; then move it to the side. When cooked, remove the paper from the birds and put them on a hot dish, the heads to the centre, pour the sauce over them, and serve. (6) Singe and draw the bird and truss it, putting inside a small lump of butter and two shallots; lard the breast with thin strips of bacon, and tie a slice of fat bacon over them. Fix the bird in front of a clear moderate fire, and baste it constantly with butter. Ten minutes before taking the Pheasant away from the fire, remove the bacon from the breast. Remove all the discoloured leaves from a nice bunch of fr eshly-gathered water-cress, wash the remainder, and shake it as free as possible from water. Mix together some olive oil and tarragon vinegar, the former predominating, season with salt, and pour the mixture over the water-cress. When cooked, place the Pheasant on a hot dish, and strew over it some bread- crumbs that have been fried brown in butter; garnish it with the water cress, and serve it with a sauceboatful of rich brown gravy and a sauceboatful of bread sauce. (7) Put 2oz. of scraped bacon and h teacupful of oil into a stewpan with two or three cloves, a piece of mace, two bay-leaves and half a clove of garlic, scraped; stir the mixture over the fire till quite hot, then strain it into another stewpan, add ten large truffles cut into slices, and three or four finely-chopped ones, pour in 1 qt. of white sauce, and stir it over the fire till reduced to a thick creamy consistence. Mix the beaten yolks of two eggs with the mixture, then turn it on to a dish, and leave it till cool. Stuff the breasts of some young, perfectly fresh Pheasants with the above mixture, in such a way that the truffles can show as much as possible under the skin. All this should be done a week or more, according to the weather, before the birds are wanted for dressing. Wrap Pheasants—continued. the birds in oiled or buttered paper, fix them on a spit, and roast them in front of a clear fire. Put lqt. of clear aspic jelly into a saucepan and boil it for twenty minutes. Mix twelve sliced truffles with the reduced aspic, add 1 wineglassful of either madeira or hock, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and stew them for twenty minutes. In about three-quarters-of-an-hour remove the paper from the Pheasants and brown them lightly all over. When cooked, put them on a hot dish, arranging them, if there are four, in the shape of a cross, pour the prepared sauce over, and serve them. (8) Pluck and clean a couple of Pheasants, truss them for roasting, lard the breasts and thighs, put them into a deep saucepan, cover over with clear stock, add a season- ing of allspice, mace, long peppers, and white peppers, pour in 1 wineglassful of marsala, and stew gently until the Pheasants are tender, which will take about ten minutes or so. Take out the pieces, wipe them dry, dust them over with Hour, dip them into olive-oil or hot dripping, put them on a spit in front of a clear fire, and roast them to a good brown, basting frequently. Place them on a hot dish, pour round a chutney sauce, garnish with slices of lemon and small sprays of endive; strain the liquor in which the birds were cooked, reduce it, and add a little glaze, colouring, and flour (baked a deep colour); pour it over the birds, and serve hot. (9) Stuffed with Mushrooms.—Pluck, singe, and draw a Pheasant, lard it on each side of the breast with pieces of fat bacon, and stuff it with twelve large mushrooms, cut into halves or quarters, and mixed up with 2oz. of butter, salt, and cayenne to taste. Trass the bird, cover the breast with a piece of thickly-buttered paper, place it in front of a clear fire, and roast it for thirty minutes, basting frequently with its own liquor. Take off the paper, roast for ten minutes longer, place it on a dish and serve with bread sauce in a sauceboat, and gravy made as follows, poured over: Put loz. of butter into a saucepan with a finely chopped onion, fry the latter until quite brown; add the chopped liver of the Pheasant, 1 saltspoonful of salt, sugar and mustard to taste, 1 table-spoonful of ketchup, and 3 teacupfuls of stock ; boil for thirty minutes, and strain before using. A little flour may be added to thicken if required. Roasted Pheasants served a la Royale.—Carefully roast two young Pheasants, and whilst they are cooking, stew gently in some veal stock, several turned truffles, cocks’ combs, and button mushrooms. Prepare also ten small timbales of Pheasant or other game forcemeat. Prepare also a fried bread crofiton (see Fig. 208), and fasten this on a hot dish with white of egg. When the Pheasants are done, arrange them nicely, feet uppermost, against the narrow ends of the croft ton. Set the ten timbales, five on each side, at the base of the broad side of the croft ton, and then cover up the broad sides of it from the timbales right up to the160 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, .ces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Pheasants—continued. top with a tastefully arranged mixture of cocks’ combs, truffles, and button mushrooms; set also round the fronts of the Pheasants from one row of timbales to the other a ring of neatly turned truffles. On the top of the crouton, supported neatly between the legs of the Pheasants, set a gilt paste or metal crown filled in its centre with the truffle, mushroom, and cock’s comb mixture (see Fig. 209). Some cooks prefer to garnish with crown atelettes, decorated with truffles, cocks’ combs, and mushrooms, or in any other way that may be selected or convenient. Salmis of Pheasant.—(1) Cut off the flesh of a cold roast Pheasant, remove the skin, and trim each piece nicely; put the bones and trimmings in a stewpan with two shallots, a clove of garlic, a laurel-leaf, the grated rind of half a lemon, and a small piece of meat glaze ; moisten with 1 pint of white wine and 1 table-spoonful of rich gravy. Stew the whole gently until the sauce has suffi- ciently reduced, then strain it through a fine hair sieve. Return it to the saucepan, put in the pieces of Pheasant flesh, and make them hot without boiling the sauce again. Arrange the meat on a hot dish, squeeze the juice of an orange into the sauce, pour it round the meat, garnish with sippets of toast or cro ft tons of bread that have been fried brown in butter, and serve while very hot. (2) Cut up a cold roasted Pheasant, put it into a stew- pan with 3 table-spoonfuls of Italian olive-oil, 2 wine- glassfuls of wine, the juice and grated peel of half a lemon, and salt and pepper to taste, and stir the whole over the fire until hot but not boiling. Arrange the meat on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, garnish with sippets of toast or crofttons of fried bread, and serve. (3) Prepare a rich game sauce, thickening it well with glaze and game jelly. Carve nicely a cold roasted Pheasant, dip the pieces into the sauce, giving them a good coating, and lay each piece as it is done on a dish, pouring what is left of the sauce round them. Leave until the sauce has got cold and jellied, then garnish with crofttons of aspic jelly, and serve. (4) Wrap some thin slices of fat bacon round a trussed Pheasant (see Barding), and put it in a stewpan with the neck and gizzard, some trimmings of ham and scraped bacon; fry it for fifteen minutes over a slow fire, then put in a bunch of sweet herbs, some trimmings of truffles, and 1 wineglassful of white wine. When it boils, move the stewpan to the side of the fire. Fry the liver of the Pheasant and a few poultry livers in butter, season them, and leave them to cool; then put the livers in a mortar, and pound them with a piece of butter. Moisten the liver paste with a little game sauce, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. When the Pheasant is cooked, drain and un- truss, cut it into eight pieces, trim off all the skin, glaze the pieces, and keep them warm. Put the body, bones, and trimmings of the Pheasant, pounded, into the stewpan whence it was taken, having previously drained off the fat. Add | wineglassful of Madeira and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of gravy, and boil it for five or six minutes, then pass it through a sieve. Mix the liver puree with the gravy, adding at the same time 3 table-spoonfuls of minced truffles that have just been cooked, and stir it over the fire till boiling. Place the pieces of Pheasant on a hot dish, Pheasants—continued. pour the sauce over them, garnish with crofttons of fried bread, and serve. Souffle of Pheasant.—(1) Cut the flesh from the breast of a cooked Pheasant into small pieces, put them in a mortar with the fried liver - of the Pheasant, and pound them ; then mix with them half their quantity of dry boiled rice, and pound again. Mix with the preparation 3 table- spoonfuls of brown sauce that has been reduced with the trimmings of the Pheasant and some truffle trimmings, season with pepper and salt, and pass all through a fine hair sieve; put the mixture in a saucepan, stir it over the fire till warm, then take it off and add gradually the beaten yolks of six eggs, and 3oz. of butter, broken in little bits, and work it quickly for three minutes. Butter a souffle-mould, and fill it half-way up with the preparation. Cut a strip of paper out 2in. wide, then put it round the interior of the mould, allowing half of it to come above the rim; then fill the mould with the rest of the mixture, stand it on a baking-sheet, surround it with ashes, and bake the souffle for twenty-five minutes in a slow oven. Take the mould out of the oven, put it on a hot dish, and serve at once. (2) Skin and bone a roasted Pheasant, put the meat and liver, if the bird was not too high to use the liver, into a mortar, and pound them; put the meat in a sauce- pan with some rich gravy, and stir it over the fire till hot, but do not let it boil. Break the bones of the Pheasant into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with a little gravy, and stew them gently. Strain the gravy from the bones, stir in a little butter and flour that has been worked together, and a small quantity of glaze, and stir it over the fire till thick; then add a lump of plain butter, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and the yolks of four eggs. Pass the puree of Pheasant-meat through a hair sieve, mix it with the sauce, add the whites of two eggs that have been beaten stiff, but do not let the sauce boil after the eggs have been added. Fill some soufllft cases with the preparation, and bake it in an oven for twenty minutes or till it rises, then serve at once. (3) Mince very fine the meat of a Pheasant, that has not been cooked, by putting it through a sausage-machine twice, mix with it Jib. of sifted breadcrumbs and h pint of strong stock, put it over the fire in a stewpan, and boil it till it will come clean from the pan. Take it from the fire and stir in the beaten yolks of three eggs, 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, two truffles finely chopped, six mushrooms finely chopped, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Line a souffle-mould with buttered paper. Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, and when the mixture is cold beat them lightly into it, pour it into the mould, and bake it. Serve it in the mould it is baked in, with a hot napkin pinned round it. Stewed Pheasants.—(1) Lard two Pheasants with strips of bacon, having previously trussed them as for boiling. Line a stewpan with bacon, put the birds in, and sprinkle over them some mixed spices, pepper and salt; cover them with slices of bacon, pour in sufficient white wine and stock, mixed in equal quantities, to cover them, put the lid on the stewpan, and let the contents simmer by the side of the fire for two hours. Drain the Pheasants when cooked, put them on a hot dish, without the slices of bacon, pour some game sauce over, and serve. (2) Truss a Pheasant as for roasting, stuff the crop with forcemeat, and flour it. Place the bird in a stewpan with about 2oz. of butter, and fry it till lightly browned. Put in the stewpan four or five small onions, cut into pieces, and | pint of strong well-seasoned gravy; put the lid on the stewpan, and cook the bird slowly for three-quarters-of-an- bour or till tender. When done, take the Pheasant out and keep it hot whilst the gravy is being prepared. Strain the cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve, put it in a saucepan, skim off the fat, mix in with it a little butter rolled in flour, and stir it over the fire till boiling. Lay the Pheasant on a hot dish, pour the gravy over it, and serve. (3) Cut a Pheasant up as it is carved at table, put the pieces into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them1-—Port Glasses. 2. —Soda-and-Brandy Glasses. 3. - Champagne Glasses. DRINKING-GLASSES. 4. —Liqueur Stand and Glasses. 5. —Sherry Glasses. 6-—Hock and Claret Glasses. Silver-mounted Horn Drinking-cup. 8. —German Bock (Ale) Glass. 9. —Ale Glasses. 10.—Venetian Ale Glasses.161 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OP PRACTICAL COOKERY. Pheasants—continued. until slightly browned; then pour 1 pint of rich brown gravy over them, and put in two or three slices of ham, a few mushrooms, a couple of hay-leaves, and 1 wineglass- ful of sherry. Put the lid on the stewpan and keep the contents simmering slowly for about two hours. When cooked, lay the pieces of Pheasant on a hot dish, strain their gravy over them, and serve. Stewed Pheasant a la Piedmontese.—Draw, singe, and divide two young Pheasants into live or six pieces each. Put the necks, gizzards, leg-hones, and hacks into a stew- pan with a little water, and boil them to make a gravy. Skim the fat oft'; reduce and thicken the liquor with game sauce. Put the legs into a flat stewpan with a piece of butter, and partially fry them. When the legs are half done, put in with them the breasts and wings, Goz. of lean ham cut in small squares, two small sliced onions, and a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs; put the lid on the stewpan and some live coals on the top of the lid, and finish cooking the Pheasants, turning them occa- sionally. Take the pieces of Pheasants out when cooked, put them on a plate, trim them, and remove the drum- sticks from the legs; drain the butter out of the stewpan, pour in the prepared gravy, and let it simmer for two or three minutes; take out the onions and aromatics, put the pieces of Pheasant in, stand the stewpan at the side of the tire, and let them heat gently without boiling. In the meantime, prepare a border of rice, made in the following manner: Put a chopped onion into a stewpan with a little melted beef marrow, and fry it; wash and drain lOoz. of rice, put it in with the onion, and stir it over the fire till warm; then moisten to double its height until broth, and boil it dry of moisture. Mix with the rice when done 4oz. of grated Parmesan cheese and 5oz. of butter, turn it into a border-mould, and keep it for a few minutes in a warm place. Turn the border of rice on to a hot dish, fill the hollow with slices of raw white Piedmont truffles; arrange over these the legs of the Pheasants, putting the breasts and wings on the top; mask them with a little of the sauce, and serve with the rest in a sauceboat. Stewed Pheasants a la Royale.—Truss two young Pheasants as for boiling, lard the thickest part of their breasts in a square, put them into a stewpan that has been lined with thin slices of fat bacon, with two large onions, two or three cloves, a bunch of parsley, two bay-leaves, and sufficient white stock to reach the larded part of the birds; cover them with a sheet of buttered paper, and stew them gently for an hour. Finely chop the livers of the birds with jib. of beef-suet, put them in a mortar with 111), of breadcrumbs, 1 table-spoonful of chopped thyme and parsley, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, salt and pepper, and pound them; bind the mixture with four well-beaten eggs, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Cut two thick pieces of bread, toast them, spread them with the prepared stuffing, lay them in a buttered saute-pan, and bake them for twenty minutes. Pound the flesh of the remains of some cold cooked game in a mortar, then put it in a stewpan with 4 table-spoonful of chopped shallots, and a small piece of butter; stir them over the fire for a few minutes, then pour in Iqt. of demi-glaze of game and 1 teacupful of white stock. Boil the sauce for ten minutes, then pass it through a fine hair sieve into a clean stewpan, and season with salt, pepper, and £ teaspoonful of sugar. If too thick, the sauce can be thinned with a little broth. Warm it up again, but do not let it boil. Trim the pieces of toast to a nice shape, place them on a hot dish; glaze the larded parts of the birds, lay one on each piece of toast, pour the sauce round them, and serve. Stewed Pheasant served with Chestnut Puree.—Pluck, draw, and singe a Pheasant, fry the liver till firm, put it in a mortar with double its quantity of chopped bacon, and pound it. Stuff the Pheasant with the mixture, and truss it; lard the breast and legs with bacon. Put at the bottom of a stewpan some trimmings of ham and finely- chopped bacon, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little salt; put in the bird, moisten it to the height of the legs with Pheasants—continued. white wine and broth mixed in equal quantities, and boil till the liquor is reduced to about half; then move the stewpan to the side of the fire, put hot ashes on the lid, and let the contents simmer gently, basting the Pheasant occasionally with its own cooking-stock. When the bird is cooked, brush it with a paste-brush dipped in melted coloured glaze. Have ready a chestnut puree, put it on a hot dish; drain, and untruss the Pheasant, and put it on the puree; pass the cooking liquor through a fine hair sieve, skim ott- the fat, pour it over the Pheasant, and serve. Stewed Pheasants with Lettuce.—Singe and draw two young Pheasants, and truss them as for boiling : lard the best part of the breast in the form of a square. Put some thin slices of fat bacon into a stewpan, put in the Pheasants, the breast upwards, with some blanched cabbage lettuces, two large onions, each stuck with two cloves, a bunch of parsley, and two bay-leaves; pour in enough white stock to reach the larded part of the Pheasants, lay six pork sausages on the top, and cover them with a sheet of buttered paper. Put the lid on the stewpan, and cook the birds gently for an hour. When cooked, glaze and salamander the breasts of the birds. Take the sausages and lettuces carefully out, and rest them on paper till the grease has drained off. Put two large pieces of lettuce in the centre of a hot dish, put a bird on each, and with the remainder chopped small make a flat border round the edge of the dish; slit the sausages into two pieces each, and arrange Fig. 210. Stewed Pheasants with Lettuces. them on the border of lettuce (see Fig. 210). Pass the cooking- liquor through a fine hair sieve into a clean stewpan, skim off all the fat, mix 14 pints of brown sauce with it, and boil it quickly till reduced to a demi-glaze; stir 4 teaspoonful of sugar in with it, pour the sauce over the birds, and serve them. Stewed Pheasant with Peas.—Cut some cold remains of roast Pheasant into convenient-sized pieces. Peel and slice an onion, put it into a stewpan with loz. of butter, and toss it over the fire until cooked, but do not brown it. Dredge the onion over with a small quantity of flour, put in the pieces of Pheasant with another lump of butter, season to taste with salt and pepper, and fry them for a few minutes; then put hi a small tin of preserved peas, moisten with a small quantity of stock, and put in also a slice of bacon and some finely-minced parsley. Keep the whole simmering gently at the side of the fire for half-an-hour. When cooked, remove the bacon, turn the Pheasant on to a hot dish, garnish it with crofitons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. Stewed Pheasant with Sourcrout.—Put 21b. of sour- crout, previously washed, into a stewpan with lOoz. of goose fat and 12oz. of washed and blanched salt pork, pour in 4 pint of broth, close the stewpan hermetically, putting live embers on the lid, and let the contents simmer over a moderate fire. Get a well-hung fat Pheasant, pluck, draw, and truss it, put it in a stewpan with a little goose fat, and fry it over a brisk fire till nicely browned. Put six dozen oysters in a stewpan with 1 wineglassful of white wine; when bubbling, drain them, preserving their liquor. Refresh them by dipping them in cold water; beard, and keep them covered in the stew- pan. Mix with the liquor of the oysters a little good broth, and slightly thicken it with flour worked in butter. After the sourcrout has been cooking two-hours-and-a- half, mix with it 1 tumblerful of champagne; lialf-an-hour later, put the coloured Pheasant in with the sourcrout, and cook it for one hour longer. When done, drain the VOL. II. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. M162 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to. see under their special heads. Pheasants—continued. Pheasant, 1 toil the moisture of the sourcrout till reduced hy evaporation, and pour in with it some of the prepared sauce, and the oysters. Place it on a hot dish, leaving a cavity in the centre, fill it with the pork cut in slices, put the Pheasant, previously cut into six or seven pieces, on it, brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze, and serve. Stewed Pheasant with Truffles, served Cold.—Bone a Pheasant, being careful not to break the skin, and stuff it with sliced truffles. Line a stewpan with slices of fat bacon, put in the bird, and cover it with more slices of fat bacon, moistening it with a small quantity of highly seasoned veal stock; put the lid on the pan, and keep the contents simmering very gently. When the bird is cooked, take it out of the pan and leave it until cold. When ready to serve, place it on a dish, and garnish it with croutons of aspic jelly, hard-boiled eggs that have been cut into various shapes, and sliced gherkins. PICCALILLI.—See Pickles. PICKERELS.—See Pike. PICKLE.—The name usually given in this country to the liquor in which substances used for food are soaked in order to give them certain flavours, or to assist in their preservation. These are commonly known to French cooks as Marinades, under which heading some special receipts will be found. The butcher preserves meat in Bkine, which is described under that head. The preservation of vegetables and fruit is described under Pickles, but the following receipts for the manufacture of pickling liquor used by the British cook for various purposes, will be found useful: (1) For Beep or Brawn.—Dissolve 9qts. of salt in 18galls. of water, and add 21b. of coarse brown sugar and Jib. of saltpetre. Boil and skim well. Let the beef get thoroughly cold and firm after killing, and let as much as possible of the blood drain out before putting it in the pickle. The brine should be boiled up and skimmed now and again, then it will last for many months, and suffice at one tune to pickle about half of an ordinary ox. (2) Put in a large copper pan ljlb. of common salt, Jib. of bay-salt, 6oz. of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, 1 table- spoonful of saltpetre, eight peppercorns, and lgall. of water. Stir the ingredients to thoroughly mix them, then boil them for twenty minutes, skimming them constantly. When quite cold, pour the pickle over the beef, and turn and baste it well every day for two weeks. (3) To 2galls. of water add 2Jlb. of salt, Jib. of brown sugar, and 2oz. of saltpetre. Boil it for two hours, skim- ming off all the scum as it rises. Let it get cold, and then put the meat into it. It will keep good for four or five months if boiled every month. (4) For Hams.—For a large ham allow Jib. of bay-salt, 4oz. of common salt, and loz. each of saltpetre and black pepper. Rub the ham well with this mixture, once or twice' every day for four days. At the end of that time, pom- Jib. of treacle over the ham, rubbing it well in. Leave it for a month, nibbing and turning constantly. Afterwards soak the ham in cold water for one day and night, then hang it up to dry. When cooked, the ham should be put in cold water and placed over a slow fire. (5) Put in a stone pickling pan lib. of coarse salt, lib. of brown sugar, Jib. of bay-salt, loz. of saltpetre, and loz. of salt-prunella, and mix these together; then rub it in the hams and let them lie in the pickle for a fortnight, turning and rubbing them every day. At the end of that tune, pour over the ham or hams 1J pints of hot ale, and keep it in the pickle for a month, turning it frequently. It will then be ready for smoking, or may be cooked green. (6) Mix together lib. each of coarse sugar and salt, also loz. of saltpetre. Leave the ham in this for fourteen days, rubbing well, and turning it. over daily. After- wards roll it in sawdust, and smoke for fourteen days. (7) For Pork.—Put in a boiler as much water as will Fickle—continued. well cover the pork. When it boils, mix in salt by degrees. To ascertain whether there is enough salt in the water, put an egg in, and when it floats, there is suffi- cient. Pour the brine in an earthenware jar and let it cool. It is then ready to pour over the pork. (8) For Tongue.—Crush Jib. of common salt with 2oz. of saltpetre, and mix them with lib. of treacle. When the tongue is prepared, rub it over with the above mix- ture. It should be kept in pickle for a fortnight, being turned and well rubbed occasionally. (9) For Mackerel.—For 1 pint of vinegar allow J tea- cupful of beer, three bay-leaves, Joz. of ground allspice, and Joz. each of salt and pepper, also J teaspoonful of cayenne pepper. Mix all these ingredients together and pour them over the fish. A sufficient quantity of pickle should be made to completely cover the fish. (10) For Salmon.—Mix with lqt. of the cooking liquor of the fish f pint of vinegar, four blades of mace, four bay-leaves, three pieces of whole ginger, Joz. each of black pepper and allspice, and a small quantity of salt. Boil the liquor for a little over half-an-hour, then pour it over the fish, which should be laid in a deep dish or jar, and cover it with another dish to keep the air out. FICKLES.—No other people in the world seem to have such a craving for Pickles, as the British. Kettner says of Pickles generally: “We should be sorry for those who have to eat Pickles. The craving for this condiment usually implies a sickly digestion and a jaded appetite. It also implies had cookery—being the substitute for a sauce .which the cook ought to provide.” But since Pickles we must have, it is desirable that they should be good; and it is a sad thing to chronicle that the craft of making good Pickles is departing from England. This country used to make the most wonderful mixed Pickles; and the name for them, together with the square green English bottle, has gone abroad over the earth. In the deserts of Arabia, and in the mountains of the Moon, the forlorn traveller has lighted on empty bottles of Day and Martin’s blacking and of Crosse and Blackwell’s Pickles, and his heart has rejoiced at eve, as Mungo Park did over a solitary flower in the burning wastes of Africa. The best mixed Pickles, even those of the great magicians of Soho, Crosse and Blackwell, are now made with a woebegone compound called Pic- calilli. The good old sorts are neglected; and the best English Pickles of that kind come at present from Bordeaux (from Louis Freres et Compagnie), in bottles of English shape, and with the English name of Mixed Pickles. Why is this ? One cause may be excess of competition—leading to lowering of price, cheapening of vinegar, and general deterioration. But another, and even more powerful cause, is to be found in a transition of English taste. Indian pickles—strange irrecognisable compounds con- fused with curry, an amazing jumble of hot, sweet, sour, and bitter things — have come into fashion. Manu- facturers, even those who, like Crosse and Blackwell, take the highest rank, truckling to this fashion, turn their chief skill to put an Oriental tinge on their mixed Pickles; and when they affect to produce these in all their original simplicity, they do so almost as if the old English receipt were no longer worthy of respect. The favour which has been recently shown to the French Pickles of Louis Freres et Compagnie ought to teach them a lesson. Although it is probable that some epicures may agree with Kettner, it is equally certain that the British appetite will never cease to appreciate a slice of cold meat and Pickles. A variety of Pickles are given in the following receipts, and many others will be found described under special headings; but unless made at home or by reliable firms, it must always be doubtful of what they are made, in spite of fancy names. The word Pickle is derived from a Danish word, Pekel, which is supposed to be the diminutive of tb,e word Pick or Peck, which might either refer to the163 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Pickles—continued. selection of the materials or the mode of preparing them by pricking with a fork as if pecked. Home-made Pickles are always the best, greater care being generally bestowed upon the preparation, and better materials selected. Large vegetables must be cut into small pieces, and for Fig. 211. Vegetable-Slicer for Pickles. this purpose an ordinary knife may be used on a chopping board; or a knife fastened at the point to a swivel pin set into a piece of stout board (see Fig. 211) will be found expeditious in its working. A very important part of pickling is the salting or brining, which should be thoroughly effected, or the Pickles will be soft and flabby. Some Pickles are merely covered with salt, having been freely pricked with a fork, as in the case of green walnuts; others are soaked in strong brine, and in order to soak them effectually they should be placed in an earthen crock, three-parts filled with brine, with an inverted plate laid over them and a brick on the top of the plate (see Fig. 212). When Pickles are served at table it is usual to put a small quantity in a flat glass dish, and place by their side a fork (see Fig. 213) of silver or electro-plate. When served in jars, however wide the mouths may be. Fig. 213. Pickle-fork Adams and Son). considerable difficulty is usually experienced in securing the particular Pickle desired by the consumer. American Mixed Pickles.—Procure seventy-five small cucumbers and 1 pint of small martinoes, and wipe them with a damp cloth. Cut the cucumbers lengthwise into quarters, and the martinoes into halves. Scald arid peel 1 pint of button onions, wash one small cauliflower, a quarter of the rind of a water-melon, and K pints of green string beans. Break the cauliflower into small pieces, and cut the melon-rind about the size of the pieces of cucumber. Dissolve 3 teacupfuls of salt in 2qts. of cold water, put the pickles in a large earthen vessel, and Pickles—continued. pour the brine over them, adding more cold water if not sufficient to cover them. Put a plate over the Pickles, with a weight on the top, to keep them under the brine. In two days, take the Pickles out of the brine and wash them in cold water. Wash and scrape 2oz. of horseradish- root. Pack the Pickles and horseradish-root in a firkin. Tie in a bag \ table-spoonful of white mustard-seed, 4 table-spoonful of stick cinnamon broken into ^in. lengths, h table-spoonful of whole cloves, 1 teaspoonful of pepper- corns, 1 teaspoonful each of allspice and whole mace, and h teaspoonful of celery seed. Put the bag of spices and, ioz. of alum in a porcelain kettle (earthenware jar will do as well), pour in lqt. of white wine vinegar, and boil them for ten minutes. Skim it carefully, then pour in lqt. of boiling water, and turn all at once over the Pickles, leaving the bag of spices on the top. Put a plate with a weight on it over them to keep them under the vinegar, and stand the vessel in a cool place. In two weeks add 1 wineglassful of brandy. The Pickles will be ready to use in a montri. Trench Pickles.—Slice I peck of green tomatoes, cover them plentifully with salt, and leave them for one night. Cut \ peck of onions into slices, and put a thick layer of them in a bell-metal kettle; then put in a layer of tomatoes, next a layer of onions, and so on till all are used. Sprinkle between each layer some of the following spices: 4oz. of white mustard-seed, loz. each of cloves, allspice, and celery- seed, and 1 table-spoonful of cayenne pepper; add also lib. of brown sugar and 4 table-spoonfuls of mixed mustard. Cover the above ingredients with vinegar, and boil them well for one hour. At the end of that time, pack the Pickles in jars and pour the vinegar over them. When the Pickles are quite cold, tie some stout paper over the jars, and put them away for use in a dry store cupboard. German Pickle.—(1) Put 1 pint of vinegar into a sauce- pan with 41b. of crushed loaf sugar, two or three sticks of cinnamon, and 1 teaspoonful of cloves; boil the vinegar till reduced to a syrup, then drop in one at a time lib. of damsons that have been carefully picked over and wiped. As the skins of the damsons crack, take them out and put them into stone or earthenware jars, filling them three-parts full. When all are done, strain the syrup, pour it over the damsons, and leave them till cold ; then cover the jars with paper, tying it tightly round them, and pack them in a dry cupboard. (2) Take 71b. of fruit—peaches, pears, damsons, plums, or cherries will do. If damsons or plums are to be pickled, they must lie pricked with a coarse needle to prevent their skins bursting. If pears are chosen, they should be small sized and firm in flesh, they need only be pared. Boil together in a saucepan lqt. of vinegar, 31b. of brown sugar, loz. of stick cinnamon, 4oz. of cloves, and half-a- dozen blades of mace, and pour it boiling hot over the fruit; then fasten a cover tightly over it and let it stand twenty-four hours. Pour the liquor off, boil it, and pour it again over the fruit. Next day, put fruit and all over the fire, scald it, and it is done. This Pickle should be kept in a dry cool place. Green Pickles.—(1) Make a brine of salt and water, so salt that a fresh egg will float in it, put into it the vegetables to be pickled, green tomatoes, gherkins, snap- beans, cucumbers, green foxgrapes, &c., and let them remain in it for a fortnight (a longer time will not hurt them). They must be kept well covered with grape-leaves, and sufficient weight must be put on the top to keep them well down in the brine. When the vegetables are taken out of this brine they must be steeped in weak vinegar for several days, then put over the fire in 2qts. of strong vinegar (which quantity will be sufficient for 4 peck of vegetables), 2oz. of long pepper, 2oz. of mustard- seed, loz. of celery-seed, hoz. of cloves, 4oz. of mace, three red pepper-pods, 1 dessert-spoonful of scraped horseradish, and sugar to taste; when this boils, have the Pickles drained from the weak vinegar and put into jars, and pour the vinegar over them boiling hot. (2) Take nice medium-sized cucumbers, pour over them boiling hot sufficient strong brine to cover them, and let For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. M 2164 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Utensils, Sauces, <5cc., referred to, see under their special heads. Pickles—continued. them stand for three days. On the fourth morning, drain off the brine, pour boiling water over them without any salt, and let them stand. The fifth morning drain the water off, anil cover them with boiling water again, adding a lump of alum about the size of a walnut. Drain them again on the sixth morning, again pour over them suffi- cient boiling water to cover them, and add a smaller lump of alum than on the preceding day. The seventh morning pour off the water, drain the Pickles well, dry them, and put them into jars. Prepare sufficient cider vinegar to cover the Pickle, adding to each quart 2oz. of sugar, 2 drachms each of cloves, black pepper, and stick cinnamon. Put the vinegar and spices over the fire, and when it boils pour it boiling hot over the Pickles in the jar. Put on the top of the Pickles in each jar three onions, three cloves of garlic, and a good-sized horseradish, before pour- ing in the boiling vinegar. Let the Pickles stand in a warm place for three days, stirring occasionally from the bottom. Honolulu Pickle.—Put 4lb. of sugar into a pan with 4 pints of vinegar, 1 table spoonful each of cloves and cinnamon, and boil them; then put in as many melons as the vinegar will cover, and boil them for fifteen minutes. Put the melons in jars, pour the vinegar over them, and leave till the next day. Strain the vinegar off the melons, boil it up again, and pour it over the melons. Boil the vinegar every day till the melons are done. After the last boiling leave the Pickles till cold, then cover the jars with stout paper, tie them down, anil pack away in a dry store cupboard for use. Indian Pickle.—(1) Cut a small white-hearted cabbage in fine shreds or thin slices; slice a few turnips, carrots, and onions ; tear a small cauliflower into small branches ; throw them all into boiling brine, and let them remain in it two minute's, not longer : then drain them well in a colander, and place them in a warm place till they shrivel. Put lgall. of vinegar over the fire, together with 2oz. of mustard flour, blended smooth in a little of the vinegar anil stirred smoothly into the whole, 4oz. of horseradish, 2oz. each of whole ginger and long pepper, and a few shallots. Put the shrivelled vegetables into a stone jar, and pour the spiced vinegar boiling hot over them. (2) Add to lgall. of the best white wine vinegar l|oz. each of salt and bruised ginger, |oz. of cloves, Joz. each of white pepper, long pepper, black pepper, and mace, and 1 drachm of cayenne. Put the vinegar at the side of the fire, and let the spice steep in it for two or three days; then put it over the fire, and when nearly boiling add to it Jib. of mustard and loz. of turmeric blended quite smooth with a small quantity of cold vinegar. Put this Pickle into a jar, and add to it from time to time as they come into season garlic, capsicum, nasturtium, horseradish, green-peaches, young hard apples, half-grown shallots, white turnip radishes, small onions, French beans, gherkins, very small carrots, and cauliflowers or broccoli pulled into small pieces. Take care to dry thevegetables thoroughly before adding them to the Pickle, and keep the jar closely tied down. Mixed Pickles.—(1) Mix in equal quantities some small cucumbers, sliced green tomatoes, cauliflower picked into small flowerets, and small button onions.. Put them in a large vessel, cover them with strongly-salted water, and let them steep for twenty-four hours. At the end of that time, drain the brine off the Pickles, scald it, and dissolve in it a piece of alum the size of a nutmeg. Pour the boil- ing brine over the Pickles. When cold, strain the brine off, and prepare as many quarts of vinegar as there are quarts of brine. To each quart of vinegar allow 1 break- fast-cupful of brown sugar, 1 teacupful of flour, and Jib. of ground mustard. Boil the sugar and vinegar. Mix the flour and mustard smoothly with a very little water, then stir the boiling vinegar gradually into it. When quite smooth, pour it over the Pickles. When cold, tie the jar over with stout paper. (2) Procure in equal quantities, gherkins, the smallest vegetable-marrows, the same of melons, water-melons, and pumpkins, also half the quantity more of button onions. Scald them, drain them, prick them in several places with a wooden needle, and put all together in a stone jar; pour For details respecting Culinary Processes, Pickles—continued. in sufficient of the best white vinegar to cover them, put a plate over the top, and leave them for nearly three weeks. At the end of that time they will be fit for use. If kept for any length of time, the vinegar should be changed every four or five days. (3) Cut 3qts. of cucumbers into slices, separate the branches of three cauliflowers, and peel 3 pints of small onions. Put the vegetables into a large vessel, and pour over them sufficient water to cover, putting in 4 table-spoonfuls of salt for lgall. of water. Let the vegetables steep all night, and on the following morning put them with the water into a lined pan, and heat them gently over the fire. When very hot, but not quite boiling, drain the Wider off, and let the vegetables stand until cool. Mix in 3qts. of vinegar, l|oz. each of curry-powder, turmeric, and ground ginger, 3oz. of mustard, 1| teaspoonfuls of cayenne pepper, and a scant teacupful of salad-oil. Place this mixture over the fire until on the point of boiling. Put the Pickles in large glass jars or bottles, and pour the vinegar over them. When quite cold, cover the jars with parchment and tie them down. Mustard Pickles.—This name is given to a variety of Pickles containing mustard; several receipts of this kind will be found amongst those here given. Piccalilli.—(1) Bruise Jib. of mustard seed, put it into a saucepan with 3 pints of vinegar, and boil it, then move it from the fire and let it get cold. Cut Jib. of ginger into slices, separate Jib. of garlic into cloves, put them into a jar with |oz. each of turmeric and whole pepper, and a small quantity of saffron. Strain the vinegar, boil it up again, and pour it while boiling over the contents of the jar; then cover the jar close, and leave it until the vinegar is cold. Prepare whatever vegetables may have been selected for the Pickle, wash them well, rub them over with salt, and dry them in the sun for a day or two. When ready, put the vegetables in the vinegar, cover and tie the jar over with parchment, and put it in a dry store cupboard. In about six months the Pickle will be ready for use. (2) Cut 1| pecks of green tomatoes into slices, with one dozen moderate sized onions, and six green peppers; lay them on a deep dish, strew over them 1| breakfast-cupfuls of salt, and leave them all night. On the following morning put them on a sieve to drain as much as possible, then put them into an enamelled saucepan with fib. of moist sugar, a heaped table-spoonful each of cloves, turmeric, peppercorns, and allspice, and sufficient cold vinegar to cover them. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire and keep the contents simmering for about one hour. Put the Pickle into jars and let it get cold, then cover with stout paper, tie them down, and put them away in a dry store-cupboanl. (3) Prepare one dozen large green tomatoes, one dozen good-sized light-coloured cucumbers, one dozen onions, one dozen large green bell peppers, and a head of white cabbage, firm and solid. Scrape out the seeds from the peppers, cucumbers, and tomatoes, and then cut tomatoes, cucum- bers, onions, peppers, and cabbage into square pieces, as nearly as possible of an equal size. Place them over the fire, cover with a weak brine, and cook gently until they look clear and are just tender without being soft. Take them from the fire, strain the water off, and drain. Put over the fire sufficient cider vinegar to cover the Pickles, put into it loz. of mace, one dozen cloves, 2oz. of stick cinnamon, 2 table-spoonfuls of mustard blended with 2 table-spoonfuls of light coloured liquid turmeric, cayenne pepper to taste, and sufficient loaf sugar to temper the acid of the vinegar, and let it boil up well. Have the Pickles well mixed and in the jars, and pour this over them. In a few days this Pickle will be ready for use. A dozen fresh juicy peaches boiled in the vinegar with the spices improves the flavour. Spanish Pickle.—Cut or pull in pieces the flower of a small head of cauliflower, and cut in pieces, about lin. lone, eighteen large white cucumbers. If the cucumbers are°'fresh, let them steep in weak brine for twenty-four hours; but if they have been kept in brine, soak themTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 165 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Pickles—continued. for three days in pure cold water before cutting them up. Put the pieces of cucumber and cauliflower over the fire in water with a little salt in it, and let them simmer gently for twenty minutes. Cut twelve small onions in quarters, put them in a little fresh milk-and-water over the fire, add a little salt, and let them cook till just tender, but not soft. Let cucumbers, cauliflower, and onions drain till next day, together with four bell peppers that have been steeped in weak brine for twelve or fourteen hours. Next day put them all into a pan, with toz. eacli of light coloured turmeric, celery seed rolled, and white mustard, 2oz. of the best English table mustard, and 1 saltspoonful of prepared cornflour blended with a little vinegar, and |lb. of loaf sugar. Add sufficient vinegar to cover, and let it boil till it begins to thicken. Let it cool a little, and then put it into glass jars with glass tops. PICNICS (Fr. Pique-niques; Ger. Picknicken).— Etymologists appear to have been in great doubt as to the origin and meaning of this word. It is of purely English origin, taking its rise from the word pick or peek, and knick, or knack—signifying literally to peck at knick- knacks, or trifles, or, in other words, to partake of a light repast or snack ; the latter word is undoubtedly a confused combination of snap and knack. The French, who pro- bably instituted the sociable meal, have two words in their language which exactly give the meaning, piquer, to peck, and niques, odds and ends or trifles. The general use of this word is probably owing to custom, which we find recorded as far back as the commencement of the present century, when persons were in the habit of meeting to- gether, either promiscuously or by arrangement, at friends’ houses, where dancing and eating were indulged in at the joint expense of those present. Failing the advantage of a friend’s house, the company would meet at an ap- pointed place in the country, where each one would supply something towards the feast. That is what we under- stand of a Picnic now-a-days. The chief drawback is that an unfortunate unanimity might prevail, producing an abundant supply of one class or kind of food only. Un- doubtedly a Picnic supplied by one person, that is under one direction or management, would be more likely to give satisfaction by its variety , but, as much amusement would necessarily be created by the disclosing of the individual supplies brought by a number of persons, without previously concerting as to what the supplies should be, there will always be found some to prefer the mirth thus created to the pleasures of an organised feast. The class of foods suitable for Picnics are those which are the most portable and require least trouble in serving and eating. Patties and pies, sandwiches, cold meats, and salads, are usually selected for this purpose, Every- thing of a savoury character should be previously boned and stuffed in such a manner that a slice cut off in almost any direction would be equal to the best, thus avoiding the necessity of careful carving. Baskets fitted with all the utensils necessary for a small party can be purchased, and are very compact and useful. Numerous receipts suitable for Picnic dishes are given throughout this Encyclopaedia. PIES (Fr. Pates ; Ger. Pasteten; Ital. Pastacci; Sp. Pastels).—The origin of the English word Pie seems to be one of great mystei-y, and some most extraordinary attempts have been made to give it a derivation. Not the least extraordinary, and yet the most probable, is that given by Kettner. He will not admit that Pie is a cor- ruption of pastie, as some of our greatest etymologists maintain, the word pastie or pasty having come into existence quite modernly. He believes Pie to be a com- pound corruption of the words Pain—a loaf, and Pied— foot. This he explains by the similarity of pronunciation Pies—co ntinued. between Pie and Pain, and the fact that Pies were formerly made in the shape of loaves instead of in dishes, of which our modern raised Pie may be considered an example. The connection between Pie and Pied is ex- plained by a very ancient custom of serving birds, such as pigeons, d pied—that is in such a manner that they would be eaten holding them by the feet. This would probably have been in those days when forks were un- known or not in general use, just as it was also customary to serve smaller birds or bits of meat strung on skewers or small spits (d la broche, or brochette), from which they were pulled off with the fingers to be eaten, and they are sometimes served in this way now. To support this ex- planation of the origin of the word Pie, Kettner reminds us that Pigeon Pies are to this day made with the feet stuck into the crust. Probably the bird was originally cooked with a crust round it, and the feet would then be left protruding for the convenience of the eater. Although these ingenious sugges- tions appear to be rather far- fetched, we should have no reason to doubt their accru'acy if the notion did not occur to one, that probably the word Pie may have been older than them all. To Alexis Soyer we are in- debted for the following very smart instructions for the manu- facture of Pie: He says, “ To make a Pie to perfection—when your paste (half puff or short) is carefully made and your dish or form properly full, throw a little flour on your paste-board, take about lib. of your paste, which roll into a strip with your hand until say an inch in circum- ference; then moisten the rim of your Pie-dish, and fix the paste equally on it with your thumb (see Fig. 214). When you have rolled your paste for the covering or upper crust, of an equal thickness throughout and in proportion to the contents of your Pie (|in. is about the average), fold the cover in two, lay it over one half of your Pie, and turn the other half over the remaining part; next press it slightly with your thumb round the rim, cut neatly the rim of the paste, form rather a thick edge, and mark this with a knife about every |in. apart, observing to hold Fig. 215. Pastry Leaf for Ornamenting Pie-crust.166 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Pies—continued. your knife in a slanting direction, which gives it a neat appearance; lastly, make two small holes on the top, and egg over the whole with a paste-brusli, or else use a little milk or water. Any small portion of paste remaining Fig. 216. Raised Pie. may he shaped to fanciful designs, such as leaves, &c. (see Fig. 215), and placed as ornaments on the top. “ For meat Pies observe that if your paste is either too thick or too thin, the covering too narrow or too short, and requires pulling one way or the other to make it fit, your Pie is sure to be imperfect, the covering no longer Fig. 217. Raised-pie Moulds (Adams and Son). protecting the contents. It is the same with fruit; and if the paste happens to be rather rich it pulls the rim of the Pie to the dish, soddens the paste, makes it heavy, and, therefore, indigestible as well as unpalatable.” Meat Pies require the addition of either cayenne, black pepper, or allspice; and fruit Pies, of enough sugar Fig. 218. Meat Pie in Flat-rimjied Basin. to sweeten, with mace, ginger, cloves, or lemon-peel, according to taste and the substance operated on. Raised Pies (see Fig. 216) are made in moulds (see Fig. 217), and are usually stuffed with game, pork or some other savoury meat, receipts for which are given Pies—continued. under the special headings. Meat Pies are sometimes made in round basins with flat rims (see Fig. 218), instead of the ordinary Pie-dishes, the advantage being that there is more contents in proportion to the crust. | See Paste and Pastry. Bengal Shikaree Pie.—Put four brace of partridges or grouse into a saucepan with a knuckle of ham cut into small pieces, and plenty of common stock, also seasoning to taste, and simmer gently until the birds are tender. Cut the meat from the breast of the birds, with some of the lean, ham, and leave it until cold. Boil the liquor until thickly reduced, strain it, and when cool skim off the fat. I hit the meat in a mortar with small quantities of mushroom powder, chopped lemon-peel, allspice, and salt and pepper to taste, and pound it until smooth. Cut a pheasant and two brace of partridges into nice-sized pieces, put them into a stewpan with the above liquor, and stew them gently until tender. Make a raised pie- crust, and when the game is cold, fill the crust with alternate layers of game and the pounded meat, com- mencing with a layer of game and finishing with a layer of forcemeat. Pour in some of the gravy, place the cover on the Pie, and bake it in a good oven. When cooked, lift the cover carefully oft' the Pie, pour in the remainder of the gravy, and replace the cover. Keep the Pie in a cool larder until the following day, when it may be served. Brazilian Pie.—Boil 31b. or 41b of potatoes, and when cooked mash them with 4oz. of butter and a little salt. Cut a loin of mutton in small pieces, put them into a saute-pan with some chopped parsley, butter, pepper, and salt, and saut6 them. Put the cutlets into a pie-dish, with slices of raw ham on the top, and pour in ( pint of rich brown gravy. Cover the pie with the mashed potatoes, and bake it for two hours in a moderate oven. When cooked, serve the Pie. Camp Pie.—Cut up and mince some cold mutton or other meat very fine, add pepper, salt, and finely-chopped onion, put these into a Pie-dish, mix with it a little gravy flavoured with ketchup or Worcestershire sauce, or both, and cover with a thick layer of mashed potatoes mixed with a little butter, and seasoned with salt and pepper. Bake in the oven or in a Dutch oven before the fire. Eccles Pies.—Stone lib. of raisins and chop them very fine; mix with them Mb. of chopped citron-peel, 1 break- fast-cupful of moist sugar, the strained juice of one lemon, and a little water. Put them in a saucepan and boil them for five minutes. Butter some small patty-pans, line them with puff paste, fill them with the fruit pre- paration, cover them with the paste, and trim round the edges, moistening and pinching them together. Bake them in a quick oven. When cooked, arrange the Pies on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a dish, sprinkle caster sugar over them, and serve. Goblet Pie.—Chop 2oz. of any kind of lean meat with 2oz. of beef suet, and mix with them 2oz. of stoned and chopped raisins, 2oz. of washed and dried currants, and two moderate-sized apples that have been peeled, cored, and cut into thin slices. Butter the edges of a pie-dish, and line it with thin strips of short-paste; put in the mixture with 2oz. of moist sugar, and cover with a flat of the paste. Moisten and press the edges together, trimming them off neatly, and make a small incision in the top of the crust. Bake the Pie for lialf-an-hour, and serve either hot or cold. Italian Pie.—Make a well of about Hlb. of flour, and break into it the yolks of two eggs and the white of one. Add 1 table-spoonful of warmed butter, and work this in, moistening with tepid water until a still' paste is made. Knead this thoroughly and roll it out several times, fold- ing up again after each rolling. Diride the paste into two or three portions, and then roll each out very thinly, cutting out flats of it to fit a small tin. Lay these in with butter between. Just before putting this into the oven to bake, mark round with a sharp knife a part to be removed, and when the crust is baked remove the piece. Hollow out the interior to the last flat, and fill the Pie with savoury forcemeat or stewed fruits.167 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tfcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Pies—continued. Pies—continued. Leicestershire Medley Pie.—Any kind of cold roast meat can be used. Cut it into thick slices with an equal quantity of cold fat bacon, and season them well with pounded ginger, salt, and pepper. Cut several cooking apples into quarters, remove their cores, but do not peel them. Put the above ingredients into a Pie-dish in alternate layers, and pour in 4 pint of ale. Cover with a nice dripping crust, and brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten white of egg. Bake the pie in a moderate oven for about an hour or a little longer. When cooked, serve either hot or cold. Lent Pie.—Finely chop the yolks of twelve hard-boiled eggs, also twelve peeled and cored apples, and 2lb. of stoned raisins. Mix these together, with 21b. of cleaned currants, lib. of moist sugar, and 1 table-spoonful each of powdered mace, nutmeg, and cinnamon. When these are thoroughly incorporated, add the grated rind and juice of three lemons, 4lb. of finely-shred candied citron, and moisten with 2 tumblerfuls each of white wine and brandy. The mixture can then be either baked or boiled in a basin lined with suet crust. Pie a la Pinanciere.—Butter a pie-mould and line it with short-paste. Mix some sweet herbs with a sufficient quantity of raw-chicken forcemeat, and put a layer of it at the bottom; fill the pie with collops of calves’ or lambs’ sweetbreads that have been fried with sweet herbs, put in another layer of the forcemeat, lay a flat of paste on the top, moisten the edges, and press them together, trim- ming round evenly; with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg brush over tire top of the pie, put a sheet of paper on the top, and bake it for an-hour-and-a-quarter in a moderate oven. Shape out of some veal forcemeat fifteen quenelles, and poacli them in salted water. Lard a lamb’s sweetbread, braise and glaze it with some fowls’ livers, truffles, cock’s combs, and button mushrooms. Prepare a ragout. When cooked, take the pie out of the oven, take off the round of paste and the top layer of forcemeat, slip the Pie on to a hot dish, and pour in it some brown sauce that has been reduced with a little madeira. Arrange the ragofit in the centre, placing the sweetbread on the top, put the quenelles in a circle on the rim, and serve the Pie while hot with a sauceboatful of Madeira sauce. Roman Pie.—Rub 14oz. of butter into 4oz. of flour, pour in sufficient cold water to make a paste, and roll it out rather thin. Take a mould that null hold 2 pints, butter it well, and sprinkle it over until as much crushed vermicelli as will stick to it. Line the bottom and sides with the paste, reserving a piece for the cover. In the meantime break 4oz. of macaroni into small pieces, and boil it in salted water for fifteen minutes; take it out and drain it. Boil a small onion, and chop it up. Cut up into slices, 4oz. of cooked fowl, rabbit, or any other kind of lean meat, put them into a basin with the onion, macaroni, and 4oz. of grated cheese, sprinkle over £• tea- spoonful of salt and \ teaspoonful each of mustard and pepper, and pour in 1 gill of cream or rich milk. Stir all together, fill the mould with it, put on the paste cover, and bake in a moderate oven for fully half-an-hour. Turn it out on to a dish, pour a little brown gravy in through the crust, and serve. Savoury Pie.—Cut about lib. of ox-liver into small pieces ; peel and cut in thin slices Hlb. of potatoes, and peel and slice an onion. Put a layer of the potatoes in a pie-dish, then a layer of the pieces of liver, and over that a few of the slices of onion ; proceed like this until all are used, seasoning witli salt and pepper between each layer, then pour in a little more than 4 pint of water. Rub 4oz. of lard into lib. of flour until quite smooth, then add 1 teaspoonful of baking powder and 4 teaspoonful of salt. Mix in sufficient water to make a stiff paste, roll it out on a floured table, cover the Pie witli it, ornament the top with flower or other shapes, moisten and trim the edges, and bake it in a moderate oven. In two hours’ time take the pie out of the oven, brush the top over with white of egg, put it in the oven to set, and then serve it resting on a folded napkin, and the top garnished here and there with fried parsley (see Fig. 219). Sea Pie.—Cut l£lb. of nice tender steak into small pieces, put them in a stewpau with 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and 4 saltspoonful of pepper, and put the stewpan over the fire. Peel two small turnips, two small carrots, and two onions; cut the carrots and turnips into thin slices and put them with the onions in with the steak. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and keep the contents simmering gently for an-hour-and-a-half. Trim the skin and discoloured Fig. 219. Savoury Pie. parts off 6oz. of beef-suet, chop it finely, put it in a basin with fib. of flour, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, and 1 saltspoonful of salt, and mix them well; then pour in gradually sufficient water to form the whole into a light dough. Dredge flour over a paste board, turn the dough on to it, knead it lightly, and divide it into ten equal- sized pieces, which mould into balls witli floured hands, When the meat has been cooked for an-hour-and-a-half, lay the balls in with it, and cook the whole slowly for half-an- hour longer. When cooked, arrange the balls in a circle round a hot dish, pile the meat and vegetables in the centre, and serve. Shepherd’s Pie.—Cut lqt. of cold meat into small pieces, and mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced salt pork, four large uncooked potatoes, peeled and cut into dice, one finely chopped onion, and 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Mix them well, sprinkle in plenty of salt and pepper, and add 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Partially boil four large potatoes, and mash them into a paste with 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling milk, and 1 pint of flour. Sprinkle some flour on the table or a paste-board and roll the paste out, making it a little larger than the top of the dish. Cover the dish with the paste, doubling the superfluous paste round the inside of the rim of the dish, and make a hole in the top to let out the air. Bake in a moderate oven for one hour. When ready to serve, stand the Pie-dish on another dish, and send to table. Shropshire Pie.—Butter a deep pie-dish and line the sides with puff paste. Cut two rabbits into pieces and put them in the pie-dish, intermixed with 21b. of fat pork cut in small pieces, and sprinkle in some pepper and salt. Partially boil the livers of the rabbits; then put them into a mortar with an equal quantity of fat bacon, a small quantity of finely-chopped parsley and sweet herbs, six oysters, and some pepper and salt, and pound them all together. Stir the yolk of an egg in the mixture and shape it into quenelles; put them over the meat, with a few artichoke bottoms cut in dice; grate over all half a nutmeg, and pour in 1 pint of red wine and water, mixed in equal quantities. Cover the pie with a thick flat of puff paste, moisten and press the edges together, ornament it with paste leaves, and make a hole in the top. Brush the pie over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake it for two hours. Serve either hot or cold. Squab Pie.—Cut some mutton chops off the best end of a neck of mutton, and season them highly with salt and pepper. Line the edges of a pie-dish with short crust, put in the meat in layers, with slices of sweet apples and chopped onions between each layer. Cover the Pie with a flat of the short crust, make a hole in the centre, and bake it. When cooked, lift the cover of the Pie, and168 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Pies—continued. pour tlie gravy out at the side. Skim the fat off the gravy, flavour it with mushroom ketchup, and pour it hack in the Pie through the hole in the centre. Serve the Pie while hot. Swiss Pie.—Cut 21b. of rump steak into moderate-sized pieces, and split four mutton kidneys open; put the meat into a stewpan with a thinly-sliced Spanish onion, pour in a sufficient quantity of cold water to cover, season to taste with salt and pepper, and set the stewpan over the fire. Peel and hoil about a dozen moderate-sized potatoes, drain them before they are too much cooked, cut them into moderately thick slices, and fry them a delicate brown in butter. When the meat is cooked, turn it into a game Pie-dish, arrange the browned potatoes, overlapping each other, on the top, and serve. Tartar’s Pie.—Add 1 teaspoonful of salt to lib. of flour, and mix it to a soft flexible paste with two eggs and some water. Roll the paste out to Jin. in thickness, then cut it into square pieces, 2in. long and 2in. broad. Finely mince some raw mutton, lamb, beef, or other meat, judging the quantity hy the number of pieces of paste; put it in a frying-pan with a lump of hutter, and fry it till cooked. Put about J teaspoonful of the meat in one corner of each piece of paste, then fold the other half over it, giving it a triangular shape, and press the edges with the fingers to make them adhere. Put a saucepan three-parts full of water over the fire, and when it boils, throw in the pieces of paste, and boil them until cooked. Drain the Pies, brush them over with dissolved butter and curd, arrange them on a hot dish, dust a small quantity of pepper over, and serve them. In the boiling, care must be taken that the pieces of paste do not stick together. Thatched Pie.—Butter a Pie-dish thickly, and then arrange a layer of vermicelli at the bottom and in lines standing- up, sticking in the butter round the sides; fill the centre with any kind of well-seasoned fish forcemeat, packing it so that it may stand above the sides of the dish; pour in J pint or so of rich gravy, which, when cold, will set into a strong jelly. Bake the Pie for about one hour in a moderate oven. When cooked, leave the Pie till cold; then turn it out of the Pie-dish on to a flat dish like a jelly, and send it to table. Turkish Girdle Pie.—Put 21b. of flour into a basin with a small quantity of salt, and stir in sufficient water to make a softish paste. Knead the paste well, leave it for a few minutes, then divide it into ten or twelve pieces, each of which pin out round to the size of a tea-plate, and very thin. Finely mince some raw mutton, or beef if preferred, and mix 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped onions with it, seasoning with salt, pepper, and powdered cinnamon. Lay some of the mixture over one-half of each piece, then double the other half over; moisten the edges slightly with a paste-brush dipped in water, and press them together with the fingers. Put a slightly-domed piece of thin iron on a trivet over a charcoal fire; when it begins to get hot, brush it over with a paste- brush dipped in warmed hutter, lay the pieces of paste on it, and cook them till nicely browned on both sides, basting them occasionally with the paste-brush dipped in warmed butter. When nicely cooked, lift them off the iron with a slice, and arrange them across each other on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper placed on a hot dish, and serve. Washington Pie.—(1) Put into a basin lib. of breadcrumbs, Jib. of finely-chopped suet, Jib. each of well-washed currants and stoned raisins, 2 teaspoonfuls of mixed ground spices, Jib. of brown sugar or molasses, two eggs, 1 tea- cupful of vinegar, and 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and mix them thoroughly. Butter a baking-tin, and cover the bottom witli a thin layer of short-paste; pour in the mixture, cover it with another layer of paste, brush over the top with heaten egg, and bake it in a moderate oven for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, sprinkle caster sugar over the top of the Pie, cut it into squares, and serve either hot or cold. (2) Peel and blanch 4oz. of almonds, put them into a mortar with 2oz. of powdered sugar, and pound them Pies—continued. thoroughly, adding gradually one raw egg. When well pounded, add 2oz. more of powdered sugar, 2oz. of melted butter, J gill of rum, J saltspoonful of ground cinnamon, six drops of orange flower water, and break in another egg. Pound the whole briskly for five minutes, then add 2oz. of well-pounded macaroons, and mix again for two minutes longer. Line a Pie-dish with light paste, pour all the preparation over, cover over with more paste, and bake in a moderate oven ; place the Pie on a dish, decorate the top and sides artistically with 2oz. of candied cherries, 3oz. of pear, loz. of angelica, 2oz. of apricot, and 2oz. of pineapple, all the fruits being candied, and send to the table. PIGS.—In a book called the “ Pantropheon,” said to have been written by the noted Soyer, we read: “If intelli- gence, strength, or graceful beauty of form were to decide what rank this animal should occupy on our tables, the Pig, with its vile and stupid ugliness, its depraved habits and waddling obesity, would be banished for ever. But, in refusing to it brilliant external qualites, Nature, by a wise compensation, has conferred on it others much more solid; and this quadruped, so despised during its lifetime, does not fail, after its death, to conciliate the favour of rich and poor. “ Pliny, the naturalist, placed the Pig one degree below the scale of human beings. Apicius, the cook, gave it a marked preference over all meats which passed through his skilful hands. From this it will be readily understood that the Pig ranks high in the animal diet of all nations. The Pig is variously estimated by different countries. Certain people consecrated it, when living, to their divinities; others honoured its image—a symbol, they thought, of the quiet happiness of states. A small number abhorred it, and the greater part found it excellent eating. “ The inhabitants of Cyprus abstained from it, in order to offer it to Yenus. The Cretans loaded it with acorns and all the comforts of life, because Jupiter was believed to have been first suckled by a sow in their island. The Egyptian priests never allowed a ham to grace their feasts; they fled at the sight of Pigs—unclean animals, whose presence alone defiled them, although respected by the whole nation on account of the services they ren- dered in turning up the earth and covering the seeds thrown upon it. The law of Moses forbade the Jews to eat pork or touch a Pig after its death; and more than once they exposed themselves to the most frightful torments rather than be defiled by this proscribed viand. Tradition, again, strengthened their religious dread by interdicting the faithful from even pronouncing the name of this animal, from looking at it,, or selling it to foreign nations.” From time immemorial the flesh of the Pig (Sus scrofa) has been considered the most tasty of all meats. It consti- tutes pork, bacon, and ham, and its fat makes famous lard. All these are described under special headings. Under this heading we are only able to include the various parts of the Pig which do not come under the denomination of pork. Pig’s Cheek, Jowl, or Pace.—These special parts of the Pig’s-head require notice, as they are regarded by many in light of titbits. Pig’s Cheek or Jowl may be either freshly pickled, dried or smoked (see Bath Chaps). The following are good receipts for cooking them: Dried Pigs’ Faces.—Rub the required number of Pigs’ faces over with salt and saltpetre in the proportion of 8oz. of salt to loz. of saltpetre. Put them into a jar of pickle, let them remain for three or four weeks, and then hang them up in a warm place to dry. W hen wanted for use, put them In a saucepan of water, and boil until they are done. Take them out, drain oil' the liquor, brown them a little with a salamander, and they are ready for use.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 169 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <t-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Figs—continued. Pig's Cheek.—(1) Put a pickled Pig’s cheek in a saucepan of water, and boil it until quite tender. Take it out, and place it in a warm place until wanted. Put 1 break- fast-cupful of split peas tied up in a muslin bag in a saucepan of boiling water, set it on the fire, and boil for an hour. Take out the bag, turn the peas out on to a sieve, and rub them through. Put the puree into another saucepan with loz. of butter and four eggs, sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, and stir well over a slow fire until the eggs are nearly set. Smear this mixture over the Pig’s cheek, sprinkle it with breadcrumbs, put it on a dish in a moderate oven, and bake for ten minutes. Take it out, brown it with a salamander if it is not sufficiently coloured already, and serve very hot. (2) Take two lean smoked Pig’s cheeks, and let them soak in cold water all night. Next morning drain them well, put them in a saucepan, covering with cold water, and cook for an-hour-and-three-quarters; then lay them on a dish, drain well again, remove the rind and skin which adheres to the tongue, take out all the hones, and place the cheeks on a hot dish. Garnish with 1 pint of hot spinach, and serve. Fig’s Jowl.—Put the under-jaw or jowl of a young Pig in a saucepan, and boil it until the bone can be easily removed. Sprinkle over with salt and pepper before boil- ing and again afterwards. When the meat is tender, score it across, brush it over with beaten egg and then with bread or biscuit-crumbs (the Americans use cracker- meat). Put it in a pan with a little of its stock, set the pan in the oven, and brown. Fig’s Ears.—These are esteemed as food principally on account of their crisp cartilaginous character. Baked Pigs’ Bars.—Singe off all the hair from half-a- dozen or so Pigs’ ears, then scrape and blanch them. Let them get cold, put them into warmed butter, rub over with breadcrumbs, covering them completely, then dip them into well-beaten yolk of egg and breadcrumb them again. Fig. 220. Baked Pigs’ Ears. Put them into a baking-dish in a moderate oven, and bake until done and of a light brown. Take them out, put them on a dish (see Fig. 220), pour over some remoulade sauce, and serve. Braised Pigs’ Bars.—Thoroughly clean the required quantity of Pig’s ears, singe off all the hair, and scrape them. Put a layer of slices of fat bacon at the bottom of a braising- pan, place the ears on it, sprinkle over with salt and pepper, and add a few slices of carrots and onions and a bunch of sweet herbs. Pour in sufficient stock to moisten, set the pan on the fire with hot ashes on the lid, and let them coek until they are done. Strain the liquor through a fine sieve, skim off the fat, arrange the ears on a dish, pour the liquor over, and serve very hot. Pigs’ Bars d la Lyonnaise.—Singe off all the hair from some Pig’s ears, scrape them, wash them well, and cut them lengthwise into strips. Put them into a saucepan with a little stock, and add a small quantity of flour, a few slices of onions fried, and salt and pepper to taste. Set the pan on the side of the fire, and let the liquor simmer gently until the ears are thoroughly cooked. Arrange them on a dish, add a little lemon-juice to the liquor, Figs —continued. pour it with the onions over the ears, and serve with a garnish of fried slices of bread. Pig’s-Ears Soup.—(1) Put a couple of salted Pig’s ears in a basin of water, and let them steep for a few hours; take them out, drain, wipe them on a cloth, and singe. Put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, set the pan on the fire, and boil gently for an-hour-and-a-half. Take them out, cut each one lengthwise in halves, and put them into a stock-pot with lgall. of water, adding 1 pint of split peas, a carrot and onion cut in slices, two cloves and a sprig of parsley. Put the pan on the fire, and as soon as the liquor boils remove it to the side and let it simmer gently until both the ears and peas are thoroughly cooked. Take out the ears, trim off the fat, and cut the remainder into shreds. Strain the liquor from the peas, vegetables, &c., and nib them through a fine sieve. Then add the stock again to them, and pass the whole through a sieve into a saucepan. Put the pan on the fire, and stir frequently until the mixture boils; add the pieces of ears, and boil slowly at the side of the fire for ten minutes to clarify. Skim off all the fat, and serve with pieces of bread fried in butter. (2) Singe, scrape, and clean two or three Pig’s ears, and put them in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and boil slowly for twenty minutes. Mince two carrots and onions, one or two leeks, and a root of celery, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them for a few minutes. Turn them into a saucepan, and add lqt. of broth and J pint of white wine to moisten. Set the pan on the fire, and as soon as the liquor boils add a bunch of sweet herbs and lastly the Pig’s ears; remove the pan to the side of the fire and boil slowly until the ears are done; they will take from three to four hours. Take out the ears, put them on a dish to keep warm, strain the stock through a fine sieve, and remove all the fat. Prepare a roux with 3 table-spoonfuls of flour and 5oz. of butter, but without allowing it to colour; pour over the stock that the ears were cooked in, put the pan containing these on the fire, and as soon as the liquor boils remove the pan to the side and add a small slice of uncooked ham. Let the liquor boil gently for forty-five minutes, skim off the fat, strain it through a fine sieve into another saucepan, and mix in \ wineglassful of Madeira, a little pepper, and lastly the ears cut into small pieces. Put the pan on the fire, boil for a few minutes longer, then turn the whole out into a soup- tureen, and serve. Salted Pigs’ Bars.—Singe off all the hairs from four salted Pigs’ ears, plunge them into a basin of boiling water, let them remain for a few minutes until they are scalded, take them out, drain, and wipe dry on a cloth. Put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and add a few vegetables cut in slices, cloves, peppercorns, and a small bunch of sweet herbs. Set the pan on the fire and boil gently from three to four hours; take them out when done, drain, and wipe them on a cloth. Have ready a puree of lentils, placed on a dish and well raised in the centre, arrange the ears in an upright position on it, and serve with a little of the liquor, reduced with 4 or 5 table-spoonfuls of vinegar and slightly thickened with flour. Stuffed Pigs’ Bars.—(1) Prepare a savoury forcemeat with fib. of breadcrumbs, Jib. of beef-suet very finely chopped, one anchovy, a little minced veal, and sage, parsley, salt and pepper to taste. Very little salt will be required. Make the mixture into a paste by adding the yolks of two eggs. Have ready four parboiled or soused Pigs’ ears, lift up the skin of the upper side and stuff them, put them into a frying-pan with butter, and fry to a rich colour. Take them out, drain, and place them in a stew- pan with 1 breakfast-cupful of rich gravy, seasoned with 1 wineglassful of sherry and 3 teaspoonfuls of made mustard, and thickened with flour and butter ; add to the stewpan a small onion, and salt and pepper to taste. Cover the pan and cook the contents gently for thirty minutes, toss- ing the pan frequently. Remove the onion, arrange the ears on a dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. The cooked flesh from two or three feet may be added (see Fig. 221).170 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Pigs —continued. (2) Clean and singe two ears, put them into a saucepan of water, and boil for thirty minutes; then take them out and keep them warm. In the meantime make a forcemeat with 5oz. of breadcrumbs, 4oz. of finely-chopped beef-suet, Fig. 221. Stuffed Pigs’ Ears. and salt and pepper to taste, binding them all together with the yolks of two well-beaten eggs. Stuff the ears with this forcemeat by raising the skin of the upper side, put them into a frying-pan with 2oz. of butter, and fry to a light brown. Take out the ears when they are done, and drain them on a cloth. Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of rich stock or gravy into a saucepan, and add 1 wine- glassful of sherry, loz. of butter rolled in flour, 3 table- spoonfuls of made mustard, a small onion, and a small quantity of cayenne. Warm these all together, add the ears, cover over the pan, and stew gently for half-an-hour with the cover on the pan, and tossing it frequently. When done, take out the onion, which must be whole, place the ears on a dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Pig’s Feet.—Sometimes these are fastidiously called pettitoes, from the French petit—small. Pig’s feet are considered a very great delicacy, and can be prepared in any of the following modes. They require great care, and must be thoroughly scalded and scraped before cooking. The feet of the young animal are the best for culinary purposes. They are often prepared in com- bination with other parts of the Pig, such as the fry, ears, &c. Boiled Pig’s Feet.—Wash some Pig’s feet well, put them over the fire in a stewpan with just enough water to cover, and as soon as the water boils take the feet from the fire, strain off the water, and plunge them into a bowl of cold water. Clean the stewpan and put the feet into it again, with 2qts. of water, 1 table-spoonful each of salt and vinegar, and 1 oz. of Hour blended smoothly in a little cold water. Put the pan over the fire and stir the contents till they boil; then draw the stewrpan to the side of the fire, and simmer slowly for four hours. Place the feet on a hot dish, pour over some good white sauce, and serve hot. Broiled Pig’s Feet.—(1) Thoroughly clean as many Pig’s feet as are required, split them lengthwise in halves, tie them round with broad tape so that they will not open or shrink in cooking, put them into a saucepan with a seasoning of parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, allspice, carrots, and onions, with sufficient water to cover, and boil gently till tender, then let them cool in the liquor. Dip them into beaten yolks of eggs and warmed butter, sprinkle them with salt and pepper to taste, and cover with breadcrumbs, seasoned with very finely-chopped shallot and parsley. Put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil until well and evenly browned. Unbind and arrange them on a dish and garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 222); or they can be served with Robert sauce. (2) Split four good-sized, boiled Pig’s feet into halves, place them on a deep dish, season with 1 pinch of salt, J pinch of pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of oil, and roll them well in breadcrumbs. Broil for four minutes on each side. Pour on to a dish J pint of hot piquant sauce, to which has been added 1 teaspoonful of diluted mustard, and Figs—continued. arrange the feet in it; or they may be served with maitre-d’hotel butter. (3) Stuffed.—Mince Jib. of lean pork and Jib. of bacon, mix with it some finely-pounded trimmings of" raw truffles, sweet herbs, salt, spices, and a little cayenne. Scald the required quantity of split Pig’s feet, bind them round with broad tape, put them in a stewpan with some carrots, turnips, and onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little salt. When the feet are tender, take them out, drain, untie the tapes, take out the bones, and cut off all the sinewy parts. Stuff the feet with the mince and some slices of highly-seasoned raw truffles, bind eacli foot round with a square of Pig’s caul, dip them in melted lard and Fig. 222. Broiled Pig’s Feet. breadcrumbs, put the feet on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil for twenty minutes, turning so as to cook them equally. Pour some hot gravy on a shallow dish, arrange the feet in it, and serve. Crepinettes of Fig’s Feet.—Put the four feet of a Pig into a saucepan of water, and boil them until they are quite tender; take them out, drain, and cut them up into slices about Jin. in thickness. Put some Pig’s caul into a basin of water to steep, take it out, drain, and wipe it dry on a cloth. Prepare some forcemeat with knuckle of veal and fat bacon in equal quantities and mixed with a little spiced salt; spread a layer of this over the caul about Jin. thick, 3in. long, and 1 Jin. wide. Have ready some truffles, cooked in Madeira and cut in slices, arrange a few of them on the forcemeat and then a few pieces of the Pig’s feet. Cover over the whole with another layer of the forcemeat, and then roll over the caul so as to form an oval, 3in. in length and 2in. in width. When the required number of crepinettes are made, dip them into warmed butter, then roll them in breadcrumbs, place them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil slowly for a-quarter-of- an-hour, when they should have attained a light brown colour. Put them on a dish, and serve with a little perigueux sauce in a sauceboat. Fricasseed Pig’s Feet and Bars.—(1) Clean and wash the feet and ears of a Pig, cut them up into small pieces, put them into a saucepan with 1 pint of milk, and boil for an hour. Put the pieces of meat (after straining off the liquor) into another saucepan, together with 1 breakfast- cupful of veal broth, a small onion, the peel of half a lemon, and a little powdered mace. Simmer gently at the side of the fire until all are cooked, then mix in 1 gill of cream, loz. of butter well rolled in flour, and l salt- spoonful of salt. Warm up again, turn all out on to a dish, and serve very hot. (2) Put some Pig’s ears and feet (that have been par- boiled or pickled without vinegar) into a saucepan with sufficient milk to cover, and boil until quite tender. Take them out, cut the feet into small pieces, and the ears into strips about Jin. in width ; dry them on a cloth, put them into another saucepan with some veal broth or stock, season with mace, onion, and lemon-peel, and simmer gently for ten or fifteen minutes; thicken with flour and butter, add a small quantity of cream, cook for a minute or two, and serve. Jelly of Pig’s Feet and Ears.—Wash and clean carefully the feet and ears of a Pig, and put them in a basin of water to soak for several hours. Take them out, putTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 171 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£c., referred to, see under their special heads. Pigs —continued. them into a saucepan with a little water, and boil slowly at the side of the fire for four or five hours, until the ears and feet are quite done, and all the hones of the latter can he easily extracted; then add 1 teacupful of chopped sage and parsley in equal proportions, \ saltspoon- ful of powdered mace, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and half that quantity of pepper. Put the pan at the side of the fire again, and simmer the contents gently until the herbs are scalded; then pour the whole into a melon-mould, and when set, turn it out, and serve. Pig’s Feet a la St. Menehould.—(1) Procure the four feet from a large fatted bacon hog, put them into a sauce- pan of water, and add one hay-leaf, two cloves, and one onion, and boil gently over a moderate fire until the bones will easily come out (it will take from ten to twelve hours). They should never be allowed to boil quickly, or the meat will become hard, whereas it should be tender and like chicken. A little salt should lie added to the water if the feet are fresh, but if they are salted it will not be re- quired ; they must be soaked in water for three or four hours before being used. Take out the feet when done, divide them down the centre, remove the long bones, and let them get perfectly cold. Dip each of the pieces into a little warmed butter, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, place them on a gridiron, and broil until they are warmed through and the breadcrumbs well browned, turning so as j to cook both sides. When cold, put them on a dish, and serve. If desired, after the long bones have been taken out, the cavity may be filled with a quenelle and trutHe forcemeat, anil the two halves tied back into their original positions and then broiled ; or they may be dipped into frying-batter and fried in boiling fat, either stuffed or plain, but for this way without stuffing is preferable. (2) Steep a dozen small and young Pigs’ feet in boiling water, having first singed them; take them out, scrape them with a knife, and boil again in fresh water for three- quarters-of-an-hour, after having bound them round with broad tape to keep tlie bones together. When cooked tender, put them in a saucepan, with two or three carrots, turnips, onions, or any other vegetable that is in season; pour in \ pint of white wine and sufficient water to cover, and season with a bunch of sweet herbs and a little salt. When the water boils, skim it, stand the saucepan at the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for twenty- four hours, half-cooking one day and finishing the next. Let the feet remain in the stock till cold, take them out, drain, and unwind the tape; cut each in halves lengthwise, and sprinkle pepper, salt, and a little powdered dried sweet herbs over them. Rub the crumb of some stale bread till very fine; roll the feet in beaten eggs and then in the breadcrumbs, broil over a clear fire, arrange them upon upon a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. Pig’s-Feet Salad.—Boil four Pig’s feet until tender, then drain them, and leave till cold ; separate the meat from the bone, cut them into medium sized pieces, pour a plain salad dressing over them, and let them stand in the ice- box for two hours. Put into a salad bowl the bleached leaves of two heads of chicory; chop some leaves of tarragon, chervil, and chives. Put the meat and dressing in with the chicory, strew over the minced herbs, and serve the salad. Soused Pig’s Feet.—Put a couple of Pig’s feet into a basin of boiling water and scald them. Take them out, scrape clean, and remove the covering of the toes. If this cover- ing will not come off easily, hold the toes in some hot embers until it is loose. The feet may lie placed in a weak solution of lime-and-water to whiten them, but this is not essential. Put them into a basin of water, wash thoroughly, drop them into a saucepan of water, quite hot but not boiling, and sprinkle in a little salt. Set the pan on the fire and boil gently for about an-hour-and-a- half, or until by placing a fork in the flesh it will easily break and the bones drop out. Skim frequently, take out the feet, and put them into a deep dish with 1 pint of the liquor mixed with enough vinegar to nearly cover them. Season with six peppercorns, four cloves, and a little mace and allspice. Cover over the dish, let them Figs—continued. remain for a few hours, and they are ready for use (see Fig. 223). Fig. 223. Soused Pig’s Feet. Soused Pig’s Feet and Ears.—(1) Boil some Pig’s feet and ears until they are tender and the ibones will slip out. Throw them into cold water, take out the bones, and pack them in a jar. Boil with the jelly liquor an equal quantity of vinegar, salt to season, cloves, cinnamon, and pepper to taste, and pour it while boiling on the souse. When wanted for use, make it all warm, and serve; or dip each piece in batter, and fry in hot butter. The latter way is usually preferred, and gives it the qualities of tripe. (2) Clean the required number of ears and feet (an equal quantity of each), put them into a bowl of cold water, and let them soak for several hours, and afterwards boil till quite tender. Take them out, put them into another bowl, and pour over a pickle composed of part of their cooking stock, a quarter that quantity of vinegar, and a little salt, all boiled together and allowed to get cold. When suffi- ciently pickled, drain and dry them, split the feet in halves, cut the ears into slices, flour them and fry in butter ; or they may be dipped in batter and then fried. Serve hot, with a sauce made of butter, vinegar, and mustard. Stewed Pig’s Feet.—(1) Put four boiled Pig’s feet cut into halves into a saucepan with Joz. of butter, simmer for five minutes, add 1 pint of poulette sauce, heat without boil- ing for five minutes, and serve with a little chopped parsley sprinkled over. (2) Clean and split some Pig’s feet, boil them until tender, and put them into a stewpan with sufficient gravy to cover. Add an onion sliced, a few sage-leaves, whole black pepper, allspice, and salt, and stew for forty minutes. Strain off the gravy, thicken with flour and butter, add 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar or 1 dessert-spoonful of lemon- pickle, and serve it hot with the feet. (3) Place a couple of thin slices of bacon at the bottom of a stewpan, put in the feet with a blade of mace, a few peppercorns, two or three sprigs of thyme, and a sufficient quantity of good gravy to moisten them to height, and boil gently. When quite tender, split each foot lengthwise into halves, and lay them open on a hot dish; strain their cooking liquor into a small saucepan, mix with it a small lump of butter that has been kneaded with Hour, and the bacon from the stewpan, first cutting it up into small pieces. Let the sauce simmer at the edge of the fire for two or three minutes, then pour it over the feet, garnish them with small crofttons of bread that have been nicely browned in butter, and serve. Stewed Pig’s Feet and Fry.—(1) Simmer the feet, liver, and heart of a sucking Pig in a little water till half cooked. Mince the heart and liver, and split the feet. Put the feet and the mince back into the saucepan with some of the water they have been partly cooked in, and boil very slowly till the feet are quite tender. Then add a small lump of butter rolled in flour, a little pepper and salt, and 1 table-spoonful of cream, and let it boil for ten minutes. Have a few sippets of bread ready in a hot dish, pour the mince over these, and lay the feet on top. (2) Wash and thoroughly clean the heart, liver, lights, and feet of a Pig, put them into a saucepan of water over a clear fire, and boil for fifteen minutes. Take outTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 172 For details respecting Culina.ry Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Pigs —continued. the heart, liver, and lights, chop them up very fine, and keep them hot. When the feet are done (they will take forty-five minutes), take them out, drain them, and split in halves. Pour a little of the liquor into another sauce- pan, add a little butter, well rolled in flour to thicken it, set the pan on the fire, and when the butter is dissolved put in the mince, and add 1 table-spoonful of white wine, a thin slice of lemon, and salt to taste. Boil these together for a few minutes, and add the yolk of an egg beaten up with 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, and a little grated nutmeg. When this is well mixed in, add the feet, toss the pan over the fire, warm them all up with- Fig. 224. Stewed Pig’s Feet and Fry. out boiling, pour the mince out on to a dish, arrange the halves of feet, with the skin side up, on top of it in the centre, and serve with a garnish of fried pieces of bread (see Fig. 224). Stuffed Pig’s Feet a la Perigueux.—To 141b. of honed turkey forcemeat, add two minced truffles and \ wine- glassful of madeira wine, and mix well together in a howl. Shred six pieces of cnipinette (a skin found in the stomach of a Pig), the size of the hand, on the table, lay on each one a piece of forcemeat the size of an egg, spread it well, and lay one-half of a honed Pig’s foot on top. Cover with another light layer of forcemeat, and finish each with three thin slices of truffles. Cover the cr6pinettes so that they get the form of envelopes, fold them up, and dip them one after the other in beaten egg, then in breadcrumbs, and cook in a sautd-pan with 2oz. of clarified butter. Place a heavy weight on top of the feet, cook on a slow fire for twelve minutes on each side, and serve with 4 pint of hot perigueux sauce on the dish, and the Pig’s Feet on top; or they may be served with hot Madeira sauce. Toasted Pig’s Feet.—Put four Pig’s feet in a stewpan with some common stock, and stew until tender; then drain them well, season with salt and pepper, and cover with a layer of freshly-mixed mustard. Fix the feet in front of a sharp clear fire and toast them all over equally. They should be quickly done or they will get tough. When nicely browned, put them on a hot dish, pour some boiling rich brown gravy round, and serve. Pig’s Fry.—This term may be said to include almost all the internal organs of the Pig. In localities where Pigs ar’e largely bred, the fry is an essential dish of the farmer’s table, and may be prepared as follows: Baked Pig’s Fry.— Put a large Spanish onion in a sauce- pan of water, boil it, take it out when done, and chop it up very fine, with a few sage-leaves. Put fib. of Pig’s fry at the bottom of a pie-dish, mask it with a little of the sage-mixture, sprinkle over pepper and salt, and cover with a layer of potatoes cut in slices. Put another fib. of fry on the top, then sage, and potatoes again. The quantity of potatoes required will be about 2411). Pour over sufficient stock or water to fill the dish, put it in the oven, and bake for two-hours-and-a-half. Take it out, brown it on the top with a salamander, and serve very hot. Roasted Pig’s Fry. —Well wash and thoroughly dry the required quantity of Pig’s fry and a little fat and lean pork (beaten tender with a rolling-pin), highly season with finely- Figs —continued. chopped onion, sage, salt, and pepper, and mix thoroughly. Turn the whole into a Pig’s caul, sew it up with thread, and roast in a jack in front of a clear fire. Serve hot. Stewed Pig’s Fry.—Throughly wash 21b of Pig’s fry, cut it into nice slices, mix with 1 teacupful of grated stale breadcrumbs, a finely-chopped onion, a moderate quantity of powdered sage, and salt and pepper to taste. Put two or three slices of bacon in a stewpan, then a few slices of the fry, and over that a layer of the seasoned crumbs ; cover with a layer of the bacon, then fry, and so on, until all is used. Pour in 2£ breakfast-cupfuls of water, put the lid on the pan, and keep the contents simmering at the side of the fire for three hours. When cooked, turn the stew on to a hot dish, and serve it. Pig's Head.—Although not aspiring to the dignity of the boar’s head, which is often but a Pig’s head in disguise, the cook can claim for the latter a variety of delicious dishes that stand almost unrivalled in the annals of culinary art, as may be seen hereunder. Baked Pig's Head.—Cut a Pig’s head into halves and thoroughly clean it, take out the brains, trim the snout and ears, and bake it in a moderate oven for an- hour-and-a-lialf. Wash the brains thoroughly, blanch them, heat them up with an egg, pepper and salt, some finely-chopped or pounded sage, and a small piece of butter. Fry or brown them before the fire, and serve with the head. Boiled Pig’s Head.—(1) Take out the bone from half a Pig’s head, rub it over with salt, and put it into a basin with a few sweet herbs, cloves, and peppercorns. Pour over \ pint of vinegar and let it remain for a day or so. Take the half head out, drain, wipe it dry on a cloth, singe it, and cut it in pieces; put them into a saucepan, pour in the strained vinegar pickle, add a little water, and a few vegetables cut in pieces. Set the saucepan on the fire, boil up, then remove the pan to the side and let it cook slowly for about four horn's. Take out the pieces of meat, trim the outer sides of the tube of the ear, place it in the centre of a dish with the pieces of meat round it, pour over some poivrade sauce, and serve. (2) Put a salted Pig’s head into a saucepan with suffi- cient water to cover, set the pan on the fire, and boil gently for an-hour-and-a-half, when it should be done and quite tender. Take it out, drain, pour over a little rich gravy, and serve with a garnish of cooked vegetables and suet dumplings (see Fig. 225). Boiled Stuffed Pig’s Head.—Split a Pig’s head lengthwise, wash, and bone it, being careful not to cut through the skin. Spread open the head, with the skin side down, and season well with salt and pepper. Prepare a stuffing of finely- minced bacon and liver and a small quantity of minced onion, and breadcrumbs, seasoning with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, finely-chopped thyme, sage, and sweet basil. Bind the mixture with beaten egg, and when well mixed spread it thickly over the head. Lay some sliced Pig’s tongue and strips of pork over the forcemeat, alternately with pickled gherkins and fillets of fat bacon; strew over a small quantity of finely-minced shallot, then spreadTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 173 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Pigs —continued. over that the remainder of the forcemeat. Close the two halves of the head together, sew them up tightly with strong thread, and bind round the snout. Cover the back of the head with a piece of well-soaked bladder, sewing it securely on. Put the hones of the head and three or four calf's feet in a deep stewpan, put in the head, cover it with water, add a root of celery, two hay- leaves, a few shallots and cloves, a small hunch of sweet herbs, and 1 teacupful of the best white vinegar. Boil the head very gently for three hours, then take it off the fire and leave it in the stewpan until cold. Take the head carefully out of the stewpan, remove the bindings and threads, brush the head over with melted meat glaze, and leave it until it has set. Cut a slice off the neck part of the head so that the contents may be clearly seen, put it on a dish, arrange a circle of green bay-leaves and jelly crofltons round, and serve. Hashed Pig’s Head.—Put the head, feet and haslet (see Haslet) of a Pig into a saucepan with a little water, and boil until quite tender. Take them out, cut them up fine, and remove the bones. Put back in the saucepan, together with two onions chopped small, 1 teaspoonful each of mace and cloves, a little cayenne, powdered sage, and salt and pepper. Set the pan on the fire again, and cook the contents until the whole is done; then thicken it with a small quantity of flour, add two hard-boiled eggs cut into slices, and t pint of walnut ketchup. Turn it out on a dish, and serve. Pig’s-Head Cheese.—Thoroughly clean a Pig’s head, split it into halves, take out the eyes and brains, cut off the nose and ears, and pour scalding water over the latter and the head, and scrape them clean. Then rinse all in cold water, and put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and boil gently, taking off the scum as it rises. When boiled so that the bones leave the meat readily, take them from the water and put them into a large wooden bowl or tray. Remove every particle of bone, chop the meat small, and season to taste with salt and pepper, and, if liked, a little chopped sage or thyme. Spread a cloth in a sieve, set it in a deep dish, put in the meat, then fold the cloth closely over it, lay over a plate with a weight on it, which will press equally the whole surface. Let the weight be more or less heavy according as the cheese is to be fat or lean; a heavy weight by pressing out the fat will of course leave the cheese lean. When cold, scrape off whatever fat may be found on the outside of the cloth, and keep the cheese in the cloth in a cool place. It should be sliced thin, and can he eaten with or without mustard and vinegar or ketchup. Pig’s-Head Cheese Salad.—Cut some Pig’s-head cheese into thin small squares; wash some lettuces, pull the leaves apart, and put them in a salad-bowl with a few dandelion- leaves, arranging the pieces of meat on the top. Boil an egg till hard, leave it till cold, then peel and finely-chop it, and sprinkle the egg all over the salad. Mix some vinegar and oil together, allowing the latter to predomi- nate, season the mixture with salt and pepper, pour it over the salad, and serve it. This is a far better way of serving Pig’s head cheese than the unsightly method generally adopted. Pig’s Head in Jelly.—Clean a small Pig’s head, put it in a saucepan with the feet, also cleaned, and two calf’s feet, one onion and a bunch of sweet herbs; season with salt and pepper, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and moisten to height with water; put the saucepan over the lire until boiling, then move it to the side and keep the contents simmering for two or three hours, or until the meat is soft. When cooked, take the head and feet out of the liquor and remove all the bones, cut the meat into small pieces, and mix with it a small quantity of roast meat, and any remains of cold cooked tongue or poultry. When the cooking liquor has partly cooled, skim off all the fat, strain it through a fine hair sieve, return it to the sauce- pan, and boil until it is reduced to the consistency of thick jelly. Put the meat into the liquor with a few pickled gherkins and 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg Pigs —continued. or mace. Stir the mixture over the fire until thoroughly hot. Coat the inside of a mould with a small quantity of clear gelatine; arrange at the bottom a design cut out of pickled beetroot, and around the edges finely-minced parsley and the separated yolks and whites of hard-boiled eggs. Over these articles place a thin layer of the mince, being careful not to disarrange them; leave it until set, then fill the mould up with the remainder, pack the mould in ice, or let it stand for one night in a cool place, as the contents must not be turned out until well set. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the head out on to a dish that has been em- bellished with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper, and garnish with a few sprigs of well-washed parsley. Fig’s-Head Pudding.—Cut a boiled Pig’s head into small pieces, put it into a saucepan with the liver of the Pig, also boiled and cut up, pour over a little warm water, add a small quantity of butter, a small onion finely chopped, and salt and pepper to taste. When the mixture is warmed, turn it out into a baking-dish and stir in a well- beaten egg ; put the dish in a hot oven, bake for two hours, take it out, put some slices of hard-boiled eggs on the top, and lay strips of puff paste over the whole. Bake until the paste is done, then take it out and serve. Potted Pig’s Head.—Clean a Pig’s head thoroughly, wash- ing it in strong salt and water ; put it linto a saucepan with plenty of water, and boil gently. When very tender, so that the bones can easily be removed, drain the head, separate all the meat from the bones, and pass the cook- ing liquor through a fine hair sieve. When the liquor is quite cold, skim off the fat, and pour the liquor into a saucepan, being careful not to disturb the sediment. Cut the meat into moderate-sized pieces, put it in with the liquor, and boil for half-an-hour, seasoning to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of Jamaica pepper. Pour the meat and liquor into moulds, leave until cold, then tie stout paper over the tops. It may be kept for six weeks in a cool cupboard. Pressed Pig’s Head.—Take the different parts of the head of a Pig as well as the feet, and boil them all in separate pans. When they are done and quite tender, take them out, and while they are still warm separate the meat from the bones and chop it up fine; sprinkle over with salt, pepper, and spices to taste. Put it all into a strong bag, place a weight on the top, and when the meat is cold put it on a dish, cut it in slices, and either fry it or pour vinegar over it, and serve. After the parts have been separated, before boiling, they should be put in salted water for twenty-four hours. Roasted Pig's Head.—Clean a Pig’s head, put it into a saucepan of water, and boil it over a clear fire until quite tender, when the bones will come out easily. Take it out, drain, and rub it over with toz. of powdered sage, mixed with 1 table-spoonful of salt and 2 table-spoonfuls of pepper. After the bones are taken out, put it in front of a clear fire and roast for thirty minutes, basting frequently with the drippings from it mixed with a little warmed butter. When done, put it on a dish on a bed of boiled cabbage (see Fig. 226), thicken the gravy slightly with flour, strain it over, and serve with apple sauce in a sauceboat.174 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Pigs —continued. Stewed Marinaded Pig's Head.—Clean the head well, lay it in a deep dish with a few sliced onions, two or three slices of lemon, two hay-leaves, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of bruised peppercorns and juniper-berries, and a few cloves. Dredge over plenty of salt, and baste with 4 or 5 table- spoonfuls of vinegar. Leave the head for four days, turn- ing and rubbing it well every day with the marinade. At the end of that time, dry the head well on a cloth. Melt a lump of butter in a stewpan, put in the head, baste it with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, and place it over the fire until lightly browned. Put about f pint of water in with the marinading mixture, pour it over the head, place the lid on the stewpan, and stew the contents _ at the side of the fire for one-hour-and-a-half, basting it now and then with the cooking liquor. When the head is cooked, put it on a hot dish, skim the fat oft' the sauce, strain it through a fine hah' sieve over the meat, and serve. Stewed Stuffed Young Pig’s Head.—Clean the head, feet, and liver of a young hog, put them in a saucepan with a little water, and parboil them. Take out the head, split it up through the nose, and remove all the bones. Chop the liver and meat from the feet, and season with salt and pepper. Lay the head open on a table, and put the mince and the yolks of nine hard-boiled eggs in it; if there is not sufficient to fill it, add some breadcrumbs or cracker-crumbs and butter. Sew up the head, and tie it with fine string or thread; put it in a stewpan with its stock, and cook gently over a slow fire. Take out the head, put a piece of butter rolled in flour in the liquor, and add some browning and walnut ketchup. Place the head on a dish, pour this over, and serve. Bread-and- butter should be used in place of the liver if the hog is not very small. Stewed Young Pig’s Head.—Clean the head and feet of a Pig, take out the bone above the nose, cut off the ears, and clean them thoroughly. Divide the jowl from the head, and put the brains in a basin. Place the head, jowl, feet, and part of the liver in a saucepan with suffi- cient water to cover, and boil until they are quite done and Fender. Put the meat from the head and liver, cut in small pieces, into a saucepan with the brains. Split the feet and add them as well as the jowl, which must remain intact; then put in 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, loz. of butter, 1 table-spoonful of walnut ketchup, one onion finely chopped, a stalk of celery, and pepper and salt to taste. A teaspoonful of mustard may be added if desired, as it is a great improvement. Place the pan on the fire and stew for thirty minutes. Put the jowl and feet in the centre of a dish, thicken the hash with a little grated breadcrumb, pour it round, and serve. Pig’s Kidneys.—These are by no means equal to sheep’s kidneys, lacking much of their unctuous flavour. Nevertheless Pig’s kidneys are not to be despised when prepared as follows: Pig’s Kidneys a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Clean and wash some Pig’s kidneys, cut them down the centre without quite dividing them, and run them through with a skewer to keep them flat. Rub them with a little butter, sprinkle over salt and pepper, put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil for a-quarter-of-an-hour, when they should be quite done. Take them off when done, remove the skewers, put them on a dish, pour over a little maitre-d’hotel sauce, and serve. Stewed Pig’s Kidneys.—(1) Put a couple of Pig’s kidneys in a little cold water, and steep them for a few minutes. Take them out, drain, cut them into slices, and put them in a saucepan together with 2oz. of butter, 1 table- spoonful of flour, half that quantity of minced parsley, two chives, 1 saltspoonful of pepper, and 1 wineglassful of Madeira. Place the pan on the fire and cook the contents gently, without letting them boil, for a-quarter-of-an-hour. They must be stirred constantly, as they are very likely to burn. When done, put them on a dish, and serve very hot. Pig’s kidneys may also be cooked in the same way as sheep’s if desired. Figs—continued. (2) Wash some Pig’s kidneys, put them into a basin of water, and let them steep for a few minutes. Take them out, wipe dry, cut them in slices, and put them into a saucepan with 1 wineglassful of white wine, 2oz. of butter, 1 table-spoonful of flour, three chives, 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and 1 saltspoonful of pepper. Put the pan over a slow fire, stirring the mixture continually to prevent it sticking to the pan; let it cook for a-quarter- of-an-hour, without boiling, turn it out on to a dish, and serve. Pig’s Liver.—In spite of the tastiness of other parts of the Pig, the liver by itself is not considered a very prime dish. Prepared, however, with plenty of seasoning, as shown in the following receipts, Pig’s liver may be considered acceptable: Baked Pig’s Liver.—Wash a Pig’s liver, cut it into slices, put them in a basiu of water, and soak. Put 24-lb. of peeled and washed potatoes into a saucepan of water, and boil until they are tender, then take them out and mash them. Chop up fine a large Spanish onion, and mix with it 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley and sage. Well butter a mould or deep dish, put a layer of the potatoes at the bottom, then a layer of the slices of liver, and one or two thin slices of bacon; dust these well with salt and pepper, then sprinkle over a little of the onion mixture. Put another layer of all of these in the same order, finish- ing with a layer of the mashed potatoes. Pour over a little water or stock, put the dish or mould in a moderate oven, and bake the contents for two hours. When done, turn it out of the dish or mould on to a flat dish, biown the top and side with a salamander, and serve. Pig’s Liver Saute.—Thoroughly wash a Pig’s liver and steep it in water until all the blood has disgorged; cut it into slices about Jin. thick, and dust them over with salt and pepper. Lay them in a buttered saute-pan and fry over a brisk fire, turning them when done on one side; just before taking them out of the pan strew over them some choppied parsley and shallot. A lien quite cooked, place the slices of liver on a hot dish. Put in the saute- pan with the butter and seasonings 1 teaspoonful of flour that has been smoothly mixed with a small quantity of Fig. 227. Pig’s Liver Saute. white wine, add a little more butter if necessary, and stir it over the fire, but do not boil it. Pour the sauce over the liver, garnish with slices of lemon (see Fig. 227), and serve at once. Pig's-Liver Saveloys.—(1) Procure 21b. of Pig’s liver, scrape it with a knife, then mince it finely. Chop 21b. of lean cooked pork, and mix with it an equal quantity of chopped fresh fat bacon and the liver; sprinkle over the mixture a little salt, saltpetre, spices, and cayenne pepper, and pour 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of kirschenwasser over. Fry three chopped onions anil mix them with the rest. Chop the preparation for ten minutes more. Soak and well wash some pig’s intestines, and fill them as full as pos- sible with the above mixture; tie them round at din. or bin. distance from each other, then hang the saveloys in the air where they will dry. Have a saucepan of boiling water, put the saveloys in, and let them simmer by the side of a slow fire for one hour. When done, take the saucepan away from the fire, and leave the saveloys in the water for one hour longer. Drain the saveloys, tie them up in cloths, and when quite cold they are ready for serving. (2) Mix with 81b. of finely-chopped raw Pig’s liver 41b. of finely-chopped fat pork, and season the mixture withTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 175 For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils. Sauces. <tc., referred to. see under their special heads. Figs—continued. salt, pepper, and pounded cloves ; fill some well-washed and soaked intestines with it, tie them up, plunge them in a saucepan of boiling water, anil simmer for one hour. When cooked, drain the saveloys and wrap them up in cloths. These should he served quite cold. (3) Peel and cut into small dice sufficient truffles to weigh 10oz., boil them for two or three minutes in about 2 table-spoonfuls of Madeira, then mix with the truffles, in a basin, an equal quantity of fat liver, also cut in dice, and sprinkle salt and spices over them. Scrape 21b. of Pig’s liver, chop it, and pass it through a sieve. Cut up in dice 21b. of fat bacon, and mix it with the liver. Put 21b. of pork, taken from the neck, and cut up in small pieces, in a frying-pan with a little lard, and fry it over a moderate fire. When cooked, take it off, let it cool, then chop it finely, and pass through a sieve; mix with it the liver, bacon, and truffles, sprinkle a little saltpetre and cayenne over the preparation, then finish as described for No. 1. Roasted Pig’s Liver.—Cut the liver up into moderate-sized pieces, put them in a basin, strew over them some fennel- seed, chopped garlic, and sweet herbs, season with salt and pepper, and cover with oil. Let the pieces of liver macerate for several hours, then roll each piece in grated breadcrumbs. Wrap them up separately in pieces of pig’s caul, and fix them on a skewer with a bay-leaf between each. Roast them before a brisk clear fire, and when cooked, lay the skewers on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of rich gravy. Fig’s Tails.—These are generally left by the butcher attached to the loin. When Pig’s tails can be obtained separately, they may be cooked as follows: Boiled Pig’s Tails.—Trim and well wash four or five Pigs’ tails, put them in a saucepan of salted water, and boil until done. Take them out, drain, wipe them on a cloth, and arrange on a dish over a puree of peas. Put a few chopped mushrooms into a frying-pan with a little butter, ami fry until quite brown; put them into a saucepan with a little stock, reduce it, and add the yolks of one or two eggs to thicken. Pour it, when ready, over the tails, and serve. Fig’s Tongues.—It is not usual to find these separated from the heads. They are very tasty cooked as fol- lows : Braised Pig’s Tongues and Pillets of Pork.—Trim olf the skin from some small fillets of pork that have been cut from the under loins, beat them flat, and lard them with fillets of bacon. Place some thin slices of bacon and sliced onions at the bottom of a stewpan, put in the fillets, add a bunch of thyme and parsley, and one or two bay-leaves; moisten with 1 pint of stock, stand it over the fire till boiling, then put the lid on the stewpan with some hot ashes on it, and keep it at the side of the fire till the fillets are tender. Boil three or four small Pigs’ tongues, and when cooked, drain them, cut each into halves lengthwise, peel ofl the skin, and trim them nicely. When the fdlets are cooked, glaze them, and also the halves of tongues. Dress the tongues and fillets alter- nately on a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of tomato sauce. Cured Pig’s Tongues.—Clean and trim three or four Pigs’ tongues, put them into a saucepan of water, and parboil them in order to remove the skins. Put them into a large jar, one on top of the other, fill up the jar with a good ham pickle, and put a weight on the top of the tongues so as to keep them immersed. Cover the jar and let it stand for seven or eight days; then take out the tongues, dry them on a cloth, squeeze them into prepared sausage skins, and smoke them. Take them out of the skins when done, and they are ready for use. Sucking-Pig.—Charles Lamb wrote of this the fol- lowing rhapsody: “ Of all the delicacies in the whole mundus edibilis, I will maintain it to be the most delicate—'princess obsoniorum. Figs —continued. “ I speak not of your grown porkers—things between Pig and pork—those hobbidehoys—but a young and tender suckling—under a moon old—guiltless as yet of the sty— with no original speck of the amor immunditix, the here- ditary failing of the first parent, yet manifest—his voice as yet not broken, but something between a childish treble and a grumble—the mild forerunner, or prseludium, of a grunt. “ He must be roasted or baked. I am not ignorant that our ancestors ate them seethed or boiled—but what a sacrifice of the exterior tegument! “There is no flavour comparable, I will contend, to that of the crisp, tawny, well-watched, not over-roasted crackling, as it is well called; the very teeth are invited to their share of the pleasure at this banquet in overcoming the coy brittle resistance, with the adhesive oleaginous —O call it not fat! but an indefinable sweetness growing up to it—the tender blossoming of fat—fat cropped in the bud, taken in the shoot, in the first innocence—the cream and quintessence of the child-pig’s yet pure food: the lean, no lean, but a kind of animal manna, or rather fat and lean (if it must be so) so blended and running into each other, that both together make but one ambrosian result or common substance.” The Sucking-Pig should not be more than a month or six weeks old, and if possible it should be dressed the day after it is killed. The first step is to scald it, and this is done as follows: Put a large pan of water over the fire to boil. Steep the Pig in cold water for fifteen minutes, then plunge it into the boiling water, hold it by the head and shake it about until the hairs begin to loosen. Then take it out of the water and rub it vigorously with a coarse towel until all the hairs are removed. Cut the pig open, remove the entrails, and wash it thoroughly in plenty of cold water. Dry the Pig on a towel, cut the feet off at the first joint, lea rung sufficient skin to turn over, and keep it wrapped in a wet cloth until ready to use. Baked Sucking-Pig1.—(1) Choose a small plump Pig. Use the liver, heart, and lights for the dressing, after first putting them over the fire in salted boiling water, and boiling them until tender, or mincing them after brown- ing them in butter. Peel and grate an onion, put it over the fire in a frying-pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, and fry it slowly; mince the heart, liver, kidneys, and add them to the onion; soak 2 breakfast-cupfuls of bread in cold water until soft, then squeeze it in a towel to extract the water, and put it with the minced mixture and onion ; season the mixture highly with salt, pepper, ground sage, and marjoram, and stir it until it is scalding hot. Use this stuffing for the Pig, sewing it up; truss it Fig. 228. Baked Sucking-Pig. so as to keep the legs in place, put it into a dripping-pan just large enough to hold it, and bake it in a moderate oven. For the first hour baste it with butter and hot water, and after that with butter alone. If the ears and tail seem in danger of browning, wrap them in buttered paper, season the Pig with salt and pepper two or three times while it is being basted. A medium sized Pig will take from two to two-hours-and-a half to bake. When the Pig is done, put it on a dish to keep hot after reniov-THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 176 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, i-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Pigs —continued. ing the stitches which retain the stuffing, and garnish with brussels sprouts and potato croquettes (see Fig. 228). Place the dripping-pan over the fire, stir in 1 table- spoonful of flour, and brown it; then add equal quantities of boiling water and wine, or three-parts of water and one of mushroom or walnut ketchup. Let the gravy thus made boil once, season it with salt and pepper, and then serve it with the baked Pig. The stuffing may he varied by using mashed potatoes instead of soaked bread. Apple sauce is the usual accompaniment. Cold slam and cranberry jelly or stewed cranberries are used in South America with roasted or baked sucking Pig. Prepare the apple sauce as follows: Peel, core, and quarter some tart apples, stew them to a pulp over a slow fire, adding at first 3 table-spoonfuls of water to 1 pint of apples, to prevent burning; when the apples are stewed to a pulp, stir them with 1 table-spoonful of butter to each pint of the sauce, and then use the sauce either hot or cold. (2) Clean and wash a small Pig, rub it well all over with butter, and then sprinkle with flour. Put it into a well-buttered baking-dish, and set it in the oven to hake for about two hours. When done, take the Pig out, rub it well with a greased cloth, and put it hack in the oven, with the door open, to dry. Take it out, chop off its head, which must be split in halves, then cut the Pig in halves lengthwise and put it on a dish, back to hack, and place the halves of head at either end. Skim off the fat from the liquor in the baking dish, add a little veal gravy and a small lump of butter rolled in flour to thicken it, boil it up once, pour it through a sieve over the Pig, and serve. (3) Clean a young Pig, stuff it with potatoes, boiled and mashed together with a little milk, and add salt and pepper to taste. Sew up the belly and truss it with the fore legs secured backwards and' the hind-legs forward. Put it on a trivet in a baking-pan, cover with small lumps of butter, and dust over with flour, salt and pepper. Put the pan in a hot oven, pour 1 pint of water in it, and let it bake, hasting it with the water and drippings. When it is nearly done, haste it with 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, shut the oven door, and let it remain until quite done, which will be about two hours in all. Take it out, put it carefully on a dish; thicken the gravy with a little flour, stir it well, boil it up and strain it over the Pig. Serve a little currant or apple sauce with it in a sauceboat. Galantine of Sucking-Pig.—Use a freshly killed Sucking- Pig, split it lengthwise, remove the inside, and wash it thoroughly. Bone the Pig, with the exception, of the head hones and the hones of the first joints of the feet. Chop 21b. of lean veal, Jib. of tongue, bib. of ham, and Jib. of fat bacon. Put the veal and bacon in a mortar, and pound them to a smooth paste. Add 1 breakfast-cupful of stale breadcrumbs and Jib. of butter, and pound again. When the above mixture is quite smooth, mix with it the chopped ham and tongue, four hard-boiled eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of blanched pistachio-nuts, and 1 wineglassful of brandy. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity each of grated nutmeg and mace. Stir these ingredients so that they get thoroughly well mixed together, stuff the Pig with the mixture, and sew it up. Wrap the Pig in a piece of calico, and hind it round securely with tape. Put a plate at the bottom of a large saucepan, in which put the bones of the Pig, a calf’s foot cut into small pieces, a hunch of sweet herbs, two or three cloves, the same of peppercorns, a clove of garlic, and a French roll cut into halves. Put in the Pig, pour in sufficient French light wine to cover, and close the lid tightly. Place the saucepan over the fire until the liquor boils, then move it to the side and keep it simmering for five hours. When the Pig is cooked, drain it, remove the bindings and cloth, rub it over with pure oil, and dredge with a small quantity of salt, then put it in a brisk oven. When nicely browned, stand the Pig on its feet on a long dish. Strain the cooking liquor of the Pig through a fine hair sieve, and leave both until the following day. Remove all the fat that will have settled on the top of the jelly, put the jelly into a saucepan, and place Pigs —continued. it over a slow fire until melted. Beat the whites and shells of two eggs together, then stir them quickly into jelly. Continue stirring until boiling, then strain it through a jelly-hag until quite clear. Brown half of the jelly with brown colouring, leave it with the plain jelly until set, then cut it into fancy-shaped pieces, and garnish the Pig with it. If placed upon ice, the galantine may be kept for a week or two. Roasted Sucking-Pig.—(1) Clean a Sucking-Pig, and stuff it with veal forcemeat. Sew up the belly, and truss it with the legs brought together at the sides. Wipe it well with a cloth and rub it all over with flour. Put it in front of a clear fire with a dripping-pan under it, and let it roast, basting frequently with a little olive-oil or its own gravy, or both, and occasionally brushing it over with butter. When done (it will take from an-hour-and-a-half to two hours), take it up, and with a sharp knife cut off the head, and split it in halves. Then cut the Pig down the Fig. 229. Roasted Sucking-Pig. centre of the hack, lay the halves hack to hack on the dish, and put the halves of head at each end (see Fig. 229), in which the dotted lines indicate the manner of carving. Add a little thin melted butter and lemon-juice to the gravy, boil it up, and strain it over the Pig. A little only of the gravy should he poured over, and the remainder served in a sauceboat if desired. (2) Clean and wash a Sucking-Pig, and stuff it with a forcemeat made as follows: Put the crumb of a French roll into a basin with 6oz. of finely-slired beef-suet, and add the peel of half a lemon chopped up with a sprig of parsley and six sage-leaves. Sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, and mix it into a paste with the yolks of two eggs. Sew up the cut with strong thread, put the Pig on the spit, and roast it before a clear fire until nearly done. Remove it from the lire, and take out the stuffing care- fully, in one piece if possible. Cut the Pig up into small pieces or slices, and put them into a saucepan with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of gravy, 1 of white wine, and a couple of onions cut up small. Add a little seasoning of thyme, the peel of half a lemon finely-minced, and grated nutmeg, cayenne, and salt to taste. Cover the pan closely, set the pan on the fire, and stew gently for an hour. Then put in a small lump of butter rolled in flour, 1 table-spoonful of mushroom pickle, the same of anchovy sauce, and lastly the stuffing cut into small squares. Cook for fifteen minutes longer, then take out the pieces of Pig’s meat, arrange them on a dish, pour the remainder over, and serve. Timbale of Sucking-Pig.—Cut up half a small Sucking-Pig into small pieces, and put them in a saucepan with a little mirepoix and white wine, and boil them. Take out the pieces of meat, and let them cool, removing the hones if any. Add a little calf’s-foot jelly to the liquor, and clarify it. Pack a large-sized timbale mould in ice, place poached eggs intermixed with sliced gherkins and slices of beetroot at the bottom and round the sides, dipping each into half-set jelly to keep them fixed in their places. Pour a thick layer of jelly at the bottom of the mould, and when it is set and firm, arrange the pieces of Pig’s meat, alternating with minced gherkins , and whole capers, taking care to leave a hollow space inTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 177 N Pigs —continued. the centre. Fill this cavity with almost cold hut stiff liquid jelly, and let it set firm. Turn the pain out on to a dish, and serve with a little horseradish sauce in a sauceboat. PIGEONS (Fr. Pigeons; Ger. Tauben; Ital. Co- lombi; Sp. Colombis).—Excepting for the purpose of making pies, Pigeons are not much used by British cooks. To the Continental cook, next to fowls, the Pigeon ranks highest as a culinary bird, being used in innumerable ways. Of the tribe to which the Pigeon belongs (Colombo.), there are innumerable varieties all over the world; so many, indeed, that it would be impossible for the cook to distinguish one from the other when stripped of their beautiful plumage. The British Pigeon requires no special description. It should be plump and young, and the feet, being usually left on even after trussing, will be the best indication of its age. In France, Pigeons are especially bred and fattened for the market, those from Bordeaux being especially high-class, giving their name consequently to fatted Pigeons generally, whether bred in that or any other part of the European continent. The season for them lasts from March to October. We are informed by a famous poulterer that old Pigeons can be detected by the thinness of their breasts and limbs, and the darkness of their skins. The flesh on the breast of the young bird should be of a light red colour, and the claws pinkish. Wild or wood Pigeons are usually larger than tame Pigeons; the same rules for selecting, preparing, and cooking apply equally to all. The common name for wood Pigeon is Cushat, and the common term for young Pigeons of any kind is Squabs. Under the latter heading will be found some special receipts for nestling Pigeons or other young birds, which are all included correctly under that name. Pigeons should always, if possible, be drawn directly they are killed, then well washed and thoroughly dried. They are trussed by cutting off the neck and head, also Fig. 230. Pigeon Trussed for Roasting or Boiling. the toes at the first joint, then crossing the wings over the back, and securing these with a skewer thrust through them and the body (see Fig. 230); they are then ready for roasting. Ballotines of Pigeons.—These are prepared in tire same way as Ballotines of Quails, substituting Bordeaux Pigeons for quails. Boiled Pigeons.—(1) Singe and draw eight Pigeons and bone them. Wash and scald the livers of the Pigeons and eight livers of chickens. Chop them together, and mix with them lib. of chopped veal and Jib. of chopped bacon. Put the chopped meats into a saucepan with loz. of butter, a blade of mace, and a small quantity of salt and pepper. Stir them constantly over the fire for ten minutes, then add Jib. of breadcrumbs. Pound the forcemeat smoothly, and put in more seasoning if required. Stuff the Pigeons with the mixture, truss them neatly into shape, put them into a saucepan, pour over 1 pint of stock, and let them simmer gently for an hour. Drain the Pigeons, and lean Pigeons—continued. them against a pile of mashed potatoes in the centre of a dish. Boil the cooking liquor till reduced to a small quantity, and glaze the Pigeons with it. While the birds are cooking, put their bones into a saucepan with a shallot, three cloves, \ pint of stock, and J pint of water, and boil them for an hour. Then strain the liquor from the bones into a stewpan, stir in 1 dessert- spoonful of flour which has been first worked smooth in a little cold water, and boil up for ten minutes longer. Pour this gravy into a tureen, and serve with the Pigeons. Garnish the dish with fried parsley (see Fig. 231). (2) Prepare and trass the birds as for stewing. Lay a slice of bacon over the breast of each bird, wrap them separately in small cloths, and boil them gently in stock. Wash 4oz. of rice, put it into a saucepan with sufficient veal stock to cook it without making it too liquid, and boil gently until tender. When the rice is cooked, mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, and season it with salt and pepper. When the Pigeons are cooked, remove the cloths, divide each bird into halves, splitting them lengthwise, place them on a hot dish, pile the rice all round them, and serve. Braised. Pigeons.—Draw and wash three young Pigeons, wipe them well, and stuff them with breadcrumbs that have been well seasoned and moistened with warmed butter, and cook them in a braising-pan. Boil some spinach, finely chop it, and season with salt and pepper. Toast three slices of bread, lay them on a hot dish, spread the spinach over them, put a pigeon on each slice, and serve with a sauceboatful of gravy. Braised Pigeons Stuffed with Parsley.—Wash some parsley in two or three waters, cut off the large stems, and finely chop it, allowing 1 pint for each bird, and adding while chopping, salt, pepper, and 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of water. Draw and clean the Pigeons, stuff them with the parsley, put in their hearts, and a square inch of salt pork for each bird. Cook the Pigeons in a braising- pan. When done, put them on a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of gravy. Broiled Pigeons.—Clean the Pigeons, split them down the back, wipe them with a damp towel, and sprinkle salt and pepper over them. Roll them in warmed butter, dredge them with flour, and broil for ten minutes over a clear fire, turning to do both sides equally. Toast some thick slices of bread without the crust, butter them, and put them on a hot dish. When cooked, lay the Pigeons on the toast, garnish round with parsley, and serve. Broiled Pigeons a la Crapaudine.—Clean two Pigeons, cut them lengthwise under the breast, beat them flat, and season them with pepper and salt. Put the Pigeons into a saute-pan with 1 table-spoonful of butter, and fry them for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Drain the Pigeons, put them between two plates with a weight on the top, and leave them till cold. Fry 1 table-spoonful of chopped shallot in the saute-pan, then pour in J pint of broth, season with a small quantity of pepper, and boil till reduced to half its original quantity. Skim the fat off the gravy, strain it through a pointed strainer into a smaller stew- For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, icc., referred to, see under their special heads. VOL. II.the encyclopedia of practical cookery. 178 Pigeons—continued. pan, and keep it hot. Roll the pieces of Pigeons in warmed butter, then in breadcrumbs, and broil them over a clear fire, browning both sides equally. Put the Pigeons on a hot dish, garnish round with slices of lemon, and serve with the gravy in a sauceboat. Broiled Pigeons en Fapillotes.—Clean the Pigeons, put them into a stewpan with chopped bacon, a lump of butter, and a small quantity of pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Fry them slowly, and when half-done, put in with them mushrooms, a minced shallot, an’d sweet herbs. When nicely but not over done, take the Pigeons out and leave them to get cold. Then split the birds in halves lengthwise, sprinkle them over with pepper, salt, and powdered sweet herbs, and wrap each piece in buttered writing paper. Broil them over a clear slow fire for twenty minutes, turning them to do them equally. Put the pieces of Pigeons on a hot dish on which a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper has been placed, garnish round with slices of lemon, and serve. Chartreuse of Pigeons.—(1) Peel an equal quantity of carrots and turnips and cut them into small balls with a vegetable-cutter, and boil them separately in salt and water, keeping them a little firm. Drain the vegetables, wipe them on a cloth, and leave them till cold. Cut the fillets off some plump young Pigeons, trim away the sinewy skin, beat them lightly, season them with salt and pepper, and lay them in a buttered saute-pan. Thickly butter a plain border mould, arrange the vegetable balls in circles alternately round the sides, fill the hollow of the mould with potatoes that have been boiled and mashed with a little butter, and stand the mould in the bain-marie for an hour. When ready, fry the fillets over a quick fire, turn- ing them. When cooked, drain off the butter, pour over them 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of glaze, and keep them hot. Turn the decorated border out of the mould on to a hot dish, and fill the centre with some chopped and cooked young vegetables that have been mixed with some bechamel sauce. Arrange the fillets almost upright on the border, letting them slightly overlap each other, and serve with a sauceboatful of brown sauce which has been prepared with the legs and trimmings of the Pigeons. (2) Peel some carrots and turnips, and with a tin cutter cut them into sticks 4in. long, using the red part only or the carrots. Boil the vegetables till three-parts done in salted water, then drain them and leave till cold. Line an oval timbale mould with buttered paper, then arrange round the sides, first three sticks of turnips lying lengthwise on the top of each other, next four sticks of carrots standing up, then three more sticks of turnips, and so on, putting them alternately all round the mould, and building them up by putting four sticks of carrots on the three sticks of turnips, and three sticks of turnips on four sticks of carrots, so that when turned out of the mould it may have the appearance of red and white squares. Support the vegetables by applying inwardly a thin layer of forcemeat. The bottom of the mould must also be spread with forcemeat. Blanch a cabbage and lib. of bacon, and braise them, together with a small raw sausage. Draw four large Pigeons, clean them well, and trass them with their legs inside. Cook them in a brais- ing-pan, and when done divide each into four parts. Remove all the skin and bones of the Pigeons, put the meat into a stewpan, and pour over it 4 or 5 table-spoon- fuls of brown sauce. When the cabbage is done, press it, to drain off the moisture and fat; remove the stalk and bruise it; cut the sausage and bacon up. Fill the hollow of the timbale, in alternate layers, with the cabbage, bacon, sausage, and Pigeons, put a layer of forcemeat on the top, stand the chartreuse in the bain-marie, and poach it for three-quarters-of-an-liour. Boil separately in salted water some green peas, green and white asparagus, and cucumbers. Braise some cabbage lettuces, and glaze the cucumbers when cooked. When ready, turn the timbale over on a dish in order to drain it, without taking off the mould, slip it on to another dish, garnish round the chartreuse with alternate groups of asparagus, green peas, and cucumber, and put the lettuce, spread out, on the top, with a pile of green peas in the centre. Thicken the liquor in which the For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Pigeons—continued. Pigeons were cooked with a little white sauce, and serve the chartreuse with a sauceboatful of it. Chaudfroid of Pigeons.—Prepare and truss the Pigeons as for roasting, and season them -until salt and pepper. Put them in a baking-dish, pour round some veal stock, and bake them, basting occasionally with the liquor in the pan. When cooked, drain and cut the Pigeons into con- venient sized pieces. When the stock is cold, skim off all the fat, pour it into a small saucepan, add the white of an egg, and boil it until reduced to a jelly. Then strain it through a napkin and let it get cold. Put the Pigeon on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, cut the jelly into crofttons and place round them, garnish with a few sprigs of fresh green watercress, and serve. Compote of Pigeons.—(1) Singe and draw six Pigeons and trass them. Prepare a forcemeat with fib. of finely-chopped bacon, 1 breakfast-cupful of grated breadcrumbs, a little finely-chopped parsley and thyme, the grated peel of half a lemon, and a dust of salt, pepper, and nutmeg; stir in two well-beaten eggs and mix them well together. Stuff the Pigeons with the forcemeat, put them in a stewpan with some thin slices of bacon over the breasts, and fry them lightly. Cover the Pigeons with beef stock and stew them for three-quarters-of-an-liour. When cooked, take the Fig. 232. Compote of Pigeons. birds out and place them on a hot dish; thicken the gravy with a piece of butter that has been rolled in flour, strain it over the birds, and serve (see Fig. 232). Garnish round with stewed button mushrooms. (2) Procure three young live Pigeons and bleed them at the neck, collect the blood, and mix with it 2 table- spoonfuls of vinegar to keep it liquid. Pluck, singe, and draw the Pigeons, truss them with their legs inward, put them into a stewpan with ^lh. of streaky bacon cut in squares, twelve small onions, and a lump of butter, and fry them till nicely browned; then dust in a handful of flour and a little salt. Two minutes after, cover them with white wine and broth, mixed in equal quantities, and add a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs and a pinch of pepper. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire and simmer till the Pigeons are done, adding at the last moment the livers and blood. When cooked, take the Pigeons out, untruss them, put them on a hot dish, and garnish round with the onions and bacon. Take the bunch of herhs and parsley from the sauce, strain it through a sieve over the Pigeons, and serve. Curried Pigeons (Indian).—Put 4 teaspoonfuls of ground onions, 1 teaspoonful each of ground chillies and turmeric, half the quantity of ground ginger, and \ teaspoonful of ground garlic into a saucepan with 2oz. of boiling fat, and cook until the ingredients are slightly browned; add four young Pigeons, each cut up into quarters, and about I teaspoonful of salt, and cook until they are browned; then add 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water, and continue to stew slowly until the Pigeons are cooked. Turn the curry out on to a hot dish, and serve very hot. Epigrammes of Pigeons.—Cut the fillets off four Pigeons and remove the skin and minion fillets. Beat the minion fillets lightly and put them on the larger ones. Dust salt t and pepper over them, arrange them on the bottom of a uces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads.179 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. N Pigeons—continued. flat stewpan with some clarified butter, and cover over with a sheet of buttered paper. Cut the meat off the legs of the Pigeons, and with that, the trimmings of the fillets, and an equal quantity of poultry flesh, prepare some quenelle forcemeat; take up 6 table-spoonfuls of it, put them on a floured table, and shape each spoonful like the fillet of the Pigeons. Place them, side by side, in a buttered saute-pan, stand it in the bain-marie, and poach them ; when done, drain and leave them till cool. Dip the forcemeat fillets in beaten eggs, and roll them in breadcrumbs seasoned with sweet herbs. Fry the fillets of Pigeons, and at the same time the fillets of forcemeat, in a flat stewpan with a piece of butter. When nicely browned on both sides, drain the fat off the fillets of Pigeons, pour over them 2 table-spoonfuls of melted glaze and 1 table-spoonful of Madeira; boil it, then move the pan off the fire. Put the fillets on a hot dish in a circle, alternating them with the fillets of forcemeat, fill the centre with a puree of vegetables or chestnuts, pour a little rich brown gravy over them, and serve with a sauceboatful of the same. Fillets of Pigeons a la d’Uxelle.—Cut twelve fillets off some Pigeons, trim and beat them with a cutlet-bat, put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter, sprinkle with salt, and fry them over a brisk fire. When cooked and nicely browned, drain, and leave them till cold. Dip the fillets in cold d’Uxelle sauce, roll them in breadcrumbs, then egg them and roll them again in breadcrumbs. Put the fillets in a frying-pan with some clarified butter, and brown them. Arrange the fillets in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with chopped mushrooms that have been cooked in Provencale sauce, and serve with a sauceboatful of thin Spanish sauce. Fillets of Pigeons, Stuffed.—Cut the fillets off five Pigeons, remove their minion fillets, and truss them ; beat them with the wet handle of a knife, split them 'without separating them, and dust them over with salt and spices. Fry the livers and chop them up small. Chop the trimmings, minion fillets, the same quantity of fresh bacon, a small piece of ham, and a handful of cooked fine herbs, such as mushrooms, onions, truffles, and shallots; mix them all well together, and add a little melted glaze to bind it. When cool, stuff the Pigeon fillets with the mixture, pressing them slightly. Beat two eggs with a little warmed butter, dip the fillets in, then roll them in breadcrumbs. Put them on a gridiron and broil over a clear fire for fifteen minutes, turning them frequently. When cooked, arrange the Pigeons on a hot dish, and garnish round 'with green peas and crofttons of fried bread. Fricandeau of Pigeons.—Singe and draw four Pigeons, truss them as for roasting, remove the feet and pinions, lard the breasts, and stuff them with forcemeat. Place some thin slices of fat bacon in a stewpan, then a layer of veal, put in the Pigeons, also a blade of beaten mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a dust of salt and pepper; cover the birds with some more veal and bacon. Prepare with the bones and trimmings 1 pint of gravy, pour it in with the Pigeons, put the lid on the stewpan, and let the contents stew gently for one hour. Take the Pigeons out, skim and strain the gravy, then boil it till reduced to half its original quantity; put the Pigeons in again, and stand them over the fire for five minutes. Lay the Pigeons on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. Fricasseed Pigeons.—Singe and draw two Pigeons and wipe them well with a damp cloth. Cut them into pieces, and put them in a saucepan; pour in 1 pint each of claret and water, add a blade of mace, one onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, a small quantity of pepper and salt, and 14 table-spoonfuls of butter that has been kneaded with a little flour. Put the lid on the saucepan, and let the contents simmer for three-quarters-of-an-liour. Take the pieces of Pigeons out, put them on a hot dish, and keep them hot. Strain the gravy, and stir in with it the yolks of three eggs; when thick, pour it over the Pigeons, put some fried oysters over the top, garnish round with crofttons of fried bread, and serve. Pigeons—continued. Fried Pigeons.—Pluck and prepare three Pigeons for cook- ing, split them into halves lengthwise, remove the breast bone, and beat the flesh flat. Put the pieces in a frying-pan with 2oz. of butter and 1 pinch each of pepper and salt. When fried, put the Pigeons between two plates with a weight on the top, and leave them till cold. Prepare Jib. of quenelle forcemeat, and spread it over the side of each half; roll them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, and fry them in clarified fat. When cooked, put them in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with a macedoine of vegetables, pour some hot brown sauce round, and serve. Fried Pigeons with. Celery.—Cut three Pigeons into halves, brush them over with egg, dip them into breadcrumbs, plunge them into a pan of boiling lard, and fry them. Have ready a puree of celery, put it on a dish, place the halves of Pigeons on top, and serve with crofttons of fried bread for garnish. Fried Pigeon Cutlets.—(1) Remove the wing-bones from four Pigeons and tuck the leg-bones inside. Cut them in halves, dust them with salt and pepper, and put them into a sautd-pan with a little butter, and fry them. When they are done, press them between two boards with a weight on top until they are cold. Dip them first in butter and then in breadcrumbs, and broil over a good fire to colour them. Place them in a circle on a dish. The cavity in the centre may be filled either with French beans, asparagus, peas, sliced mushrooms, or with a mace- doine of various vegetables. (2) Remove the flesh from the breasts of eight Pigeons, and put them into a mortar with the same bulk of calf’s udder, and well pound them, to make a forcemeat, adding two eggs, and mixing well with plenty of season- ing. Spread the forcemeat upon a buttered tin about the same thickness as a mutton chop, and let it get cold; cut it into the shape of cutlets with a knife. Put the tin over a fire to just melt the butter. Take the pinion bones, scrape them well, and use them for the bones of the mock cutlets. Dip the cutlets first into egg, then into breadcrumbs, and fry them, taking care not to let the dripping get too hot so that they will be burnt before done through. Put them in a circle on a dish with fried parsley or Italian sauce in the centre, and serve with a sauceboatful of the same sauce. Jugged Figeons.—Singe and draw four Pigeons and wipe them with a damp cloth. Boil the livers, then mince and pound them. Mix with the livers the yolks of two hard- boiled eggs, the grated peel of half a lemon, and an equal • quantity of chopped beef-suet and breadcrumbs; season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and bind the in- gredients together with a well-beaten egg and a piece of butter. Stuff the birds with the forcemeat and sew up the openings. Dip them in warm water, then put them into an earthenware jar with two or three sticks of celery broken in small pieces, four cloves, three or four sprigs of thyme and parsley, and h pint of Madeira. Tie a stout piece of paper over the jar, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water up to three-parts its height, and let it simmer gently for three hours. At the end of that time, strain the gravy off the Pigeons into a stewpan, and thicken it with a little butter rolled in flour. Put the Pigeons on a hot dish, garnish round with slices of lemon, pour the gravy over, and serve. Pigeons a la Bourgeoise.—Clean and trass twro Bordeaux Pigeons, and braise them for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Stone six olives, and shape six pieces of carrots and six pieces of turnips like olives; boil them in a weak stock together with six mushrooms and eight small quenelles. When these are cooked, cut the Pigeons into four pieces each and put them on a hot dish; pour \ pint of hot brown sauce over them, arrange the vegetables and quenelles tastefully about, and garnish with nicely-shaped crofttons of fried bread. This is a very plain and unpretentious, but delicious, mode of cooking Bordeaux Pigeons. Figeons a, la Duchesse.—Clean the Pigeons, cut them into quarters, pour boiling water over the clawrs, and when sufficiently soaked trim off the skin and nails. Dust the For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. OTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 180 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Pigeons—continued. birds over with black pepper and a little allspice, rubbing it in lightly with the hands; lay them in a basin, pour some red wine over them, put a plate over the basin, and leave them for several hours. When sufficiently steeped (they are better if left in the wine for one night), put the birds with the wine into a stewpan, pour in enough brown stock to cover, and boil them gently at the edge of the fire. In about an hour’s time, when the birds will be sufficiently cooked, drain them, and pound their livers in a mortar. Boil the cooking stock quickly until reduced to half its original quantity, then mix with it the pounded livers and 1 table-spoonful of desiccated cocoanut. Arrange the wings and claws of the birds together to form a centre piece for the dish, putting a piece of watercress in each claw. Put it in the middle of a hot dish, lay the quarters of birds round it, putting between each quarter a small roll of fried bacon, pour round the thickened gravy, garnish the edge of the dish with a fringe of watercress, on which lay quarters of lemon, and serve. Pigeons a la Financiere.—Put four Pigeons, cleaned and trussed, into a stewpan, with some thin slices of fat bacon on the top, and chicken broth to their height; put a sheet of buttered paper over them, close the stewpan, and stew the Pigeons gently till tender. Prepare a ragofit of truffles, mushrooms, cocks’ combs and some chicken quenelles, mixed in financiere sauce. Fry a block of bread 3in. high and narrower at the top than at the bottom. Drain the Pigeons and rest them against it, put some of the ragofit round the dish, and some piled irp Fig. 253. Pigeons 1 la Financiere. between the birds. Put a larded and glazed sweetbread on the top of the bread (see Fig. 233). Pour a small quantity of financiere sauce over the Pigeons, and serve with some more in a sauceboat. Pigeons a l’lniperiale.—Clean and bone the Pigeons, and season them inwardly with small quantities of powdered allspice, mace, coriander and cardamom seeds, salt, white and cayenne pepper, nibbing it well in the flesh. Turn them the right side out again, and lay them in a deep dish. Pour into a lined saucepan 1 pint of marsala and h pint of white wine vinegar, add two or three bay- leaves, \ table-spoonful of sliced and bruised ginger, and i teaspoonful of bruised cloves. Place the saucepan over a slow fire, boil the contents gently for two or three minutes, then pour the liquor immediately over the birds. Let the birds steep in the pickle, which should well cover them, for one night; on the following morning drain and wipe them on a clean cloth. Prepare a sufficient quantity of forcemeat to stuff the birds, with their livers which should be partially boiled and finely chopped, the yolks of two or three hard-boiled eggs, and some breadcrumbs. Season the forcemeat to taste, bind it with beaten egg, and stuff the birds with it, giving them then- original shape. Lard the breasts of the birds with thin fillets of fat bacon, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and roll them in grated breadcrumbs. Put a large lump of butter into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when the blue smoke rises, lay in the birds on their backs first, but afterwards turning them over on to their breasts, and fry them a light golden colour. String some cardoons, cut them into pieces a little more than lin. in length, put them in a stewpan, with some claret and a few drops of cochineal to give them a bright red colour, and cook them. When tender, place the cardoons on a hot dish; mix 1 table-spoonful of potato flour and 1 table-spoonful of butter with their cooking liquor, season it to taste with salt, Pigeons—continued. white and cayenne pepper, and stir it over the fire until thickened; then pour it over the cardoons. Drain the birds as free from fat as possible, and lay them on the bed of cardoons. Garnish them with fried parsley and cut lemons, and serve with a sauceboatful of rich brown sauce. The sauce can be made with the marinade of the birds, thickened with a brown roux. Pigeons a la Julienne.—Procure the required quantity of nice young Pigeons, pluck, singe, and draw them, and truss them as for boiling. Lay them side by side in a stewpan, moisten to height with strong clear jelly stock, and place them over the fire. When the liquor begins to boil, put in some dried julienne vegetables that have been well soaked in cold water. Season to taste with pepper, salt, and allspice, and let them simmer at the edge of the fire until the birds are sufficiently cooked. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour in a basin and mix it smoothly with a small quantity of clear cold stock, also a small quantity each of walnut ketchup and Worcester sauce. Take the Pigeons out when tender, and if the vegetables are not quite cooked, boil them a little longer. When ready, stir the above mixture in with the vegetables, boil it a minute or two, then put the Pigeons back again to warm up. Arrange the Pigeons on a hot dish, pour the vegetables and sauce over them, and serve. Pigeons in Aspic Jelly.—(1) Wash and truss twelve Pigeons, put them in a large saucepan with 4lb. of the shank of veal, one onion that has been fried, one stick of celery, a bunch of sweet herbs, five or six cloves, two dozen peppercorns, and 4iqts. of water. When boiling, move the pan to the side of the fire and let the contents simmer for three hours, adding at the end of the first hour 2 table-spoonfuls of salt. When ready, take the Pigeons out carefully so as not to break them, and remove the strings. Draw the saucepan forward, where it will boil rapidly, and keep it there for forty minutes; then strain the liquor through a fine hail- sieve, adding more seasoning if necessary. The liquor should be reduced to 2Jqts. during boiling. Have two large moulds that will hold six Pigeons each, pour a little of the liquor into each, and set them on ice to harden. Arrange the Pigeons on the set jelly, cover them with the liquor, which must be cool but not hardened, and set the moulds in the ice chest for twelve hours. When ready to serve, dip the moulds in tepid water, wipe them, and turn the contents on to a Fig. 234. Pigeons in Aspic Jelly. cold dish. Garnish round the dish with chopped jelly, slices of pickled beetroot, and some nicely-picked sprays of parsley (see Fig. 234), and serve with a sauceboatful of Tartar sauce. (2) Put a cow-heel in a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, the peel of half a lemon, half a blade of mace, and 3qts. of water, and boil it for six hours. Skim the fat off the jelly, clarify it with the whites and shells of three eggs, and after it has stood a few minutes strain it several times through a jelly-bag. Truss two Pigeons with their legs bent under, roast them, and when done and nicely browned leave them till cool. Pour some jelly into a mould that will hold the Pigeons, put the birds in upside-down, then fill up the mould with jelly, and keep it in a cold place. On the following day, turn the jellied Pigeons on to a dish, and serve. Pigeon and Beef-steak Pie.—Prepare and cut a couple , of Pigeons into quarters; cut five or six thin slices of3 81 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <be., referred to, see under their special heads. Pigeons—continued. steak, and as many thin rashers of streaky bacon. Lay a slice of bacon on each slice of steak, and roll them up. Dust the quarters of Pigeon over with salt, pepper, and powdered spices, put a small lump of butter on each piece, lay them with the rolls of steak in a pie-dish, put in a few sliced hard-boiled eggs, and pour over them some liquid aspic jelly; cover the pie with a good crust, trimming it evenly round the edges, brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, and bake it for about an hour in a quick oven. Serve the pie either hot or cold. Pigeons in a Case.—Singe and clean three young Pigeons and bone the breasts. Prepare a quenelle forcemeat, and mix with it a salpifon of raw ham and 3 table-spoonfuls of cooked line herbs. Stuff the birds with the forcemeat, truss them with their legs inward, and cover them with thin layers of fat bacon. Put some chopped bacon, onion, and trimmings of mushrooms in a stewpan, add some cloves, peppercorns, and a bunch of sweet herbs, and put the Pigeons in; pour in f pint of white wine. Wlieu the liquid boils, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, put the lid on, with some hot ashes on it, and stew the Pigeons gently till cooked. Fry five chickens’ livers in butter; pound them, dust some salt and pepper over them, anil pass them through a fine hair sieve. Mix with the pounded livers an equal quantity of scraped fat bacon, and the same of peeled and chopped raw truffles. Oil an entree paper case, and mask the bottom with the liver forcemeat; cut the strings off the Pigeons and put them on it, and glaze them with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze. Put a sheet of paper on a baking-sheet, cover the case with paper, and stand it on it; place the baking-sheet on a trivet at the entrance of the oven, thus warming the Pigeons gently for fifteen minutes. Skim the fat off the liquor in which the Pigeons were cooked, strain it, pour in some brown sauce and Madeira, mixed in equal quan- tities, and boil till reduced to half its original quantity. Take the case out of the oven, put it on a hot dish, pour a little of the sauce over, and serve with the remainder in a sauceboat. Pigeon Cutlets.—Having plucked and prepared the birds, put them in a stewpan with sufficient clear stock to cover, and stew them gently until tender. Wheu cooked, drain, and cut them up into convenient pieces. Season some grated breadcrumbs with moderate quantities of finely- chopped thyme, parsley, and lemon-peel, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Dip the pieces of Pigeons in beaten egg and roll them in the seasoned breadcrumbs, giving them a good coating. Put a large lump of lard or fat into a deep frying-pan, place it on the fire, and when the blue smoke rises lay in the pieces of Pigeons and fry them until nicely browned. Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour into a stewpan, stir them over the fire until mixed and browned, then strain in the liquor in which the Pigeons were boiled, season to taste, and stir it until boiling. Form a pyramid of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, arrange the pieces of Pigeons in an upright position all round them, pour the sauce round the Pigeons, and serve. Pigeon Cutlets served with French Beans or Asparagus Peas.—Clean four Pigeons, split them in halves length- wise, remove the wing-bones, and truss the leg-bones inside. Put them in a saut(5-pan with a lump of butter, a small quantity of pepper and salt, and fry them. When cooked, put the halves of the Pigeons between two plates, and a weight on the upper plate, and press them till cold. Roll them in warmed butter and breadcrumbs, and broil them till nicely browned over a clear fire. Arrange the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with cooked French beans, and serve with a sauceboatful of half glaze. The cutlets can be served with asparagus peas in the place of French beans. Pigeon Dumplings.—Truss four Pigeons as for boiling, put some pickles inside them, and season with sweet herbs, pepper and salt; rub some butter on the breasts, roll each one in a thin piece of paste, tie them separately in cloths, and boil them slowly for one-hour-and-a-lialf. When cooked, take the birds out of the cloths, place them on a Pigeons—continued. hot dish, put some hard boiled eggs cut into halves round them, pour a rich gravy over, and serve. Pigeon Pie.—(1) Pick and draw some young Pigeons, wash them, lay them in a saucepan, cover with boiling water, put in a piece of onion and a piece of salt, put the lid on, and boil them till tender. Take the Pigeons out, drain them, and put in each 1 teaspoonful of butter, a small quantity of salt, pepper, minced parsley, thyme, and a hard-boiled egg. Lay them in a deep baking-dish and strain their cooking liquor over them; put in 1 teacup- ful of cream, 1 table-spoonful of butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of breadcrumbs, 1 table-spoonful of minced parsley and thyme, and 1 pinch of salt. Cover the pie with a rich crust, ornament it, stick four of the claws in the crust, and bake it. Serve either hot or cold. If cold, set the pie-dish in an under-dish with a napkin folded about it, and garnish freely with sprays of parsley (see Fig. 235). (2) Draw anil clean six young Pigeons, finely chop their livers, hearts, gizzards, and lungs, and mix with them twelve shallots, one clove of garlic, a little parsley and thyme, 2oz. each of beef suet and lean veal, also chopped fine. Sprinkle over them a dust of salt, pepper, and mixed spices. Mix them together with a beaten egg and 1 table- spoonful of brandy. Stuff the Pigeons with the forcemeat. Put at the bottom of an earthenware pie-dish some thin slices of bacon, sprinkle with chopped shallots and powdered sweet herbs, then put in a layer of Pigeons, another layer of bacon, more chopped shallots and sweet herbs, and so on, till all the Pigeons are used. Put some knuckle of veal, cut in small pieces, on the top, and pour in \ pint of white wine. Cover the top with paste, brush it over with beaten egg, and bake it for three hours in a moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold. (3) Boil and blanch three ox-palates; truss three Pigeons as for baking; cut four veal sweetbreads in halves, and partially boil them; blanch seventeen or eighteen cocks’ combs; and blanch and beard 1 pint of oysters. Butter a pie-disli, line it with a good crust, put in the Pigeons, sweetbreads, the ox-palates cut into small pieces, the cocks’ combs, and oysters, also three artichoke bottoms and the marrow from two bones. Season all well with mace, grated nutmeg, and salt; put about 6oz. of butter, broken in small pieces on the top, and moisten with a small quantity of water. Bake the pie about an-hour-and-a-half, and when cooked, strain off the butter at the top. Pour in some nicely-flavoured gravy, and serve while hot. (4) Pluck, singe, and draw eighteen young Pigeons, split them into halves, and beat them flat. Dredge a little flour, pepper, and salt over them on both sides. Put 4 lb. of butter in the baking-pan in which the pie is to be made, and melt it; then lay in the Pigeons, and bake them till light brown. Pour into the £an about 2qts. of broth or water, and continue baking. When the Pigeons are nearly done, thicken the gravy, add 1 table-spoonful of ketchup, salt, and pepper, cover them with a short crust, and bake for twenty minutes longer. Serve either hot or cold. (5) Singe and draw some iplump young Pigeons, and truss them with their legs inside. Put a few button onions into a saucepan with a lump of butter, lay in the Pigeons, dredge them with salt and pepper, and fry them over a moderate fire till nicely browned. Then put in I lb. of streaky bacon, and dredge in a little flour. In two or three minutes’ time pour in sufficient broth and white wine to reach the top of the birds, place the lid on the182 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Pigeons—continued. saucepan, and boil the contents for fifteen minutes. Then add a few raw mushrooms and some chopped cooked salsify. When about half cooked, remove the Pigeons from the fire. Butter a pie-disli, line it with puff paste, put in the birds, and pour over them the cooking liquor, &c. Cover the pie with a Hat of puff paste, trim round the edges, moisten with water, press them to- gether, and channel them all round. Roll out the trim- mings of the paste and cut a few imitation leaves out of it. Arrange the leaves on the top of the pie, damping them first with a little water to make them adhere. Make a hole in the centre, brash the pie over with a paste-brash dipped in beaten egg, and bake it for three- quarters-of-an-hour in a moderate oven. After the pie has been in the oven for ten minutes, it should be covered with a sheet of paper to prevent it taking too much colour. When cooked, take the pie out of the oven, and stand the dish on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper on another dish, and serve it. (6) Clean and prepare three Pigeons, cut off the feet, pour boiling water on them, remove the skin from the legs and claws, as well as the nails, wipe them dry, and put them on one side. Prepare a forcemeat with the livers, parboiled mushrooms, cold cooked and chopped meat of any kind, sweet herbs, lemon-peel, spices, and a good supply of breadcrumbs, making the whole a solid mass by working in one or two eggs. Well beat |lb. of beef steak, dip it in flour, cut it into 2in. squares, place them at the bottom of a pie-dish, and put the forcemeat on top. Over this lay the Pigeons, intermixed with small pieces of hard-boiled eggs, add a bay-leaf (if not objected to), pom- over about 1 pint of gravy made from the trim- mings of meat, put on a cover, decorate according to fancy, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, glaze the surface, insert the claws in the crust, and serve either hot or cold. (7) Butter the edges of a pie-dish and line it with puff paste; put at the bottom a few thin slices of veal cutlet, and season them with salt, pepper, and small quantities of cayenne and grated nutmeg. Place in as many young Pigeons (that have been cleaned) as the dish will hold, season them as before, and fill up the gapsi with yolks of hard-boiled eggs; put a few pieces of butter on the top, and moisten with some rich gravy. Cover the whole with a flat of puff paste, and make a slight incision in the top. Brash the pie over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, and bake it in a moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold. (8) Prepare some highly-seasoned forcemeat, line a well- buttered dish with it, and put in a layer of thin slices of bacon. Draw some Pigeons and truss them, put them on the bacon, and lay on them a sweetbread cut into slices, five or six asparagus-tops, a few mushrooms, two cocks’ combs, an ox-palate that has been boiled tender and cut into small pieces, and the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs ; put a layer of forcemeat on the top, cover all with a flat of short crust, and bake it for an hour. When cooked, turn the pie out on a hot dish, pour a rich gravy round it, and serve. (9) Draw three Pigeons, divide each into four parts, and put them in a stewpan with |lb. of streaky bacon and 5oz. of bacon-fat, both chopped. Fry the Pigeons till half done, season, and pour in \ pint of white wine. When the moisture has evaporated somewhat, add the Pigeons’ livers and two or three table-spoonfuls of cooked fine herbs; stir all over the fire for three minutes, then take the pan off, and let the contents cool. Put a flat of puff paste on a buttered baking-sheet, mask it with veal quenelle forcemeat, leaving Din. of the edge clear all round. Place the Pigeons on it in a dome shape, filling in between them with the bacon and fine herbs, cover the birds with forcemeat, put some thin slices of fat bacon on the top, cover them with a flat of paste, damp the edges, and press them together, still leaving lin. of clear edge all round. Roll out a flat strip of the paste, and fix it up right round the pie, resting on the under flat of paste, and fasten it at the ends. Roll the trimmings of the paste out and carve some imitation leaves with it, moisten Pigeons—continued. them, and place them in scrolls on the top of the dome; make a small hole in the centre, and place over it a small round of paste. Brash the paste all over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, cover the tart over with paper, and bake it one-hour-and-a-quarter. When cooked, put the pie on a hot dish, make an incision round the dome so as to open it, remove the bacon, and put in its place some poached veal forcemeat quenelles, pour in a little rich thickened gravy in which a few fresh mushrooms have been stewed, put the top on again, and serve with a sauceboatful of the sauce, mixed up with mushrooms and quenelles. Pigeon Pudding (American).—Prepare three young Pigeons for cooking. Finely chop a shallot with 2 table-spoonfuls of parsley and 1 table-spoonful of thyme; then add the pounded yolk of a hard-boiled egg, a finely minced mushroom, and two or three slices of bacon, seasoning with pepper, salt, and a very little grated nutmeg. Cut the Pigeons lengthwise into halves, put an equal quantity of the stuffing in each, roll them up in vine-leaves, put them into a pudding basin lined with suet-paste, pour in suffi- cient water to half cover, put a top of paste over the basin, tie over with a cloth, and steam for fully two hours. Turn out, make a small hole in the top, pour in some richly flavoured stock, and serve. Pigeons with Rice and Parmesan Cheese.—Pluck and clean four or six nice-sized Pigeons, and divide each one into quarters; put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until mixed and browned ; then mix in slowly two breakfast- cupfuls of good stock. Put in the Pigeons with two or three finely-chopped onions, salt and pepper to taste, and keep them simmering at the side of the fire until tender. When cooked, take the Pigeons out, and squeeze the juice of one lemon in their cooking liquor. Wash and boil fib. of rice in stock with 6oz. of butter, and when tender mix with it j-lb. of grated Parmesan cheese, seasoning it with salt and grated nutmeg. Make a wall with some of the rice round a dish, put the Pigeons in the centre, strain their gravy over them, and cover with the remainder of the rice. Brash the top of the rice over with a paste- brusli dipped in beaten egg, and strew some grated Par- mesan cheese thickly over it. Stand the dish on a flat baking-tin that has been covered with salt, and put it into a slow oven. In about three-quarters-of-an-hour’s time, or when nicely browned over the top, take the dish out of the oven, and serve. Pigeon Salad.—Roast some Pigeons and leave them till cold. Take the fillets from the breasts of the birds, cut them into thin slices, put them in a deep dish, season with salt and pepper, and moisten them with salad oil and vinegar in equal quantities. In about an hour’s time, drain the pieces of meat, lay them hi a salad dish, put some small pieces of celery in with them, cover until a mayonnaise dressing, and serve them. Another way, is to put the chopped meat in a salad bowl in which have been arranged some lettuce-leaves. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs and slices of beetroot, and pour a rtmoulade sauce over them. Pigeons an Soleil.—To the inventive genius of Ude we owe this dish. Cut four cold cooked Pigeons in halves. Put three or four carrots and onions into a stewpan, add Fig. 236. Pigeons au Soleil. a parsley root, one clove, one shallot, half a bay-leaf, two or three sprigs of thyme, and a small lump of butter. Fry them, but do not brown them; moisten with vinegar and water mixed in equal quantities and dust in a little pepper and salt; let it simmer till the vegetables are quite done.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 183 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <&’c., referred to, see under their special heads. Pigeons—continued. Put tlie halves of Pigeons into a stewpan, strain the liquor of the vegetables over them, and simmer for half-an- liour. When cool, drain the Pigeons, dip them in frying batter, and fry them in boiling fat till nicely browned. Put the birds on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 236), and serve with a sauceboatful of brown sauce, or a sauce piquante. Pigeon Soup (1).—Clean and truss three Pigeons, put them into a stewpan with a few chives, 6oz. of raw ham cut in dice, and some broth toppings. Toss them over a brisk fire till nicely coloured, then pour in £ pint of Madeira, and boil it till reduced to half its original quantity. Dredge over the birds 2 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot, and stir it over the fire for two or three minutes, then pour in 3qts. of broth. When the broth is boiling, move tlie stewpan to the side of the fire, put in a bunch of sweet herbs, and simmer till the Pigeons are done. Take the Pigeons out, drain, cut them into four pieces each, and put them in a soup-tureen. Skim the fat off the liquor, put in the yolks of three eggs, and stir it over the fire till thick. Strain the soup through a fine hair sieve over the Pigeons in the tureen, and serve. (2) Singe and draw six plump young Pigeons, and roast them for ten minutes; cut the meat off, put the bones into a mortar, sprinkle some flour over them, and pound them. Put the pounded bones into a saucepan with 2qts. of gravy, a bunch of tarragon and chervil, two or three sprigs of parsley, three or four onions, a few carrots and turnips cut in slices, one blade of mace, and a dust of cayenne. When boiling, move tlie saucepan to the side of the fire and let the contents simmer for two hours. Pass the vegetables and soup through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, put in the flesh of the Pigeons, and let it simmer one hour longer. Ten minutes before dishing it, stir into the soup a piece of butter that has been rolled in flour. Turn the soup into a tureen, and serve- with a plate of sippets of toast. (3) Take four Pigeons, and cut up the oldest one into pieces, with the livers, gizzards, necks and pinions of the other three; put these pieces over the fire in Jgall. of water, boil till all the good is got out of the pieces of Pigeon, and then strain the broth. Put it back into the stewpan to keep hot. Hash a small bunch of parsley and add it to the broth, add also some chives or young onions, and two large handfuls of spinach; all these should be chopped. Fry in 4oz. of boiling butter and 1 teacupful of crumbs; keep stirring them about till they are nicely browned, then put them also into the soup. Trass the other three Pigeons as if for stewing, season them with salt and mixed spices, and boil them in the soup with the herbs till they are tender. Taste the soup, and if it requires more seasoning, add it. Serve very hot. Pigeon Soup with Curry.—Truss three Pigeons, put them into a saucepan with 6oz. of raw ham (cut in dice), the giblets of the Pigeons, two chives, and a piece of butter, and fry them over a brisk fire till browned; then stir in 1 Jjoz. of curry powder, mixed with twice its bulk of flour; pour in gradually 3qts. of broth, and continue stirring till the liquid boils. Stand the saucepan at the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer till the Pigeons are tender. When cooked, take the Pigeons out, divide each into four or five pieces, and put them in a soup-tureen. Skim the cooking liquor, strain and thicken it with the beaten yolks of three eggs, pour it over the birds, and serve. Potted Pigeons.—(1) Boil the livers and gizzards of some Pigeons until tender, then drain and finely chop them, and make them into a forcemeat with grated ham, breadcrumbs, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and a seasoning of herbs. Stuff the Pigeons with the forcemeat, put them into a stewpan with an onion, h pint of white wine, and the liquor in which the gizzards were stewed, also loz. of butter that has been kneaded with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stew them gently until tender. When cooked, pack the Pigeons in suitable pots; strain their cooking liquor, return it to the saucepan, and boil quickly for a few minutes ; then pour a little of it over the birds to level up, and when cold, cover the contents with warmed clarified butter. Pigeons—continued. (2) Draw and wash twelve Pigeons, stand them upside- down in a deep earthenware jar, and pour over them 1 pint of vinegar. Cut three large onions into four pieces each, and place one piece on each Pigeon. Put a plate over the jar and let it stand all night. On the following morning take tlie Pigeons out, drain them, and put them in a deep stewpan with six slices of fat pork; fry them till brown, then take them out, and fry in the fat six onions finely sliced. Trass the Pigeons and dredge them well with salt, pepper, and flour; place them in the stewpan with the onions and pork; put the lid on, and cook them slowly for forty-five minutes, stirring occasionally; then pour in 2qts. of boiling water, and simmer gently for two hours. Mix a heaped teacupful of flour in £ pint of cold water, then stir it in with the Pigeons, adding more seasoning if required. Cook half-an-hour longer. Put the Pigeons on a hot dish with a border of potatoes, pour the gravy over, and serve. (3) Take some perfectly fresh Pigeons, clean them thoroughly, season with pepper and salt, and lay them close together in a small deep pan. The smaller the pan, and the closer the birds are packed in, the less butter will be required. When all the birds are in the pan, cover them with butter, tie over the pan a piece of very thick paper, unless it has a well-fitting lid, and bake them. Let them get quite cold, then put them into pots that "will hold two or three birds, and pour over them the butter they were baked in, with more added to it. It is an improvement to bone them, and stuff with force- meat made with veal and bacon before baking. Boasted Pigeons.—It is well to stuff Pigeons for roasting with a well-seasoned veal forcemeat. Their flavour is much improved by this means, and parsley fried in butter can then be served with them. The stuffing should con- sist of minced raw veal, fat bacon, breadcrumbs soaked in milk, and all mixed together and well seasoned. In America it is usual to serve roasted Pigeons with red- currant jelly or stewed apples without sugar; dressed celery or other salad; mashed turnips or squash. All are considered suitable for these birds. (1) Pluck, clean, and trass the Pigeons, and put them into a roasting-pan. Cut as many slices of bread as there are birds, toast and butter them, sprinkle over them minced mushrooms and anchovies in equal quantities, dust over with pepper, place them under the Pigeons, and roast them until done. Serve on a hot dish with the toasts under them. (2) Singe and draw four Pigeons; finely mince their livers with an equal quantity of beef-suet, hard-boiled eggs, and breadcrumbs. Season with a bunch of sweet herbs chopped fine, salt, pepper, and ground mace to taste; bind all together with the beaten yolk of an egg. Cut the skin of the Pigeons between the legs and the bodies; carefully raise the skin from the flesh with the fingers, taking care not to break it, then put in the stuffing, and truss tlie legs close to keep it in. Fix the birds on the spit, roast them in front of a clear fire, and baste them continually with butter. When cooked, take the birds up and put them on a hot dish. Mix with the gravy that has ran from them 1 wineglassful of port wine, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt, thicken it with the well- beaten yolk of an egg, and boil it up; then pour it over the Pigeons, and serve hot. (3) Truss three Pigeons as for roasting, and tie a slice of fat bacon over the breast of each (see Barging). Fix them on a spit, and roast them in front of a clear fire for a-quarter-of-an-hour. When cooked, take the Pigeons off the spit, and remove the string or skewers, but leave the bacon on the breasts; put them on a hot dish, garnish round with watercress, pour over a rich gravy, and serve. Boasted Pigeons Stuffed with Chestnuts.—Singe and draw two Pigeons, and truss them as for roasting. Boil h pint of chestnuts, and when tender, peel, chop, and pound them in a mortar with the same quantity of finely - chopped bacon. Stuff the Pigeons with the chestnut mixture, put a vine leaf on each breast, and bind them round with a thin slice of fat bacon; fix them on the184 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Pigeons—continued. spit, and roast them in front of a clear fire for twenty minutes or half-an-hour. Finely chop the livers, and mix with them a sprig of chopped parsley, 1 table-spoonful each of sauce and gravy, a lump of butter, a piece of grated lemon-peel, and dust over a small quantity of grated nutmeg, pepper and salt. Stir the mixture over the fire for a few minutes. Put the birds on a hot dish, and serve them with the sauce. Salmis of Pigeons.—Cut some cold cooked Pigeons into nice pieces, season them on both sides with salt and pepper, and flour them well; put them in a stewpan with a small quantity of cold water, loz. of butter, and a few drops of mushroom ketchup, and boil them gently at the edge of the fire for a few minutes. When cooked, turn the salmis on to a hot dish, garnish it with sippets of toast or croft to ns of fried bread, and serve. Stewed. Pigeons.—(1) Pluck and prepare the birds; for two Pigeons, put in a stewpan ‘2oz. of butter, |lb. of thinly- sliced lean ham, a few button mushrooms, a moderate quantity of powdered sweet herbs, and the juice of half a lemon. Put the birds in the stewpan, moisten them to height with clear gravy, and keep them simmering gently for half-an-hour or until tender. When cooked, put the Pigeons on a hot dish, and arrange the mushrooms round them. Mix 1 wineglassful of port wine with the gravy, strain it over the birds, and serve. (2) Clean four Pigeons, and truss them with their legs inwards. Put them in a stewpan, lay some thin slices of fat bacon over them, pour in some chicken broth to the height of the Pigeons, and place a sheet of buttered paper on the top. Put the lid on the stewpan, and let the contents simmer by the side of the fire until the Pigeons are done. Cut a block of crumb of bread, 3in. high, l-jin. square at the top, and widening out to 2^in. square at the base. Fiy it in boiling fat till nicely browned. Drain the piece of bread, and fix it in the middle of a dish with a paste made of white of egg and flour. Cook some cauliflowers, carrots, turnips, and French beans. Drain the Pigeons, rest them against the sides of the bread, and pile the vegetables tastefully up between them. Flollow out the bottom of an artichoke, shaping it like a bowl, put it on top of the bread, and fill it with French beans. Pour a little bechamel sauce over the Pigeons, and serve with a sauceboatful of the same sauce. (3) Clean two house Pigeons, cut off their necks, and truss them -with their legs inwards; wash the livers and put them back in the body of the birds. Blanch |lb. of streaky bacon in boiling water, first removing the rind, cut it into squares, and fry it in a stewpan with a little butter till lightly browned, then take it out. Place the Pigeons in the same stewpan with the fat, and brown them. Take them out and lay them on a plate with the bacon. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of flour in the same stewpan, and mix it with the fat over the fire till brown; then pour in 1 pint of broth and the liquor in which lqt. of turned mushrooms have been boiled. Sprinkle in a small quantity of salt and pepper, and stir it over the fire till boiling. Strain the liquor through a pointed strainer into another stewpan; then put in the Pigeons and bacon, twenty fried button onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Put the lid on the stewpan and let the contents cook gently for half an-hour; then add the mushrooms, and simmer for five minutes longer. Take the birds out when done, remove the strings, put them on a hot dish, skim the gravy, and take the sweet herbs out. Put the bacon, onions, and mushrooms round the Pigeons, strain the gravy over, and serve. (4) Truss a pair of plump young Pigeons, and soak them for an hour in 1 pint of Bordeaux wine. Chop an onion and some streaky bacon, then mix with it 4 breakfast- cupful of breadcrumbs and a small quantity of sage; bind the mixture together with a beaten egg, stuff the birds with it, and fasten them up securely. Put them in a saucepan with h pint of gravy and the wine in which they soaked. Let them simmer gently for an hour. Take the Pigeons out of the gravy, drain them, brush them over with beaten egg, sprinkle fine raspings over them, and put them in a Pigeons—continued. very hot oven, basting them with butter. Skim the fat off the gravy, and boil it sharply till reduced to \ pint. Put the Pigeons on a hot dish, pom the gravy round them, and serve. Stewed Pigeons served with Green Peas.—Truss two Pigeons with their legs inwards, cutting oil' the necks, and washing the livers and returning them again to the insides of the birds. Blanch |lb. of streaky bacon, cut it into squares, removing all rind, and fry it in a stewpan with loz. of butter. When lightly browned, take the bacon out, put the Pigeons in, and fry them brown; then take them out and put them on one side with the bacon. Stir 2 table-spoonfuls of flour in the stewpan with the fat, and when cooked pour in 1 h pints of broth. When boiling, strain it through a conical strainer into another stewpan; put in the Pigeons and bacon, lqt. of green peas, 1 bunch of sweet herbs, and pepper and salt to taste. Cook the Pigeons slowly for half-an-hour, then take them out, remove the strings, and put them on a hot dish. Take the bunch of herbs out, skim the fat off the peas, put them and the bacon round the birds, and serve with a sauceboatful of the strained gravy. Stewed Pigeons and Tinned Tomatoes.—Draw and wash a couple of Pigeons, cut off their heads, necks, and the toes at the first joint, and truss them. Cut 4oz. of bacon into small square pieces, and fry them until beginning to take colour; then put in the Pigeons and turn them occasionally until browned all over. Add 1 pint of tinned tomatoes and sufficient stock to cover, season to taste with salt and pepper, place the stewpan at the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently for one-hour- and-a-half. Put loz. of butter into a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until mixed. Pass the tomatoes and stock through a coarse wire sieve into the flour and butter, and stir over the fire until boiling, then put in 4 table-spoonfuls of cream. Lay the Pigeons on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Stewed Wood-Pigeons.—Pluck, singe, and draw three wild Pigeons, split them lengthwise into halves, then cut them across into quarters. Put the pieces of Pigeon into a saucepan, pour in 1^ pints of stock, and place it over the fire until boiling. Put in with the Pigeons one chopped onion, a small piece of mace, eight peppercorns, four cloves, and f, teaspoonful of salt. Put the lid on the saucepan, and keep the contents simmering at the side of the fire. Put table-spoonfuls of flour into a basin and mix it smoothly with a small quantity of cold water; then mix with it 1 scant table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup and a few drops of caramel. When the Pigeons are tender, pour in the flour mixture, place the saucepan over the fire, and stir and boil the contents for ten minutes. At the end of that time, put the Pigeons on a hot dish, strain the sauce over them, and serve. Stuffed Pigeons (Faecis).—Pluck, draw, and clean the required quantity of Pigeons, and make an incision in the centre of the skin of each breast without cutting the flesh. Put the crumb of a stale roll in as much milk as it will absorb, and when soft squeeze it well, and mix with it two or three finely-chopped button mushrooms, a moderate quantity each of chopped shallot and parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and toz. of butter. When these ingre- dients are well mixed, lift the skin on each side of the incisions made in the breast of the bird, and stuff them with it. Sew up each opening, and put a small onion in each bird. Put them in a stewpan with a few trimmings of ham or lean bacon, a bunch of sweet herbs, and salt to taste. Moisten them to height with stock, and stew them gently at the edge of the fire. When the Pigeons are cooked, strain off some of their liquor into a smaller stewpan, thicken it with a little flour and butter that have been rolled together, and mix 1 wineglassful of white wine with it. Stir it over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side. Toast some slices of bread, lay them on a hot dish, and place the Pigeons on them; pom- a small quantity of the gravy round, and serve with the remainder in a sauceboat.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 185 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Sic., referred to, see under their special heads. Pigeons—continued. Timbale of Pigeons with Olives.—Peel and stone six- dozen salted olives, immerse them in cold water, drain, stuff them with raw quenelle forcemeat, and roll them to their original shape. Plunge them into boiling water until the forcemeat is firm. Line a dome-shaped timbale- mould with buttered paper, and stand it on ice. Drain the olives, and arrange them in rows on the bottom and against the sides of the mould, supporting them inside with a layer of forcemeat. Draw and singe three Pigeons, divide each into four pieces, put them in a stevpan with a piece of butter, and fry them. Add Alb. of streaky bacon cut in squares, and season with salt and pepper. When nicely browned, pour in \ pint of white wine and boil it. When it has evaporated somewhat, add a few table-spoonfuls of brown sauce, and finish braising over a very slow fire. Blanch and cut in quarters some chicken’s livers, and put them in with the Pigeons. Take the stewpan off the fire, and let the contents cool. Fill the mould with the stew of Pigeons, put a layer of forcemeat on the top, and cover it with a sheet of buttered paper. Stand the timbale in the bain-marie, and poach it. Turn it on to a dish (see Fig. 237), pour a little brown sauce round it, and serve with a sauceboatful of the same. Timbale of Pigeons and Truffles.—Pluck, singe, and clean eight Pigeons, truss them, chop them into halves, put them into a saute-pan with butter and bacon-fat, adding 1 table-spoonful of parsley, 2 table-spoonfuls of mushrooms, and 4 table-spoonfuls of truffles, all finely chopped. Season to taste with grated nutmeg, salt and pepper, and simmer gently over a slow fire for fifteen minutes or so. Let them cool in the liquor, and remove as many bones as possible. Fill a mould with paste, mask the bottom and sides with game forcemeat, put in the halves of Pigeons with a few slices of truffles intermixed, pour over the flutter from the frying-pan, cover over with a little more of the paste, set the mould in a moderate oven, and bake for an-hour-and-a-half. Turn it out when done, and serve. PIGEON PEAS.—These are the seeds of a plant (Cajanus indicus) much cultivated in the East and West Indies. Although not much known in this country, they form a favourite dish amongst our countrymen in India, who, in common with the natives, esteem their nutritious qualities. The following is the usual mode of preparing them: - Pigeon Peas and Rice.—Put Alb. each of Pigeon Peas and well-washed rice into a saucepan with plenty of water, and boil them. When half cooked, put in with them some small pieces of salt pork, salt beef, and salt fish, two or three chopped onions, and two fresh peppers, and finish cooking gently. Add more water if necessary, but it must not be too liquid. When quite cooked, turn the mixture into a buttered mould, pressing it firmly in to Pigeon Peas—continued. give it the shape, then turn it out on to a hot dish, and serve as quickly as possible. PIGNOLO.—An Italian wine of Nerve, in the Ligurian Provinces; it is quite unknown in this country. PIKE (Fr. Brochet; Ger. Hecht; Ital. Luccio; Sp- Lucio).—This fish is commonly known as jack, and some- times as luce, and the young are called pickerel. It is a very voracious fresli-water fish, found in the gentle- flowing rivers and ponds of Europe and America. The name Pike is probably derived from a Celtic word re- ferring to the shape of its mouth. The British Pike (Esox Indus) (see Fig. 238) is not much esteemed by epicures, although it is asserted by some that the flesh has a very good flavour, if properly cooked. They are in season during the winter months up to the beginning of March, their spawning season; after which they are quite out of favour for some time. Izaak Walton in his “ Compleat Angler ” gives the following receipt for cooking the Pike : First open your Pike at the gills, and, if need be, cut also a little slit towards the belly. Out of these take his guts, and keep his liver, which you are to shred very small with thyme, sweet marjoram, and a little winter savory; to these put some pickled oysters and some anchovies, two or three, both these last whole, for the anchovies will melt, and the oysters should not; to these you must add also lib. of sweet butter, if the Pike be more than a yard long, or if he be less, then less butter will suffice, which you are to mix with the herbs that are shred, and let them all be well salted. These being thus mixed, with a blade or two of mace, must be put into the Pike’s belly, and then his belly so sewed up as to keep all the butter in his belly if it be possible; if not, then as much as you possibly can. But take not off the scales. Then you are to thrust the spit through his mouth, out at his tail. And then take four or five or six split sticks, or very thin laths, and a convenient quantity of tape or filleting; these laths are to be tied round about the Pike’s body from his head to his tail, and the tape tied somewhat thick, to prevent his breaking or falling off from the spit. Let him be roasted very leisurely, and often basted with claret wine, and anchovies and butter mixed together, and also with the moisture that falls from him into the pan. When you have roasted him sufficiently, you are to hold under him, when you unwind or cut the tape that ties him, such a dish as you propose to eat him out of and let him fall into it with the same that is roasted in his belly, and by this means the Pike will be kept unbroken and complete. Then to the sauce which was within, and also that sauce in the pan, you are to add a small quantity of the best butter, and to squeeze the juice of three or four oranges. Lastly, you. may either put it into the Pike, with the oysters, two cloves of garlic, and take it whole out when the Pike is cut off the spit; or, to give the sauce a liogoo (liaut gout) let the dish into which you let the Pike fall be rubbed with it; the using or not using of this garlic is left to your discre- tion. This dish of meat is too good for any but anglers or very honest men; and I trust you will prove both, and therefore I have trusted you with this secret. Baked Pickerel with Green Peas.—Scald the fish, split it lengthwise down the back, take out the backbone, and Fig. 238. Pike.186 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Pike—continued. cut off the head, tail, and fins. Lay the fish, the skin side upwards, in a deep baking-pan, with a little salt and 1 teacupful of water. Bake the fish for about ten minutes and baste it once with the water in the pan, then take out the pan and remove the skin from the fish. Drain the water out of the pan, roll the fish in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, put it in the pan with a lump of butter, and bake it for twenty minutes, or till well browned, basting continually with the butter. Put the fish when cooked on a hot dish, and serve with a border of green peas. Baked Pike.—(1) Scale and clean a Pike, cut it into slices, and place it in a baking-dish; put in some slices of onion, two bay-leaves, a piece of butter, some pepper and salt, and i pint of sour cream. Bake it for twenty-five minutes in a brisk oven, and baste it often with the cream. Strew some breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan cheese over the fish, and brown them under a salamander. Put the slices of fish on a hot dish; pour some broth in the baking dish, add some lemon-juice, salt, and pepper, stir it for a minute or two on the fire, then pour it over the fish, and serve. (2) These fish can be baked whole thus: Scale and clean the Pike, stuff the belly with veal stuffing, sew up the slit with a needle and thread, and fasten the tail to the head, to form a circle. Put the fish in a baking-dish, with a little flour and water, and put a piece of butter on its back. Baste it occasionally, and when nearly cooked add \ table-spoonful of capers and their vinegar, also three or four olives, and finish cooking. Strain the gravy off the fish into a saucepan, and mix with it the required quantity of stock, a dust of pepper, salt, and flour. Put the Pike on a hot dish, pour the gravy over, and serve. (3) Well wash and clean a Pike, taking care to remove all the film in the belly, put it into a bowl of salted water and vinegar, and let it soak for an hour. Prepare a stuffing udth |lb. of chopped beef-suet, breadcrumbs, lemon-peel, parsley, thyme, marjoram, salt and pepper, and eggs to moisten. Dry the Pike and stuff it, fasten it with skewers, put it into a deep dish with a little stock, a few sweet herbs and cloves, two or three bay-leaves, and a little lemon-rind, and bake for an hour, basting frequently. Take out the fish, put it on a hot dish, brush it over with egg, dust it over with breadcrumbs, return it to the oven for a few minutes, strain the liquor into another saucepan, add 1 wineglassful of sweet red wine, warm it up without boiling, pour it round the dish, and serve with mussels cooked in white sauce in a sauceboat. (4) Prepare a stuffing with 2oz. of finely-chopped beef- suet, 2oz. of sifted breadcrumbs, an anchovy, and some savoury herbs chopped very fine, half-a-dozen oysters chopped small, a seasoning of salt, pepper, and powdered mace, b pint of cream, and the beaten yolks of four eggs; put all together in a small saucepan over the fire and stir till it thickens, then turn it out on a plate. Scale the Pike and open it close to the throat, clean and dry it well, put the stuffing in, and sew it up. Lay it in a baking-tin, stick bits of butter over, put it in the oven, and bake. Serve with a sauce of butter, gravy, and anchovy. Boiled Pike.—(1) Scale, empty, and wash the fish. Chop twelve oysters, and mix with them the crumb of a French roll, a little finely-chopped lemon-peel, a piece of butter, the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and sweet herbs. When well mixed, stuff the fish with this forcemeat, and truss it with its tail in its mouth. Put the fish in a fish-kettle with boil- ing water, 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and 1 table-spoon- ful of salt. Boil it from lialf-an-hour to one hour, accord- to the size of the fish. When cooked, put the fish on a hot dish, garnish with pickled barberries, and serve with a sauceboatful of anchovy sauce. (2) Draw the fish, removing the gills and fins, wash them well in plenty of salted water, and next -wipe them dry on a clean cloth. Put them into a fish-kettle with a large lump of salt, the peel of a lemon, a large nutmeg grated, a slice of ginger, a blade of mace, a few cloves and peppercorns, a bunch of sweet herbs, three or four For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Fike—continued. onions, b pint of white wine, and sufficient boiling water to cover the fish. Let them simmer gently until tender. When cooked, lay the fish on a hot dish, putting the herbs and spices on the top. Mix f b breakfast-cupfuls of its cooking-liquor with 1 breakfast-cupful of butter sauce, and stir in two smoothly-pounded anchovies and a small quantity of powdered ginger. When boiling, pour the sauce over the fish, garnish with slices of lemon (see Fig. 239), and serve while very hot. (3) Potsdam.—Clean a Pike and cut it into pieces; put them in a stewpan with a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, cover with white wine, season with salt and pepper, and boil them ’slowly over a clear fire. When cooked, drain and skin the pieces of Pike, put the best in a stew- pan, and pass the cooking-stock through a sieve. Put two chopped onions in a stewpan with a piece of butter and fry them, then stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and the cooking-stock of the fish; continue stirring the sauce over the fire till thick, then move it to the side, skim oft' the fat, and pour it over the fish. Let it simmer for fifteen minutes, then add \ teacupful of whole capers, the same quantity of gherkins, cut in small squares, 1 pinch each of grated horseradish and chopped parsley, and two peeled lemons cut in slices. Add a piece of butter to the sauce and 2 table-spoonfuls of anchovy essence. Put the fish on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Boiled Pike a la Dubois.—Get a gold-coated Pike, weigh- ing 61b. or 71b., scale and draw it, truss the head, and wash it well. Make incisions across the back, as deep as the spine-bone, stand the fish on its belly in the fish- kettle, cover with white wine and water mixed in equal quantities, put in a few minced vegetables, a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, four or five peppercorns, and a little salt. When boiling, move the fish-kettle to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for one hour. Prepare a good sauce with 1 pint of fish-stock strained and cooled, thicken it with flour and butter kneaded together, add 2 table-spoonfuls of soy and 5 table-spoon- fuls of butter, broken into small pieces. Drain the fish, lay it on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with nice little sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Boiled Pike with Caper Sauce.—A Pike will improve by being kept for two days. Clean it, cut off the fins, and bind its head round with string. Put the fish in a fish kettle, cover with court bouillon, and let it simmer for forty minutes; then leave it to soak in the couit bouillon as long as possible; twenty-four hours is not too long and will greatly improve it. Before warming the Pike again, take it and the liquor out, clean the kettle, then put it back again and warm it for twenty minutes. Place the fish on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish round with fresh parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of caper sauce. Boiled Pike served with Quenelles.—Clean and wrap a Pike in buttered paper, and boil it in mirepoix and white wine mixed in equal quantities. Prepare some quenelles with Pike forcemeat and crayfish butter, and poach them. When cooked, glaze the Pike, lay it on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper, place the quenelles round, and serve with a sauceboatful of financiere sauce for fish. < Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads.187 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Pike—continued. Boudins of Pike.—(1) Prepare a Pike quenelle forcemeat and mix with it 4 table-spoonfuls of cooked and chopped fine herbs. Divide the forcemeat into small equal portions, and roll them out on a floured table to pieces three times the thickness of macaroni. Twist the ends of each of these pieces in a spiral and in an opposite direction, imitating the letter S. Put a wooden skewer through each boudin, range them side by side in a buttered saute-pan, and poach them in boiling salted water. Drain the boudins, leave them till cool, then dip them in beaten eggs and breadcrumbs, and fry till lightly browned in boiling fat. When done, drain, and arrange the boudins on a folded napkin or ornamental disli-paper on a hot dish, garnish round with parsley, and serve. (2) Prepare a Pike forcemeat, also a salpipon made of mush- rooms, carp’s roes, and truffles, mixed in stiffly reduced German sauce. Butter some strips of paper, 4in. long and 2Jain. wide, and put a piece of forcemeat, 3Jin. by 1 Jin. thick on each strip, with the handle of a spoon. Press part of the forcemeat in the centre of each boudin, to form a hollow fin. deep and fin. in diameter, fill the cavity with some of the salpipon, then cover it with some forcemeat, put the boudins in a saute-pan with a little stock, and let them simmer for a quarter-of-an-hour. Arrange the boudins in a circle on a hot dish, pour some German sauce over, and serve. Broiled Fillets of Pike.—Pick the fillets of three or four Pike off the bones and cut each into halves lengthwdse, rub them over with finely-minced shallots and salt and pepper, dredge with flour, and broil them over a clear fire. Beat 4oz. of butter together with the juice of a lemon and a small quantity of cayenno pepper. When cooked, put the fillets on a hot dish, coat them with the prepared butter, and serve. Broiled Fillets of Pike d la Tide.—Cut the fillets off a Pike, skin them and shape like cutlets, dust with a little salt and pepper, brush them over with beaten yolks of eggs, strew with breadcrumbs, brush over with warmed butter, and breadcrumb them again. Broil the fillets over a clear but slow fire. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar in a saucepan and boil it until reduced to half, then add 3 table-spoonfuls of brown sauce; thicken it with the yolk of an egg, stir in 2 table-spoon- fuls of fresh butter and the juice of half a lemon, season with salt and pepper, and continue stirring till the sauce is quite smooth. Put the fillets on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Carbonade of Pike.—(1) Skin and bone a Pike, cut it into nice slices, dip them in warmed butter, and strew over some chopped sweet herbs and finely-grated breadcrumbs. Baste them with 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of ibeaten egg, lay them on a baking-dish, and bake until nicely browned. When cooked, lay them carefully on a hot dish; pour some clear gravy in the baking-dish, stir it well over the fire, pour over the fish, garnish with cut lemons, and serve. (2) Clean the Pike, remove the skin and bones, and cut it into moderately thick slices. Dip the slices in warmed butter and then in fine herbs, giving them a good coating. Leave the slices of fish for lialf-an-hour, then coat them with finely grated breadcrumbs, having previously moistened them with beaten egg. Lay the slices on a baking-dish, put them in a brisk oven, and bake till lightly browned. When cooked, lay the slices of fish on a hot dish. Pour \ pint of broth in the baking-dish, with a squeeze of lemon- juice, stir it well over the fire until boiling, then pour it over the fish, and serve. Fillets of Pike a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan and melt it; divide the fillets of Pike into halves, put them skin side downwards into the warmed butter, sprinkle some chopped shallots over them, season with salt and pepper, and fry over a slow fire for ten minutes, turning them when done on one side. The fillets should not be browned. Make f pint of melted butter, mix with it Jib. of maitre-d’hotel butter, and stir till it has quite dissolved. When cooked, arrange the fish on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Pike—continued. Fillets of Pike a la Royale.—Fillet a large Pike, cut the thick part of each fillet slantingly into slices, beat them lightly, and trim to an oval shape of an equal size. Put one half of the fillets into a buttered saute-pan, spread the remaining ones with a thin layer of quenelle forcemeat, sprinkle them over with chopped truffle, and put them in a saute-pan with some clarified butter. Prepare some paste for a crust to dish the fillets on with some flour, water, and butter; it should be kept rather consistent. Leave the paste till somewhat dry, then put it on a floured table, and work with the hand, adding more flour, till very firm ; let the paste rest for twenty-five minutes, giving it seven turns like puff paste. When very smooth, form the paste into a crust, brush it over with beaten egg, and dry in the hot closet; it will not require baking. Put the crust on a dish and fix a bread support in the centre, the top of which should be finished with a garnished attelette skewrer. Cook all the fillets, and when nicely done, arrange them in a circle on the crust. Fill the space between the fillets and the column of bread with mushrooms that have been glazed over with Normandy sauce, and serve. Fricasseed Pike.—Draw and wash two middling-sized Pike, cut off the fins, divide the Pike into pieces, and wipe them. Put a finely-chopped onion in a stewpan with a piece of butter and fry it for two minutes; then put in the pieces of Pike, season with salt and pepper, and fry them. When the flesh is firm, sprinkle over 2 table- spoonfuls of flour, and add gradually some water and white wine, mixed in equal quantities, a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, five or six peppercorns and cloves, and some trimmings of fresh mushrooms; boil the pieces of Pike quickly, so as to reduce the liquor one-third. When cooked, take the pieces of Pike out, drain, and put them on a hot dish. Strain the sauce, and mix -with it a few fresh cooked morels, and their liquor freed of all fat. Boil the sauce, then move it to the side of the fire, and stir in the yolks of two or three beaten eggs and a little chopped parsley. When thickened, pour the sauce over the fish, Fig. 240. Fricasseed Pike. garnish with the morels and a few stuffed crayfish body- shells, and sprinkle over some capers; roll some fillets of anchovies into rings, put them round the dish (see Fig. 240), and serve. Fried Fillets of Pike.—Cut the fillets carefully off a Pike, wash and dry them well, then dip them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, and fry them in plenty of oil. When nicely brow'ned, drain the fillets, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with a matelote sauce, and serve. Fried Fillets of Fike served with Bice.—Cut the fillets off a Pike, remove the skin, dust some pepper and salt over them, and fry in butter, keeping them white and firm; turn wdien done on one side and finish the other. Wash some rice and blanch it in boiling water, drain, put it in a stewpan witli some stock, and boil gently till well cooked; then mix with it a little thick cream and 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of veloutd sauce, keeping it tldck and firm. Dish the rice in a dome shape in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the fillets on it, mask them with a little maitre-d’hotel sauce, and serve with a sauce- boatful of the same. Fried Fike.—Select small Pike, draw and wash them; put a lump of butter in a stewpan, and when blue smoke rises put in the fish, seeing that they are perfectly dry, and fry until nicely browned and crisp. Afterwards drain the butter off them, and put in with them two or three anchovies, a slice of ginger, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, salt to taste, and a sufficient quantity of claretTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 188 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Ssc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fike—continued. to cover them. Boil the fish until tender, when the liquor should he reduced to half its original quantity; then put in the juice of an orange and a small lump of butter. Lay the fish on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with slices of oranges, and serve. Pickled. Pike.—Scale and empty a Pike, wash it thoroughly, bind its head up, put it in a fish-kettle, and cover with a fish stock made with red wine; add two or three bay- leaves, and boil it gently till cooked. Leave the Pike in the sauce till the following day. When ready to serve, drain the fish, put it on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fresh parsley, and serve with oil and vinegar. Fike a la Chambord.—(1) Thoroughly clean a large Pike, lard it in a square on one side with bacon, and put it in a fisli-kettle, the larded side upwards. Cut four onions, one carrot, and one turnip into slices, and put them in a saucepan with four bay-leaves, six cloves, a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, two blades of mace, and Jib. each of butter and lean ham, and fry them over a slow fire for twenty minutes. Pour in with the vegetables 1 wine- glassful of vinegar, \ pint of Madeira, and 6qts of broth; boil them for one hour, then pass all through a sieve over the fish, and stew gently for one hour or more, according to the size of the fish. Care should be taken that the liquor does not come over the larded part, but it should be basted occasionally with it. Hot coals should be kept on the lid of the stewpan. When cooked, drain the fish and glaze it. Put 1 pint of the cooking liquor in a sauce- pan, with 2 wineglassfuls of Madeira wine, first skimming off all the fat. Boil it till reduced to half its original quantity, then mix with it 2qts. of brown sauce, and" stir over the fire till it coats the spoon. Put in the sauce one carp’s or mackerel’s roe, cut in large pieces but not broken at all, fifteen cocks’ combs, fifteen heads of white mushrooms, twelve large whiting forcemeat quenelles, 1 table-spoonful of essence of anchovies, and J table-spoonful of sugar. Put the fish on a hot dish, pour the sauce round it, arranging the quenelles, &c. tastefully, and serve while very hot. (2) This handsome dish is attributed to Jules Gouffe. Skin and clean a Pike, removing the intestines through the gills, and bind the head round with string. Wrap the fish in buttered paper, put it in a stewpan, and cover with mirepoix and French white wine, mixed in equal quantities. Boil the Pike, and when done, drain, stud it across with rows of square pieces of truffles and with a little Pike forcemeat. Stick a fillet of sole between each row; put the Pike in the oven to cook the fillets. Prepare a ragout of Pike forcemeat quenelles, truffles, and mush- rooms. Strain the cooking liquor of the fish, boil it till slightly reduced, then mix with it 2 pints of Spanish sauce, and reduce again. Prepare a rice socle on a dish, lay the Pike on it, put the ragofit over it, and pour round Fike—continued. some of the sauce. Garnish with large Pike forcemeat quenelles, carp roes, mushrooms, and crayfish, all previously cooked as for garnish. Stick some mushrooms, crayfish, and carp roes on four silver skewers, fix them in the fish (see Fig. 241), and serve with a sauceboatful of the same sauce. Pike a la Clemont.—Scale and clean a Pike, cut it into pieces, and put them in a deep tin with some chopped onions, parsley, lemon-juice, and olive oil, and let it soak for half-an-hour. Sprinkle breadcrumbs over the pieces of fish, stand the tin on a slow fire and boil it, basting frequently with the oil. When cooked, put the fish on a hot dish, garnish with stewed carp’s roe, and serve with a sauceboatful of maitre-d’hotel sauce. Pike a la Financiere.—Clean a Pike, skin it, wrap it in buttered paper, and boil in mirepoix and French wine, mixed in equal quantities. Make a ragofit of Pike force- meat quenelles, mushrooms, crayfish-tails, and truffles, mixed in financiere sauce, prepared as for fish. Put a rice socle on a hot dish, drain and glaze the Pike, and put it on the socle; pile the ragoftt round it, in such a way that it hides the socle. Garnish round with truffles, mushrooms, and crayfish. Garnish four silver skewers with crayfish, mushrooms, and fried smelts, stick them in the fish, and serve with a sauceboatful of the same sauce. Pike a la Genevaise.—Scale and clean a Pike, boil it in highly-seasoned fish stock, and while cooking prepare the following sauce: Make a roux with flour and butter, mix with it some fish stock, chopped onions, mushrooms, and parsley, adding a small quantity of wine if liked. Stir it over the fire, then put in 1 dessert-spoonful of essence of anchovies, and the strained juice of half a lemon. Put the fish on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Or this may be served with Dutch sauce. Pike a la Genoise.—(1) Clean and scale a Pike, and put it in a baking-pan without splitting it open, but scored across where the portions are to be taken off. Put in with it a carrot, a piece of turnip, onion, and a stalk of celery, all cut in small pieces, a slice of fat salt pork, one bay-leaf, pepper, salt, and 1 pint of stock. Bake the fish for three-quarters-of-an-hour or more according to the size, and baste it frequently. Put the Pike, when cooked and nicely browned, on a hot dish. Skim the fat off the cooking liquor, and pour in with it another pint of stock, 1 table- spoonful of tomato ketchup, and 1 teacupful of wine. Boil the sauce till reduced, thicken it slightly with flour, then strain it over the fish, and serve. Fike with Aspic Jelly.—Thoroughly clean a Pike, stuff it with some rather stiff fish forcemeat, sew it up, wrap it in a cloth, and boil it in court bouillon and white wine. When cooked, leave the fish in its cooking-liquor till cold, then take it out, remove the cloth, put it, belly downwards, on the drainer of the fisli-kettle, and leave it for some tune to make sure of its being thoroughly drained. Trim the skin off the thickest part of its body, cut the flesh into slices, which put back again in shape, then glaze the fish with aspic jelly. Put the Pike on to an oval dish, propping it up on both sides with pieces of bread; surround it first with aspic jelly, then with halves of hard-boiled d^gs and small crofitons of aspic jelly, arranged alternately. Garnish four attelette skewers, each with one truffle and one quenelle, and one with a truffle and two crayfish, one of which should be smaller than the other, and placed next the truffle. Stick the crayfish skewer in the middle of the Pike’s back, and place the others two on each side. The dish containing the fish should be placed on an ornamented stand. Pike Cheese (Pain) with Crayfish.—Cut the fillets off a Pike, remove the skin and bones, and put the flesh in a mortar with half its quantity of butter, a part of which should be mixed with crayfish butter. Pound it and season with pepper and salt, pass it through a fine hair sieve, and work it for a few minutes in a basin. Stir in slowly the whipped white of one egg and double the quantity of whipped cream. Butter a mould, fill it with the forcemeat, and poach it in the bain-marie. When189 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Pike—continued. cooked, turn the pain on to a hot dish, pour over it some reduced bechamel sauce, that has been coloured with cray- fish butter and mixed with a few cut crayfish-tails, and serve the pain with a sauceboatful of the same sauce. Pike Cheese (Pain) with Truffles.—Prepare a quenelle forcemeat with ljlb. of Pike flesh, Jib. of ground rice panada, 14oz. of butter, and the yolks of four or five eggs. Thickly butter a cylinder-mould and garnish the sides with some peeled and cooked truffles, fill it with the forcemeat, and poach it in the bain-marie. In three- quarters-of-an-liour take the mould out of the bain-marie, turn the contents out on a dish, with a fried bread support in the centre, and pour some fish sauce that has been reduced with trimmings of truffles in the dish ; garnish a silver skewer with shrimps, stick it in the bread, and serve with a sauceboatful of the same sauce. Pike Cutlets with Tomato Sauce.—Mix with lib. of raw Pike flesh Jib. of butter, and chop and pound them to- gether. Season the mixture, and mix with it the beaten yolks of two eggs, and a little more than J teacupful of stiffly-reduced bechamel sauce. Shape the forcemeat into cutlets on a floured table, egg-and-breadcrumb them, and fry them till nicely browned on both sides in clarified butter. Put them on a hot dish, pour tomato sauce over, and serve. Pike Forcemeat.—Cut off the fillets of a cold boiled Pike, rub them through a fine hair sieve, weigh them, and to every pound of fish add lOoz. of bread panada and lOoz. of butter; mix well, season with salt and pepper, stir in two beaten eggs, and moisten with reduced veloutd sauce maigre, thickened with egg. When of the proper con- sistency for forcemeat, it is ready for use. Pike Forcemeat Cooked as a Whole Pish.—Select a rather large Pike, remove the gills, and chop the end off the tail; cut off the flesh of the fish, leaving only a small quantity on the backbone, but with the head and tail still attached to it. Finely mince the flesh of the Pike with an equal quantity of flesh off another one. Put a finely-chopped onion in a stewpan with a good-sized lump of butter, and stir it over the fire till cooked, but without browning it; mix the onion and butter with the fish, also 1 breakfast- cupful of grated breadcrumbs, and season the mixture with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Mix in sufficient beaten egg to bind the whole to a stiff paste. Thickly butter a baking-dish, lay in the skeleton of the fish, and cover it with the forcemeat, smoothing it over to the shape of the fish with the blade of a knife. Brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, cover with grated breadcrumbs and Parmesan cheese, and moisten with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter. Fasten a piece of paper round the head and tail of the fish, Fig. 242. Pike Forcemeat Cooked as a Whole Fish. put it into a moderate oven, and bake. When the fish is cooked, place it carefully on a table-napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish (see Fig. 242), and serve with a sauceboatful of any kind of fish sauce and parsley garnish. Pike Soup.—Cut 21b. of Pike into small pieces, removing all the skin and bones. Put 4oz. of well-washed rice in a large saucepan with plenty of water and a lump of salt, and boil it until very soft. Place the fish in a frying-pan with plenty of butter, and toss it about over the fire until cooked. Next chop the fish finely, put it in a mortar Pike—continued. with the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, and pound them until smooth. Stir the pounded mixture in with the rice, add as much more water as will be required to make the soup, season to taste with salt and pepper, and pass the whole through a fine hair sieve. Put in a couple of ounces of butter broken into small pieces, and boil the soup up. When ready, pour the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with sippets of toast or small croiitons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter. Any other flavouring liked may be added to the soup. Potted Pike.—Having cleaned and scalded the fish, cut off the head, split it down the back, and take out the bone. Season the inside with bay-salt and pepper, roll it up tightly, put it in a baking-tin with butter, cover it, and bake for one hour. When cooked, take it out, drain, and leave it till cold. Put the Pike in a jar, cover it with clarified butter, and tie the jar over with paper. Quenelles of Pike and Mushrooms.—Mix with 41b. of chopped and pounded Pike-flesh 2Jlb. of bread panada and Jib. of fresh butter; season them, and pound all to- gether, adding gradually, one at a time, the yolks of three eggs. Pass the forcemeat through a fine hair sieve into a kitchen basin, smooth it, and try a little piece in boiling water. Mould the forcemeat into quenelles with 2 table- spoons, put them side by side in a flat buttered stew- pan, and poach them in boiling salted water. Turn eighteen or twenty button mushrooms, and cook them in lemon-juice and butter. With the bones and trimmings of the Pike, trimmings of mushrooms, chopped vegetables, and some Avhite wine prepare a fish gravy; strain the gravy, skim the fat off, and stir in gradually with it 3 tea- cupfuls of reduced white sauce and the liquor of the mush- rooms. Thicken the sauce Avith the yolks of two or three eggs, and strain it through a fine silk sieve; stir it over the fire again, and mix with it 4 table-spoonfuls of butter, but do not let it boil. Arrange the quenelles in a circle on a hot dish, put the mushrooms in the centre, pour a little of the sauce over, and serve with the remainder in a sauceboat. Rissoles of Pike.—Prepare a little Pike quenelle forcemeat. Roll out some short-paste that has been prepared with lib. of flour and lOoz. of butter, and cut some rounds out of it with a fluted tin-cutter, 2in. in diameter. Put on the Fig. 243. Rissoles of Pike. centre of each flat of paste a little ball of the forcemeat; damp the edges of the flats, and fold them in such a manner that the forcemeat is completely enclosed. Dip the rissoles in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, and fry them in clarified butter over a slow fire. When cooked, put the rissoles on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-cover on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 243), and serve. Roasted Pike.—(1) Peel 1 pint of shrimps, chop them, and mix with them one onion and one sprig of parsley, both chopped, and some breadcrumbs; season to taste with salt, pepper, and spices, and mix all well together with Jib. of butter. Clean the Pike, stuff it with the mixture, and spread some over the outside. Put the Pike in a cradle- spit and roast it in front of a clear fire, basting fre- quently with butter. When cooked (it will take "about lialf-an-hour), put the fish on a folded napkin or orna- mental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish round with parsley, and serve. (2) The fish should be perfectly fresh when used ; draw out the inside through the gills, chop the liver as finely as possible, mix with it lib. of butter, a few chopped pickled oysters and boned and chopped anchovies, powdered sweet herbs, parsley, mace, and salt to taste. Stuff the fish with the mixture, sew it up carefully to keep in the190 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred to, see under their special heads. Fike—continued. stuffing, pass the spit through the mouth and tail, and fix it in front of a clear but not too brisk fire. Baste it continually with claret and butter, with a small quantity of anchovy paste mixed with it. When cooked, lay the fish on the dish on which it is to be served, and cut the thread that it is trussed with, when the sauce inside will run out. Mix a small piece more butter with the drippings in the pan and the strained juice of four oranges, boil it up, stirring well, and pour it over the fish. Serve without delay. Roasted Stuffed Fike.—The Pike should be kept for two days after it has been caught. Scale, draw, and lard it with fillets of anchovies and gherkins. Prepare a stuffing for the fish in the following way: Put a well- cooked omelet in a mortar ivith the yolks of three hard- boiled eggs, some bread panada, and a lump of butter; pound them all well together, stir in sufficient well- whipped whites and yolks of eggs to make it the proper consistency, and stuff the Pike with it. Spread some sprigs of sweet herbs on a sheet of buttered paper, sprinkle some mixed spice and salt over them, and wrap the Pike up in it; fasten it together with skewers, and roast in front of a clear fire, basting occasionally with white wine and warmed butter. When cooked, unwrap the Pike, put it on a hot dish, garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of thick piquante sauce. Soused Fike.—Do not scale the fish, but draw it, save its liver, and thoroughly wash it. Put a sufficient quantity of water in a fish-kettle to just cover the fish, with a quarter the quantity of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, and spices to taste. When the liquor boils, add a dash of vinegar, put in the fish, and boil it. When cooked, take the fish out of the kettle and lay it in a pie-dish; mix with the liquor in moderate quantities some bruised ginger and white pepper, boil it up again, then move it from the fire. When cold, pour the liquor over the fish, and leave it in a cold larder for three or four days. Serve the fish with chopped fennel and vinegar. Stewed Fike.—(1) The famous Soyer is accredited with the following receipt, given under a rather more elaborate title: Scale and clean a Pike, and truss it with its tail in its mouth. Put it in a stewpan with two onions, two turnips, one carrot, one head of celery, and one leek, all chopped; add a bunch of parsley and thyme and three or four bay- leaves. Pour in 3 pints of broth, put the lid on the stew- pan, with some live embers on the top, and let the con- tents stew gently by the side of the fire till the fish is cooked, which can be easily ascertained by running a knife close into the backbone; if done the meat will detach easily. Drain the Pike and dry it with a cloth, brush it over with beaten egg, and dredge plenty of bread- crumb over. Place the fisli in the oven and brown it nicely. Put 2J breakfast-cupfuls of white sauce in a stewpan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, boil it for five minutes, then add the whites of four hard-boiled eggs, four gherkins, and two truffles, all cut into small squares. When ready, stir in with these ingredients 2 table-spoon- fuls of essence of anchovy, the strained juice of half a lemon, and 4oz. of butter. Stir it over the fire till the butter has dissolved. Put the fish on a hot dish without a napkin, pour the sauce over, and serve. (2) Clean a Pike, cut it across in slices, flour and season them with pepper and salt, put them in a frying-pan, and fry lightly in oil. Fry a chopped onion with a little oil in a stewpan, then add a bunch of mint and 1 pint of light tomato sauce. Boil it, put in the pieces of fish, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let the con- tents simmer for twenty minutes. Take the bunch of mint out, put the fish on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. (3) Polish.—Skin and clean the Pike and cut it into thick pieces. Blanch in salted water three or four carrots, a stick or two of celery, and some parsley roots, then mince them. Fry a finely-chopped onion with butter in a stewpan, and when nicely browned put in the pieces of fish; season with salt and pepper, and fry them for ten minutes. Cover the fish with white wine, and when boil- Pike—continued. ing put in the minced vegetables, and let it continue boiling till the sauce is reduced to half its original quantity. Thicken the sauce with kneaded butter, mix with it two handfuls of minced nouilles that have been boiled in salted water, and let it boil five minutes longer. Take the pieces of fish out with a skimmer, put them on a hot dish, without the head; put a piece of butter and a little chopped parsley in the sauce, pour it over the fish, and serve. Stewed Fike with Agro-Dolce Sauce.—Clean a Pike, cut it up into pieces, and soak them in a basin of salted water for one hour. Rinse the pieces of Pike in clean water, dry them on a cloth, dredge flour over them, and put them side by side in a buttered stewpan; put in with them a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, 2 table-spoonfuls of red- currant jelly, 1 teacupful of stoned raisins, five or six peeled and chopped almonds, 1 pinch of pepper, and vinegar to three-parts the height of the fish. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, close the lid tightly, put some hot cinders on, and let the contents simmer for one hour. When cooked, put the fish on a hot dish; strain the liquor to make a sauce, colour it with a few drops of caramel, and pour it over the fish. Put at each end a bunch of scraped horseradish, and serve. Stewed Pike with Butter Sauce.—Draw and clean a Pike, cut off the fins, nib it well with salt, and baste with a little lemon-juice. Put the fish in a stewpan witli an onion, a bunch of parsley, and a bay-leaf tied together, and a few peppercorns. Moisten to height with three parts stock that has been freed of all fat, two parts wine, and one part vinegar, season to taste with salt, and boil it gently until tender. When the fish is cooked, strain off a sufficient quantity of its cooking-liquor into a small stewpan to make the sauce, put in with it 4oz. of butter in small pieces, 4 teacupful of milk, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and boil it up. Beat the yolks of three eggs with 3 table-spoonfuls of cream, and strain them. Move the sauce to the side of the fire and stir in the beaten eggs. Lay the fish on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Stewed Fike for Lent (German Style).—Thoroughly clean and scale a Pike, and let it steep in salted water for an hour or two. Rub a stewpan over with a clove of garlic, and put in it a good-sized lump of butter, two or three slices of lemon, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and a few cloves. Toss the whole over the fire for a few minutes, then pour in J pint of water, 1 wineglassful of red wine, and 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Cut the fish into convenient-sized pieces, put them in with the above ingredients, place the lid on the stewpan, and keep the contents boiling gently for about lialf-an-hour. When cooked, lay the fish on a hot dish, and mix with the sauce the yolks of three eggs that have been beaten with 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of cream, also some finely-grated breadcrumbs. Stir it over the fire until thickened and boiling, then put in a lump of butter, pour it over the fish, and serve quickly. PIKELETS.—The origin of this word is doubtful. It does not seem to have any particular signification, but to be a provincial name for thin muffins or cakes pre- pared as follows: Mix in a basin Jib. of sifted flour with 1 large table- spoonful of bran, 1 saltspoonful of sugar, and J saltspoon- ful of salt; add just sufficient warm milk to form the whole into a stiff dough, cover the basin with a cloth, and leave it in a warm temperature. On the following morn- ing knead the dough again, mixing with it a little more flour if it is not stiff enough, and mould it into small round cakes. Butter some baking-sheets, arrange the cakes on them, leaving a space between each, and bake them in a quick oven. When cooked through and lightly browned, split the Pikelets open and butter them. Arrange them on a napkin on a hot dish, and serve. PILAU.—This is a strictly Oriental dish, not suffi- ciently esteemed by Europeans. It is sometimes calledTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 191 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Pilau—continued. Pillau, Pilaf, Pellow, Pooloo, &c., according to the fancy of the writer. Several receipts will be found under various headings, the following being very fair types of all: English Pilau.—Bone a loin of mutton, trim off all the sinewy pieces of fat and skin, and cut the meat up into pieces of an equal size. Put the bones in a stewpan with a knuckle of veal, cover them with broth, place them over the fire till boiling, then move it to the side, skim, and keep it simmering; season with a few sliced vegetables and a bunch of sweet herbs. Put the pieces of loin in a stewpan with Jib. of raw ham, cut into small pieces, and a lump of butter; toss them about over a quick fire till nicely browned, then pour in h pint of broth, dust hi a small quantity of salt and pepper, and boil till the broth is reduced to a glaze. Pour a little more broth over the meat, boil that also till reduced to a glaze, then pour in some more, and continue thus till the mutton is tender, seasoning it with 1 pinch of cayenne pepper. Put a chopped onion in a saucepan with a little butter, fry it till lightly browned, then put in 1 breakfast-cupful of well- washed and dried rice, and toss it about for a few minutes over the fire. Strain the broth from the bones, pour it over the rice, and cook gently at the side of the fire without stirring. When tender, the rice should be dry and the grains left whole. Put 2oz. of butter in small pieces into the rice and 3oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and stir lightly to mix it. Turn two-thirds of the rice into a deep dish, make a hollow in the centre, in which put the stewed meat; place the remainder of the rice on the top, level the surface with the blade of a knife, pour a few -table-spoonfuls of melted butter over it, grate over 2oz. of Parmesan cheese, brown it lightly under the salamander, and serve. Xndian Pilau.—Throw 1 teacupful of rice into fast-boiling water and let it boil for twenty minutes, then drain it in a colander or a sieve. Stir in loz. of butter and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Pile the rice on a hot dish, garnish with quarters of hard-boiled eggs, and surround it with onions fried till dry. Persian Pilau.—Cut about 21b. of lean raw mutton, lamb, or other meat into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with 3oz. of butter, and fry till brown, taking care not to burn them. Take the pieces of meat out of the saucepan and place them on a dish. Peel and chop three onions, put them into the saucepan with the butter that the meat was fried in, and stir them about until browned. Put the pieces of meat in with the onions, also a few table-spoon- fuls of blanched pistachio kernels, 1 table-spoonful of well- washed currants, h teaspoonful of mixed spice, and ljlb. of rice that has been well washed; pour in 3 pints of cold water, and add a lump of salt. Place the lid on the pan, solder round the edges with flour-and-water paste to keep it air-tight, and boil the contents slowly at the side of the fire until all the moisture is absorbed. When cooked, turn the Pilau carefully on to a hot dish, and serve. Turkish Pilau.—Put 1 breakfast-c.upful of stewed and strained tomatoes in a saucepan with l pint of broth, one minced onion, and season well with pepper and salt. When boiling, put 1 breakfast-cupful of well-washed rice in, stir it lightly till the liquor is absorbed, then put in 1 teacupful of butter. Put the saucepan at the back of the stove, and steam the contents for twenty minutes. Remove the lid, stir the Pilau lightly, cover it with a cloth, and let the steam escape; I breakfast-cupful of chopped cooked meat can be added if liked. Serve the Pilau as a vegetable without the meat, and as an entree with it. PILCHARDS.—The common name for the Pilchard (Clupea pilchardus) is the gipsy herring. It is a fine fat fish (see Fig. 244) and is very abundant on the Devonshire and Cornwall coasts; but may be found all over the Channel even to the French coast, where it is known by the name of sardine. Pilchards are generally salted or preserved in oil in tins. Fresh Pilchards are in season Pilchards—continued. between July and Christmas, but are rarely found fresh in our inland markets. The following receipts are well known where Pilchards are plentiful; or they may be cooked like herrings. Pilchard Crodtons.—Open a tin of Pilchards, take the fish carefully out, and lay them on a sieve to drain. When all the oil possible has run off, skin the Pilchards and separate the flesh from the bones; chop the flesh, mix with it plenty of anchovy sauce, and season well with salt and pepper. Put a small piece of butter in with the mixture, and work it until smooth with the broad flat blade of a knife. Boil two or three eggs hard, put them into cold water, and leave until cold; then peel, and cut them into slices. Cut some rounds of bread with a pastry- cutter, about 2in. in diameter, and toast them; butter them, spread some of the fish mixture over each, lay the slices of hard-boiled eggs on the top, and put them into an oven for a few minutes just to heat. Spread a folded napkin on a fancy disli-paper over a hot dish, lay the pieces of toast on it, garnish -with parsley that has been fried, and serve. Pilchard-and-Leek Pie.—The night before making this pie, put four or five salted Pilchards in a bowl of cold water, and let them soak all night. On the following morning, clean them and trim off their tails and fins. Trim off all the green from six leeks, cut the white part into pieces, and scald them in boiling salted water. Arrange the fish and leeks in layers in a pie-dish, season- ing to taste between each layer; cover them with a good crust, and bake in a moderate oven. Whenrtlie pie is cooked, lift the cover and mix in J breakfast-cupful of thick boiling cream; replace the cover, stand the pie-dish on a flat dish, and serve. PIMENTO.—See Allspice. PINE-APPLES (Fr. Ananas; Ger. Ananase; Ital. Ananassi; Sp. Pinas de Indias).—The Pine-apple is the fruit of a tropical plant (Ananas sativa) with rigid foliage, having sharp spines along the edges, and it has long been acknowledged one of the most delicious fruits in exist- ence. It is said to be a native of Brazil, and to have been carried thence to the West, and afterwards to the East Indies. The fruit is borne on a short stem which rises in the centre of the plant and bears a scaly conical spike, surmounted by a number of small spiny leaves called the crown. This conical body, after flowering, gradually enlarges until it becomes the fruit (see Fig. 245). The Pine-apple is first mentioned in England as having been presented to Oliver Cromwell, and afterwards it was regarded as a delicacy by Charles II. Since then ex- traordinary efforts have been made to cultivate the Pine in this country, and with the greatest success, for Pine- apples have been matured in pots, surpassing in size and flavour those of foreign growth. The Provi- dence Pine-apple is a common kind imported from the Bahama Islands, and it may frequently be seen on costermongers’ barrows, selling at very low prices. Pine-apples can be used for many culinary purposes, and those preserved in tins are nearly as good as the fresh for confectionery.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 192 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Fine-apples—continued. Bavaroise of Fine-apple.—Peel the Pine, cut it into slices Jin. in thickness, put them in a preserving-pan with Jib. of loaf sugar, Joz. of isinglass, and \ teacupful of water. Put the pan over a moderate fire, and stew the contents till tender, keeping them well stirred. Ruh the Pine through a fine hair sieve into a basin, stand it on ice, and keep it stirred till on the point of setting, then mix in thoroughly 1 pint of well-whipped cream. Pour the bavaroise into a mould, close it, and pack in pounded ice and salt. In about two hours’ time, or more, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, turn the bavaroise out on to a glass or fancy dish, and serve. Bottled Fine-apple.—Peel the rind smoothly and carefully off some Pine apples, pick out all the discoloured parts, and cut off the heads and stalks. Cut the Pines into slices, and pack them closely in wide-mouthed bottles or glass jars; fill each one with some syrup boiled to the 26deg., cork them, and tie down. Put the bottles in a saucepan of water, placing straw round them to prevent them knocking together and breaking, and boil them gently for twenty-five minutes. At the end of that time take the saucepan off the fire, and leave the bottles in the water till cold; then dip their noses in bottle wax, and store them away for use. Candied Fine-apple Knots.—Peel and slice sufficient Pine- apple vuth a fourth of the quantity of ribston pippins to make lib. of pulp. Boil them in \ pint of water till tender, then rub them through a cane sieve. Boil 14oz. of sugar to the ball (see Sugar-boiling), then mix the pulp with it, colour with a small quantity of saffron, and stir it over the fire till reduced to a stiff pasts. Turn the paste on to a baking-sheet, level it off with the blade of a knife to about Jin. in thickness, then place it into a moderately-heated screen, and dry for several hours. Pass a knife between the paste and baking-sheet to detach it, turn the paste over, and dry it for an hour longer. When cold, cut the paste into narrow strips between 5in. and 6in. in length, shape them into true-lover’s knots, or double figures of eight, and place them on closely-latticed wire trays. Dry the knots for about an hour in the screen, then pack them away for use. Fine-apples—continued. Compote of Fine-apple.—Peel a Pine-apple and cut it into slices about Jin. in thickness. Cut all the slices into halves, with the exception of one of the middle ones, which should be-left whole. Put them in a sugar-boiler, with some syrup at 20deg., and let them simmer gently at the side of the fire for an hour. Put the Pine-apple into a basin, pour the syrup over, and let it steep for twenty-four hours. At the end of that time, put the slices on a wire drainer, strain the syrup through a silk Fig. 246. Compote of Pine-apple. sieve into a sugar-boiler, and boil till reduced to 32deg. Arrange the half-slices of Pine-apple in the centre of a compote dish, put the round slice on the top, pour the syrup over (see Fig. 246), and serve. Dried Fine-apple.—Peel and cut out any discoloured parts of a Pine apple, cut them in slices Jin. thick, put them in a preserving-pan with some syrup at 22deg., and let them simmer for ten minutes. Put the Pine apple and syrup in a white-lined pan, and leave them till the follow- ing day. Strain the syrup off, boil it, skim, and pom- it over the Pine-apple again. Proceed in the same way the two following days. On the fourth day take the slices of Pine-apple out of the syrup, drain them well, and put them, apart from each other, on wire trays. Stand the trays on dishes to catch the drippings, and put them in the screen. When dry, take them out of the screen, and when cold, pack the slices of Pine apple in boxes between sheets of white paper. Fine-apple Brandy.—Take a good-sized ripe Pine-apple, cut off the crown, pare off the rind, and cut out the eyes. The rind will do to make Pine apple Cider. Cut the Pine apple into slices about Jin. thick, weigh it, and take the same weight of powdered white sugar. Put a layer of the sugar at the bottom of a large glass jar, then a slice of Pine-apple on top of this, a layer of sugar, then Pine-apple, and so on, finishing with a layer of sugar, and pour into the jar enough brandy to stand lin. above the Pine apple. Close the jar so that it is quite air-tight, and keep in a cool dark place for at least a month. Serve the Pine apple at dessert. Three-parts of a wineglassful of the brandy put into a tumbler and filled up with seltzer or soda water makes a nice summer drink. Fine-apple Cake.—(1) Mix 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar and 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in 34 breakfast- cupfuls of flour; then mb in the flour Jib. of butter. When quite smooth, work in five eggs, beaten separately, and 1 teacupful of milk. Pour the mixture in jelly cake- tins, 4in. or 5in. deep, and bake it. Mix some tartaric acid and Pine apple juice with icing, and when the cake is done, spread it thickly over the top and put a thick layer of grated Pine apple over. (2) Have ready two cake moulds. Peel a small Pine- apple and grate it. Beat Jib. of butter to a cream with lib. of powdered sugar; add the yolks of twelve eggs to it, also the grated Pine-apple. Sift a teaspoonful of salt and 2 piled teaspoonfuls of baking-powder with lib. of flour, and quickly heat them into the cake batter. Put the hatter at once into the moulds, and bake the cakes in a moderate oven for about three-quarters-of-an-hour, or