With the Author s ComplirneHts. Surgical Reminiscences, INCLUDING EIGHTEEN YE AES’ WOEK IN THE WESTEEN INFIEMAE V, GLASGO W, BY ALEXANDER PATTERSON, M.D., F.R.C.S. Ed. Reprinted from 2he Scottish Medical and Surgical Journal^ November^ 1897.^^NiVLRS) :>ieRAR>‘JL\ £nbia -Street, Ojlasgeito. (J ^to /?UjlAoy 4kJtU4^ f^yy44 ^.Ai/^ iAAy ^ ^ ^ T-SURGICAL reminiscences; Including Eighteen Years’ Work in the Western Infirmary, Glasgow. By Alexander Patterson, M.D., F.R.C.S. Ed. Mr President and Gentlemen,—On a summer afternoon, six and twenty years ago, one of the directors of the Royal Infirmary called at London Street, where I then lived, to inform me that there were two vacancies in the staff of the dispensary, and that he wished me to put in an application. Whilst thanking him for his great kindness, I replied that I had very few friends, and that it did not seem at all probable that my efforts should be successful. “ Never mind that,” said my friend ; “ do what I bid you, and we shall see what can be done.” Through his influence I was appointed surgeon, and from that time until now, with the exception of a single fortnight, I have had the very great privilege of being an hospital surgeon. During the currency of seven years only three months’ dispensary duty fell to my lot. The superin- tendent soon found out that my residence was nearer to the Infirmary than those of the regular staff, and got into the habit, to which I certainly did not object, of sending the porter, in cases of accident or emergency, especially during the night. On this account exemption was given me from dispensary duty. Those of you, gentlemen, who are fond of * Read before the Glasgow Southern Medical Society,2 surgery, can fancy how enjoyable was this kind of life. I became a sort of daily hanger on, anxious and delighted if I could be of only the slightest assistance to any member of the staff. Besides, there was the great boon of being present at all consultations, and listening to the reasoning and opinions of your more experienced seniors. More than all. Sir Joseph, then Mr Lister, was engaged in carrying out the various grades of his wonderful antiseptic programme, and you may rely upon it his doings were keenly watched. At the termination of those seven happy years, something transpired which led to my resignation. Never much addicted to despondency, I confess that for two weeks I was despondent, very, when all at once a ray of sunshine—of the very brightest sunshine—came, in the form of a deputation from the managers of the Western Infirmary, asking me to cast in my lot with them. It goes without saying, that, in return for such exceptional courtesy, I have at least tried to do my duty. With your permission, gentlemen, I shall give you, shortly, cases occur- ring at different times, and which, to me at least, were of much interest. Southern Medical Society, 26th December 1872.— Tetanus lateralis.—As this is so rare, very few men living can have witnessed it, so I shall venture to give it here :—“ P. M., a collier, aged fifteen years, admitted to the Royal Infirmary on 25th November 1872. Exactly four weeks ago the wheel of a truck passed over his right leg at the union of the middle and lower third. On admission he is found to be in an ex- tremely exhausted condition, perspiring freely, pulse 125; he also suffers from phthisis. On examining the seat of injur}', a curious state of matters presents itself. About two inches of the upper fragment of the tibia is seen projecting from the wound, whilst the lower fragment is placed at nearly right angles to the perpendicular axis of the limb, and united partially by unossified tissue. There was some discharge, slight redness around the wound, and oedema of the limb. A more terrible complication existed ; he was suffering from tetanus, which set in, with stiffness of the neck and jaw, fourteen days ago. He can separate the teeth about a quarter of an inch, and can speak and swallow with toler- able ease.3 Surgical Reininisce7ices. “ The exacerbations occur very frequently, and he asks often for a drink. It is at once seen that the head is drawn down, nearly touching the left acromion, the left sterno-mastoid being greatly contracted, whilst the face looks away to the opposite shoulder. On examining further, the spine is found to be concave to the left side, while both legs are drawn to the left; the lad, in fact, suffers from tetanus lateralis. “ The whole body is cur\’ed so as to be. concave to the left, the hands and arm.s, from the elbow downwards, remaining free. Nine hours after death, which took place on the 30th of November, the body was not in the least relaxed, but still retained its lateral curve. Sir Thomas Watson states that he had never met with a case of pleurosthotonos.” {Glasgow Medical Journal, 1873.) Case of ununited fracture, in the treatment of tvhich, a portion of dog's bone was used as a means of frocurmg union.— A marine engineer, aged forty-three, was admitted to the Royal Infirmary, 15th August 1874, for the purpose of having his arm amputated, for what had been originally a simple fracture of both bones of forearm. Attacked by erysipelas, eventually about three quarters of an inch of the radius died, and on admission the hand and arm, below the seat of non-union, act simply as a flail. A portion of the humerus of a retriever was placed in the gap in the radius, and the ends of the fractured ulna wired. Al- though sometime afterwards the added bone came away about half its size, the bones were firmly united, and the man went back to his employment. This, I fancy, was one of the earliest cases in this country of bone transplantation. {Lancet, 1878.) In the Glasgow Medical Journal for 1874 was published: “ Five consecutive cases oj compound Jracture into, and dislocation of, ankle-joint treated a?itiseptically, successfully.” Nowadays, this would, of course, be deemed unworthy of notice. At that date, perhaps, nothing could have shown more thoroughly the value of the antiseptic treatment. The last fourteen ca.ses of the same accident, treated by Mr Syme in the Edinburgh Infirmary, had all terminated fatally. It fell to my lot to have the only case of hydrophobia which has ever been in the Western Infirmary'. The poor fellow told me that he thought there would have been nothing4 the matter with him, had he not read of a case which occurred a short time before in the Royal. During the last hundred years there hav'e been in the Royal and Western five ca.ses altogether. Curiously enough, all the ca.ses have taken place within the last twenty years, and since the muzzling order came into force. {^Lancet, 1877.) Double plopiteal anem’ism.—This rare ca.sc was placed under my care by my friend Dr John Burns. We thought of trying pressure, and quite a number of volunteers offered their services. The order given was to “ stop the pulsation in the aneurism completely, and keep it .so,” and the order was literally carried out. The gentlemen in attendance on the case found that from fifteen to twenty minutes was as long a period as any of them could compress the artery. Two, at least, were always at the bedside, while one stood compressing the vessel, the other kept his open hand over the sac. One was cured in twelve, and the other in nine hours. {^Lancet, 1877.) Nephrotomy.— In the winter of 1887, Dr Finlayson took into his wards a female, aged thirty-eight, suffering from renal disturbance. After studying the case with his usual care, de- liberation and accuracy, my worthy colleague came to the conclusion that there was probably a stone in the left kidne)^ Patient was placed under chloroform on the table, in a crowded theatre, and the operation started. On reaching the deeply placed plum-coloured organ, I went very carefully over the surface with the tip of my finger, and at one .spot I fancied it somewhat soft and yielding. An ordinary h}’drocele trocar and canula were pushed in, when, on withdrawing the trocar, a couple of drachms of pus ran out. Enlarging the wound by means of a curved probe-pointed bistoury, the forefinger was pa.ssed in, and with my nail I picked out two tiny uric acid calculi. This, to me, an anxious operation, and so far as known to me, was its first performance in Scotland. The patient did well. {CNas. Med. Jour.. 1879.) The space so kindly placed at my disposal in the W estern Infirmary consisted of three small wards, two for males and one for females, containing collectively nineteen beds. Years ivork from \st Nov. 1877 to \st Nov.. 1878.— Operations on indoor patients, 119 with 6 deaths, 5 per cent. {Glas. Med. Jour.. 1879.)Surgical Reminiscences 5 Year's work from 31^'/ Oct. 1878 to \st Aov. 1879-— 280 resident patients admitted, upon whom 162 operations were performed, with 7 deaths, a death-rate of 4'3 per cent. The cost of stimulants for each patient per annum amounted to 7Ad. “No case of erysipelas occurred during the year, and since the wards were opened four years ago, there has not been a single case of pyaemia.” This was written in reply to Mr Savory of St Bartholomew’s. {Lancet^ 1880.) Suprapubic Lithotomy.—H. D., aged forty-eight, admitted to VV'ard XIV., on 22nd Feb., 1881. Has suffered from bladder irritation for twenty-four years, exactly half his life time, and he makes a remarkable statement, namely, that during all that time he has not. so far as he could observe, passed a single drop of blood. The sound detected the presence of a large, \ery rough, hard stone. Attempted removal by lateral litho- tomy failing, the stone was removed by the suprapubic operation. This was the first successful case performed in Glasgow. The man is alive and well. {Glas. Med. Jour.., 1882.) Case of utero-ovarian amputation for uterine fibroid com- bined with pregnancy on the i i th December 1884. At that date this operation had been performed four times in England, three times in Germany, once in Belgium, once in the United States, and once in New South Wales. Mrs M.’s case was thus the eleventh on record, and at that time, the only one in Scotland. This patient I saw some weeks ago, and she remains quite well. {Glas. Med. Jour., 1885.) Case of double uterus.—On the 3rd of March 1885, the superintendent of the Western received a telegram from a country practitioner, to the effect that he had a case of extra- uterine pregnancy, urgent, for which he wi.shed admi.ssion. On examination, the mamma; arc observed to contain milk. The abdomen presents the ordinary appearance of pregnancy at the .seventh or eighth month, and the foetal heart can be felt pulsat- ing near the umbilicus. With regard to the appearance of the abdomen, some years ago, through the courtesy of my friends Dr Lennox of Hamilton and Dr Stewart of Carluke, I had the rare privilege of operating in a case of extra-uterine pregnancy —a ca.se which had been most correctly diagnosed in the earlier months, and watched w’ith great care until the end of the ninth month. In that case the abdomen was flat, entirely unlike an6 ordinary pregnancy, and altogether unlike that of our patient ; the child’s head lay in the left iliac fossa and could be easily felt and seen through the attenuated abdominal \\ all ; the elbows and knees of the child c(^uld also be clearly made out. On making an incision in the middle line, a tumour of an intensely interesting kind was exposed. No part of the child was visible, but a large, grayish, papery looking cyst, presenting the appearance exactly of a \ ery large wasjis’ nest, was brought into view, which on being gently touched with the forefinger tip, broke up into small flakes, exposing a healthy, vigorous child. The ca.se was one of peculiar interest. The mother died four days after operation. M. S., aged twenty-five, single, admitted on 3rd March 1885.—Patient is flushed, restles.s, and in a state of high fever. T. 102 , P. I 10. On proceeding to make a vaginal examina- tion, a strongly urinous odour was tioticed, and a mixture of pus, blood and, apparently, urine, was seen to be flowing from the vagina. On introducing an oiled finger into the canal, a larger opening was discovered in the posterior wall of the bladder, and near to this 1 introduced my finger into what 1 took to be the os uteri with the cervix torn, and this rent was carried into the vaginal wall, away backwards behind the rectum. I felt neither membranes nor child, and, being fairly puzzled, never dreaming of a .second os, my respected colleague Dr \'V. L. Reid was asked to examine the case. He examined patient with great care, as he always does, and detected an os with membranes entire, and felt the child’s head ; at the same time, I think he gently hinted that 1 had been mistaken with regard to what I had made out. Under the circumstances, we did the best we could for her, and on the 1 5 th March a male child was born, which survived only eighteen hours. Rigors and high temperature continued—a large akscess filling the left iliac fossa and extending upwards was opened. She died on the ist of April. Post-mortevi by Dr Coats on the 3rd April. Abscess took its starting-point from the tear in the vagina, and made its way upwards to the diaphragm, which had its tissues thickened and infiltrated with pus, and the left pleural cavity also contained pus. In the pelvis were found two distinct uteri, the right measuring, from os tcj fundus, 4^ inches, with a total breadth of 2.1 inches ; and the left, from os to fundus, 4] inches, with a7 Surgical Reminiscences total breadth of i f inches. Each had a Fallopian tube and ovary ; each uterus was complete in itself, and the cervices alone were united to the extent of | of an inch. {Editt. Med. Jounial, 1885, with illustration^) Ovariotomy performed on three sisters.— On the 26th November 1891, Mary B. had the operation performed; on the 5th May 1892, her sister, Jessie B. ; and on the 19th of May 1892, the third sister, Mrs K. Oddly enough, all were servants in the same domestic establishment in the North of Scotland. I shall now give you in a tabular form .some of the results of eighteen years’ work in the We.stern. Up to June 1881 there were only nineteen beds at my command ; since that date I have had thirty-eight. The operation for strangulated hernia I have done, includ- ing those in private, a few in the Royal, and those in subjoined list, one hundred and sixty times :— V'ear. Excision of Mamma. De.-iths. Lithotomy. Deaths. Hernia— Radical Cure. Deaths. Hernia— Strangu- | Deaths, iatea. 1876 I *7 5 ' 2 1877 2 3 ... ... 5 ... 1878 7 4 J ... 4 1879 7 2 • • • I ... 7 ’ 3 1880 5 I ... 2 6 I 1881 11(1 male) I 3 6 2 1882 9 0 • * . n ... 3 2 1883 8 I I 3 4 i ••• 1884 9(1 male) 'I II ... 4 ; ... 1885 8 2 ... 8 2 1 I 1886 12 1 2 5 1 ... 1887 9(1 male) 0 ... 3 2 : ... 1888 5 0 3 4 1889 5 2 5 4 3 1890 6 4 I S 1891 8 2 I 5 2 1892 10 4 5 'y 1893 8(1 male) I* 3 ... 10 5 , 2 Death- Rate. 0 II ''si ^0 0^ I 34 = 5-887, -7 60 0 1 78 18 = 237o! * The solitary fatal case in the mammary list was due to cerebral embolism which took place when the wound was nearly healed.8 Statistics of Operations on Indoor Patients in Wards XII. and XIV. IN THE Western Infirmary of Glasgow from October 15, 1892, till October 14, 1893. Operation. Ovariotomy Laparotomy . Enterotomy for strangulated hernia . . . . Nephrotomy Opening pleural cavity for empyaema . . . . Herniotomy . . . . Radical cure of hernia Taxis for reduction of hernia . I Trephining skull Laminectomy . . . . Lithotomy . . . . Sounding bladder . External urethrotomy Dilatation of urethral stricture Circumcision . . . . Reduction of paraphimosis For haemorrhoids . For fistula in ano . Amputations— Arm Hand . . . . Thigh . . . . Foot Fingers and toes Penis Excision of mamma Excision of joints— Elbow . . . . Knee . . . . Hip . . . . . Passive motion of joints Excision of tumours, cysts, etc.— Malignant Adenomata Osteomata Fibromata Number. Number of 1 Deaths. 5 ■ 4 1 1 I 1 1 ... ! I ! 3 I I 2 ... ' • • • 8 4 1 I 3 2 0 ... i 21 I i 13 I 7 i 10 ; ... : i 9 1 5 8 I 10 I 9 ... 6 ... I 6 ... 8 2 ... 3 ... 2 ... Cause of Death. 1. Peritonitis (hysterectomy). 2. Ursemia (cyst connected with kidney). 3. Uraemia (internal hiemor- rhage). 4. Peritonitis (abscess of liver). Perforation of intestine. Perforating ulcer. 1. Laceration of brain (de- pressed fracture). 2. Mastoid abscess (never was conscious). 3. Laceration of brain (de- pressed fracture). 4. Meningitis (mastoid ab- scess). Injury to spine. Cystitis. Cerebal embolism.Surgical Reminiscences 9 ! 1 Operalion Number. Number of Deaths. Cause of Death. Neuromata I ... Lipomata I Cysts .... 6 Glands .... 3 • • • ... ... Sequestrotomy 30 Tarsotomy .... 10 Tenotomy .... 10 Reduction of dislocations Plastic— I For results of canerum oris 3 ... ... ... For harelip 2 For cleft palate 3 Excision of veins I Division of adhesions between 1 tendons .... I ... Tapping, etc 14 ... Application of actual cauter)’ 17 Application of electric cautery Incisions, etc., for— Abscesses.... 7 ... ( I. Urmmia (perinephritic). los 2 2. Tubercular meningitis (lum- t bar abscess). .Sinuses .... • 7 Mastoid abscesses . 2 Empyiema of antrum 3 Cellulitis .... 9 Cysts .... 10 Removal of carious bone 35 Curetting uterus I I njection of iodine for goitre . 2 Wounds stitched, etc. 9 Excision of tonsils . 2 Avulsion of nails I Exploratory .... 7 ... Total .... 489 •’5 Mortality = 3‘o6 per cent. Operations on outdoor patients = 109 Total number of patients operated on = 598. Mortality in all cases operated on = 2^ per cent. Samplks of Mornmng’s Work. January iTth, 1892— 1. Dislocation of humerus, subglenoid, seven weeks out .... 2. Dislocation of humerus, subcoracoid, five and a-half weeks out 3. Dislocation of radius and ulna back- wards, six months out 4. Talipes varus 5. Large ntevus of nose .... 6. Epithelioma of face .... 7. Enlarged tonsils .... 8. Morbus coxae 9. Adhesions in two fingers Reduced. Reduced. Reduced. Tenotomy. Electric cautery. Excised. Tonsiliotomy. Actual cauter)-. Passive motion.10 November >893— 1. Ovarian cyst 2. Vesical calculus . . . . . 3. Vesical calculus 4. Traumatic stricture . . . . 5. Caries of ulna 6. Morbus coxae November 2yd^ 1893— 1. Empytema 2. Radical cure for hernia 3. Suppurating glands in groin 4. Anchylosed elbow-joint 5. Stricture 6. Chronic inflammation of middle ear . 7. Hare lip 8. Removal of tumour from cheek . 9. Removal of portion of tumour from interior of bladder .... 10. Na;vus ...... 11. Division of sterno-mastoid for torti- collis Ovariotomy. Lithotomy. Lithotomy. Dilated. Gouged. Actual cautery. Opening and counter opening. Operation (Macewen’s). Opened and scraped. Excision. Dilated. Mastoid trephined. Operation. Operation. Operation. Excision. Operation. Some time ago we had twelve operations one morning, with a strangulated hernia at night, and three operations outside, so that my assistant' had the unusual e.vperience of administering chloroform sixteen times in one day. It may prove intere.sting if we furnish the stimulant list for the .same period. 1892-3. Hrandy. Pori. Sherry. ^ t Champagne. October i6lh to 31st . 22 i ... j (Small bottle). November 8 . . December 45 . . ... ^ 1893- January 24 F'ebruary . 24 ... ... March 8 ... ... April .... 44 46 May .... 12 5 June .... 28 20 ... ... July .... 58 48 80 3 August 24 ... 4 1 September 24 36 ••• . ... October ist to 15th . 16 Expenditure 337 oz. 51/- 150 oz. 11/6 84 oz. 6/3 9 bottles. 30/- =^4i «8s. 9d. Number of indoor patient operations, 489. Average cost of stimulants for each indoor operation^approximately, 2 Ad. Dr John A. Boyd, now Surgeon to Glasgow Police Force.Surgical Rejniniscences n Open joint in jinger.—An arthritic finger-joint is met with almost daily. Provided the shaft of the phalanx be not dead, the finger should not be removed. Let it be put up in a leaden splint, with gauze dressing, then a forearm splint. The finger ought to be semi-flexed, and so fixed—not straight, as if anchy- losed in the straight position it would prove worse than useless. The use of stimulants certainly does not lower the death- rate in hospital surgical practice. The amount of brandy used, although small, is chiefly consumed in emergencies, i.e., patients brought in with serious injuries and suffering from shock, or in operations producing a similar effect on the nervous system, such as amputation at the hip-joint, pro- longed ovariotomies or hysterectomies. I have never pre- scribed an ounce of whisky for an hospital patient, and our lowest point was reached last March, when the total stimulant expenditure was 3 ounces of brandy for the month. Now, gentlemen, I come to a matter which I think is of the utmost importance in hospital management. I mean over- crowding. I plead guilty to having habitually overcrowded my wards. Has it told upon the welfare of the patients or the death-rate ? Most certainly not. I have always held to the opinion that the more patients we could pass through our wards, the better it would be for suffering humanity, and better for the funds of the hospital. At the top of each window is a fanlight, and summer and winter, day and night, all those years, a number of the fanlights on both sides of each ward have been kept open, with the result that there is always a airrent or draught of fresh air passing through. Theoretically, this looks dangerous, whilst in reality it is exactly the reverse. It has been frequently observed that patients coming into the.se wards with a bronchitic cough, cease their coughing in a very short time. The patients practically sleep in the open air. I here hazard the opinion that wards cannot, in any ordinary ciraimstances, be overcrowded, where this simple plan of ventila- tion IS strictly earned out. All of us spend more time in the bedroom than in any other room in the house, and surely it ought to be the best ventilated apartment. The bedroom window of the writer has not been shut for many years, either summer or winter. That this, were it universally adopted, would prove to be the most efficacious of all sanitary laws, I have not the slightest doubt.12 As to the amount of work, this could not have been accomplished single-handed ; it was physically impossible. To my most able non-resident assistants, Dr Knox, now professor of surgery in St Mungo’s College ; to Dr James W, Downie, now lecturer on diseases of the ear and throat in Glasgow University; to Dr Macartney, now surgeon in the Cancer Hospital; and to Dr Robert Kennedy, surgeon to the Western Infirmary Dispensary, I return my most grateful thanks for their never-failing assistance in many a prolonged morning’s work. Oi .\3GOW i !' /-RsiTy.; ^ r i■V'.. .t . ■ '■ ^ ■ . . ' V 5S • <>. r I V:f ✓ , >'ll'' .' '■ ,f- r r . ’ “f