The Girl's Own Cookeiy Book. 44 the jelly, and fill up the mould on the outside of the galli- pot with jelly. Let this also get quite stiff, then take away the gallipot, and fill the vacancy thus left with the mixture already prepared. Let it stand till firm. Turn it out very carefully upon a glass dish, and serve. It will look and taste like a very good pudding surrounded with jelly. . . . . , . The ornamentation of this pudding may be varied m many ways. For instance, two or three spoonfuls of the jelly may be coloured with cochineal, and this may be put very lightly here and there in the mould, which is turned upside down till the jelly is stiff. Or the jelly may be coloured red altogether, or dried cherries or preserved fruits may be used for garnishing instead of pistachios. The quantities I have given here will make a very small pudding. If a larger one is wanted the proportions must be increased. Red Rice may be made either with fresh fruit or pre- served fruit. It is best made with fresh fruit, red currants and raspberries being more suitable than any other kinds of fruit. Take a pint and a half of ripe red currants ; pick them, and put them into a jar, with a pint and a half of water ; set the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, and let the water boil round them till the juice of the fruit begins to flow, then add half a pound of raspberries, and stew a quarter of an hour longer. Squeeze the juice from the fruit and sweeten it ; mix four tablespoon- fuls of ground rice, very smoothly, with a little of the liquid (cold). Boil the strained juice, stir the ground rice into it, and keep stirring till it is thick, and leaves the saucepan with the spoon. Pourjt out, put two or three drops of cochineal with it to improve the colour, turn it into a damp mould, and leave it in a cool place till wanted. If preserved fruit has to be used, take a pound jar of raspberry jam, and boil it with water to fill a quart mould ; strain away the juice, put two tablespoonfuls of red currant jelly with it, and two or three drops of lemon juice ; then boil it with ground rice, as described above. Cochineal may occasionally be dispensed with, when the juice of fresh fruit is used, but will certainly be needed for preserved fruit. Red rice is exceedingly good served with cream. If preferred, corn flour or arrowroot may be used to make it, instead of ground rice.