74 The Girl's Own Cookery Book. the vegetables, and boil them till they are quite tender. We have a bowl ready, and place the sieve with the deep end downwards (because we shall more easily rub the potatoes at the shallow end) inside the bowl, then pour the contents of the stewpan, liquor, potatoes, leeks, and all through the sieve. Of course the liquid part will at once go through the sieve, and we may put a portion of this back into the stewpan to keep hot because we shall want it to moisten the pulp. The vegetables we rub with the back of a wooden spoon until they pass through the sieve and drop into the liquor in the bowl. Every two or three minutes we may lift up the sieve and scrape the pulp which will be lying thickly on the under part, for by doing this we shall make it easier for the pulp to go through the sieve ; and, by way oi still further facilitating matters, we may every now and then moisten the pulp with the hot liquor we kept for the purpose. Thus far we may prepare the soup some time before it is wanted. About half an hour before it is to be served we put it on the fire in a clean stewpan, and stir it till it boils. We add salt to season it pleasantly. Make a quarter of a pint of cream hot (or milk, if cream is not to be had), in a separate saucepan, and mix this with the soup at the last moment. And now our soup is ready, though, for the sake of appearance, we shall do well to have a teaspoonful of parsley leaves, or of chervil leaves, finely minced, and to sprinkle these into the soup before sending it to the dining-room. The quantity of soup thus made will be enough for five or six persons. We may calculate that the stock cost nothing, because the liquor in which a rabbit, a chicken, or a piece of mutton has been boiled will answer excellently for it ; and apart from the stock the soup will have cost iod., that is—potatoes, id. ; leek, id. ; butter, l|d. ; celery, jd. ; parsley, ^d.; and cream, 6d.; and the result will be a delicious superior soup, such as is rarely met with in English homes. Having mastered this one recipe, we may vary it to any extent—carrots, turnips, vegetable marrows, Jerusalem artichokes, asparagus, celery, red and white haricot beans, tomatoes, chestnuts, peas, green peas, and lentils, may all be made into soup in the same way, though in each