9 8 The Girl's Own Cookay Book. can afford to pay for them, engage professionals to make them. I would very much rather devote my energies to helping girls who are trying to prepare good, wholesome, and appetising sauce for their friends at a moderate cost. If only I can give a few hints which will prove of use to those who are doing this in perplexity and difficulty I shall be quite satisfied in this direction ; in fact, I shall feel that 1 have not lived in vain, and, as poor Artemus Ward said, I should not like to live in vain—I would rather live in London. One reason why even moderate sauces are looked at with suspicion is, that the cooks who make them will prepare such a large quantity at a time. They will not be content with making enough and no more. I went to dine with a friend the other day, and four of us sat down to dinner. Amongst other good things we had roast fowls, bread sauce, and the ubiquitous melted butter. I am speaking within the mark when I say there was not less than a pint of bread sauce and a pint and a quarter of melted butter. What a waste this was both of time and material. Not a quarter of a pint of either sauce was used ; but I could not help wondering what became of that which was sent downstairs. I have very little doubt that if we could have ascertained its ultimate destination, we should have discovered that it was thrown away. One or two experiences of this kind are enough to make any housekeeper avoid sauce. It was so unnecessary too. An ounce of butter, three- quarters of an ounce of flour, and half a pint of water would have made melted butter for twice the number of people, while three ounces of butter for the same measure of water would have been an ample allowance. Then as to the method of making that melted butter. Now, I can fancy some one saying, “Surely you are not going to tell us how to make melted buttter? We all know that.” If you do, I apologize ; but I beg to assure you that your knowledge is not universal. It is a very unusual thing to see well-made melted butter. It is our one English sauce, yet it is rarely properly prepared. One would think that there was no room for variety of procedure with simple ingredients like those required here ; yet I am merely stating a fact when I say that