42 The Girl's Own Cookery Book. either be tied in a cloth, or put in a buttered mould. Opinions differ as to which of the two methods is to be preferred. Soyer says that every pudding is better cooked in a mould or basin than in a cloth. Other authorities, quite competent to speak on the subject, are in favour of a cloth. They tell us that all puddings made of pastry, or which contain bread or suet, as well as batter puddings, though they may look best when boiled in a mould, are lighter and more equally cooked when boiled in a cloth, and in my opinion they are ?juite right. Custard puddings, however, of all kinds may be boiled in a mould, though even they would be better to be steamed. All puddings that are boiled in a mould should have a buttered paper laid over them before they are covered or tied up. When puddings are boiled, they should be plunged into plenty of fast boiling water, and kept boiling until done. If the water boil away and more has to be added, it must be put in boiling. A wooden skewer or a dish should always be placed under them in the saucepan, in order to keep them from sticking to the pan. The pud- ding cloths also should be well looked after. They should never be washed with soap, but should be laid in cold water as soon as they are done with, afterwards washed in hot water, dried in the open air, and folded away to keep them from getting dusty. Before being used again, they should be rinsed out of boiling water, squeezed dry, and floured well. When bread, or anything that is likely to swell, enters into the composition of a pudding, room should be allowed for its probable enlargement, and it should be loosely tied. Light puddings should stand a few minutes after being taken from the pan, before they are turned out. Solid puddings, on the contrary, should be served immediately, though they may be plunged in and out of cold water before being turned out. Puddings made of pastry should be closely tied, and served as quickly as possible after they are taken up, as they soon become heavy. It is a good plan to make a hole in the top to allow the steam to escape, after turning a pudding of this kind out. Puddings boiled in a basin need to be boiled longer than those that are in a tin mould. Those made with suet