20 The Girl's Own Cookery Book. and it will be valueless for nourishing purposes. It is on this account that, when we want to make beef-tea, we put the beef to soak for a while in cold water to draw out the goodness, before we put it into a jar to be placed in a saucepan of water to simmer till it is done. We must not suppose, however, that when we have got our shield round the meat, we are to let it keep on boiling till it is sufficiently cooked. If we did this the meat would be shield all the way through, and that would make unnecessarily hard work both for our teeth and our digestions. What we want is, not only to keep in the goodness, but to make the meat tender. This can be done only by gentle stewing. We must therefore proceed in this way. First, we plunge our meat into the fast boiling water: it instantly stops boiling, for the cold meat cools the liquid, so we bring it to the boiling point again as quickly as we can, let it boil for five minutes, then draw it back to a cooler place, put a wine-glassful of cold water into it to lower the temperature, and keep it simmering gently till it is done. If we had a thermometer at hand to put into the water, we should find that when it was boiling, the quicksilver rose to 212 degrees. When the saucepan was drawn back and the cold water put in, the quicksilver would fall to 1S0 degrees, and it is at this point it should be kept all the time. I know of nothing more difficult than to persuade in- experienced cooks of the fact that meat is made tender by gentle simmering, and hard by quick boiling. Somehow it seems as if, when the water in the saucepan is galloping away, progress is being made, and the meat will be done sometime; whilst, when it simmers only, things seem almost at a standstill. I have again and again explained this to pupils, as I thought, in the clearest manner, and then, if I turned away for a little time, I should be sure to find the water boiling hard on my return. At last I have come to look upon those who can calmly allow meat to simmer, instead of boil, with a great deal of respect, as being far on the way to make good cooks. The rule applies to all fresh meat,—beef, mutton, pork, poultry, and fish. When once we understand the general