Breakfast Dishes. 153 adds considerably to the appearance of the breakfast-table, and I advise those who have not tried them to do so at the earliest opportunity. Procure tomatoes which are ripe, of a deep red, and smoothly rounded. Cut them, raw, across into thin slices; half an hour before breakfast-time sprinkle a little pepper and salt over them, and pour on oil and vinegar (more oil than vinegar), as if you were about to mix an ordinary salad. Baste the tomatoes with this sauce four or five times, and repeat the basting when the tomatoes have stood a little while ; then serve. Bloaters, sheep’s kidneys, fresh fish, dried haddock, potted meats, sausage rolls, Cornish pasties, boiled eggs, pork pies, etc., are all suitable dishes for breakfast, and will furnish an agreeable variety if served occasionally. Wholemeal bread should, as a rule, be served for break- fast, but fancy breads, such as home-made scones or rolls, are always welcome. They are excellent served cold. I will give recipes for both. Scones (made with sour milk).—Put a pound and a half of flour into a bowl and mix thoroughly with it a pinch of salt, a large teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and the same of carbonate of soda. Stir in a pint of sour milk to make a light paste, knead the dough a little, roll the paste till half an inch thick, and cut it into three-cornered pieces. Bake on a floured tin in a quick oven. Milk-rolls.—Rub a slice of butter the size of a large egg into a pound of flour. Add salt, and a heaped teaspoonful of baking-powder. When well mixed stir in milk to make a stiff dough. Handle lightly, divide into balls, and bake immediately. Brush the rolls with milk when they are half baked. The scones and rolls may be served hot if liked, but they will not be so wholesome as when cold. Indeed, in my opinion, hot bread, hot rolls, and, more than all, hot buttered toast are about the most indigestible things that anyone can take. Oatmeal Porridge.—Considering what is wholesome chiefly, there is nothing like a plate of oatmeal porridge, a bowl of boiled milk, or a plate of hominy for breakfast. If we were to make a practice of beginning the morning