Pies and Tarts. 49 she likes pay them a visit and look at them and feast her eyes on the work of her hands. We will therefore spend a little time in talking over the methods to be adopted in making pastry ; and first we have to consider our utensils and materials. A good cook always collects together everything that she is likely to want before she begins to work. By this means she saves time. If she were to put her hands into the flour, and then leave it and clear them while she fetched a rolling-pin or a dish, she would be half as long again over her business as she needed to be. She is wise when she “ lets her head save her heels ”—as the saying is,-—by first thinking over and then collecting her utensils and ingredients, and putting them in one place, so that they will be at hand when wanted. In order to make pastry it is necessary to have a pastry board, a rolling pin, a flour dredger, a knife, some flour, salt, butter, or sweet dripping, water, an egg or two, a little sugar, and, if approved, some baking-powder. There must be also a clean basin, some pie dishes, tartlet tins, baking sheets, and either meat, fruit, jam, or what- ever else is intendea to constitute the contents of the pies or tarts. With these contents, however, I have at present nothing to do. I shall confine myself entirely to the pastry. It is, I suppose, scarcely necessary to say to young ladies that everyone of the utensils used in making pastry must be scrupulously clean ; that goes without any saying. Pastry boards are usually made of common wood, although superior boards are made of box-wood. Marble slabs, are, however, much better than boards to roll pastry upon, because they are cold ; and in order to make pastry light and puffy, it is very desirable that the paste should be kept cool. It is on this account that a cool, light hand is wanted, and that pastry should be made in a cool place. When a marble slab i's not to be had, a large slate, or even a smooth tile is sometimes made to fill its place. Girls will find that their hands will be cooler if washed in hot water a few minutes before setting to work. The best biscuit flour is usually taken for making pastry. When superior pies are wanted, however, it is worth while to use what is called Vienna flour, which E