54 The Girl's Own Cookery Book. In short paste, as in puff paste, the addition of an egg and of a few drops of lemon-juice enriches the paste and helps to make it workable. These ingredients are not, however, absolutely necessary, and very good pastry may be made without them. Short paste is “ superior,” or “ good,” or “ plain,” ac- cording to the quality and quantity of the materials used in making it. In very rich pastry equal quantities of butter and flour would be used. Superior crust might, however, be made with less than half the weight of butter than of flour, and good economical pastry may be made with a smaller proportion of butter and a little baking-powder. Good plain pastry may be made with sweet soft beef dripping, such as is obtained from joints, or produced by rendering down any kind of soft and sweet beef fat. A great many people have a strong objection to pastry made with dripping. I cannot quite understand the deli- cacy of appetite which refuses good beef dripping and accepts cheap common butter. If butter is wanted, let good butter be used; but if it is a question between dripping that is fresh, soft, and sweet, and questionable or cooking butter, I should say by all means choose the dripping. A large proportion of the composition sold under the name is not butter at all—it is coloured animal fat. Why should we not use the animal fat, i.e., dripping, and omit the colouring ? The difference in price between the adulterated article and the real one is worth con- sideration. And I hope the girls who attend our class will be too sensible to scorn economy in cookery. A really good cook is never a wasteful one, and it is wasteful to purchase cheap butter for every-day pastry when there is in the larder sweet dripping that could be employed instead. In making pastry a light cool hand is worth more than a pennyworth of colouring matter. It must not be supposed, however, that I recommend the use of all kinds of dripping in making pastry. Fresh soft beef dripping is excellent for the purpose, but mutton dripping is not so. It has a way of making pastry taste like tallow-candles ; and as Europeans have not the same taste as the Esquimaux, this flavour is not popular. Though mutton dripping is not to be made into pies,