55 Short Paste. however, good hard mutton fat, finely shred, is almost as good as beef suet for making paste for boiled puddings. Lard is much liked by some cooks for making pastry. It is, however, better when mixed with butter or dripping than when used alone. Bacon fat also, if not too much smoked, may be employed to make pastry for meat pies. The water used in mixing pastry should be added gra- dually and mixed thoroughly. If a large quantity is poured in at once the pastry may be made over moist, and then an undue proportion of flour will have to be added before the pastry can be rolled. It should be remem- bered that it is scarcely possible to give the exact measure of water that will be needed in making pastry, because some flours absorb more moisture than others. An expe- rienced cook could tell in a moment by touching the pastry whether or not it was of the right consistency. All one can say to the inexperienced is that pastry should be smooth and stiff, but not too stiff. If over moist it will stick to the rolling-pin or the pastry-board ; if too stiff it will not be light when baked. We will suppose, therefore, that we wish to make supe- rior short crust ; how shall we proceed ? We must put six ounces of flour on a board, and mix with it a very small pinch of salt. We then rub into it with the fingers four ounces of sweet butter, and keep rubbing until the butter is quite lost to sight and the flour looks like fine oatmeal. If the pastry is intended for a fruit-pie or a tartlet, an ounce of finely-powdered white sugar may now be added. We then make a well in the centre of the flour, and break into it the yolk of an egg. We put on this two drops of lemon-juice and a very little (about a tablespoonful) of cold water; mix all, flour, egg, and water together with two fingers (or if the cook has not a cool hand, she may mix the paste with the blade of a clean knife), and add more water gradually till there is a smooth stiff paste ; knead this lightly, roll out once, and the pastry is ready. Of course, if the egg is not considered necessary it must be omitted. If plain short crust is wanted, we put one pound of flour into a bowl with a pinch of salt and a heaped tea- spoonful of baking-powder. Rub into this six ounces of