46 The Girl's Own Cookery Book. and the sauce which, of course, was made ready for it, is poured round it, when it is ready to serve. One word, however, I must say by way of warning. Keep the tin that is used for steaming soufflds exclusively for steaming soufHds ; never let it be put into the oven, and do not allow a tin that is used to bake soufflds to be washed out when done with. Scrape it well and wipe it out with a dry cloth or a piece of dean paper. In making a souffld, the first thing that we have to do is to prepare the tin. It should be an ordinary plain tin mould that will hold a pint and a half. Butter it well inside, using the fingers in doing this so that every part may be reached. Cut a round of paper, butter this also, and lay it at the bottom. Now take a large sheet of kitchen paper, fold it to make a band that will go round the tin, spread butter with a knife on the part that will be above the tin, and place the paper outside so that it will rise two or three inches above the rim, and tie it on securely. Put i oz. of butter in a small stewpan, melt it, then stir in i oz. flour. When quite smooth, add a dessert-spoonful of fine white sugar and one gill, or a quarter of a pint, of milk. Keep stirring the sauce till it boils and thickens. When it leaves the sides of the stewpan quite clean it is done, but it should not be taken off before this point is reached. Lift the stewpan off the fire, then take three eggs, break them into a cup, divide the whites from the yolks, and put the yolks one at a time into the mixture. When all are well beaten in, add fifteen drops of vanilla, or any other suitable flavouring. It is a little dangerous to say how much flavouring should be put into anything: firstly, because tastes differ about flavours : and, secondly, because essences vary in strength. Vanilla essence, for example, is very much stronger when the bottle is freshly opened than it is after it has been used three or four times. Therefore, as I said when we were speaking of puddings, it is best to put a small quantity of essence in at a time, and taste it before adding more. If a newly-opened bottle of vanilla is used, fifteen drops will be too much. We must now whisk the whites of the eggs, with one more white added to make four whites, till we have a firm stiff froth, so firm that we can cut it through with a knife.