Gravy for Joints. x7 forethought; and without these, economical cookerv is impossible. 7 Suppose that gravy is wanted to-day for a joint of beef. Something was cooked for dinner yesterday, and it is almost certain that a bone or scraps of some kind were left from it. Ii the cook had forethought she would have put these on one side, cover them over to keep them clean, and when there was a convenient opportunity that is, when the tire was not in use, she would stew them for gravy. Perhaps bacon was served for breakfast, or boiled meat had been provided, in either case she would be particularly fortunate ; of course she would have pre- served the meat liquor, pouring it into a clean earthenware pan, and throwing a little muslin over it to keep it from dust and flies. What course would she now pursue to make gravy ? r . She would first take a small onion, skin it and cut it into rings. She would melt a little dripping in a sauce- pan, throw in the onion and shake it over the fire until it was brown but not at all burnt. She would now put in the bones and scraps, together with a sprig of parslev an mch or two of celery, three or four peppercorns, and ’the rind of the bacon which had been scalded in boiling- water and scraped with a blunt knife to make it quit! clean. Over all she would pour meat liquor or cold water r?ncT ya°T herma,teritls i then, covering the saucepan closely and placing it by the side of the fire, she woukl let Us contents stew very gently indeed, skimming it every now and then with an iron spoon for a couple of hours till the liquor was considerably reduced, and was strong and pleasantly flavoured. Then she might strain it off and put it on one side to let any fat there might be rise to e surface, when it could be easily removed. If the S'n'Vkre ^-coloured, a few droPs of sugar browning *b°uld m utlrred ]n’,but il is Pr°bable that the browned colourin'i HaVl SUpphtd aH -hat is rcclu'red in the way of r? f SUugar browninS sh°a'd be very sparing used. Only let the gravy be a rich, deep brown. In cookery the appearance of a dish is almost as important joints °s n« If two tablcspoonfuls of the gravy thus made were put