Clear So tips. 67 has hardened and gathered the impurities which were in the soup with it, and this it is which must be removed by- straining. Whilst the liquor is standing by the side of the fire we may prepare the strainer. A jelly bag is not the best thing we can take, because we want to pour the liquid in gently, and it is awkward to do this with a deep jelly bag. Better to take the thick flannel of which the jelly bag would have been made, wring it out of boiling water, and lie it to the four legs of a chair which has been turned upside down on a table. The vessel for the soup can be placed underneath the flannel, and the liquor can be poured on slowly and gently so as not to disturb the scum, which will serve as a filter for the soup. Now, if my directions have been followed exactly I am quite sure that a beautifully bright, clear soup will be obtained, and one that will taste plea- santly also when it has been boiled up again with salt and a small piece of sugar. Perhaps girls feel inclined to ask, Must the flavouring ingredients be put into stock which has already been flavoured when it was made ? Yes, they must. The quan- tities here given are for flavoured stock. If the stock were not flavoured at all, a larger proportion of vegetables would be needed. One secret of having well-tasting soup is to let it be freshly flavoured. The vegetables are put in here to revive the flavour, and the flavour needs reviving after the stock has been all night in the larder. Otherwise the soup will have a sta.e taste, which will be anything but agreeable. I may say in passing that it is this necessity for reviving the flavours which makes the difficulty with tinned soups. People often say that tinned soups taste of the tin, or, in other words, the flavour is stale. If they would take the trouble to boil a few fresh flavourers with a small quantity of fresh stock, and add this either strained, or, in the case ofpurdes, rubbed through a sieve, to the soup which is in the tin, they would find that the tinned taste was scarcely perceptible. One point must be carefully noted in clearing soup, and that is, the cook must stop whisking instantly when the scum begins to rise ; also, the pan must be drawn back as soon as the liquor bubbles. If the liquor is whisked