143 Hcnu to Make Tea and Coffee. strength required. Thrifty housekeepers who consider strong coffee injurious, declare that a teaspoonful of coffee is sufficient for half a pint of water. Ordinary individuals will, however, in all probability prefer to drink coffee made with a heaped tablespoonful of coffee to the half pint of water. If caff au lait, or three parts coffee and one part milk is wanted, only half the above measure of water should be used, and the coffee (which will then be strong) should be weakened with milk, but never with water. If coffee and chicory' are preferred, three tablespoonfuls of the mixture will be needed for a pint of water. Whatever the quantity may be, put the coffee into the coffee-pot, and pour over it the requisite measure of boil ing water. Let it stand a minute or two, then put it back on the fire, and bring it gently to the boil. Take it off, pour out a cupful, and return it to the pot from a good height. Repeat this operation twice. Throw a table- spoonful of cold water into the coffee, let the pot stand by the side of the fire for three or four minutes, then strain the liquid through muslin into the heated vessel from which it is to be served, and send it at once to table. Now for making coffee with the cafetilre. On no ac- count stint the coffee. French people always use plenty of the fragrant powder. An ounce of coffee to a break- fast-cupful of water will be about right. First fill the cafetilre with boiling water, let it stand a minute or two, then pour it out. Put the coffee (heated - in the oven, and freshly ground, remember : these details are important) upon the perforated bottom of the upper compartment; press this down with the piston, and put the strainer on the top ; then pour on gently and gradually as much boiling water as is required. Put the cover over the spout of the cafetilre to keep in the steam and fra- grance ; or, if this is wanting, fill the end of the spout with soft paper to prevent their escape. Cover the cafetiere and leave it in a hot place for a few minutes, and when the coffee has drained from the upper compartment into the lower one the coffee is ready for use. There is no difficulty here, is there ? Yet here is good coffee, as good as we need desire. Mixed with sugar and scalded milk, it is caff an lait; when very strong, and without either