47 Souffles. (In making souffles we must always have more whites than yolks of eggs.) If we have an egg whisk we can soon make the eggs firm; but if not we should put the jCj °in -r plate’ and ^eat diem with a clean, broad- biaded knife that has been dipped in cold water and wiped dry. Also we shall find that the eggs will froth much more quickly if beaten in a draught. When they are quite firm stir them lightly into the mixture, and pour it into the tin already prepared. Have ready a saucepan with boiling water that will come half way up the mould and that will not reach the paper tied round the tin Lay a piece of buttered paper on the top of the pudding. Put on the hd and steam the pudding till done. When it is hrm lr^tlie middle if touched with the finger it is sufficiently here is, however, still one more point to be attended to, and that is, the souffld must be gently steamed. If the water is allowed to boil fast round it, it will be spoiled. it will take from twenty to thirty minutes. W hile the pudding is being steamed we may make the sauce. Put a quarter of a pint of cold water in a sauce- pan, and add one ounce of loaf sugar and a tablespoonful ot jam ; boil together till the sauce is reduced to half the quantuy, airi add four or five drops of lemon juice When the souffle is turned into a dish, strain the sauce round it, being careful not to touch the sides, and it is ready to serve. thk ™frnhink-°Ver the CjSt of the ingredients of which this puddmg is composed, we shall find that it costs ei^htpence. A quarter of a pint of milk, one penny • four eggs, fourpence ; butter for greasing the paper and The :;f,rpc-ne : fl0Ur’ flaV0Urin"’ and SUSar’ one penny. The sauce will cost twopence-halfpenny; that is, if We andm rPenCe/0r thC jam’ a halfPenny for the’sugar! and make ourselves a present of the four drops of lemon juice. I do not think any one will say that, considering thn 'S a SUpen0r Pudding, it is an expensive one S of all XWln£rh- ab°VC directions soufflds may be made ,kmds of farinaceous substances, such as arrowroot, m1Ce’fl0r taP.loca>also °f sponge biscuits and choco- late. The flavouring also may be varied to suit the taste Some people like a souffld flavoured with strong coflee.