Puddings. 43 and flour should be stiffly mixed ; if made too thin they will break when turned out. Light puddings are more delicate when steamed instead of boiled. For this they should be put into a mould, and have a piece of buttered paper laid over the top. They should then be put into a saucepan with boiling water to come half way up the mould, but not to touch the paper. If the water touches the paper the latter will become moist all the way through, and that will spoil the pudding. Keep the water boiling round the pudding, and cover the saucepan closely. When the preparation is firm in the centre it is sufficiently cooked. In summer-time cold puddings are frequently preferred to hot ones. When these are well made and nicely flavoured they are very good, and people who are tired of puddings in general, and imagine that they do not care for them, are very often induced to partake of cold ones. I will, before closing, give recipes for two of these pud- dings to be served cold, which, so far as I know, are not very commonly met with. The first one, the diplomatic pudding, is a superior dish for high days and festive occasions ; the second, red rice, is moderately economical, and is very delicious. Diplomatic Pudding.—Take one ounce of stale sponge cakes, one ounce of ratafias, both crushed small, a desert- spoonful of white sugar, and a quarter of an ounce of gelatine. Soak the gelatine in milk, then melt it in a saucepan. Boil half a pint of milk and the sugar in a stew-pan, then pour it over the yolks of two eggs, and add the whole of one previously whisked. Stir the custard over the fire till it thickens, put with it the melted gela- tine, and pour it over the biscuits, and stir the mixture briskly, fake half-a-pint of clear jelly nicely flavoured, if it is not thought worth while to make jelly for the purpose, it may be bought in a bottle of the grocer; it will then have to be flavoured. Take a small plain mould, scald it with boiling water, then rinse it out with cold water. Ornament it with angelica, cut into strips or with pistachio nuts, blanched like almonds, and chopped small. Pour gently into it, not to disturb the ornamentation, jelly, to cover the bottom to the depth of half an inch. Let it get quite stiff, then put a gallipot on