Boiling. 21 rule, we do not need to look in a cookery book to see how different joints are cooked. The rule is for all: a neck of mutton, a leg of mutton, a chicken, or a salmon, we must treat them all alike—first surround the meat with a coat of mail to keep in the goodness, and then simmer it gently till done. I know very well that it is very uncommon to observe this rule, so far as fish is concerned. But I know of no reason why this should be. It is true, fish does not con- tain so much albumen as meat; but it contains a little, and this, when hardened, will help to keep in the goodness. The only exception should be with mackerel, which may be put into warm water, because the skin is so delicate that boiling water would cause it to break. One would think, to hear people talk, that boiling was one of the commonest processes in cookery. The fact is, that when cookery is understood, real boiling is very uncommon, excepting for a few minutes at a time. If we used words that really expressed what we mean, we should say “simmered” rabbit and “simmered” beef, instead of “boiled” rabbit and “boiled” beef. Boiling, as applied to meats, is useful chiefly for hardening the outside to keep in the goodness, and for reducing liquid to make sauces. As soon as the water boils, after the meat is put in, it should be well skimmed. The impurities that are in the meat are dissolved by the hot water, and they rise to the surface in the form of scum. If this is not taken off at once, it will sink again and make the meat a bad colour, so it will be well to watch for the scum, and take it off as quickly as it appears ; a little salt thrown into the liquid will help it to rise. The earliest scum should be thrown away ; but in a little while the fat of the meat will melt and rise, and this should be taken off and carefully preserved, for there is no fat that we can get that is so useful for frying as the skimmings of saucepans. Of that I shall have to speak when we are talking of frying meat. The time that meat should simmer must, as in roasting, vary with the thickness of the joint. The safe general rule for beef and mutton is a quarter of an hour to the pound, and a quarter of an hour over. When meat is