148 The Girl's Own Cookery Book. with kitcheners, it is not easy to get the oven in good working order until the fire has burnt brightly for some time. The oven may be used occasionally when circum- stances are favourable, but we shall be less likely to suffer disappointment if we leave it out of our calculations altogether. A Dutch oven we may use, certainly, and many tasty little preparations can be cooked with it. The gridiron, too, and the frying-pan, we may employ; but the ordinary oven we will leave for the morning when we have risen in excellent time, and have got well beforehand with our work. We may rail as we like against English people for sticking to the same dishes year after year, and never providing any variety, but I do not think our countrymen and countrywomen will ever lose their liking for ham or bacon at breakfast-time. Nor is it desirable that they should lose it. Well-cooked bacon or ham, either with eggs or without, is a very appetising and, on the whole, an economical dish. It would be difficult to find one that is more profitable or that is more generally liked than is this. It is inexpensive, because the rind may be scalded and scraped and used for flavouring, and the fat can be used for a variety of purposes, amongst which may be named basting poultry, veal, or game, or even for making pastry for meat pies which are to be eaten hot. Bacon dripping is a very valuable article. Many people like to eat it with bread, or fry crumb of bread in it; and those who are partial to delicacies of this kind will be glad to know that bacon-fat is as nourishing as cod-liver oil, while no one will deny that it is much the more agreeable of the two. Yet even bacon maybe spoiled in the cooking. Every- one knows that bacon should be toasted, not fried ; yet the getting-up difficulty frequently leads to the frying-pan being laid hold of in desperation, in order that the bacon may be ready quickly. Under these circumstances the bacon is almost certain to be spoiled. Toast the bacon, do not fry it. Cut it into very thin rashers, divide these into pieces convenient for serving, trim away the rind to prevent the bacon curling up, then put it either on a fork or on the pins of a toaster, or in a Dutch oven, and toast it—not overmuch. Turn it as required. If the frying-