96 The Girl's Own Cookery Book. get it. But that is always the way. What comes to us easily we scorn, while we over-estimate that which is ob- tained with difficulty. There are still two or three little details which should be noted with regard to frying fish. One is, that when there are a number of fish or pieces of fish to be fried, all should be prepared before any are cooked, otherwise the cook may get into difficulties; another is, that not many pieces of fish should be put into the hot fat at once : if they are, the fat will be cooled too much, and the fish will not brown properly, and will be greasy. The third point worth noticing is, that the fat should be taken from the fire as soon as it is done with ; it should be allowed to cool a minute or two, and then poured through a strainer into a basin, and put by for future use. It is necessary that it should cool before it is strained, otherwise it will spoil the strainer. The fat should be strained each time it is used, because little pieces of crumb or batter are sure to fall into it, and if these are not taken out they will burn and discolour the fat. You will remember that we have to preserve our fat and use it again and again, never throwing it out, though adding to it occasionally. To do this we must be careful of it all the way through, not by fits and starts, but constantly. I once knew a very clever cook who said that she had used the same fat for more than a year for all sorts of things—sweets, fish, and meats—and that it was excellent all through. I should not recommend you to adopt this plan, because I think it is safer to keep the fat for frying fish and the fat for frying sweets, etc., sepa- rate, but still the thing can be done, and has been done. Fried fish is usually garnished with fried parsley. To prepare this, we wash a few sprigs of parsley, dry it well in a cloth, put it in the frying basket, and dip it in the hot fat for a second or two till it is quite crisp. If kept in the fat too long it will be discoloured. When about to fry parsley the cook should remember not to hold her face too near the pan, for parsley contains so much water that it is sure to make the fat bubble, and if not careful she may be burnt. I think now I have spoken of all the general principles of frying fish, and I hope the hints I have given will be