. Menu to Make Jelly. 109 thing to pieces as it were. They calculate what propor- tion of the food will make flesh, what will make bone, and what will give warmth or force. They cannot eat a mutton chop comfortably without thinking what effect it will have on their constitution, and wondering whether they would not have done better to have had a rump steak instead. This is quite a step in the right direction, and I am not going to say a word against it. 1 think it is most ne- cessary that those who have to prepare food should under- stand its nature and value, so that they may procure what is wholesome and nourishing. At the same time, take what pains we may, we are obliged to confess our ignor- ance every now and again. The wisest man in the world knows comparatively little of what there is to be known. When wise men are in doubt on a subject, ordi- nary folks will not err very greatly if they trust a little to instinct and custom. In the case of food we may call instinct healthy appetite. Healthy appetite led people to take bread with butter, and beans with bacon, long before science confirmed the custom, and said that these were just the things that ought to go together. People who have a healthy appetite enjoy a little jelly now and then ; and therefore, though we cannot say it is valuable from a nourishing point of view, there cannot be much harm in our making it, and serving them with it occasionally. We will not value it too highly, we will not give it and nothing else to invalids, and trust to it to restore their strength and power ; but we will take it in moderation, and believe that as we enjoy it, it will do us good, even though we cannot say to what extent it will benefit us. Jelly made from calves’ feet, though more nourishing is more expensive, and takes longer to make than when gelatine is used, because the calves’ feet stock has to be made the day before the jelly. Gelatine, on the con- trary, only needs to be dissolved before the jelly is made ; and as the after process is the same in both cases, I will first describe how calves’ feet stock should be made, and then say what should be done to make the jelly clear and bright. We will suppose that we wish to make a quart of stock. We take two calves’ feet, the price of which is uncertain.