How to Cook Fish. 9i rises from it, and that it will brown very quickly a small piece of crumb of bread thrown into it), and there left until it is brightly coloured. It may then be taken up, drained, laid on kitchen paper to free it from the outside grease, and it is ready. Before, however, fish can be fried successfully it must be prepared. The first process of preparation consists in cleaning and trimming the fish. This is not peculiar to frying; it belongs to all other methods of cookery. The same cannot be said of the next preparatory detail, which is drying the fish thoroughly ; unless the fish is perfectly dry it will not brown as it should do. Many cooks, in order to secure thorough dryness, cleanse the fish some time before it is wanted, and fold it in a clean soft cloth to absorb the moisture ; others wash it, dry in a cloth, then rub flour over it, and shake the super- fluous flour from it. I should advise you to do both ; dry it as thoroughly as you can in a cloth, and afterwards rub it with flour ; you may then be satisfied that no mois- ture adheres to it. The next step is to encase the fish in an outer cover- ing, in order to preserve the juices. This may consist of flour only (very excellent results may be produced with flour). It may be formed also of a thick batter of flour and water, of frying batter, and of beaten egg and bread or water biscuit crumbs. 1 believe that fishmongers almost always use the thick batter, made of flour and water. The fishmonger whom I visited told me he did, and I know that at his establishment fish is superlatively fried, as, indeed, it is at the majority of London fried fish shops. When egg and crumbs are used for this purpose, the yolk and white of egg should be lightly beaten together, and the crumbs should be stale, dry, and well sifted, to make them even. Unless this is done, the coarser crumbs will fall off, imparting to the fish that dappled appearance which is so frequent and so unde- sirable. Before going further, I must say a word or two about the bread-crumbs used in frying fish. In a great many households stale bread is one of the burdens which press on the mind and conscience of the housekeeper. If the members of her family like crust, the crumb cannot be