40 The Girl’s Own Cookery Book. the point of the knife, raising the upper part so as to make the knife a sort of lever. We must, of course, re- member to sprinkle a little flour over the suet every now and then to keep it from being sticky. Sometimes it happens that suet is objected to alto- gether. When this is the case, butter, or, for plain puddings, sweet dripping may be substituted for it. A smaller quantity of butter than of suet will be needed, so that if we were going to use half a pound of suet we should find that six ounces of butter would be amply sufficient for our purpose. Currants are a particularly dirty fruit. They should, therefore, always be washed before they are used. The best way of doing this is to put them into a colander, sprinkle a little flour over them, then rub them round and round for a minute or two, shaking the colander vigor- ously now and then to detach the stalks, and make them fall through the holes. When this is done we may pour cold water gently over them, drain them, lay them on a towel, and dry them gradually at the mouth of a cool oven or before the fire. When quite dry, spread them on a white cloth or on white paper, and look over them care- fully to discover the stones if there are any. As currants must be dry when used, they should be washed as soon as they come in from the grocer, and be put into jars for use. If they have not been washed, it is better to content oneself with sprinkling flour over them and rubbing them, a few at the time, between the folds of a soft cloth, rather than to wash them and to use them wet, for they will be very likely to make a pudding heavy. Sultanas should be prepared like currants. Raisins should have all stones taken from them, and be chopped small before being used. Sultanas are not nearly so full of flavour as ordinary raisins. Candied peel should be freed from the sugar and cut into very thin strips before being used. There are three sorts of peel ordinarily used. The thick green peel is citron, the dark peel is orange, the light peel is lemon. Orange peel is not so hard and difficult to cut as lemon peel. When fresh orange or lemon peel is used for flavouring, it should be grated off on a coarse grater so as to leave