The Girl's Own Cookery Book. 144 sugar or milk, it is cafd noirj with cognac, and sugar to taste, it is cafe gloria. If we decide to drink this coffee with milk, there is still an important point to be considered. The milk must be quite hot, but it must be scalded, not boiled. That is, the milk must be put in a jug, the jug set in a saucepan of water, and thus heated over the fire. No one who had not tried would believe what a difference attention to this detail makes in the flavour of coffee. French people generally use the cafetiere Vexcellente in making coffee. This cafetifere is in two parts. The lower part is a sort of coffee-pot made of silver, copper, tin, or porcelain, and the upper part consists of a bell-glass with a closely-fitting cover, which, when reversed, forms a stand. The bell-glass with the coffee in it is placed over the coffee-pot ; the water in the latter is heated by a spirit lamp. As soon as the water boils it rises into the glass, and draws the strength out of the coffee. When the lamp is drawn away the liquid descends once more, and when the lamp is put back it rises again. Thus the coffee may be infused two or three times, according to the degree of strength required. Coffee made with this machine is so superlative that I cannot attempt to give an idea of it. I have not fully described this method of making coffee thus because I do not know of any place in England where Pexcellenle is sold ; and those who are fortunate enough to have the opportunity of procuring it in Paris may obtain with it a paper with full instructions for use. I may, however, say, for the benefit of those who are thus fortunate, that it is advisable to boil the glass before taking it into use, as this will prevent it breaking or cracking. Also, it is a good plan, after making coffee in it, to leave about half a cupful of made coffee in the lower part, to which the hot water next day can be added. By so doing the coffee each day is made with a weak solution of coffee instead of with plain water, and thus additional strength is secured. I have been told that French garcons always adopt this plan. There is also a German machine on much the same principle for making coffee in the drawing-room, which is greatly valued by those who own it. This cafetiere