How to Cook Vegetables. 81 only. To make it, mix thoroughly in a plain jar the yolks of two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of boiling water, a little pepper and salt, and four ounces of fresh butter. Set the jar in a small saucepan half filled with cold water, and stir the contents of the jar over a moderate fire till the water in the saucepan boils; cool a minute, then add as much lemon-juice as will make the sauce pleasantly acid. The sauce should look like thick, smooth cream. Imitation Dutch sauce is made by using more water and thickening the sauce with a small quantity of flour. Sauce thus made, however, is not so delicate as sauce thickened with egg only. Sauces of this kind are expensive when more is made than is required, and no one thinks of putting a large portion of rich sauce upon his plate, so that rich sauce possesses that pleasing qualification—“ a little goes a long way.” Sauce made with half the quantities given above, and costing about sixpence, would be enough for a small bundle of aspa- ragus. Boiled artichokes are particularly delicious. The leaves are eaten with the fingers, though a fork is needed for the fleshy heart of the vegetable. The leaves are taken one at a time, and the broad thick part is dipped into the sauce, and this portion only is eaten. French beans or haricots verts, as they are usually called, are when young most excellent served alone. They should be stringed but not cut up, boiled till quite tender, drained, then put into the stewpan, be sprinkled lightly with pepper, salt, and very little flour, then tossed over the fire for ten minutes, with not less than two ounces of butter to each pound of beans. Peas may be treated in the same way. A little sugar may be substituted for the flour with them. Both peas and beans are best when young and freshly gathered. These vegetables are as nourishing as meat. Cauliflower is excellent prepared as follows : Boil a large cauliflower in the usual way. Drain it thoroughly, cut away the stalks, and put it on a dish. Melt half-an- ounce of butter in a small saucepan, mix an ounce of flour smoothly with it, and add a gill of cold water. Stir the sauce till it boils, then add half-a-gill of cream, a little pepper, salt, and cayenne, and one ounce of grated G