122 The Girl's Own Cookery Book. before closing. Gruel.—The world-renowned gruel may be made either with oatmeal or patent “ grits.” “ Grits ” are the best. Mix a tablespoonful of grits or oatmeal to a paste with a little cold water; add a pint of boiling water, boil the whole, gently stirring well for ten minutes. Sweeten With sugar or treacle, or season with salt and pepper, and serve. The gruel will be much better made with milk instead of water.—Ba?-ley Water. Wash two ounces of pearl barley, boil it for five minutes in clear water, then throw the water away. Pour on two quarts of boiling water, and boil gently till the liquid is reduced to half, or for about two hours. Flavour with sugar and lemon-juice, strain (or not, as preferred), and serve. If liked, a little lemon rind can be boiled with the barley. Stir the barley water before using it.—Apple Barley Water. Cut a good large apple wiped, but not peeled, into slices, and boil this with a little lemon-juice till soft. Rub it through a sieve, and add to it a quart of barley-water. —Toast Water. Take a thin slice of bread, and toast it thoroughly on both sides. Put it into a jug, pour a pint of boiling water over it, and let it stand till cold. Strain before using.—Lemonade. Roll two lemons on the table to make them soft. Cut the rind off very thinly, and be careful to reject the white pith, as that would make the lemonade bitter. Cut the lemons into slices, and put these free from pips into a jug with half the lemon rind and a pint and a half of boiling water. Cover till cold, strain, and serve. A very pleasant drink may be made by substituting oranges for lemons.—A raw fresh egg, beaten up with two tablespoonfuls of warm milk and a little sugar, is a very nourishing and agreeable drink for invalids. Sometimes wine is used instead of the milk ; in this case a little water may be added, or a little soda-water may be taken instead. When a doctor is attending a case, it is always well to consult him before offering any food to an invalid. It is a good plan, however, to think over beforehand two or three dishes which can be obtained and prepared without difficulty, then to suggest these to the medical man. A good doctor knows that “ kitchen physic ” will frequently do more good than drugs, and he will rejoice when he sees that this part of the medical treatment is not neglected.