”3 H<nu to Make Jelly. cloth to receive the liquid jelly, and to pour the latter in gradually with a cup, and not to break the scum. If we have followed the directions given, our jelly will be pure and clear; it will taste excellent, and look inviting. If, notwithstanding the care we have taken, we find the jelly is not quite clear, we may strain it a second or even a third time. It is not likely, however, that this will be re- quired. If there has been a mistake or omission, we may boil it again with another egg. If, however, we have been successful, and our jelly is all that we want it to be, we may add the wine and brandy, and prepare to mould it. Even at this late stage of the proceedings there is some- thing to remember. It is that the jelly must be almost cold before it is put into the mould. If too hot, it will become cloudy when brought in contact with the tin. Moulds for jelly are made of tin and copper, and also of earthenware. The metal ones are the best, because the jelly is more easily turned out of them than it is out of earthenware ones. When jelly is very stiff, the mould must be dipped quickly in and out of hot water, shaken well, then placed upside down on a dish. In all proba- bility the jelly will leave the mould, which can then be lifted from it. The appearance of our jelly depends very much upon the way in which it is moulded, and at this point we may vary it to any extent. It is very usual to introduce fruits, cherries, grapes, sections of oranges, pistachio kernels, or any bright decoration which is suitable, into the jelly. When doing this we must be careful first to put a layer of jelly, enough to cover the bottom of the mould, and let this become almost stiff, then arrange the fruit on it, and pour a little cold jelly on it, gently, to fix the decoration. Let this also set lightly, and repeat. It requires a little practice to know exactly when to put in the ornamenta- tion. If the jelly is not stiff enough, the fruit will sink through it ; if too stiff, the layers may separate. Some- times jelly of different colours is thus moulded together, or blanc-mange and jelly are arranged in alternate layers, and preparations of this kind are exceedingly effective. Meats, fowl, fish, game, and salads are frequently deco- rated with savoury or aspic jelly. This is made just like sweet jelly, excepting only that savoury flavourers are I