102 The Girl's Own Cookery Book. Espagnol and Veloutde, may be said to be to the French what melted butter is to the English—the foundation of many others. Bdchamel, Allemand or German, Dutch or Hollandais, poulette, oyster, celery, and many other sauces are made from white sauce. It consists of rich white stock delicately flavoured and mixed with cream, eggs, or whatever else is its distinctive ingredient. White sauce is less frequently well-made than brown sauce, but the following recipe will, I think, be found excellent. White Sauce.—Prepare and chop small two ounces of lean ham ; melt two ounces of butter in a stewpan, throw in the ham, and let it fry gently, not discolour. Sprinkle an ounce and a half of flour over, and beat till smooth. Add gradually a pint of white stock, two small carrots, and six button mushrooms, stir the sauce till it boils ; draw the pan back, and simmer gently till thick. Remove the fat from the sauce as it rises, strain it through a tammy, and add last of all a gill of cream and a few drops of lemon-juice. Perhaps I had better say in explanation that superior sauces are best made perfectly smooth by being passed through a tammy, or loose cloth especially manufactured for the purpose. The cloth should be laid over a basin, and the sauce poured upon it. The cloth should then be folded over to hold the sauce securely ; one person should take it up at one end, and another at the opposite end, and then the two operators should twist their ends dif- ferent ways so as to squeeze the liquid through. The cream may be added afterwards. White sauce is frequently used to coat fowls, etc. ; that is, it is made very thick, and then laid gently over to cover the meat entirely. Sauce to be used thus should be stiff, so that it will not run off the meat; therefore it is made either with stock that is so strong that it jellies when cold, or with stock in which a little gelatine has been dissolved. Plain white sauce may be made with some of the liquor in which fowls or rabbits have been boiled, if a little carrot and onion, three or four peppercorns, and a small piece of mace or lemon peel be simmered in it till it is plea- santly flavoured. It should then be strained, skimmed, reduced—that is, boiled down quickly till the required