94 The Girl’s Own Cookery Book. burning. A good-sized sole, on the other hand, should be cooked in fat from which the blue film rises only. Very large flat fish are seldom cooked whole, however. They are usually filleted, and this process was described at our last lesson. Filleted fish and small fish should be put into the fat in a frying basket. I know quite well what some of my readers are think- ing as they read this : “ It is all very well for you, who have just been to see the frying kettle at the fish-shop, two feet square and six or eight inches deep, to speak of how fish should be fried. But we have no pan of this size. Small pieces of fish we might fry in an iron sauce- pan, but for large fish, such as soles, we have to use the frying-pan, and what can we do with it?” I do not suppose you have such a pan, and it is quite certain that if you have not got it you cannot use it, and also that you must manage with the utensils you have at your command. If you have a sole to fry, and do not possess a pan large enough or deep enough to contain fat which will cover the fish entirely, you must use the frying- pan, and cook first one side of the fish and then the other. The frying will not be so easily done in this case, but it can be done for all that. There is this consolation attend- ing it : it is very usually done thus. For one person who has a large frying kettle there are hundreds who have nothing but a frying-pan, and many of the latter can fry fish very well too. The only thing that we have to re- member under these circumstances is to have at any rate a good depth of fat, as much as we can get and find room for, and to have it hot. Then we lay our fish in, and when one side is cooked we turn the fish skilfully over to the other side. This is the awkward part of the business. Stick a strong foik into the fish near the head and turn it that way ; do not attempt to do so with the slice. When the fish is done, drain it, put it between two folds of kitchen paper to free it from grease (all fried things should be laid on kitchen paper before they are served) ; then lay it on a dish covered with a napkin or with a fish paper, and it is ready. “ When the fish is done ! ” But how are we to know when it is done ? How long will it take to fry ? That must depend upon its size and thickness. A moderate-