The Girl's Own Cookery Book 62 away. It is a great disgrace to English cooks that they act as though extravagance meant cleverness, and thrift meant incompetency. I have noticed again and again that as soon as ever a cook acquires skill she loses her respect for quantities and prices. We will not do this in our cookery class, for we all look upon waste as sin. Therefore, let us resolve that nothing containing nourishment shall be thrown away until it has been well stewed. We will put on one side all the trimmings, skin, bone, and fat that we can collect, and as soon as we have an opportunity we will render down the fat for frying, and will stew the rest for stock. Sometimes economical cooks advise that a stock-pot should be kept by the side of the fire, and that trimmings, pieces, and scraps should be thrown into it from time to time as they come to hand ; that water should be added when necessary, and thus a constant supply of stock should be provided. This plan I do not recommend. In the first place it leads to the ingredients being un- equally cooked. Scraps which are thrown into the pot when the cooking is half through are not so thoroughly stewed as those which were in at the beginning. In the second place over-long simmering will spoil the flavour of our stock, and make it taste unpleasantly of the pan. Whatever we have to stew should be put on freshly into a clean pan every morning ; when the simmering has been continued five hours the contents of the pan should be turned into an earthen vessel, and carried into a cool larder and left uncovered till wanted. We will suppose that we have a quantity of bones and trimming, say, for instance, the bones left from a cooked joint which weighed eight or ten pounds before it wa scut. Perhaps also we may find that we have the bones of poultry or game, and two or three bacon bones ; if so, we should of course make use of them although we should do very well without them. How should we proceed in making stock ? We should look very carefully over our ingredients, and trim away anything that was unsuitable for our purpose. If it should happen that there was anything not quite pure and sweet we should put that aside at once. “Cleanliness is the soul of cookery,” and it is particularly