92 The Girl's Own Cookery Book. disposed of; if they like crumb, the crusts increase and multiply. “ Oh,” she thinks, “how can I allow all this nourishing food to be wasted, when there are so many poor creatures starving ! ” So, in order to ease her mind, she makes a handsome present of the stale bread to the first beggar who knocks at her door. He receives it with effusion or growls, according to his disposition, yet in either case it is most likely that if the donor walk out a few minutes afterwards, she will find the broken bread thrown into the road. The professional beggar has not yet been brought so low that he has to eat broken crusts ; he throws them from him with scorn. Doubtless there are honest poor folks wjho would be thankful for the pieces, but they do not go begging in dirt and rags from door to door. They hide their heads in miserable homes, and struggle bravely with poverty and want. If we want to help them we must seek them out, give them work, and help them to support themselves. It is not probable that we can afford to do this so long as we permit good food to be wasted. Therefore, our first duty is to look well to our own ways, and try, even in this small difficulty, to follow the example of One who, while He devoted His life to healing the sick and com- forting the sorrowful, did not forget to tell His fol- lowers to “gather up the fragments, that nothing should be lost.” It comes, then, to this : if we wish to prevent waste, we must take the first step towards it in our own homes, and make the most of the materials at our command. Crusts and broken pieces of bread are really very valuable, and one very excellent way of employing them is to use them for frying fish. We shall find it to our advantage, there- fore, to preserve them for this purpose. It is not unlikely that if a cook has to prepare crumbs for a special dish, at the moment, she will be in a hurry, and not have time to dry and sift the crumbs properly, and so her fish may be spoiled. But if she has a supply of crumbs on hand she will have no difficulty in this direction. Let her, therefore, when she has crusts or stale bread which she has no other use for, sift them through a fine wire sieve, dry them thoroughly in a cool oven (not allowing them to brown), and keep them in a bottle tightly corked and