56 The Girl's Own Cookery Book. clarified dripping ; add cold water to make a smooth stiff paste, knead lightly, roll out once and use. The excellence of pastry depends very much upon its being properly baked. The best pastry that ever was mixed would be spoilt if the oven was not exactly right. If an oven is not hot enough the pastry will sink away from the edges of the dish and will .be heavy. If the oven is too hot the pastry will be burnt or will stiffen without rising. The surest way of testing the heat of the oven is to bake a small piece of pastry before putting the pie or tart into it. Another way is to sprinkle a little flour upon the oven shelf. If it turn a bright brown in a few seconds the oven is hot enough. If it turn black the oven is too hot; if it remains pale in colour the oven is too slow. Pastry should be put in the hot part of the oven for the first five minutes, after which it should be removed to a cooler part that it may be cooked through. Large pies containing fruit or meat, which must be thoroughly cooked, should have a sheet of paper placed over them as soon as the pastry has risen, to prevent their ac- quiring a dark brown colour before the contents of the pie are done. Pastry which is to be boiled is lighter when made with suet than it is when butter, lard, or dripping is used. Beef suet is generally used for this purpose, but mutton suet is more wholesome and can be chopped the more easily of the two. With one pound of flour, four, six, eight, or ten ounces of suet may be taken, according to the degree of richness required. Very good suet crust may be made with six ounces of suet, one teaspoonful of baking powder, a pinch of salt, and a pound of flour. The suet should be skinned, and the fibres and sinews should be removed, and it should then be chopped till it is as fine as oatmeal, and rubbed into the flour ; water should be added gradually. To make a very stiff paste the pastry should be rolled out once, and it is ready for use. Making raised pies, that is, pies baked without either dishes or pattypans, is very interesting work, and like a good many other things it is very mysterious until we know how to do it, and very easy when we do. I will