13 Roasting. should happen that the meat has been kept a little too long, or if it is discoloured in any part, it should be washed quickly with vinegar and water, and wiped dry afterwards. The next thing is to wind up the meat-jack, to weigh the joint, and then to hang it on the meat-hook. And here it must be remembered that the meat is to hang by the small end, so that the largest or thickest part should hang a little below the hottest part of the fire. The thickest part of the meat will take more roasting than the rest, therefore the fiercest heat of the fire must fall upon it. It is a great object both in roasting and boiling meat to kee[? in the gravy or juice. In both cases this is best effected by cooking the outside very quickly, so that it shall be a sort of case through which the juices of the meat cannot escape. It is for this purpose that the meat should be put quite near the fire to begin with—that is, as near as it can be not to burn the outside ; and it should be basted immediately to prevent its becoming hard and dry. Then in about five or six minutes it may be drawn back to the distance of about a foot from the fire, and basted frequently till it is done. By frequently I mean as much and as often as possible, for meat can scarcely be basted too much. It is the lean part of meat that requires basting. The screen that is put round it will keep the cold air from blowing upon it. This is a very important part of roasting, and I should like to impress it upon you. I once heard a very clever cook say that in every dish she made there was a secret; and her great desire was to keep the secret very safe, so that no one might make such good things as she did. We will act quite differently. We will try to discover the secrets, and if they are worth knowing we will tell them all round. As to the time the meat will take to roast, that will vary with its quality, its thickness, and the heat of the fire. This is one of the points on which a cook cannot go by a book, but must use her common sense. The great general rules are a quarter of an hour to the pound, and a quarter of an hour over for red meats ; and twenty minutes to the pound, and twenty minutes over for white