The Gridiron. 35 well indeed for ordinary purposes, though there is a superior kind with fluted bars, by means of which a good deal of the gravy that would otherwise be wasted is saved. Very much more important, however, than the kind of gridiron is its cleanliness. Perhaps you will say, “Oh, cleanliness ; of course everything we use is clean That goes without saying.” It does, and I am afraid, very often without doing either. At any rate, I don't think tnere is a gndiron now in use that I should like to use without giving it a little additional rub beforehand Meat comes into direct contact with the bars of a gridiron. \v hen we fry anything, the meat is covered with the fat • when we boil anything it is surrounded by water; when we roast or bake anything, it is basted with dripping ; but £ulS!,gif?reen 11 and the gridiron> if the J f ra dusty or Snmy> both the food and those who partake of it get the benefit thereof. This is why it t0 have a distinct gridiron for fish. Beef- steak d la bloater is not agreeable. Therefore, let a gridiron be well cleaned as soon as it that washed thoroughly all over with hot brinM m h a"d a • utle ^Sand : n0 soaP- If tke bars are S to begIn with, they should be kept so by being Se,d,w h scouring paper. Take particular care to rub in and between the bars ; and when it is quite clean hang the gndiron in some airy place where it will be free from a n ; B f°"f USmg ll’ ma^6 k h0t> and w>Pe il well with piece of clean paper; then make it hot again, rub it thehbaC fann?U“0n SUaet to Pr.event the meat sticking to meat shonbfhl*S [eady‘ -Au ‘r1S very imPortant that the “ed”d be. taken straight from the fire to the table, erid^on1 tkLqUIte tlUre’ .b(?fore we lay the meat on the do?h ?s laid JingaS ?UItC ready for il> and that the f 1tld> the dl,sh and Piates quite hot, and everything i e 1° be wan‘ed provided. If, when the steak ijdonf have to spend a minute looking for the salt here and two more making the dishes hot there, our broil will not ofcourse>nothing less will satisfy us. and i ualways season the steak with pepper and salt, and brush it oyer with oil before broiling it, and the plan TheU|HdnUSUalm kitchens> is to be recommended.’ The gridiron should be placed slanting to begin with, and