32 The Girl's Own Cookery Book. absurd custom arose, and a still greater one that it can be kept up. It is a comfort to think that when ladies get to understand cookery, it will soon be put a stop to. I have nothing to say against servants being well paid ; if they do their work well, by all means let them have good wages ; but why we should allow them to increase their wages by selling our excellent kitchen fat at less than half its value, and then expect us to spend double the money in buying fat that is not nearly so good, is beyond my comprehension. I can only imagine that the practice was begun by some one who was ignorant, and kept up by some one who was dishonest. But if, notwithstanding all our care, we are still short of the requisite quantity of fat, what are we to do? Make it up with lard? By no means. Rather gather together every piece of fat meat upon which you can lay your hands, cut it into small pieces, put these in a saucepan, with cold water to cover, and boil over a clear fire. Leave the lid off the pan, and boil the fat gently, stirring it every now and then to keep it from burning to the bottom of the pan. When the water has evaporated we must pour the contents of the saucepan through a strainer into a basin, and our fat will be ready for use. If the pieces of fat taken from joints still do not afford as much dripping as we need, the best thing we can do is to buy what is called by the butchers ox flare, cut it into pieces, and render it down in the same way. This flare can be had for about 6d. per pound. Fat which is not quite pure shouid be clarified before being used. For this, break up the fat in a basin, pour boiling water over it, and stir it till it is melted, leave it till cold, then take the cake of fat up, and with a knife remove the impurities, which will have settled at the bottom. Melt it again gently in the oven in order to free it entirely from water, strain again, and it is once more ready for use. Fat does not need to be clarified each time it is used for frying. It requires only to be strained through a metal strainer to free it from any little pieces of meat or fish that are in it. Care should be taken, however, to remove it from the fire as soon as it is done with, to prevent its becoming discoloured, and also to let it cool