Clear Soups. 69 water will supply a clear straw-coloured liquor, which tastes quite sufficiently of meat, and which may easily be converted into excellent soup. Of course the difficulty here is the flavouring. We must so flavour this extract of meat stock that no one shall know what it was, but shall if they think anything at all about the matter, regard it as a matter of course that the stock for the soup was made in the usual way, “ with trouble and charges,” to use an expression of Izaak Walton’s. Whatever vegetables are used in flavouring this soup must be cleansed thoroughly and boiled separately. A little soaked gelatine may be boiled in the liquid, which must be skimmed thoroughly ; and as soon as it tastes pleasantly, and before the vegetables are soft, the liquid must be strained off for use. As to what flavourers we are to use in making the stock, the question must be answered by another—What fla- vourers can we get at the time? We need not always make our soup exactly alike. When we once get the idea we can vary the flavour according to the ingredients at our command. Supposing we want a small quantity of soup for a small family, let us flavour a pint of water pleasantly and rather strongly by boiling in it the white part of a leek, six or eight fresh peppercorns, and a stick of celery, or a small pinch of celery seed tied in muslin ; a turnip, a small carrot, and a little parsley can be added, if liked, or an onion with one or two cloves may be used instead of the leek. We must cleanse and prepare the vegetables before using. Also we must remove the scum from the liquid as it rises, and boil in it about a teaspoonful of good gela- tine which has been soaked in water for awhile ; then we dissolve a small quantity of extract of meat in fresh boil- ing water (I cannot say exactly how much,-because extract of meat varies in quality—about a teaspoonful), strain the stock in which the vegetables were boiled, mix the two together, and add salt until the liquid is coloured suffi- ciently and tastes well. It should not be over brown, and it should not taste specially of the dissolved extract, but rather of a combination of meat and vegetables. When wanted make it hot, and the soup is ready. When they are to be had, a handful of green peas or a little carrot