The Girl’s Own Cookery Book. 112 Altogether, I think we may say, that with average gela- tine, one ounce may be taken for a pint and a half of liquid, exclusive of a wineglassful of sherry, and half a wineglassful of brandy ; while in hot weather, when ice cannot be obtained, an ounce of gelatine should be taken for a pint of liquid. As to the method of preparing jelly with gelatine, we first measure the quantity of water we think it wise to use ; we then soak the gelatine in as much water as will cover it, for about an hour ; dissolve it in a little more water, add the remainder with the sugar, lemon, and flavouring ingredients. Put the saucepan on the fire, and proceed as for calves’ feet jelly ; that is, we whisk it till it rises in the pan, draw it back, and let it stand for twenty minutes, strain it, add the wine, and put it into the mould. All sorts of jelly may be made by varying the flavour and following the directions here given. Orange jelly is made by using oranges instead of lemons. In mara- schino jelly, maraschino is used instead of wine ; ditto, noyeau ; ditto,' various liqueurs. In various fruit jellies, the juice of fruit is mixed with water to make up the quantity of liquid, and wine may then be omitted. In every case there must be more lemon-juice than lemon rind, for acid helps to clear the jelly as well as to flavour it. One word must be said about straining the jelly. Many cooks recommend the use of the close flannel bags ordi- narily used for the purpose. For my part I do not like these bags. The scum which forms at the top of the jelly is the real filter for the liquid, and we want to keep this as unbroken as possible. If we pour the contents of our pan from a height, as we must do if we use the jelly-bag, we can scarcely help disturbing our filter. A very con- venient strainer for jelly may be made by putting a kitchen chair (which is without rails on the inside) upside down on a table, and tying the four corners of a perfectly clean tea-cloth to the four legs of the chair which stand upright. We must be quite sure that neither soap nor soda has been used in washing the cloth, and also that it has been rinsed through very hot water just before it is used. This will supply all that is wanted in the way of a jelly-bag, and all we have to do is to put a dish underneath the