73 Thick Soups and Purees. sieve is rather troublesome, and calls both for time and patience. If these can be given, however, the result is sure to be satisfactory ; and if girls who have till now been accustomed only to the ordinary method of cookery usually carried on in English kitchens will follow the directions given, and patiently make a purde properly, they will be astonished to find what excellent soup can be made for a trifling cost. The best of it is that a girl who gets the idea of making one purde can make every purde. Therefore, as potatoes are within the reach of all I will describe the process of making potato purde, and I hope girls will remember that although potatoes are used here, the process would be the same whatever vegetables were used, and whatever the purde might be. Before we began to make our soup, however, we should want a hair sieve, and a small one can be bought for about ninepence. If we determined to make soup every day, we should do well to get a wire sieve; and a moderate-sized tin wire sieve would cost about half- a-crown, though a brass wire sieve would cost about four shillings. The vegetables could be made to go through the wire sieve more quickly than -through the hair sieve, but the purde would not be quite so smooth in the former case as in the latter. At the same time the wire sieve would last much longer than the hair sieve. Besides the hair sieve we must procure a stewpan with a closely-fitting lid, one leek, or if this is not to be had, one small onion, a pound of potatoes, weighed after being washed and peeled, half of a small stick of celery, and a pint and a half of stock. We wash the leek and cut the white part only into dice ; then put these, the potatoes thinly sliced, the celery, and four peppercorns into the stewpan with one ounce of butter. We cover the stewpan closely and place it on the fire for five minutes to “sweat ” the vegetables, and we shake the pan now and then to keep the potatoes from sticking and thus acquiring colour. After being steamed in butter in this way vegetables intended for soup give out their flavour better than they would if boiled at once in the stock. We now pour the pint and a half of white stock over