Puddings. 39 u° e°?s’ ^eir condition is perhaps more important than that of any thing that can be used. One bad egg introduced into a pudding would spoil the effect of a dozen new laid ones. However anxious a girl might be *?. mix, a Padding quickly, I would advise her never to Sthn t0 break a number of eggs into a basin without first trying them separately in a cup. She mav 5fVt buUght tben^ at the best shoP in the town, and paid the highest price for them, but there is an element of un- disregard ab°Ut CggS that n° g°°d COok can afford t0 There is one thing connected with eggs that always astonishes me very much, and that is, how few cooks trouWe to remove the “speck,” or thick knotted substance that lies by the side of the yolk. When the egg is turned into a cup the speck can be taken out easily with the °f a fo.rk’ ^nd it is very unpleasant to come into contact with it while eating. We are often told that, “ in ^l'Cate'rK00keury,”,ihLe specks should be removed from egas. I bey should be removed in all cookery, for thev I’mim^0Ve a dl?h’ arnd they are always Objectionable/ PfT„hea ISutime for 11 the whites and the yolks of separately, the yolks put in first and the whisked whites dashed in at the last moment ore cooking the pudding. The reason of this is that white of egg can be so easily whisked into a foam, and if ttblVjfnbe ,in^oduced ‘"to the pudding before it has time th»[ ’ tjie bttle air hubbies that were beaten in it, and that made the white of egg rise, will expand still further with the heat and will lift up the pudding in the sam£ light.hat thCy lftCd UP thC WhUe °f egg’ aad 50 make aUVtfeensWnet*nrfU«? I Taking puddings il should have tbf fiskin and fibr<; taken away, and be chopped till t is as fine as oatmeal. If we have a chopping-board this „aa betf00ni°^e’but if not il's rather a troublfsome busi- ness , nevertheless it must be well chopped, for we should Tumn^ bff that°ur puddings should have large uTit ,hl,Mtsem- lf a \nifc must be “«d i" chopping th? [,Sd t a verV sharp one; and we shall find that the best plan we can adopt is to shred the suet finely first, then turn the pieces round and chop them with