138 The Girl's Own Cookery Book. walk deliberately into a trap prepared for the ignorant and the unreasonable. What, then, are we to do ? We may be able to appre- ciate a cup of good tea when it is made, yet not be able to select it judiciously. Our course lies clear before us— we must purchase the tea of a respectable dealer who has a reputation to maintain, and who will not for his own sake supply us with an inferior or adulterated article. Given, then, the respectable dealer, what variety of tea should we ask him to supply us with ? This must depend on individual taste. Some people have a preference for one kind of tea only ; others believe that flavour and body are best obtained from a suitable mixture. I incline to the latter opinion ; moreover, I like to mix the varieties myself. To buy tea already mixed calls for the exercise of more trust in a very worthy class of the community than I possess. The finest green tea is the purest tea obtainable in this country, and it is also the sort most liable to adulteration. Green tea is scarcely ever used alone, and its use at all is muchlessfrequentnow thanformerly. The usual proportion for a mixture of black and green tea is four or six parts of black to one of green tea. When taken strong, green tea is most injurious. As a guide to those who are in doubt as to the variety of black tea to be chosen, I quote the following passage taken from Dr. Edward Smith’s work on Foods : “ Of black teas Congou should be preferred for economy, and also as a foundation for a mixed tea. A higher class of tea for ordinary use may be composed of three parts of Congou and one part of Assam or Oolong ; whilst for the best kinds, a mixture may be made of one part of Kaisow and three of fine Souchong ; or of two parts of Kaisow, three of Souchong, and one of Oolong orange-flavoured Pekoe, or fine Assam ; or equal parts of Souchong, Kaisow, or flowery Pekoe may be taken. For my own part I may say that for many years I have used the following mixture, which I have found both excellent and moderate in price ; one pound of Moning Congou, a quarter of a pound of Assam, and a quarter of a pound of Orange Pekoe. Here the Moning Congou supplies the body, the Assam the flavour, and the Pekoe