142 The Girl's Own Cookery Book. French coffee, you must have either an ordinary cafeti&re, or a cafeti£re l’excellente. Of course, good, wholesome, agreeable English coffee can be made with the coffee-pot usually found in English kitchens ; and as thousands possess the one who will never think of purchasing the other, I will first describe how good English coffee should be made with the coffee pot we all know so well. I will then show how the cafe- tiere should be used, arriving lastly at the superlative degree of excellence in the cafetifere l’excellente. All coffee should be freshly roasted and freshly ground if it is to yield its full aroma. A machine can be bought for roasting coffee at home; but as few housekeepers would care for the trouble of this, it should be remembered that coffee should be bought in small quantities at a time : that care should be taken to have it freshly roasted ; that it should be kept in a closely-covered tin ; that it should be heated in the oven for a few minutes before being ground, and that no more should be ground at one time than is needed for one supply. Whatever kind of coffee is used, these details should be observed with regard to the coffee. Also I may add that Mocha coffee is the best, and that small berries are to be preferred. Many people mix chicory with their coffee. There is at the present time a preparation sold under the name of coffee, which consists of nothing but chicory and burnt sugar. Chicory is harmless, I believe ; it gives colour and a certain body to coffee, and thus is an economical addition to the coffee-pot; but it is not coffee, and people who make a practice of using it have probably no idea of what real coffee is. The proportions of chicory and cof- fee usually taken are a quarter of a pound of chicory to one pound of coffee. The white and shell of an egg are sometimes mixed with ground coffee in order to “clear” the solution. If eggs are allowed, they answer their purpose excellently, and should be mixed with the ground coffee before the boiling water is poured on. They can, however, be dis- pensed with. There is a good deal of difference of opinion about the quantity of coffee which should be used in making the beverage. This must, of course, vary with the degree of