132 The Girl's Own Cookery Book. scarcely necessary to say how dried and salt fish should be cooked. Fresh herrings are excellent when opened, emptied, boned, seasoned and rolled, put into a pie-dish with vinegar and water, and baked for three-quarters of an hour. A few potatoes baked in a jar with herrings thus pickled form a most appetising dish. Good soup is wholesome and nourishing, but it is not so much made or used as it deserves to be. The follow- ing is Mrs. Buckton’s recipe for an excellent vegetable soup. Put a quart of water into a saucepan, and while it boils prepare the vegetables by cleaning and cutting into small dice an onion and a lettuce. Throw these into boiling water, with two ounces of green pease, and two potatoes cooked or uncooked. Mix a tablespoonful of flour or oatmeal with two ounces of dripping, add this to the soup, with pepper, salt, and a pinch of sugar. Simmer gently for nearly an hour, mix with half a pint of boiling milk, and serve with sippets of bread. If liked, carrots or dried pease can be substituted for the green pease, but dried pease will need to boil for two hours or more. Very excellent soup can be made of scraps and bones, cooked and uncooked, skin, trimmings of vegetables (not cabbage), etc. No remnant of good food is too small or insignificant to be put into the “stockpot,” that is, the pot or saucepan employed in making the stock for soup. Scraps put into the stock pot may be covered with cold water, and stewed until every particle of goodness has been extracted from them ; and excellent nourishing soup may be made of the liquor thus obtained. If you will refer to page 62 of this book you will find a recipe for making soup from bones. The French are celebrated for their soups. The stock pot used by them is a glazed earthenware pipkin, while the English stock pot is usually an iron saucepan. Stock made in an earthenware vessel may be allowed to cool in the pot; stock made in a metal saucepan will taste unpleasantly if left to cool in the pan in which it was made. The stock made from bones will keep better if made with- out vegetables. It will not taste pleasantly until vegetables and herbs have been added to it, and then it may be thickened with oatmeal, barley, pea-meal, bread, etc., a little milk also is a valuable addition. Thus thickened it