The Girl's Owfi Cookery Book. 128 chopped. Grease a pie-dish, and fill it with alternate layers of sliced potatoes and fry, remembering that potatoes must form the first and last layers, and that a little of the savoury mixture, with pepper and salt, must be sprinkled over each layer of fry. Fill the dish with water for gravy, cover it with the thin skin of the fry, or, wanting this, with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven for about an hour, or, if more convenient, gently stew it in a saucepan. Stewed Giblets.—Giblets are very delicious and nour- ishing if well stewed, and a good dishful, sufficient to make a dinner for a small family, may frequently be bought on Saturday evenings for threepence or fourpence. It must, however, be remembered that the giblets require to be thoroughly stewed, and also that they will not keep. Wash them thoroughly in two or three waters. Skin the necks, and cut them into small portions, cut through the top skin of the gizzard and clean it well, divide the heart and liver into halves, and remember not to break the gall bag of the liver, because gall is very bitter. Scald the claws and legs by throwing them into boiling water, then remove the skin. Be sure to use the feet, as they are rich in jelly. Put the gizzards and feet into a stewpan with water to cover, and stew for three-quarters of-an hour; add the rest of the giblets, which have been rolled in flour, with two onions, each stuck with a clove, a large carrot sliced, a bunch of herbs, and a little pepper and salt. Stew for an hour and a half longer, and serve very hot. Stewed Meat.—Take a pound of scraps of meat. Fry these in dripping till brown, and also two onions, two carrots, and two turnips cut up small. Put both meat and vegetables into a saucepan, cover with water which has been thickened with a little flour, add pepper and salt, and simmer gently with the lid on the pan for an hour, or longer if the meat is tough. If liked, potatoes, cut into quarters, and onions can be stewed with the gravy. Serve very hot. Stewed Scraps of Meat with Onions.—Grease a stewpan thicjdy with dripping, cover the bottom with a layer of onions, put a layer of meat on this with pepper and salt, and repeat until all is used. Cover the saucepan closely, and stew very gently for an hour and a half. The water