Vlll PROCEEDINGS OF THE A paper by Robert Howden, M.B, on Variations in the llippo- campus Major and Eminentia Collaterals was then read. This paper was illustrated by numerous casts of brains, and drawings, and is printed in extenso in the Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, vol. xxii. (n.s. vol. ii.), p. 283. Mr Arthur Thomson wished to know whether the casts had been made before or after the brains had been hardened, and spoke of changes in shape which might ensue through the action of spirit. Sir William Turner, in the absence of Mr Howden, said the moulds were obtained from hardened brains, and by means of plaster of Paris. From these moulds casts were taken with a composition of glycerine and gelatine, thickened with oxide of zinc and a small quantity of arsenious acid. The following paper, by David Hepburn, M.B., was then read :■— A Needle in the Spinal Canal transfixing the Roots of Spinal Nerves. David Hepburn, M.B., M.R.C.S. (Eng.), Senior Demonstrator of Anatomy, University of Edinburgh. That the tissues of the living body are to a remarkable degree tolerant of pure metals is a fact, in confirmation of which numerous illustrations can be adduced. Thus it is well known that bullets which have lodged in different parts of the human body have lain dormant for long periods without causing special annoyance to, or making their presence felt by, their possessors. Furthermore, needles which have entered the body either remain stationary, or, aided by muscular action, travel long distances from their original point of entrance, or find their way to a free surface, and so perhaps come within the reach of removal. The late Sir James Young Simpson based his method of deligation of arteries by means of acupressure on the tolerance above referred to. As the result of his study of this subject, he formulated a theory called the “ Law of Tolerance of Living Structures for the presence of Foreign Metallic Bodies.” * In support of this law he makes the following statement:— “Metallic bodies -when lodged and embedded without much mechanical contusion or injury in living tissues produce compara- tively little or no irritation by their presence; and if inflammation is excited by their contact, that inflammation is usually limited to the first or adhesive stage, unless the contact at any point or points is so excessive as to produce ulceration by the mere effect of morbid pressure” (Acupressure, p. 457, 1864). A curious specimen which serves still further to illustrate this tolerance, came under my notice in the Practical Anatomy Rooms of the University of Edinburgh. From the circumstances of the case it was not possible to obtain any clinical history. The subject was a female. In the course of the dissection of the back, and as the lamina)