PROCEEDINGS OF T1IE X of a different colour also the circumcallosal gyrus. The above method enabled the brain to be handled freely, to lie out for demonstration simply under a glass shade, or to be mounted in jars, without fluid, for the museum shelves. He had many years ago applied this process to all his series of brains, human and com- parative, prepared by the old spirit process, and found it a great facility and convenience. It may be applied to brains that have been any length of time in museums in spirit. He did not think Giacomini’s method (see this Journal, vol. xiii., 1879, p. 282) so good, unless it is wished to have the brain of almost stony hardness, like a plaster cast, not admitting of the convolutions being opened out. That was the result of Giacomini’s zinc stage. He showed two brains of the sheep and two human hemispheres, prepared carefully at the same time by the two processes, as an experiment for comparison. Those by Giacomini’s process were not only too much hardened, but had shrunk very much in size. (b) Moist Method for Museum Specimens.—Inject with spirit, to which some glycerine and carbolic acid have been added, if the part admits of injection; but injection is not necessary. Saturate with the glycerine and carbolic acid mixture. But undiluted glycerine will harden too much. The proportion is glycerine 2 to 1 of water, and to 8 parts of this fluid add 1 part of carbolic acid. When glycerine is used to soften, as during dissection, the proportion should be glycerine and water equal parts. It is not necessary to immerse < the part in the fluid, it may be sponged on it or otherwise applied so as to saturate. Immersion may harden too much. Then allow to drip, till only the moist condition remains. Thus prepared, the viscus or dissection is mounted in a museum jar without any fluid, simply in the moist condition and no longer dropping. It may be variously suspended within the jar, as by being fixed to a plate of glass or to a surrounding galvanised iron wire. The glass top may be cemented, or may be applied loose, retained by Goodsir’s bronze ring. The advantages of this method, over that by having the jar filled wdth spirit, are that there is no optical distortion, that it is more economical in the end, and, if the loose cover and bronze ring are employed, that it may be conveniently taken out at any time for closer examination or demonstration. Preparations of the bladder, prostate, uterus, heart, brain (prepared specially as above), the joints, &c., and dissections of the hand, foot, &c., may be con- veniently mounted thus and placed on the museum shelves. The method may be employed equally for pathological specimens. (c) Moist Method for Dissections— Larger dissections, as of the ligaments, muscles, blood-vessels, nerves, viscera, &c., are prepared in the above method (b), and are useful in teaching in addition to the recent dissections. They do not dry like spirit preparations, and may lie out in the dissecting-room or museum simply under a glass shade to keep off dust. This method may mostly supersede the spiritr basins at present fashionable in some dissecting-rooms, and by changing them from time to time, according to the stage of the