ANATOMICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND, ix were being sawn through preparatory to opening the spinal canal a piece of steel of the thickness of a sacking needle was discovered piercing the right ligamentum subflavum between the lamina) of the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebra; close to their articular processes. It did not project external to the lamina), but, on opening the spinal canal, it was found to pierce first the trunk of a spinal nerve and then to pass through the opening in the dura mater which gave exit to this nerve. The spinal cord and its membranes were next carefully removed from the spinal canal, and an incision made through the dura mater along its posterior aspect. This revealed the fact that the piece of metal was an inch in length, pointed and sharp at its inner end. In its course through the cauda equina a number of nerve roots had been involved, some being impaled, while others were matted together by lymph of sufficient age to be firm and dense. Careful examination showed that altogether six anterior and two posterior nerve roots were so affected. These were the anterior roots of the 4th and 5th lumbar, and of the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th sacral nerves j the posterior root of the 1st lumbar (in part), and the 3rd lumbar nerve. That part of the needle which passed amidst the nerve fibres was ensheathed in lymph, but the sharp end, half an inch in length, was free. The needle was blackened but not rusted. The muscles of the limb supplied by the above nerves did not present any signs of atrophy when compared with those of the opposite limb. In reply to Dr Mott,’ Sir William Turner said no degeneration had been observed in the spinal cord. Professor Struthers gave an account of his methods of preparing and preserving the brain, museum specimens, and dissections. 1. (a) The Brain.—First Stage, the usual process by immersion in spirit, the membranes having been removed at once in water. This may take from ten to fourteen days according to the strength of the spirit, and the frequency with which it is changed. It should not be carried too far, so as to avoid too much hardening.—Second Stage, let the brain lie out for a day to allow the spirit to evaporate. Then place it in the following mixture of glycerine and carbolic acid,— clear glycerine 4 parts, clear carbolic acid 1 part. He had lately used the proportion of 8 of glycerine to 1 of carbolic acid. Two or three days in this fluid will suffice. Take the brain out and allow the glycerine to drip off until only a moist state remains. The brain may now be placed under a glass shade to keep off dust. When thus prepared the convolutions are tough, flexible, and elastic, so that they may be separated down to the bottom of the sulci. The lobes and particular convolutions may then be stained with various pig- ments applied with a brush. To show simply the lobes, his method is to stain the temporal and parietal lobes, leaving the frontal and occipital lobes uncoloured; and in separated hemispheres to stain c