22101807372 JOHN HODGKIN, KL.S.ONE HUNDRED AND SIXTY Culinary Dainties: FOR THE EPICURE, THE I.TSTV^IjIID7 AKD TBI IE DYSPEPTrC. By Mr. SAMUEL HOBBS, FORMERLY CHEF DE CUISINE To Messrs. Gunter or Co., Berkeley Square, London, and many of the Nobility, vide Testimonials. LONDON: DEAN & SON, 100a, FLEET STREET, E.C. fill*Jlooto •4 0/ INTRODUCTION. A large number of the dishes in this work will doubtless appear new to many who practice the culinary art, and they really are so, and without presumption might be truly termed la crime de la crane of modern culinary art. To those who love a good dinner, my great and successful practice in the profession for over thirty years tempts me to recommend them as certain, if properly prepared, to give satisfaction. My instructions will apply to the quantities needed for two entrees out of four, the number needed for a dinner of fourteen or sixteen persons; where and when the dinner is for half that number use half the quantities. And the same with the entrement in the id the size of the sweet v WELLCO.W -.im'UTE \ LI v wo!""0m?ic No.In offering this brochure on culinary art to the public, I fceg sincerely to state that my object has been to produce a small but very useful work; my conviction being that to place a large volume in the hands of many cooks only tends to confound and puzzle them, and to fill the minds of those who are seeking to follow cooking as a profession with alarming doubts of ever being able of succeeding in the same; while a small volume at a small price, containing a judicious selection of good dishes, would tempt many to peruse and to study the same. And, let me add, the Epicure, the Invalid, and the Dyspeptic can more readily look over and select from a small work than from a laree and bulky volume, which very frequently only tends to weary and confound. I have purposely excluded soups and fish, and the plain roast and boiled dishes from my little work, because they are limited in number and the heads of most es- tablishments, and also the persons in their employ, quite understand all about them. With these few remarks I send my little work forth to the world; but should what is here offered be acceptediv PREFACE. with favour, in another edition the work could readily be enlarged. I offer on the following pages a selection of my numerous testimonials to show that it is a cook who has written this work—most cookery books being, I find, merely collections by the uninitiated in the art of cookery. And further let me add, Doctor Johnson once made a promise that lie would write a cookery book on philosophical principles; but what the learned Doctor failed to do the humble author of this slight brochure claims to have accomplished, not only on philosophical but philanthropical principles also; for never did invalid or dyspeptic have so many delicate dainties offered to their notice. As proof of what I state, let me refer them to the Cremes of Fowl, Cremes of Pheasants, Cremes of Lamb, Cremes of Beef, &c, and the variety offered in each instance; and again in the preparation of Beef-Tea, Mutton-Broth, and Chicken- Broth ; then again to Calf s-Foot Jelly, which, if made on the principle here evolved, contains for the invalid a world of good in itself, and I may add it is the same with every dish here offered. The epicure and the invalid are equally provided for; and I can only plead in conclusion, to test what I say,—partake of what is here offered, and I feel assured you will say the little work has been truly written on philosophical principles !CONTENTS. No. rAGE 1 Creme of Fowl a la Mo- derne 1 1 Creme of Fowl en Su- preme 3 3 Fritot of Creme of Fowl . 4 4 Creme of Fowl an Gratin 5 5 Creme of Fowl a la Tou- louse 5 6 Creme of Fowl a la Finan- ciere 5 7 Quenelles of Fowl ... 6 8 Pain of Fowl a la Heine . 9 9 Scollops of Pain of Fowl PaneealaFinanciere 10 No. PAOB 10 Petits Pains of Fowl a la Prince 11 11 Poulet Farcie a la Tou- louse 12 12 Petits Poulet au Gratin . 13 13 Croustades of Fowl a la Peine 14 14 Entrees of Pigeons ... 15 15 Compote of Pigeons a la Royal 16 16 Balotines of Pigeon a la Moderne 18 17 Entrees of Duckling . . lft 18 Quails a, la Financiers . 17 ENTREES OF LARKS, 19 Larks Farces aux Cham- pignons 18 20 French Pie of Larks . . 19 21 Entrees of Pheasants . . 20 22 Cr£me of Pheasants a la Moderne .... 20 23 Creme of Pheasants en Surpreme .... 20 24 Fritot of Creme of Phea- sants 20 26 Creme of Pheasants a la Financiere .... 21 PHEASANTS, ETC. 26 Quenelles of Pheasants . 21 27 Curry of Pheasants. . . 21 28 Salmi of Pheasants . . 22 29 Curry of Partridges . . 23 80 Salmi of Partridges . . 2a 31 Quenelles of Partridges . 23 32 Fritot of Creme of Par- tridges 23 33 Creme of Partridge en Supreme .... 23 34 Cr6me of Partridge a la Moderne .... 23 16 Darioles of Creme of Lamb X la Moderne . ENTREES OF LAMB. 36 Fritot of Creme of Lamb. 25 24 37 Saute of Lamb Cutlets an Naturel 26CONTENTS. ENTREES OF HEART SWEETBREADS OF LAMB. No. PACK 38 Sweetbreads of Lamb a la Monarque ... 27 39 Lamb Sweetbreads au Gratin 28 40 Vol au Vent of Lamb Sweetbreads a la Toulouse .... 29 No. PAOB 41 Petits Patties of Fowl, or Game, or Veal and Ham 33 42 Stewed Breast of Lamb and Peas .... 33 43 Breast of Lamb en Fritot Sauce Tomato... 34 44 Saut6 of Scollops of Fillets of Beef aux Cham- pignons 35 45 Scollops of Fillets of Beef with Oyster Sauce . 36 46 Scollops of Fillets of Beef Pique" aux Olives. . -iG ENTREES OF BEEF. 47 Creme of Fi!llet of Beef a la Moderne. ... 37 48 Fritot of Creme of Beef al'Italian .... 37 49 Creme of Fillet of Beef a la Financiere . . 38 50 Creme of Beef a la Na- politaine 38 ENTREES OF VEAL. *1 Sweetbreads of Veal a la I 52 Sweetbreads of Veal au Monarque .... 38 | Gratin 39 ENTREES OF MUTTON. 63 Saute" of Fillets of Mut- ton a la Macedoine . M Cutlets of Mutton Bread- Crumbed, with Mushroom Sauce. . 65 Creme of Mutton a la Moderne .... 56 Saute" of Sheep's Kidneys 41 39 & lltalian .... 57 Vol au Vent of Sweet- breads of Veal. . • 42 40 58 Creme of Veal a la Mo- 42 41 59 Darioles of Crime of Veal 42 ENTREES OF RABBIT. •60 Quenelles of Rabbit aux Champignons ... 42 61 Creme of Rabbit a la Moderne 42 COLD ENTREES 62 Cold Entries 43 €3 Bombs of Fat Livers a l'Ambrosia.... 44 64 Pain of Fat Livers a la Celestine 46 65 Bombs of Fowl a la Reine 47 66 Chaud Froid of Fowl a l'Aspic 49CONTEXTS. No. PA0B 67 Quenelles of Fowl aux Champignons a l'As- pic 50 C8 Bombs of Lobster a la Cardinal 51 69 Salmi of Larks a la Ma- cedoine 53 70 L'Escalopes of Trout a la Tartarre .... 54 71 Scollops of Salmon en Mayonnaise ... 57 • 72 Patties of Game ... 57 7:5 Salade of Lobster a la Franchise .... 58 81 No. PAf!« 74 Cutlets of Lamb a la Victoria 02 75 Vol au Vents of Oysters a la Crthne .... 02 7S Salmi of Partridges a la Bohemienne ... 63 77 Bombs of Fillets of Soles a la Maitre d'H6tel . 64 78 Galantine of Chicken cut up 6& 79 Crdme of Veal and Fowl a. la Bonne Femme . 66 80 Blancmanger of Fowl- Garnie aux Truffes . 68 'ECONOMICAL ENTREES OF FISH, FLESH AND FOWL. Minced Mutton au Gratin 70 82 Turbot au Gratin with Tomato Sauce ... 72 83 Minced Beef au Gratin . 72 84 Sweetbreads au Gratin en Cases 73 85 Rissoles of Fowl a la Reine 74 86 Croquettes of Fowl and Tongue 76 87 Fritot of Fowl with Sauce of Tomatoes ... 77 BROTHS FOR INVALIDS. 89 Mutton-Broth .... 78 | 90 Beef-Tea 79 91 Chicken or Fowl-Broth 79 CULINARY SAUCES. 92 Espagnol or Brown 80 93 Veloute and Bechamel 83 94 Bechamel Sauce . . . 84 95 Italian Sauce .... 85 96 Bohemienne Sauce 97 Pure"e of Tomatoes 98 Hollandaise Sauce 99 Butter Sauce . . 100 CalFs-foot Jelly . 101 Savoury, or Aspic Jelly 85 85 86 86 87 90 ENTREMETS OF VEGETABLES. 102 Champignons a la Bor- ' delaise 93 10o Tomatoes farced with Cream of Fowl . . 94 104 Bottoms of French Arti- chokes a l'Lalian. . 94 105 Salade of Tomatoes a la Frangais 95 106 Cauliflowers au Parmesan 96 107 Potatoes fried k la Fran- chise 96ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY CULI1TARY DAINTIES FOR THE EPICURE, the INVALID, and the DYSPEPTIC. 1. Cr6me of Fowl a la Moderne. Take three large fowls prepared for cutting-up when raw, remove the skin from the breast, and cut from each fowl the two large fillets and the two under fillets; carefully remove every particle of the white flesh that did not come away with the fillets, leaving the legs and pinions on the carcass of each; place such aside to be used for other purposes. Then take a clean cutting-board, spread each fillet in turn upon the same, the under part uppermost (I mean the side that was taken from the carcase of the fowl), and with a knife in your right hand scrape the flesh from the skin of the fillet, holding the fillet down with the fingers of the left hand while you do so. When you have removed the flesh from the six large fillets and also from the six small fillets, and little remnants gathered from the carcasses, place them in a clean marble mortar, having by your side one-and-a-half pint of pure fresh cream—be very particular that it is so ; and, to com- mence, pour about one gill, or large wineglassful of same over the fowl, pound well together for a few minutes, and then rub it through a clean wire sieve, what is called2 CREME OF FOWL A LA MODERNE. a quenelle sieve; when the whole is. passed, place it back in the mortar, and then keep adding a little cream, about one gill or less at a time, and stir this into the fowl by rubbing the pestle round and round till yeu see that the fowl-meat and the cream blend nicely together; continue this opera- tion till you have used all or nearly all the cream. Then butter a plain dariole mould, or plain mould that holds a gill, and place about half a tablespoonful into the same to test it; then place a small stewpan on the hot-plate with about one gill of water, let it boil and place the dariole mould in this, having previously screwed a piece of clean white paper over the same; let it slowly simmer till the creme of fowl is set, that is to say, till it feels somewhat firm to the touch—say as firm as quenelle, or a baked custard, but you must be very particular on this point: if you think it too firm, add a little more cream, but not too much, as you want it to turn out of the mould nicely and by no means to break, which would quite spoil them, and render all your labour abortive. Having now tested and found to your satisfaction, the next operation is to place the mixture in two plain cylinder moulds, which should be nicely buttered with clarified butter, and then ornamented with truffles according to your fancy. Sometimes the truffles are merely chopped fine and sprinkled into the mould, and sometimes a little chopped tongue is used, or a little ham will do for tins purpose. The moulds should hold about one-and-a-half pint each. Pill the moulds carefully with a silver spoon, and twist round the top, as it shows to you, a piece of buttered paper; then fold a sheet of paper several times and place it in aCRE.ME OF FOWL EN SUPREME. 3 stewpan that will hold both moulds: put about a pint of boiling water in the stewpan and let them gently simmer—as gently as possible for about twenty minutes (this should be done about one hour before the dinner). It is necessary to observe that you can use several small moulds instead of two large ones, such as dariole moulds. A little salt and cayenne pepper should be added, but very little. Garnish with peas, mushrooms, or ragout, or macedoine roots, or sliced truffles, and the sauce should be made from the •carcasses of the fowls and the pinions, using the legs for a pie or other purposes. The sauce should be a white sauce, taking care it is not too thick. This will be found one of the most recherche entrees sent to table, and can be made without adornment fV the invalid, using one fowl only, and making a nice strong, clear gravy from the remnants of the fowl instead of sauce. 2. Creme of Fowl en Supreme. Prepare a creme of fowl as the. above directions, oidy keeping it a little firmer, that is to say, by not using so much cream; when ready take a medium-sized baking-sheet of copper, well tinned, butter the same lightly and place a sheet of paper over the entire surface; butter this alsc lightly, then with a palette knife spread the creme of fowl over the entire surface of the buttered paper with winch you have lined the baking-sheet, taking care that it is of uniform thickness of about the same as an old penny-piece. You must be particular that the creme of fowl is spreadFRITOT OF CREME OF FOWL. 4 evenly and that the baking sheet is a Wone; and, to keep it of uniform thickness, should you find the mixture not sufficient to cover all the paper, turn up one end and place a couple of pins to make it less. When you have nicely spread the mixture, take another sheet of paper and cut it the same size, butter this also and lay it upon the creme of fowl, then sprinkle with a little water from a brush and place the same in an oven moderately hot. It will only take a few minutes to cook, and it is wise to stand by and guard the same; look at it after a few minutes, and when it is nicely firm take from the oven. When cold, cut it into pear-shaped scollops, serve with scollops of tongue between the fillets, cut round, use same sauce and garni- ture as for the Cr8me of Fowl a la Moderne and make hot in broth before serving, glazing the tongue. 3. Pritot of Crgme of Fowl. Take sixteen tartlet tins, not too large, lightly butter the same and fill about three parts full of creme of fowl mixture (as per recipe No, 1), and place the same in the oven for a few minutes; when quite firm to the touch remove the same, and when cold dip each one into a lightly made batter and fry in clean lard of a light brown, taking care that your lard is nice and hot before you commence. The batter to dip the fowl in should be made as fol- lows : take one pound of the very finest flour, place this in a three-pint basin, add one yolk of an egg, one gill of salad oil, and half a pint of light coloured ale; puur about two-thirds of the ale into the basin containing the flour.CREME OF FOWL A LA FINANCIERS. 5 yolk of egg and oil, and with a wooden spoon mix all together lightly till it will mask the point of your finger if too thick add a little more ale; serve with tomato sauce> or piquant, or brown sauce. Observe that you shouid fry a little before dinner hour, and send the fritot very hot to table. 4. Crgme of Fowl au Gratin. Bake the creme of fowl (see recipe No. 1) as above, then egg and bread-crumb the same, fry in fat or saute in clarified butter; use the same garniture as for creme of fowl a la moderne, and same sauce, or with an Italian sauce. 5. Creme of Fowl a la Toulouse. Bake eighteen tartlet pans of creine of fowl (made as recipe No. 3), taking care not to have them quite so thick. "When cold place them on a sante pan and make hot in a little stock, serve with a ragout of cockscombs, truffles and mushrooms, and a few firm quenelles (see recipe No. 1) in the centre, with a few round scollops of tongue en miriton round the ragout. Serve with a white sauce made from the remnants of the fowls. If for a grand dinner, you can ornament with truffles or with tongue. 6. Creme of Fowl a la Financiere. The same as the above, making the sauce brown instead of white, with the addition of two glasses of sherry or Madeira wine in the same.QUENELLES OF FOWL. 6 Now, with regard to the preceding entrees, it is as well to mention that, by substituting pheasants instead of fowls' tou can proceed in the same manner as in the whole of the before-mentioned,—the different flavour alone making the great distinction. And you can also take partridges, grouse, and woodcocks, at the proper season, and serve for the snme kind of entrees. 7. Quenelles of Fowl. Take three large fowls, prepared for cutting-up when raw, remove the skin and take off the upper and under fillets from the carcasses, then cut off the legs and remove as much of the flesh as possible, placing the carcasses aside. "Next take a clean cutting-board, having previously placed all the flesh of the fowls on to a plate, keeping this on vour left hand, and proceed to scrape the flesh from the fillets, holding the fillet with the fingers of the left hand tightly down on the fillet, so as to keep it firm upon the cutting- board ; then proceed to scrape the meat from the skin that covers the fillet, placing the meat as you scrape it off on 10 a clean plate, keeping the same on your right. When you have finished all the fillets in like manner, pro- ceed to do the same with the flesh cut from the legs, removing as many of the sinews as you can while proceeding; place all the meat thus scraped between two plates and place in the cool for a time. Then chop up all the chicken bones, together with the neck and giblets, and put them into a stew-pan with the pinions, also with one. medium-size onion, five or six sprays of thyme, and the same of parsley, a small carrot, and a little of theQUENELLES OF FOWL. 7 white part of a head of celery; cover with water and let boil slowly for three hours, skimming the same when it boils. Proceed to make a little panada in the following man- ner: place half-a-pint of white broth, or stock, in a two- quart stewpan, and put three ounces of fresh butter in this, and place on a hot-plate to boil; meantime weigh five ounces of the finest flour yon have (the finer the better), and sift the same through a flour sieve on to a piece of white paper, and when the white stock boils, with the butter in it, then stir in the flour; work it well over the fire till it will not stick to the finger when you touch it, and when you think the flour is sufficiently dressed (which will take about three minules), stir into this four yolks of eggs, stirrine acrain over the fire for a few minutes, when, with a wooden spoon, remove the same on to a china plate, covering it with a piece of buttered paper. Then thorovghhi pound your chicken in a clean marble mortar till very line, using a few spoonfuls of cream as vou do so; when very fine rub it through a wire sieve (kept in most kitchens for this purpose). When you have rubbed it all through the sieve remove it on to a plate, being careful to waste none of the meat; and let me ad'I, the more energy and will that is used in the operation the better will be the cpienelle. Having passed all through the sieve place the same on the scale and weigh it, and to each half pound of meat use four ounces of the panada you previously mnde and three ounces of butt' r; place these in the mortar and pound them altogether, adding a little salt and cayenne pepper. "When well pounded together, add two or three yolks of eggs and stir these wellQUENELLES OF FOWL. in; then add one whole egg and stir this well in, and then another whole egg. Roll a little bit about the size of a wine-bottle cork in a dust of flour, and then place a teacup of water to boil in a small stewpan; when it boils place the piece of quenelle in the same and let it very gently simmer in this for about three minutes, and if it then appears firm and compact to the touch it will do. I have omitted to state that two or three spoonfuls of cream should be added'; it should be a firm but delicate sub- stance, and it can readily be made more firm by adding another yolk or two, and more delicate by adding a little more cream. "When to your satisfaction, mould the paste as follows: take two silver or plated tablespoons, and have a quart of boiling water in a jug or stew-pa nby your side, or in front of you, and having the quenelle n eat in a china basm, dip one of the spoons into the quenelle meat so as to fill the spoon (the spoon should be held sideways and dipped m at the side of the basin), then with a cheese-knife made hot in the water smooth, or make smooth, the quenelle in the spoon; then make the other spoon hot, and with the hot .poon remove the quenelle from the cold spoon; this, after a little practice can readily be done; place these, as you do each, on a buttered strip of paper, and proceed till you have done twenty, the number needed for two entrees. The strips of paper should be of the same size and length, and cut to hold five quenelles, and the quenelles shotdd be as near as possible of the same size and neatly made When the twenty are made, cut a few truffles into very thin slices, and with a suitable cutter cut twenty round pieces from these the size of a fourpenny-piece.9 PAIN OF FOWL A LA REINE. Then place the white of an egg on a plate, beat this with a fork for a minute, and with your middle finger rub a little of this white of egg on the thick end, or the thin end of each quenelle, so that they show even when dished. As you moisten two or three at a time, place thereon the rounds of truffle, pressing each piece so as to firmly fix it. Now take a four-quart stewpan half full of boiling stock or water, and place each strip of paper containing the quenelles into the same and place it on the fire; by no means let it boil, but keep it sufficiently hot to cook the quenelles; they should be constantly watched, and as they rise and begin to float try them; if firm they are done. Then carefully remove them with a spoon or slice, and arrange them on a saute" pan for dinner; they should be dished like cutlets, on a border of mashed potatoes, having one or two yolks of eggs mixed with them, and should be firm; garnish with peas or asparagus, peas or macedoine, or mushrooms, or ragout, and served with a nice white sauce made from the bones and trimmings of chicken, as previously directed, which was to boil three hours; taking care the sauce is sufficiently thick to nicely mask the queneiles. Quenelles form an excellent entree, but are somewhat troublesome to prepare; but, with a good will, difficulty soon vanishes. With regard to the number of eggs I have named, keep one as a reserve; trying your quenelle before using it. Prom this preparation many excellent entrees can be made, as the following will prove:— 8. Pain of Fowl a la Reine. Taki: two plain cylinder moulds well tinned, holdingJO SCOLLOPS OF PAIN OF FOWL A LA FINANCIERE. about a pint and a half each, butter them well with clarified butter slightly creamed; slightly ornament them with truffles, or sprinkle a few chopped truffles over the inside of the moulds, and prepare the following :— Cut two slices of dressed tongue into small square pieces, and also three truffles, and chop a few mushrooms rather fine. Mix these with sufficient quenelle meat to fill the moulds, and with a silver or plated spoon fill the moulds, tapping the mould now and then, so that they will be solid. Twist a little buttered paper over the moulds, to prevent the water or steam getting into them, and slowly steam them for half an hour, and let them stand four or five minutes before placing them on the entree dish. Serve with any of the garnitures or ragouts as with the quenelles, and with the same kind of sauce. Note.—Sometimes a little liquor will gather in the mould ; strain this off before serving. 9. Scollops of Pain of Fowl Panee a la Financiere. Prepare these moulds of quenelle the same as for the Pain £b la Eeine just described; steam for half an hour, then place them to get cold; and when cold, cut each into an equal number of scollops of the same size. If they are cut in a slanting direction from the top to the bottom they will show fuller; then trim them neatly all of the same size, and egg and bread-crumb them the same as cutlets; taking care the bread-crumbs are very fine. After thev are all egged and bread-crumbed and patted into shape, dip them, one at a time, into clarified butterPETITS PAINS OF FOWL A LA PRINCE. and then into bread crumbs again, using the same process as for cutlets, and again pat them into shape and arrange them on well-tinned cutlet-pans with clarified butter under them; fry of a light gold colour, and dish on a border of mashed potatoes prepared expressly for dishing upon; that is, with a couple of yolks of eggs and small pat of butter, a little sugar and salt, and a little nutmeg, mixed into eight flowery potatoes after they have been passed through a sieve; mix in a stewpan. Prepare the financiere sauce as follows: —Boil two glasses of sherry or Madeira in a pint of brown sauce gently for five minutes; pour lhis over some mushrooms, truffles, and cockscombs; place these in centre of scollops and pour sauce round them, and be particular not to pour it over the scollops. 10. Petits Pains of Fowl a la Prince. Take sufficient queuelle meat (see recipe No. 7) for two dishes, cut about eight truffles into squares not too small; mix these with the quenelle, a little curry powder, and a little chutney sauce—two teaspoonfuls of the latter and a teaspoonful of the former, care being taken that the quenelle meat is nicely seasoned. Mix these well together, and then place the same in a well-tinned stewpan upon the ice, or in another vessel containing ice and water ; this last method is the best for cooling anything that you wish to set or get cold quickly. Now, when the above mixture is quite cold and firm, take it into the pastry and divide into equal parts on the5 2 POULET FARCIE A LA TOULOUSE. marble slab; each part about the size of a croquet, or two large walnuts made into one. Throw a little flour on the slab and make them into pear-shape, but flatten the same, arranging thein as you do so in a saute pan the same as for cul lets. When they are all finished pour a little boiling stock over them, and cook them after the same manner as the quenelles, taking care they do not boil, and you will And a few minutes sufficient to set them. Leave them in this stock till you need them for dinner, then dish as cutlets. Serve with a mushroom sauce, that is to say, in a brown sauce in which mushrooms have been well boiled, and well seasoned with white pepper and salt. Garnish with the mushrooms and pour the sauce over the Petits Pains. White sauce can also be used, and the garniture as for quenelles; they can also be ornamented with truffles the same as quenelles. 11. Poulet Farcie a la Toulouse. Take two spring chickens that have been boned, cut the legs off just above the leg bone, pull out or cut out the sinews from the leg, and then turn this part inside neatly. Next take sufficient quenelle meat to fill the two chickens. Cut into square-shape six scollops of dressed tongue, and six good sized truffles; chop up a dozen mushrooms (dressed), mix these with the quenelle meat and divide it into two parts, putting one part into each of the fowls; close up the opening and make each one into a round ball, and tie up closely in a cloth; braize them for three- quarters of an hour, taking good care to see they boil that13 PETITS POULET AU GRATIN. time. A little before dinner take them up and glaze them lightly twice over, when place them in the entree dishes. When you send to table, take a few fine cockscombs, sliced truffes, and mushrooms, which pile up on each side of the dish (I presume the dish is oval), and on the other sides, or ends, place two ornamental or ornamented quenelles aux truffles. Pour a little sauce over the garniture and the rest round the fowls, which should be a good white sauce made from the trimmings of fowl. Note.—The centre of the fowls may be garnished with a few slices of truffles. 12. Petits Poulet au Gratin. Take two or three, and if the dinner party is large, take four young fowls and prepare them for cutting up (see recipe No. 1); divide each into six pieces, two pieces from centre of breast and two pieces containing the pinion bone, and the two cuisses or legs ; cut the bone out of the cuisses and form them into a plumb shape with a small portion of the leg bone left. Serve all in the same manner (three fowls ought to be quite sufficient on ordinary occasions). When all the fowls are cut up, as described, place them on a dish and shake a handful of fine flour among the pieces of chicken, toss them up lightly in it. Then crack two whole eggs, and take also two yolks of eggs, season with a little salt and pepper and mix them; then have some very finely made bread-crumbs by you. Thus prepared, take one piece of fowl at a time, shake the flour off, and with an egg-brush cover each piece lightly14 CROUSTADES OF FOWL A LA REINE. with the prepared eggs; then dip the same in the bread-crumbs and arrange them nicely on a baking- sheet. "When all are ready take a clean butter-brush and run some clarified butter over each piece; bake these in an oven not too hot for half an hour, till they are of a nice gold colour; dish neatly up in centre of dish, and serve with a tomato or piquant sauce. 13. Croustades of Fowl a la Reine. Make a short paste as follows; rub half a pound of butter into one pound of flour, add three yolks of eggs, put to it a little water and mix into a nice mellow paste; line dariole moulds with this, making the paste as thin as possible, at most not thicker than a bronze halfpenny; when sufficient are finished fill each mould with rice and bake them m a sharp oven. When done, empty the rice out of them, and make some tops made of puff paste and rolled the same as for patties, or any puff paste trimmings would do for- tius purpose. The tops should be cut out so as to fit the dariole moulds, and should have a small leaf on each; let them not be too thick. When finished prepare a mixture as follows : but up the best part of a cooked fowl into small dice, do the same with three, truffles and also with a few scollops of tongue; then chop up half a dozen large mushrooms, place them 111 a stewpan and add sufficient white sauce to mix the above items nicely together; serve hot or cold as required Note-Regarding the entrees of fowl here mentioned, such as the Quenelles and Cr&ne of Fowl, if economy isCOMPOTE OF PIGEONS A LA RuVAL, strictly insisted upon use half veal; and further, in their season, you can make Creme of Pheasant, of Partridge and also of Grouse. 14. Entries of Pigeons. The reader will please to remember, and excuse my re- minding him or her, that my calculations apply to two entries, for it is now almost the universal custom in a dinner of four entrees only to serve two of each. 15. Compote of Pigeons a la Royal. Take six boned pigeons, and take also one pound of pork, sausage meat; into the sausage meat mix, when prepared, one spoonful of chopped truffles, one spoonful of chopped mushrooms, a few scollops of dressed tongue cut into dice shape, a little herbaceous mixture and pepper and salt, and two yolks of eggs, mix these together. Then divide the same into six equal parts, with which fill the boned pigeons; cut the feet off, and make them into a nice shape and braize them or dress them in the oven on a small saute" pan, or a small stewpan, with a little stock to keep them moist; they should be covered with a round of buttered paper. Prom twenty minutes to half an hour will dress them; then take them up and dry them with a cloth; glaze them, putting them back in the oven to set the glaze, which should be done twice over, and which will give them a very glossy appearance.i6 ENTREES OF DUCKLING. When you dish them, an ornamental quenelle should be served between each pigeon (garnished aux truffes). Serve with a mushroom sauce, or a la macedoine, or with peas, and with brown sauce, in which the bones from the pigeons have been stewed. Note.—The feet should be scalded and skinned, and again placed in the pigeons. 16. Balotines of Pigeon a la Moderns. Take six boned pigeons as mentioned in the Compote; cut them lengthways in two and divide the farce as in the Compote (made the same) into twelve equal parts, placing the same in the twelve halves of pigeons, taking care to chop up the livers of the pigeons and add the same to the farce or sausage meat. Make them into round balls, cutting off the feet. Tie each piece of pigeon in a piece of thin cloth (calico will do) and braize them for half an hour, or till nicely tender; then let them cool a little, so as you can handle tbem. Tie them up again tightly so as to make them compact, and let them get cool; in meantime blanch the feet in a little boiling water and remove the skin; and when the pigeons are cold, place one of the feet in each balotine, and arrange them on a saute plate pan. When needed, nicely glaze them (after you have made them hot), and serve with mushrooms, peas, or macedoine roots, using a brown sauce the same as for the Compote. 17. Entries of Duckling. Take two boned ducklings and prepare a farce of sausageQUAILS A LA FINANCIERE 17 meat, the same as for Compote of Pigeons, only taking two pounds of sausage meat and add a little dried sage (made fine). Cut the feet off and place the farce in the ducklings; tie each one lightly in a cloth as if for a galantine, and braize them for one hour in the stock-pot, or from the proceeds thereof in a separate stewpan. When done, dry them m the oven or hot closet and glaze them twice, at short intervals, that is to say, when the first glaze is dry glaze again. Garnish with peas piled round the ducklings, and serve with a brown sauce. Sometimes they are served with farced olives and sometimes a la Bigarade, that is, with the juice of two Seville oranges put into a brown sauce, the rind beins cut very thin before squeezing them, and cut like julienne roots and blanched till tender, and then put into the brown sauce containing the juice and boiled. Note.—It is usual just before sending to table to cut each duck in two, lengthways, and then divide or cut each half into as many equal parts as may be required to suit the number of guests. 18. Entrees of Quails. Quails a la Pinanciere. Take ten boned quails and prepare a farce for them, the same as for the Compote of Pigeons (one pound of sausage meat will be sufficient), divide into ten equal parts and fill the quails with this. Cut off the feet with half the leg attached, and make them into proper shape, placing them in a deep sant6 plate pan as you do them; add a little stock with a few mixed vegetables cut fine, to which add aiS ENTREES OF LARKS. couple of glasses of wine. Chop the carcasses of the quails rather fine and place these under the vegetables; then place a cover of buttered paper over the quails and let them slowly stew in the oven for about three quarters of an hour. When done, place them on a separate tin and pour the bones, stock and vegetables into a stewpan, adding sufficient good stock to make a good sauce, which let simmer for another half hour; strain it off and mix into a sauce which, when finished, will make about three-parts of a pint of good sauce; add a little more wine if needed. Serve with a garniture of mushrooms or truffles, or a la Financiere, or with young peas, or asparagus points. A white sauce is sometimes used. N0te.—The quails when cold are cut in two; and the feet when scalded and trimmed—one foot is placed in each half quail and then made hot. They should be dished on a border of quenelle or well-made mashed potatoes, the same as cutlets. The same can be served as a cold entree, which indeed it frequently is. The quails are then prepared as follows: the sauce should be nearly cold, and then should have a little melted aspic poured into the same, and when proper for masking dip each half of quail into this, and when quite cold dish them on chopped aspic jelly with croutons of aspic jelly round the quails and the garniture in the centre. Entrees of Larks. 19. Larks Farces aux Champignons. Take twenty-four boned larks, and make one pound and19 FRENCH PIE OF LARKS. & half of pork sausage meat into the same kind of farce as used and described for Compote of Pigeons and Quails; divide into equal parts and place in the boned larks; make them nicely into shape, cutting off the part near the rump. The best way of dressing them is in the oven; therefore, arrange them neatly in a sante or cutlet pan, add a little stock, and cover with buttered paper. About twenty minutes will dress them; they should be nicely glazed and dished upon a border of mashed potatoes. Serve with Italian sauce, or brown, or white sauce, with the following garnitures, with mushrooms, with peas, with macedoine roots, or with fiiianciere ragout, and with asparagus points or peas. 20. French Pie of Larks. Take one pound of flour, six ounces of butter, and the yolks of three eggs ; rub the butter into the flour, add the three yolks with a little water, mix into a nice mellow paste. Then take a small round French pie mould, butter the mould with a little clarified butter (creamed), and mould the paste into a smooth round ball, lioll this out a little, and line the French pie mould with it; the paste should be about a quarter of an inch thick, but not less. Then prepare twelve larks as above, place these in the mould, reserving a little farce in which to embed the larks and with which to cover them ; cover them with the same kind of paste. When all the twelve larks are placed in the mould, finish the pie neatly by crimping the extreme border at the top of the pie; then bake fur about an hour and a20 FRITOX OF CREME OF PHEASANT. The same as Fritot of Creme of Fowl. (See No. 3). half in an oven not too hot. Before placing in the oven the top should be lightly glazed with yolk of egg and a httle water. "While the pie is baking, or at your opportunity, make a top for the same out of puff paste, the same as is sometimes made for the top of a vol au vent; and when the pie is done cut a hole in the top, or do so before placing the pie in the oven, cutting the hole but not taking out the piece of paste until after the pie is baked; then take away the piece of paste that has been marked out and fill up with a brown or Italian sauce, and place the puff paste top over the aperture and serve. A. pie of any kind can be served after this manner as an entr6e, taking due care the pie mould is not too large; which will be found more excellent than vol au vents or patties, not being so rich and consequently not so bilious for the weak in indigestion. 21. Entries of Pheasants. 22. Crenie of Pheasants a la Moderne. Made in exactly the same manner as Creme of Fowl. (See No. 1). 23. Creme of Pheasant en Supreme. In the same manner as Creme of Fowl en Supreme. (See No. 2). 24. Fritot of Creme of Pheasant.CURRY OF PHEASANTS. 2 I 25. Crfime of Pheasant a la Financiere. The same as Creme of Fowl a la Financiere. (See No. 6.) 26. Quenelles of Pheasant. Made in exactly the same manner as Quenelles of Fowl. (See No. 7.) 27. Curry of Pheasants. Boast two fine fresh pheasants; when cold cut them up into neat joints, reserving the back and the pinions to make into sauce, chopping the same small and adding one pint of consomme or stock; let stew for one hour, when strain and make into a curry sauce, not using more than one spoonful of the best Indian curry powder. Boil half a pint of Carolina rice in one gallon of water till quite tender, then strain, pouring a little boiling water over the rice after it is strained; then place the rice in the screen on the same sieve or colander in which it was strained. "When your curry is ready, place the pieces of pheasant into the sauce and let boil very gently for a few minutes (there should be a full pint of curry sauce for the two entrees). When ready to dish, place your plain boiled rice round the entree dish, and dish the pheasant neatly in a pile in the centre of dish, and send two small dishes of plain boiled rice to table with the two entrees of curry. Note.—Great care should be taken in boiling the rice, so that it is not too much cooked, or in any way slimy. And if time allows, you can make an ornamental border of the rice, by slightly pressing the plain boiled rice in a win? glass, previously dipped in water each time you use it, till22 SALMI OF PHEASANTS. you have sufficient to form a border all round the dish. And also by using two silver tablespoons and filling one with rice and pressing against the vessel containing the rice (which should be a stewpan), then smooth the same with a knife, and dipping the other spoon into hot water, take with one spoon the rice out of the other spoon, this forms a nice-looking border. This entree can also be served cold, adding a little melted gelatine or aspic jelly, so that the same will set firm when dished. Serve a l'aspic. 28. Salmi of Pheasants. Roast two pheasants: when cold cut them into nine neat pieces each,—two neat pieces from near the pinion, then divide the breast into three pieces of equal size; then two cuisses, and two pieces called the drum-sticks. Trim them into neat pieces, removing the skin, which, together with the back bone—this being chopped rather small, place on the fire in a small stewpan, with two glasses of sherry and a pint of good stock or consomme; let this slowly simmer for about one hour, when strain and mix with a little roux into a brown sauce of sufficient thickness to nicely mask the entree when serving. ]\Tote>—"[f for a Cold entree add about one ounce of gelatine, so that when the pieces of pheasant are masked and the sauce is cold it will be firm to the touch. If you wish to make the sauce very glossy add a tablespoonful of warm aspic jelly when the sauce is almost ready for masking the pieces of pheasant. Many use mace, allspice,CREME OF PARTRIDGES A LA MODERNE. 23 cloves, and vegetables, and even eschalots to stew with the sauce; but for myself I prefer the natural flavour of the pheasant, and only use a little salt and cayenne pepper. In all ehand froids and salmis it will be well to use a little aspic in the sauce, and even to dip each piece in liquid aspic after it has been dipped in sauce and is cold. 29. Curry of Partridges, Made and served exactly the same as Curry of Pheasants. Be particular not to use too much curry powder, keeping the sauce of a mild soft flavour, unless your patrons prefer it otherwise, as some do. 30. Salmi of Partridges. The same as Salmi of Pheasants. (See No. 26.) 31. Quenelle of Partridges. Made the same as Quenelles of Fowl. (See No. 7.) 32. Fritot of Crgme of Partridges. The same as Fritot of Creme of Fowl. (See No. 3.) 33. Creme of Partridge en Supreme. The same as Creme of Fowl en Supreme. (See No. 2.) 34. Creme of Partridges a la Moderne. The same as CrSme of Fowl & la Moderne. (See No. 1.)24 DARIOLES OF CREME OF LAMB A LA MODERNE. Note.—All these modern dishes such as here recorded, and yet again to be mentioned, will be found most essential for the invalid and dyspeptic, and equally so for the greatest epicure. I refer in particular to the Crimes of Fowl, of Pheasant, of Lamb, &c. Entrees of Lamb. 35. Darioles of Creme of Lamba, la Moderne. Take a loin of lamb; cut all the lean meat both from the upper and under filet, also from the chump end; free the meat thus obtained entirely from fat; then place the same on a clean cutting-board and cut the same as far as possible into long pieces, and then scrape the same with your knife, from the skin or sinews. Place it as you do it into a plate which should be beside you; and when you have obtained all the meat, place the same into a clean marble mortar and pound it as if for quenelle meat; and pass it through a wire sieve, the same as for that purpose. When thus far prepared, place it back in the mortar and take one pint of very fresh cream, add a little at a time, stirring the pestle round and round; when you have used all the cream (and let me here observe) it will take about a pint of cream to one pound of meat more or less, finish i he same as instructed for the Creme of IWl k la Creme, which I had better repeat: Namely—Take a little of the crSme of lamb,about a lablespoonful, and place this in a buttered dariole mould, having previously added a little salt and cayenne pepper to the mixture; place the dariole mould in a small stewpanFRITOT OF CREME OF LAMB. -5 The same as Pritot of Cr£me of Fowl. (See No. 3.) (having previously folded a bit of paper place it at the bot- tom of the stewpan). Add about a gill of water, put this on the fire, and when it is boiUng fix the dariole mould on this; cover the same and let gently simmer for a few minutes, then try its consistency, and in this you must be most par- ticular, for on it the success of your labour will depend. Proceed then as follows : when you think the cr@me of lamb in the dariole mould is done, try it with your middle finger, and if it feels somewhat of the same strength as a mould of jelly when you try it before turning out to serve, it will do; but if you consider it too firm to the touch add a little more cream; when it is going to be dressed, or prepared in small moulds, such as is the case when prepared in dariole moulds, it will admit of being a little more delicate, that is to say, the mixture will take a little more cream, and should not be so firm to the touch as when prepared in a single mould. You would require two loins of lamb to make two dishes, that is to say, two out of four entrees for a dinner of sixteen or eighteen persons The sauce should be made from the trimmings of the lamb, adding about a pint of good stock, also a bouquet of thyme and parsley, a little sliced carrot and turnip; this should stew slowly for three hours; then strain and mix into either a white or brown sauce, taking care that the sauce is not too thick and is free from grease. ■Garnish with peas, or macedoine, or mushrooms. Note.—One pint of water should be added to the stock for the sauce. 36. Fritot of Crgme of Lamb.SAUTE OF I.AM B CUTLETS AU NATUREL. 37. Saute of Lamb Cutlets au Naturel. PitKPAitE ihe best end of three necks of lamb for cutlets, taking »;reat care that you do not cut the fillets in sawing off the chine bone and in cutting off the tops of the ribs, so that when your cutlets are prepared they are all of the same size. A little matter, such as ordering your necks of lamb the day before you need them, will aid you in doing this ; for nothing is worse to prepare than necks of lamb which are too fresh, and which are taken from an animal that has only been dead a few hours. It is ab- solutely necessary to pay attention to this. Well, having prepared your lamb cutlets and trimmed them all of the same size, prepare a little clarified butter, and place sufficient of the same in a saute plate pan, or two saute" plate pans, and when needed dress them over a somewhat sharp fire. When done, add a little well-pre- pared brown sauce, or espagnol as the French call it, and sprinkle a little pepper and salt over the same. Dish on a border of well-prepared potatoes, and serve with a mushroom sauce; that is to say, a brown sauce in which mushrooms (champignons) have boiled for ten minutes, with a little pepper and salt added to them. When serving,, place the mushrooms in the centre and pour the sauce round with a little over the cutlets; not forgetting that portion used when the cutlets were done. This entree should be dressed a few minutes before required, and should be sent very hot to table. Note.—Dressed spinach, peas, beans, or macedoine roots can also be served instead of mushrooms, and you can glaze lhe cutlets instead of pouring the sauce over them.27 SWEETBREADS OF LAMB A LA MONAPQUE. Entries of Heart Sweetbreads of Lamb. 33. Sweetbreads of Lamb a la Monarque. Take twenty heart-breads as large and as fine as you can obtain them; place them in a gallon basin in warm water and let them remain in this for an hour or two, changing the water about four times, so as thoroughly to disgorge any blood remaining in the breads. Then, if nice and white, throw or place them in a stewpan containing about three quarts of boiling water, and let them boil about three minutes; then take them out, placing them in cold water. AY hen cold, or partially so, place them on a sieve and dry them in a kitchen cloth; after which cut away the pith, or part of it, leaving enough to hold by when you lard them. Then place them on a dish large enough to take them all, the smooth side downwards; when you have so- placed them, place another dish upon them, the bottom of which should be upon the sweetbreads; put a seven pound weight in the centre of this and place them in the larder for an hour or so. When convenient bring them out and lard them in the following manner: take three or four truffles (large) and cut them into shreds for larding; cut also into shreds some very firm fat bacon of the same size as the truffles, they should not be too thick, and pay attention to this, as a lamb's-bread is only small and the larding should match. Commence with a row of bacon, then a row of truffles, finishing with bacon ; three rows are sufficient. Then cut ofY any remaining pith ; cut up a few vegetables, onion andLABM SWEETBREADS AU CRATIN. 28 carrot, and a little celery, not too much; place the breads on this in a suitable saute pan (I mean in size). Add about half a pint of stock, and cover the breads with very thin slices of fat bacon; about an hour before dinner place them m a moderately-heated oven, attending to them care- fully till they are of a nice gold colour. They should then be glazed with some best glaze, letting the glaze run from the brush, and by no means touching the breads with the glaze-brush; place these back in the oven for a few minutes without any bacon over them, then glaze a second time and place them again in the oven for a few minutes. After this, if they look finished to the eye, dish them up on a border of mashed potatoes or of quenelle. Garnish with a financiere ragout, consisting of truffles sliced, mushrooms and cockscombs only, and serve round a financiere sauce: (A brown sauce with two glasses of Madeira wine in same, the liquor from a bottle of truffles, and also the juice from the mushrooms; when the sauce has these items added to it, let it boil till it becomes of the right consistency.) Note.—Do not sauce your entrees till the last moment, and let the sauce, if brown, be at the boiling point, when this will be most certainly considered a very recherch6 entree. 39. Lamb Sweetbreads au Gratin. Prepaue the breads exactly as the before-mentioned all but the larding, instead of which place the breads on a dish; when they have been pressed and freed from every29 VOL AU VENT OF LAMB SWEETBREADS. particle of the pith usually adhering to the same, toss them well in flour. When you have done this place them on a clean dish, and having had prepared some very fine bread-crumbs, crack three whole eggs, add to these two yolks, some salt, and beat the eggs and yolks together, which will cause them to become thin. Then with an egg-brush egg each bread separately (the sweetbreads) , dip each bread in the bread-crumbs, clasping them between the hands as you do them, and patting them gently to make the bread-crumbs adhere. Fry them of a nice gold colour in clean hog's lard when needed, and serve with young peas or mushrooms, or a tomato sauce. Make the tomato sauce as follows: take sufficient tomatoes, raw or preserved, for the two entrees; cut up six eschalots and add three spoonfuls of chili vinegar, a teaspoonful of pounded lump sugar, also a little raw ham ; add a ladleful of good stock; let boil for three-quarters of an hour, then pass or rub it with a wooden spoon through a hair sieve, throwing any little residue away. Place in bain marie, and serve when very hot. Note.—The sweetbreads of lamb should always be bread- crumbed twice over for au o-ratin. 40. Vol au Vent of Lamb Sweetbreads a la Toulouse. Take ten heartbreads of lamb and ten throatbreads; let them steep in warm water for two hours, the same as for the Lamb Breads a la Financiere; then put them into a stewpan of boiling water and let them boil for ten minutes; place them in cold water, and when cold free them from3° VOL AU VENT OF LAMB SWEETBREADS. all pith.; cut the heartbreads in two (between the smooth surface and the pithy side, or where it is found); then cut the throatbreads into neat scollops, placing these together in a stewpan, to which add a dozen scollops of tongue cut about the same thickness and size as a florin, six truffles cut in slices, and about eighteen mushrooms. Make a nice white sauce from the best white stock you have, if with a flavour of fowl so much the better. When free from grease reduce it to its proper consistence, which should be that of double cream, and when reduced add sufficient cream and pass it through the tammy and place it in a bain marie pan or stewpan, taking care to add salt and cayenne pepper, but not too much. Place a few spoonfuls of this over your sweetbreads or vol au vent filling, and in kitchen parlance mark them off. Now your next consideration is your vol au vent cases, which prepare as follows, and pay great attention to the instructions; for I have indeed seen many cooks who could not make a good vol au vent case, or a patty case, that is to say with certainty; but all may be able to do so by paying attention to what is here written. Take one pound and a half of the best flour you can obtain, also one pound and a half of the best butter (mild salt butter is the best for the purpose); work your butter on your pastry slab to get all the water out of it, then dry it in a cloth, and rub about an ounce into a portion of your flour, and mix this afterwards into all the flour; draw your flour together and make a dam or hole in the centre, into this place the juice of half a lemon, then add about half a pint of water and mix it into a compact paste of as near as possible the same consistence or firmness asVOL AU VENT OF LAMB SWEETBREADS. 31 your butter; you must be watchful and attentive here and see that it is so. When the paste is mixed let it lay with a wet napkin over it for ten minutes, after which mould into a round ball, and then roll this out to the thickness of half an inch; place your butter on this paste on the left side, and about one inch from the extreme edge of the paste, patting the butter with the palm of your hand so as to make it extend uniformly over one half of the left hand side of the paste to within one inch of the extreme edge Then with your right hand fold the paste that has no butter upon it upon that which has, this must be done neatly and with precision, so as to make the extreme ed-es meet uniformly. Then lift the entire body of paste and throw a little flour over the slab to enable you to roll your paste out easily; now turn that part of the paste whei- the butter was first placed towards you, close with your fingers the paste all round the half oval so as to prevent the butter squeezing out while you are rolling out the same, which you must do till the paste is of uniform thickness of about half an inch, and which should present as near as possible a square sheet. Now proceed as fol- ows :_Pold the end near you into the middle, then take your first fold| now take the left hand sjde old tlus into the middle of the oblong square before v" then fold the right hand side of the paste exactly and evenly over this, so that your paste presents a square Then let the paste lay for another ten minutes, when roll it out again to the thickness of half an inch and proceed to fold it as in the first instance: repeat ^ t",3 VOL AU VENT OF LAMB SWEETBREADS. process four times over, taking eare that toe paste » we say, ten minutes or a quarter of an hour between each roll, and an extra quarter before you cut ,t out to place ,t ^te-The reason for letting the paste lay is that it becomes mellow by so doing, and will rise more evenly » the oven; and it is better not to commence each fold t he si me place, but change the place, say from eft to "om rignt to left, from left to right, from right to ft and the same with the top and bottom fold. Now von « require the oven tolerably hot for baking a vol an vent bu bv no means rash, or such that will burn your vol an vent. Boll out your paste evenly till of one inch , thmkness, then take a cutter of about five inches in LmX and leave a mark on the paste wit this (a roun Hng), -V-JTjZgZ ™ "or r: e™g: J IrTedlcnt right through, and Z tam these tao pieces upside down on an even baking then turn trie i ^ and mx sheet. Take aydof „g, a rf I* dipped in hot water, ^-^-^ T tinn of a leaf, for this centre piece should form sometimes a separate top ^ he oven makeSTEWED BREAST OF LAMB AND PEAS. 33 inch by drawing your small- knife upwards round the sides of the vol au yents, taking care they are of equal distance one from the other, and then place them in the oven and bake them; should you find, your oven some- what too hot, place a sheet of kitchen paper over them after they have been in the oven a little time. This will effectually prevent them taking too much colour. They should be emptied, that is to say, freed from the soft paste that is inside, directly they are done. 41. Petits Patties of Fowl, or Game, or Veal and Ham. The cases are made from paste made exactly as the above cutting out the same with a patty-cutter dipped in boiling water, and turning each upside down as you place them on the baking-sheet, egging the same as the Vol au Yents. Then, taking a plain round cutter and dipping the same in hot water, cut a hole in each patty letting the cutter go into the paste of each patty about one-eighth of an inch. The paste from which each patty is cut should be rolled out very evenly, and should not be more than a quarter of an inch thick; take care to use a sheet of kitchen paper if your oven should prove too hot Observe, that the trimmings of paste left from vol au vents, or patties, will serve you for almost any kind of fancy pastry. And finally, the filling for patties will be found in a suitable and exclusive page under the head of Cold Entrees. 42. Stewed Breast of Lamb and Peas. Take a nice plump breast of lamb, cut off the hard bone, and then cut into pieces of equal size, say about the size D34 BREAST OF. LAMB EN FR1T0T SAUCE TOMATO. of a mutton cutlet, place these in a two-quart stewpan. Cut up also one goss lettuce, the white part of two large spring onions, and one pint of peas, add one pint of water. It is best to let the lamb stew gently—very gently, for one hour in the pint of water, taking care to skim the same when it boils. Then add your vegetables (after the lamb has stewed one hour), a little pepper and salt, and one half pint of good brown sauce, or failing this a little "ood gravy, and failing this a little more water; then thicken with a little roux or corn-flour, add a little colouring and boil slowly for another half hour. About one pint of sauce should be sufficient. I may add that this dish is generally served en famille, more than for company. 43. Breast of Lamb en Fritot Sauce Tomato. Cut a fine breast of lamb in pieces of an equal size (as in the above), add two onions sliced, one medium size carrot, and a few sprays of thyme and parsley. Place these in a two-quart stewpan with about a pint and a half of water; stew or let simmer very gently for an hour and a half, then place in a kitchen basin and let remain till quite cold (if till the following day all the better). Now prepare a batter for your fritot, the same as for the Fritot of Creme of Fowl (see No. 3); then take your pieces of breast of lamb, look over them, and trim them to the same size, and place' between two plates and put in the larder. Next make a brown sauce out of the remaining stock, adding a few tomatoes or puree of tomatoes to the same, two table- spoonfuls of malt vinegar and a little sugar. Work this »auca to its point and serve with the fritot.SAUTE OF SCOLLOPS OF FILLETS OF BEEF, ETC. 35 Note.—Before you commence frying your fritot, toss your pieces of lamb, in a little flour and dip eacli piece separately in your batter. Fry in clean hog's-lard, and keep very hot till you serve. Entries of Beef. 44. Saute" of Scollops of Fillets of Beef aux Champignons. Obtain the fillet of beef from a rump of beef (or two from two rumpsi, cut them into sixteen scollops of equal size, and pat them very gently with your cutlet chopper, irimming them neatly; then mark them in two cutlet pans with a little clarified butter under them, and with your butter brush place a little over the fillets also. After which prepare a sauce as follows: Open a tin of mush- rooms and put them into about a pint of brown sauce, and let boil for about half an hour, when the sauce should be of its original consistency; skim nicely and add a little pepper and salt, and place both in the larder till needed. The fillets of beef should be dressed over a sharp fire, and when done drain off the fat, add a little sauce and seasoning; dish on a border of mashed potatoes, place the mushrooms in the centre and pour sauce round the same and a little over them; serve very hot, and do not commence to cook them until a short time before dinner. Note.—And if time, make your sauce from the trim- mings of your two fillets with sufficient stock for the two entrees, adding an onion and a part of a carrot cut fine, taking care to use the juice from the mushrooms in the sauce, glazing the scollops if you like.36 SCOLLOPS OF FILLETS OF BEEF PIQUE AUX OLIVES. 45. Scollops of Fillets of Beef with Oyster Sauce. Prepare the fillets of beef exactly as the preceding, the difference being only in the sauce, -winch is made in the following manner: take two dozen fine oysters for stewing, place them on the fire with two spoonfuls of water in addition to their own liquor, let them boil for a few minutes, then strain the liquor into three parts of a pint of brown sauce and let this boil down to its original con- sistency. Then trim the beards, or cut them from the oysters as little and slightly as possible ; mark the oysters off in a stewpan, adding a little milk in which to make them hot. Saute the fillets as before mentioned a little before dinner time. Garnish or place the oysters in the centre of the fillets, an equal number in each entree, and pour sauce with the oyster liquor in it round the same, takine care to send very hot to table, glazing the scollops if you like. 46. Scollops of Fillets of Beef Pique" aux Olives. Prepare the scollops of fillets of beef as above. Then neatly lard them with firm fat bacon; when all are done cut some vegetables—carrots, onions, and a little celery; place these in°a pile in the centre of a saute pan (the vegetables should be cut very thin), and place the larded scollops round them, add a little stock and cut a little fat bacon very thin and cover the scollops with this. They should be dressed in a nice sharp oven, about half an hour will cook them. When nearly done they should be nicely glazed twice over, and dished on a border of prepared potatoes and placed in the hot closet. Meantime strain the gravy37 FRITOT OF CREME OF BEEF A L'lTALIAN. from the vegetables on which they were dressed into the brown sauce, letting the same boil till of the proper con- sistency and skimming off any grease they may show. The manner of preparing the olives for this entree is as follows : take a pint bottle of olives, pour them out into a basin, then with your small cooking knife peel off the fleshy part of the olives so to speak in one piece, keeping your knife as close to the olive stone as possible,—this is done to extract the stone; the olive should then assua.e its former shape, which it will do readily if you peel the olive skilfully. When all are done make them hot in their own licmor, strain and place in the centre of your fillets of beef, and at the last moment pour your sauce, very hot, round your enti6e and serve. 47. Creme of Fillet of Beef a la Moderne. Take a fillet of beef from a rump of beef, free the same from fat, cut it in lengths and scrape all the flesh from the sinews and skin; pound this in a clean marble mortar and pass through a wire sieve the same as for quenelle, then finish exactly the same as for Creme of Fowl (see No. 1), placing the same in plain dariole moulds, which should be buttered and one slice of truffle placed in each. Serve with a good espagnol sauce, taking care it is not too thick; but more like a demi glaze than otherwise, and which should have a little puree of good tomatoes stirred into it. This should fill sixteen dariole moulds. 48. Fritot of Creme of Beef a- l'ltalian. Made the same as Fritot of Creme. of Fowl. (See No. 3.)SWEETBREADS OF VEAL A LA MONARQUE. 38 49. CrSme of Fillet of Beef a la Financiere. The same as Cr&ne of Fowl & la Financiere. (See No. 6.) 50. Creme of Beef a la Napolitaine. The same as the above, substituting a Napolitaine ragout instead of Financiere, which is made in the following manner : Boil a little Naples maccaroni, say two ounces, in a quart of water, place in the water a little salt and one pat of butter; boil till quite tender, then place the same in cold water, and when partly cold cut it in lengths one inch long; place one pint of espagnol sauce in a stewpau to boil, add two glasses of port wine to this and a tablespoonful of red currant jelly, and let boil till the jelly is dissolved and the sauce is reduced to its original consistency; then strain it, adding a little salt and cayenne pepper (always remembering the cook should season for the guest and not the guest for the cook). When strained, pour part of the sauce over the maccaroni and add to this a quarter of a pound of preserved cherries without stones. Garnish with the Napolitaine ragout in the centre, and pour the sauce round when you serve, with a little over the cr&ne of beef. Entrees of Veal. 51. Sweetbreads of Veal a la Monarque. The same as Sweetbreads of Lamb a la Monarque. (See No. 38.)SAUTE OF FILLETS OF MUTTON A LA MACEDOINE. 39 52. Sweetbreads of Veal au Gratin. The same as of Lamb. (See No. 39.) Entries of Mutton. 53. Saute* of Fillets of Mutton a la Macedoine. Take the best ends of two loins of mutton cut off near the chump, and cut these into twenty neat scollops; after cutting the fillets from the chine bone, slightly tap them with your cutlet-chopper to flatten the fat part; then cut them into oval shapes the size of a cutlet without the bone; place about one gill of clarified butter in a saute pan, spread this over the surface and arrange the scollops on this, dipping each side of the scollops in the butter as you do them; you can also cut a few scollops from the under fillets of the loins of the same shape as the others. Then bake eight medium size potatoes, when done cut them in two and rub them through a wire sieve, removing the mealy part from the skins with an iron tablespoon; place a plate under the sieve to receive the potatoes as you rub them through, and scrape off any part adhering to the sieve; place in a stewpan and add to the same two yolks of eggs, a small pat of butter, a little salt and sugar, and mix into a mellow paste; divide this into equal parts and make them into pear-shape, which flatten a little. Then crack two eggs, add a little salt and beat them up; dip your pear-shapes of potatoes into this one at a time and bread-crumb them with some fine bread-crumbs, arranse these also in a saute pan. Then open a tin of macedoine roots, turning them into boiling water when you have4<D CUTLETS OF MUTTON BREAD-CRUMBED. done so, with a little salt, sugar, and a pat of butter; let boil till tender. A very little water will do to boil them in, and leave them in the water till you need them for use. When needed saute" the potatoes (which are now called croquettes of potatoes) of a nice gold colour, place these en miriton round your entire dish to form an outside border. Then saute your scollops (which means to fry them) over a steady fire or hot plate, they should be turned once, slightly seasoned with pepper and salt, and dished inside the potatoes. Place in the centre your macedoine roots, which should be made hot and strained off. A well- seasoned espagnol or brown sauce should be poured, very hot, over your scollops just before sending to table, and round them when you serve. 54. Cutlets of Mutton Bread-Crumbed, with Mushroom Sauce. Take two best ends of necks of mutton, saw off the chine bones and tops of the ribs, and trim them into shape; egg and bread-crumb them in a similar manner to what you did the croquettes of potatoes just mentioned. Arrange them in saute pans and dress them of a nice gold colour^ dish on a border of mashed potatoes. Serve with a niushronn sauce made as follows: Open a pint can of mushrooms, place these in a pint of espagnol sauce, also the liquor with them; let boil well together ten minutes, then serve, mushrooms in centre and sauce round them, adding a little pepper and salt and taking care the sauce is of proper consistence.SAUTE OF SHEEP'S KIDNEYS A L'lTALIAN. 41 55. Creme of Mutton a la Moderne. Take a loin of mutton with a fine fillet in the same; cut off the chump end, which will enable you to cut off the upper and undei fillets from the chine bone j then cut off all the meat from the chump, free these from fat or skin, and proceed exactly the same as for Creme of Fowl a la Moderne (see No. 1), either making them in two moulds or in sufficient dariole moulds to form two dishes (sixteen dariole moulds would do). Garnish with peas, or beans, or macedoine roots, and serve with an espagnol sauce or a bechamel sauce. 56. Saute" of Sheep's Kidneys a l'ltalian. Take sixteen sheep kidneys, skin them and cut them in two lengthways, and saute" them in a little clarified butter, having previously examined the same to see if they are of good quality. Then place them in a two-quart stewpan, add half a pint of espagnol sauce and half a pint of best stock; let them boil, and then very gently simmer for one hour, adding some muslirooin liquor and two glasses of Madeira wine. When nearly ready add the following: Chop a half-handful of parsley very fine mixed with a little green thyme, scald these, and add them to the kidneys. Next chop six fitie mushrooms—which should be dressed—add these also, then place a border of potato croquettes round the two entree dishes, and place the kidneys in the centre; serve very hot, pouring the sauce over them; the potato croquettes should be pre- pared the same as in No. 53.42 ENTREES OF RABBIT. 57. Vol au Vent of Sweetbreads of Veal. The same as of Lamb. (See No. 40.) 58. Crgme of Veal a la Moderne. The same as Creme of Fowl a la Moderne; substituting veal for fowl. (See No. 1.) 59. Darioles of Creme of Veal. The same as Darioles of Creme of Fowl. (See No. 1.) Entries of Rabbit. 60. Quenelles of Rabbit aux Champignons. The same as Quenelles of Fowl, using the fillets of rabbit. (See No. 7.) 61. Cr^me of Rabbit a la Moderne. The same as Creme of Fowl, using rabbit instead of fowl. (See No. 1.) Now follows a List of Cold Entries. At the present time it is, and for years past has been, usual to give two out of four entrees cold, that is to say in the summer season, and it has also now become quite the fashion to use every description of preserved game for this purpose all through the summer or London season; and I am bound to confess that I have been truly astonished at43 COLD ENTREES. the perfection with which this is now done (I refer to the game and other articles preserved in tin canisters). The very first houses in London are now using the same without the least hesitation; audit is my intention to name one or two firms which are pre-eminent for the high qualities and certainty of perfection in all the goods which they send out; and I ought to add, so to speak, the inexpensive cost of the same; that is to say, considering the high quality of the goods they offer for sale, enabling the cook to command the whole resources of nature at his bidding, and with joy it should be said, from all countries on the face of the earth ! For it should be noticed that these articles, which at one time could only be obtained a few months in the year, can now be had all the year round, being preserved in the time of their full season and containing all their natural qualities and characteristics. And the same may be said of the fruits of the earth, the fish of the sea, and all that ia sent for the use of mankind ! 62. Cold Entries. In preparing cold entries for a large supper, or grand affair, it is very necessary to have ready to hand and quite ready for use the following articles: Some well- made extra stiff aspic jelly, about half a pound of gelatine covered with water, a little of the very best glaze, a couple of quarts of good and firm bechamel sauce, and the same of espagnol sauce; and if not ready to hand, such articles should be at once prepared.BOMBS OF FAT LIVERS A l/AMBROSIA. 44 63. Bombs of Fat Livers & 1'Ambrosia. Open two or three cans of fat livers (the smaller the tins the more likely they are to be firm), cut them up into small dice shape, about this size £; take half pint of espagnol sauce, make it hot, and let boil in this sauce about two ounces of glaze; when the same is dissolved put the fat livers which you have cut into dice into the sauce, and chop up about six truffles and place the same in the sauce also, add a little cayenne pepper and salt, and mix very lightly together. Then turn the same into a clean stewpan and place on the ice, or where it can soon become quite cold and set, as they say in kitchen parlance, which means to become tolerably firm. When it is so, make it into small round balls of'equal size, about one inch in diameter, The best way to do this is to divide it into equal parts on the pastry slab, or on the cover of a stockpot, or saute pan; then place them to become quite firm on some ice; They should be made with as smooth a surface as possible, and should be slightly flattened at the base. While getting nice and firm take about half a pint of bechamel sauce, or say about three parts of a pint; make this warm and add to it a little aspic, about one gill. Then have a little pounded ice in a pan, place in this the warm aspic jelly and beahemel sauce, which should be in a quart stewpan; stir this with a wooden spoon, and when well blended try a little of it in any small vessel, say a dariole mould, and place it upon the ice, or imbed it in ice, to thoroughly set (removing for a time the stewpan containing the larger quantity).BOMBS OF FAT LIVERS A L'AMBROSIA. 45 Now, you must give great attention to what is in the dariole mould, which, when set, should be really very firm, and if not so take a little of the gelatine you have in soak (say about one ounce), melt this and make it warm, and add to the bechamel sauce with the aspic jelly in it, and try it again in another dariole mould. When quite sure it is nice and firm, remelt that which you have in the dariole mould, and add it to what you first prepared; place it on the ice for a minute or two, and stir it gently to and fro with a small wooden spoon, and when it is beginning to set take a dessert-fork and place each bomb upon this on the flattened side or base. Then carefully dip each one into the sauce, let pait run off, and when nicely masked place them upon a clean dish, and keep masking others as quickly as possible. If you find your sauce too stiff, place the stewpan on the hot plate for a moment, which will soon cause its contents to partially melt ; then use your judgment, and bring the same again to the proper masking point, making use of the ice to aid you if you need it. I am bound to admit that this little matter of mashing requires great attention, but after a little practice there is not the least difficulty in the matter. When all are masked they should be very slightly ornamented with truffles, or simply chop three or four truffles rather fine and sprinkle over the top surface of each bomb. They should be kept as you dip them upon pounded ice, and for this purpose you should have a square tin dish of pounded ice by your side ; the best utensils you can use are saute plate pans, as they are ready conductors of the cold arising from the ice—I mean to place the bombs upon.46 PAIN OF FAT LIVERS A LA CELESTINE. When the sauce is nicely set, take your small knife and trim any superfluous sauce that may be round the bottom of each. Then dip each one into melted aspic jelly, and place them as you do them into clean saute plate pans, or the next best utensil you can find. They should be dished on silver plates in a pile, like shot, and have a little cold aspic jelly chopped very fine around them, and finished with croutons placed on this, leaning to the margin of the dish or of the silver plate. Note.—Croutons are triangles cut from aspic jelly. 64. Pain of Fat Livers & la Celestine. Take two plain moulds of about a pint and a half each, place these upon some ice, and when cold pour a little aspic jelly, nearly cold but in a liquid state, into each; turn the mould round and round in your hands, so as to coat the mould very thinly, pouring out of one mould into the other the aspic jelly that does not adhere; serve the next mould in like manner, adding a little more aspic jelly if needed, this is called chemisiug the mould. Place each mould on the ice when finished, and ornament the bottom with truffles, then pour a little more aspic over your ornamental work to protect it. Now take two fruit bottles (quart size), fill these with water, and stand them m the exact centre of the moulds and pour in a little melted aspic jelly to set round the bottles to keep them in their place. When assured of this, take some very clear aspic jelly and pour round the bottles till the moulds are very nearly fu ; then place more ice round the moulds, aud when the jellyBOMBS OF FOWL A LA REINE. 47 is set quite firm take the moulds out of the ice, pour out the cold water, and fill again with warm water, which will slightly melt the jelly round the bottles and enable you to remove them from the moulds, when place the moulds back again on or in the ice. Then prepare two tins of fat livers exactly the same as for Bombs a 1'Ambrosia, with this only addition, add two glasses of Madeira wine and a little glaze to half a pint of the espagnol or brown sauce, which should boil together, taking care it is of the same consistency and will set firmly when cold. When begiuning to set mix in the same the livers and the truffles, which should be stirred in very gently, remembering that the livers are very delicate and easily broken. Place this in the holes left by removing the two bottles; when filled, pour over this part a little melted aspic jelly, and when needed turn out the same as you would a mould of jelly. Garnish them a Faspic at their base, with chopped aspic jelly and croutons of the same. 65. Bombs of Fowl a la Reine. Take three young fowls prepared for boiling, and boil them a little over half an hour; and when quite cold (they can soon be made so by placing them in water with some lumps of ice in it) cut the flesh from the same, remove the skin, and cut into dice a size smaller than the livers for the Bombs a V Ambrosia. Also cut into dice six slices of dressed tongue, and chop up rather fine six truffles and also a dozen dressed mushrooms. Then prepare some bechamel sauce to which has been added some gelatine4.8 BOMBS OF FOWL A LA REINE. melted, and also a little aspic jelly; add enough to make the same, quite firm when cold—about one pint and a half will be enough. Take about half a pint of this and place in the three chickens which you have cut up, also the tongue, truffles, and mushrooms, mix well together in a two-quart stewpan, and place this on the ice to become quite cold and firm; when so, make into balls the same size as for the Bombs a 1'Ambrosia, and when these have become quite firm, which they will soon do by placing them on the ice, take your other pint of sauce, giving strict attention to it that it will be quite firm when set, and prepare the same for mashing, dipping what you have prepared one at a time into the sauce and placing them neatly in your saute pan. You will require twenty- four, and let me add you will find your right hand the best and handiest means of dipping the bombs in the sauce. When your sauce is ready, dip them as quickly as you can; and should your sauce become set before you have finished them place the stewpan containing the same on the hot plate for a minute or two, then work your sauce rapidly for about the same time, and place it on the ice for a second or two, when you will be enabled again to proceed and finish the same. As you mask them, a few truffles chopped fine should be sprinkled over each one. They should be kept in ice as you do them, and when all are done take your small knife and remove any superfluous sauce that may be round the base, and finish each one by dipping the same in melted aspic jelly, and again place them on clean saute pans. They should be dished on silver plates in a pile, like cannon shot, with chopped aspic jelly round them and a few croutons cut from aspic jelly onCHAUD FROID OK FOWL A L'ASPIC. 49 this, a little aspic chopped very fine being slightly sprinkled over them, and serve. 66. Chaud Froid of Fowl a l'Aspic. Take three well-boiled young fowls and cut them into six pieces each, two from the breast, two side pieces with pinion bone on each, and the two cuisses, which will give eighteen pieces. Then take one quart of veloute* sauce (which is white sauce before the cream is added), adding some gelatine which you have in soak, that is, if you think the same is not strong enough; keep stirring this over a good fire till it is well reduced, adding a few fresh mush- rooms chopped fine and a little double cream. When you think the sauce is sufficiently reduced, squeeze it through a tammy-cloth into a clean stewpan, and then try the consistency; and here let me observe, the hot summer season and our variable climate occasionally make a great change with the strength of the strongest stock we can produce, making the same frequently as weak as water in a few hours, hence the necessity of being extremely watchful and attentive with stocks and sauces in the summer. Having found the sauce sufficiently firm when cold, place what you have just made on the ice, stirring the same to keep it smooth; and when beginning to set add about one gill of liquid aspic jelly, stir this gently into the sauce, and when nearly ready take it from the ice and commence to dip each piece of chicken, fixing each piece on a fork the smooth side outward, and dip the same in the sauce, keeping the best side upward as you arrange tliem E50 QUENELLES OF FOWL AUX CHAMPIGNONS A L'ASPIC. on saute pans; and should your sauce set too quick, place, as I said before, the stewpan containing the same on the hot-plate for a minute or two, which will enable you quickly to put all right again, simply by stirring the sauce gently for a minute or two till you again make it smooth ttjid ready for u?e. A. very suitable finish to chaud froid of fowl is to chop a handful of picked parsley very fine indeed; then place the same into one of your pointed sauce-strainers, and dip it for one minute into boiling water with a little salt 111 the same, when turn it out upon the corner of a clean rubber or kitchen-cloth; squeeze the parsley in this till entirely free from moisture, then place it upon a clean plate and sprinkle a little upon each piece of chicken; this looks extremely well, and I prefer it to any other kind of garniture, even of truffles. You can dish the chaud froid in ornamental borders of aspic jelly with a little salad under them, or with finely chopped aspic jelly round and croutons of aspic jelly on the chopped aspic jelly, with a few sprays ot endive to finish, or a few sprays of chervil, or tarragon, which ought to be at hand when dishing cold entrees. G7. Quenelles of Fowl aux Champignons a l'Aspic. Mao some quenelles of fowl (two dishes) as previous described (see No. 7), when cooked and cold mask tin with a bechamel sauce, sufficiently cold and prepared 1 masking cold entrees, not forgetting a little aspic jelly be added in a liquid state to the same, Twenty quenelBOMBS OF LOBSTER A LA CARDINAL. 51 are sufficient for two entrees, and take care not to make them too large; when you have masked the same and the sauce is set place one slice of truffle, cut round of the same size and thickness as a fourpenny piece, on the thick end of each quenelle, and when finished clip each one in liquid aspic jelly. The best way of doing this is to place the quenelle on the fingers of the right hand and dip the same in the aspic jelly, and opening the fingers, you will be able to do this in a neat manner, as the surplus aqnc jelly will run back to what you are using. Place them as you do them in a uniform manner on to a saute pan, taking care the same is well tinned. Dish them on an ornamental aspic border, which in general has an indentation in the snme, on purpose to enable the cook to readily dish this kind of imtree, and to hold the same securely in its place. The champignons (small mushrooms) should be moistened with a little aspic jelly, so as to enable them to adhere together and enable you to form a pile of them in the centre of your quenelles. Place a little finely-chopped s;dad under the mushrooms, and finish with a few croutons of aspic placed round the base of the ornamental border upon a little chopped aspic, and serve. Note.—Two tins of mushrooms (small) will be sufficient; peas and macedoine roots can be used instead of mush- rooms. 68. Bombs of Lobster a la Cardinal. Take one quart of veloute sauce (white sauce without cream) and reduce this to one-half, and to be quae certain of its consistency, add about one ounce of soakedc;2 BOMBS OF LOBSTER A LA CARDINAL. gelatine; then obtain about a gill of live lobster spawn, rub this through a hair sieve, moistening the same with a very little water now and then as you proceed, by clipping the fingers of the right hand into a basin of clean water and letting what runs from them fall upon the spawn, this will be quite sufficient, repeating this act twice during the time you are rubbing the spawn through the hair sieve; when all the spawn is rubbed through, which should be done with a plate under the sieve to receive the same, scrape off what remains on the sieve (underneath) with an iron spoon; add this to your reduced sauce with one gill of cream and some essence of anchovy, then boil altogether and squeeze through a tammy-cloth into a two- quart stewpan and place it on the ice to get cold. While getting cold, take the meat from three fine and very fresh lobsters, cut this into small dice and mix the same in another stewpan with a portion of the sauce upon the ice, using sufficient to cause the cut-up lobster to combine together, and when this is quite cold and firm make it into halls of the same size as the Bombs of Eat Livers a 1'Ambrosia. When these have been on the ice for some time and have become quite firm, take your prepared sauce, which should be a good scarlet colour, and prepare this for masking your bombs, being careful that the bottom of each is a little flattened. Finish in the same manner as the Bombs of Fat Livers and dish also in the same style, letting them resemble a pile of shot, and taking care to sprinkle a little chopped truffles over each as you mask them with the sauce, which causes the truffles to adhere before dipping them in the aspic jelly. Note.—The bombs of all kinds look best dished on the53 SALMI OF LARKS A LA MACEDOINE. silver plates without any border whatever, finishing with chopped aspic jelly round them and a few croutons cut from the same. And here I might add, no one need be afraid of the explosive qualities of these bombs, for I am inclined to believe the only explosive utterance that will be heard will be that of praise and commendation from each and all who partake of the excellent properties of the same ! It is sometimes difficult to obtain first-class lobsters unless it be from high-class fishmongers, and you give them due notice of what you require; then you can generally obtain what is needed. Note.—It may be sometimes necessary to mask the bombs twice over, but' this depends on the skill in the first masking. 69. Salmi of Larks a la Macedoine. Open two tins of preserved larks containing twelve in each tin, free them from any particle of grease and dry them in a cloth, and if any portion of the farce should protrude remove the same, and make them as nearly as possible of the same size and shape; then prepare about, three parts of a pint of brown sauce, adding two glasses of sherry and a little mushroom juice, add about two ounces of the best glaze to this and boil together, and reduce it to the masking point, adding a couple of spoonfuls of puree of tomatoes to the same while boiling; pass the same through your tammy-cloth into a quart stewpan. and when beginning to get cold add a little liquid aspic to make the sauce have a shining and glossy appearand'; then in the54 LESCALOPES OF TROUT A LA TARTAR RE. usual manner mask your larks, placing each on a fork and dipping the breast part foremost into the sauce, letting the breast tmow upwards as you arrange them on your saute pan; when all are clone, remove with your small kii.te any surplus sauce that may settle round the larks, and dish them upon silver plates or dishes, leaving space in the centre for your garniture of macedoine roots, which should be prepared as follows: Open a pint tin of macedoine roots, throw them into a quart of boiling water with a pinch of salt, half a small teaspoonful of sugar, and a pat of butter; let them boil in this slowly for a minute or two till the roots are nice and tender, then strain them off, and when cold toss them into two table- spoonfuls of liquid aspic jelly; this is done to cause the macedoine roots to adhere together and to enable you to pile them up high in the centre of your larks, and to make the roots look brighter than they otherwise would. Place chopped aspic jelly round the outside of the larks, and a few croutons of aspic jelly cut from the same, of this shape A but six times the size> and about a ^uarter of an inch thick on the chopped aspic and serve. T^ote.—Peas, mushrooms, or ragout can also be served with the larks, with a little salad under the same, or serve on ornamental borders of rice or aspic. 70. L'Escalopes of Trout a la Tartarre. Take a trout of about two and a half pounds weight, split the same in two, cutting straight through the centre of the snout and letting your knife bear upon the central bone,L'ESCALOPES OF TROU1 ' A LA TARTARRE. 55 or in other words, press upon the same till you have cut the fish in two; then cut each half head off and divide half of each trout into three equal parts, cutting each part into equal size scollops, showing the grain of the fish; then take a saute pan or two, place in the same a little salad oil, and as you trim your scollops place them in the saute pan : they will require very little trimming indeed if the scollops are cut uniformly. Suffice it to say they should be some- what of the shape of a pear when cut in two (I mean the inside shape); but do not cut more to waste than you can possibly help, as a slight resemblance to the inside of a pear will do. When finished, sprinkle with a little pepper and salt and place them to cook, putting a sheet of buttered paper cut round and made to fit the saute pan, over the scollops. Watch them attentively, for a very few minutes will cook them; you can tell when they are done by the cream that shows from and upon them and by their feeling quite firm; when done place, them aside to get quite cold, and sprinkle a little champagne vinegar, or good malt vinegar over them. A sharp oven will cook them well. Now make your tartarre sauce : Take a bottle of the best salad oil, which should have been placed about ten minutes previous to using in ice, also take the yolks of four very fresh eggs, put these in a round bottom basin and sprinkle over the same some pepper and salt; then hold the bottle of oil in your left hand, and a small wire wisp, or whisk, in your right; stir rapidly with your whisk the eggs and seasoning together, and at the sam* time let a little salad oil fall slowly upon the yolks of eggs (about two spoonfuls at a time), at the same time keep stirring round and round with your whisk, thereby56 SCOLLOPS OF SALMON EN MAYONNAISE. mixing the yolks of eggs and the oil well together; when such begins to blend and become firm keep adding more oil and keep stirring round and round the whisk in your hand, mixing the oil and yolks of eggs together till all the oil is used (one pint should be sufficient); then add about two tablespoonfuls of chili vinegar, mixing all well together and add the following: chop two eschalots and half a small handful of picked parsley and one gherkin rather fine, and put them into a pointed strainer, holding the same in boiling water for a minute; turn the same into the corner of a kitchen-cloth to absorb the moisture, and mix into your sauce. Dish the trout on an ornamental border of aspic jelly, place a little lettuce cut very fine in the centre, and on this your tartarre sauce; also a few croutons of aspic jelly round the base of the border, and some chopped very fine between each crouton. A. little tarragon and chervil can also be placed round the base of the border; and you can, if you please, dish them without the aid of aspic borders on the plain silver plate or dish, putting a little chopped aspic and using a few croutons of aspic as your fancy may direct round the salad. Note—Ornamental rice borders, about one inch high, are sometimes used to dish all kinds of cold entrees upon ; and in the full summer season they are preferable to aspic jelly borders,—as the aspic jelly is apt to become clammy; and I am bound to say, when properly prepared, they look extremely well. Be sure to use a little sliced cucumber in dishing this cold entiee, also a little oil and vinegar mixed in equal proportions and seasoned.57 PATTIES OF GAME, 71. Scollops of Salmon en Mayonnaise Is prepared exactly the same as the Scollops of Trout. Obtain two pounds and a half of the prime cut of a split salmon, and cut your scollops from the same; use the same sauce as prepared for the trout, but without the eschalot, gherkin or parsley, and make the same with tarragon vinegar instead of chili vinegar. Dish and finish in the same manner in every particular as given for the Scollops of Trout. Be sure to use a little cucumber with or round the salad, and some oil and vinegar mixed in «qual proportions and seasoned. 72. Patties of Game. Prepare the patties as previously described (see TSTo. 41), and cut into dice any description of game of which the meat is white, or mince the same and add to it a few chopped truffles and mushrooms (six truffles and a dozen mush- rooms); then chop up the bones and remnants, place these on the fire with half a pint of good stock and one glass of sherry and let it simmer very gently for an hour, adding at the time a piece of glaze about the size of a walnut. At the end of an hour, strain off this game essence and mix it with six tablespoonfuls of brown sauce, and let reduce this to the proper consistence—the quantity needed is half a pint; put your minced game in this, also ymir chopped mushrooms and truffles. Twenty-four patties are the number for two dishes. "When needed, fill your patties with this mixture, naming the patties according to the kind58 SALADE OF LOBSTER A LA FRANCAISE. of game used,—such as pheasant, partridge, grouse, or woodcock. 73. Salade of Lobster a la Francaise. Take four medium size lobsters, extract the whole of the meat from the shells and separate the tail from the body. Spread this out on the cutting-board and chop one edge of the tail off, when the meat will quickly leave the shell; or squeeze the shell very tightly in your hand, and by this means crack the outward side of the shell forming the tail,, when the flesh of the lobster will also come out in one piece—a desirable matter; then break off the claws and turn each one on its edge, and with your cutlet-chopper cut the claw partly through; after which, you can readily break the shell of the claw and extract the flesh in one piece. This will be found much better than by attempting to break the shell on the flat side, which process is almost sure to end in smashing the flesh of the claw. Crack the other parts of the claw gently and take away what is inside. What is further found in the body is of no importance. The broken shells and refuse should be now cleared away and your board cleared. Then place all the lobster-meat as we term it into a two-quart jar, and pour half a pint of vinegar and half a pint of oil over the lobster, well seasoning the same with some white pepper and salt;, screw some paper over the top and let remain till needed. Then take eight eggs, and make certain none are cracked, cover the same with water and place them on the fire to boil; watch them till they do boil—notice the time and letSALADE OF LOBSTER A LA FRANCAlSE. 59 boil exnctlv ten minutes. Then place the same in cold water (say'three quarts), and when quite cold take one at a time, gently tap the shells to crack them, slightly roll the same on the dresser or cutting board, when the shell ', will easily leave the eggs, which place in a two-quart jar or hasin, and mark them off. Then make three parts of a pint of mayonnaise sauce, exactly the same as described for Scollops of Salmon en Mayonnaise (see No. 71). When made, mark this off also. You will also need three cos lettuce, one beetroot, a basket of small salad, and a medium size cucumber. Trim the lettuce and small salad, and let these remain in plenty of water to extract any grit they may contain, cutting each lettuce in two. I should here mention, that if any of the lobsters are hen-lobsters, the coral or spawn found in them should be washed, partly dried, and then rubbed through a wire sieve, to be used for ornamenting the salads. And now for dishing the salads : Strain the lettuces and small salad on to a hair sieve, and after a few minutes dry them in a kitchen cloth; cut the lettuces extremely tine, peel the beetroot and also the cucumber, and place these on a clean dish with the small salad. Then cut four of the egg5 in two, placing them hngthways before you; also cut each half in two—this should be done with a thin sharp knife. After placing these on a plate, take four more eggs and place them also lengthways beiorr you; cut them in two, and divide each half into four pieces. Next take two silver plates (soup plates) or round entree dishes, and in one form a border with the lour eggs which you have cut into sixteen pieces, leaving a margin of an eighth of an inch, and let the eggs show with the inside6c SALADE OF LOBSTER A LA FRANCAISE. towards you. Now take half your peeled cucumber, which should be even in shape, or made so with your small knife, and cut into pieces about the size and thickness of a half- penny. Place these uniformly round the outside of the eggs, overlapping each other slightly; then mix some of your small salad and lettuce together, and place these in the centre of the eggs, pressing the same down lightly, which should when finished be about one inch and a half thick ; on this place a little sliced beetroot. Finish your other dish or plate in a similar manner, placing the quarters of eggs evenly and touching each other round the inside of the dish. Then take your other half of cucumber, splitting it in two lengthways, cutting one half of this into thin slices about as thick as a sixpence, and place a slice next to each piece of egg—they will look best if placed in a slanting direction uniformly between the pieces of egg all round the dish; then add salad as in the other "dish. Now take your lobsters out of the oil and vinegar, dry them with a cloth somewhat damp, and cut up the four tails, beginning at the end which was broken off the body; cut off the rough parts and cut the slices in a slanting direction, placing these on a china dish as you do them, letting each piece overlap the other as you place them on this dish. Next proceed to cut the claws into scollops of about the same size as those cut from the tads, placing any odd or rough pieces on a plate. When all the lobsters have been cut up and are arranged on the china dish mix the oil and vinegar in which the lobsters were placed well together, and put a little of this over the picees of lobster thus arranged ; do not put too much, but enough to nicely flavour and season the same.61 SALADE OF LOBSTER A LA FRANCAISE. Now take the rough pieces from the plate, chop these up, adding a little oil and vinegar from the jar. Then take one of the silver dishes and press the salad evenly down in the centre of the dish, adding a little more small salad and lettuce if needed, and round this arrange the remainder of the cucumber, somewhat in the same manner as you placed it round one of the silver dishes, each piece slightly over- lapping the other. Next place the rough pieces of lobster in a pile in the centre, and round this commence to dish your lobster, using two of the tails first, letting one piece overlap the other till you have made several tiers, and using the rough pieces as you proceed, and also a little small salad. "When you think you have used half your lobster on one dish, finish the top neatly and roll into a ball a little small salad and place this on the top. Finish the other dish in the same way. A short time before serving, strain the remainder of the oil and vinegar into a basin, taste it and make it to your palate, adding a little cayenne pepper; then, with a table- spoon (silver or plated), place this dressing over the two salads, beginning at the top of each and sprinkling the coral which you have prepared over each. After which, put your mayonnaise sauce into two boats and send to 1 able with the lobster salads: one boat should be placed by the side of each. Note.—According to the old style, a Lobster Salad k la Franchise was prepared as I have here described it; but many cooks of the present time use mayonnaise sauce with a lobster salad,—hence my reason for sending mayonnaise iu boats. A little mayonnaise sauce is also used in building up the lobster.VOL AU VENTS OF OYSTERS A LA CREME. 62 74. Cutlets of Lamb a la Victoria. Cut three fine necks of larnb inio cutlets as for Saute of Lamb Cutlets (see No. 37), but do not trim them; then cut some truffles, fat bacon, and scollops of tongue into pieces of this size and shape and with your larding-needle place six pieces of tongue, truffles and fat bacon alternately and regularly in the centre of the lean part of each cutlet. When they are all finished, place them in a deep cutlet-pan with the following vegetables,—a large onion, one carrot, one turnip, a little celery and a rather large bunch of thyme, parsley, and bay leaf; cover them with water and let them slowly simmer for about one hour. You can place any portion of fat from the trimmings, cuitinu' the same up small, to braize with the cutlets. When done, leave them in the stock till the following day, when they should be neatly 1 rimmed. When about to be used, take half glaze and half aspic jelly and boil these together, lightly "lazing the cutlets with same, and arrange them on a plate ready for dishing. Dish up on a border of aspic jelly or rice and loss a pint of young boiled peas in two tablesp jonfuls of aspjc jelly; garnish with the peas in the centre and serve; ur you can dish them in the silver plate or dish, glazing the centre of the dish to keep them firm, and garnish a Faspic. Note.—The aspic jelly is to cause the peas to lightly adhere together when dished, and should be quite cold when you dish up. 75. Vol au Vents of Oyaters a la Crfime. Make two vol au vent cases after the same manner as forSALMI OF PARTRIDGES A LA BOHEMIENNE. 63 Vol au Vents of Heart Sweetbreads of Lamb (see No. 40). Make also separate tops for the same, with a crown of leaves on the top of each, but do not let them (the vol au vents) be more than four inches in diameter, and be careful in the baking. When finished, prepare the oysters as follows : take four dozen fine oysters for stewing, add one wineglass of water to the oysters, place in a stewpan and let them boil for a few minutes; then strain them from the liquor (which be particular to reserve) and mix three tablespoonfuls of fine flour with one gill of milk, mix it so as to become quite smooth, but strain the same into a basin; then take the oyster liquor, one gill of cream, and one gill of milk, place all three on the tire to nearly boil, but do not let it quite boil, as you will spoil it if you do (causing the same to curdle). When near the boiling point stir iu the flour previously mixed with a gill of milk, keep stirring till it boils for a minute or two, and then take it from the fire; it should be of the consistence of good double cream. Stir in a pat of the best butter, a little salt and cayenne, beard your oysters and place them in the sauce, and fill your vol au vents with this when needed. Note.—You can also use bechamel sauce, adding the oyster liquor and a pat of batter instead of the above, taking care it is sufficiently thick; garnish with fried parsley. 76. Salmi of Partridges a la Bohemienne. Roast six partridges, taking care they are not too much done; when cold cut them into neat pieces, two from the64 BOMBS OF FILETS OF SOLES A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. side of the breast containing the pinion bone, two from the centre of the breast and the two cuisses or thighs, with the legs attached; skin them, and place the skin and the back bone cut up on the fire with half a pint of good stock; let the same gently simmer for one hour, adding a glass of sherry; then strain it off, and add to this essence half a pint of espagnol sauce and some glaze, reduce the same to the proper consistency for masking, adding four chopped truffles and a little liquid aspic; when ready, dip your pieces of partridge in this sauce, arranging them neatly on a saute pan as you do them; dish in an ornamental aspic border, and garnish with a few macedoine roots which have been tossed in two tablespoonfuls of aspic jelly. "Note.—Dish on a little finely-cut lettuce. 77. Bombs of Filets of Soles a la Maitre d'Hotel. Fillet four medium size soles after they are skinned; rub a saute pan with a little butter and lay each length- ways on this, place a round of buttered paper on same and cook them in the oven. When well done, place on a dish to get cold; then chop up the bones and place these on the fire, with a little carrot, onion, celery, and a uood bunch of thyme, parsley and bayleaf; cover with a pint of good stock, and let simmer gently for about an hour; then strain this essence into a stewpan containing one pint of veloute sauce (white sauce without cream), also about an ounce of soaked gelatine; reduce these on the fire till of the consistence of double cream; add about one gill of double cream to this and let it boil with the sauce65 GALANTINE OF CHICKEN CUT UP. a short time, then squeeze through, a tammy into a quart stewpau. Now cut up your fillets of soles into small dice shape pieces, and chop up a dozen mushrooms; mix them (the mushrooms and soles) in another stewpan with one-third of the sauce you have just prepared, adding a little cayenne pepper and salt; then place the same to get cold on the ice, and when cold mould into balls the same as for Bombs of Lobster (see No. 68). Now add a little liquid aspic to the remainder of the sauce, and mask your bombs with this, taking care the same is a good colour; if not, add a little more cream. Arrange them neatly on a saute pan as you do them; sprinkle the same with chopped parsley which has been scalded in salt and water and dried in a napkin. Dish as the other bombs (as a pile of cannon balls), and garnish a T aspic. 78. Galantine of Chicken cut up. Take two young fowls boned, run your knife through the back part, cut off the legs, and press what is left of the leg inside; then spread the fowl on the dresser and cut out any sinewy part. Take one pound and a half of sausage meat, one dozen truffles, the half of the lean part of a dressed tongue, and half a pound of fat bacon. Chop a dozen mushrooms (not too fine), but cut your truffles into dice about this size Q and the same with the half tongue and fat bacon. Mix all these with your sausage meat, adding a little cayenne pepper, also about half a teaspoonful of herbaceous mixture, about an ounce of soaked gelatine,66 CREME OF VEAL AND FOWL A LA BONNE FEMME. and th:ee yolks of eggs.' Mix these well together, and divide between the two fowls, spreading the same over the fowls evenly j then roll them up lengthways, or the way the fillets extend, keeping the best side upwards. They should be rolled up tightly and tied up tightly, and placed in the stock-pot to boil for about one hour and a quarter. Then take them up and place them on your cutting-board, remove the cloths carefully, have them washed and spread out, and again place the galantines in them. Then again roll them up as tightly as you cau, being particular to keep the fillet side uppermost. When both are done and again tied up tightly, if you wish them .of an oval shape place them between two copper baking sheets and put on the top a seven-pound weight: they should be prepared the day before you need them. When needed, cut them up into thin slices; and if you wish them round, they should not be pressed or have any weight placed upon them. When you dish them squeeze a little small salad between your hands so as to compress the same; then dish your slices of galantine round this, letting one piece overlap the other uniformly all round. Place a little small salad lightly compressed into a ball on the top, and at the base a fevv'croutons of aspic jelly at an equal distance apart, and a little chopped aspic between these. Sprinkle a little of the same over the green ball at the top, and add a few sprays of parsley at the base and serve. 77. Orfime of Veal and Fowl a la Bonne Femme. PitEPAliE the veal and fowl, half of each, in the sameCREME OF VEAL AND FOWL A LA BONNE FEMME. 67 manner as the Creuie of Fowl a la Moderne, taking two very fine and large fowls, and a pound and a half of slices of veal (nice white veal). When prepared, take a medium size copper baking sheet well tinned; butter this and then line the sheet with paper, spreading it evenly over the surface of the baking sheet, and butter this also; and on this spread the crSme of fowl and veal (as evenly as possible) and of about the thickness of an old penny piece; then butter another sheet of paper and place this evenly over the top, and with a butter-brush sprinkle a little water all over the surface, and place in a rather sharp oven to set (about five minutes should do this). When it feels quite firm to the touch it will do; and let me here remark, all care should be taken to make it so. When cold cut it out into cutlet-shaped pieces, in fact with the same kind of cutter that is used for cutting into shape fillets of chicken, or of a cutter of the shape here shown Q which should be about three inches long and about one inch and a half wide in the centre. There should be twenty scollops, and as you cut them out arrange them neatly on a saute pan; then cut from a dressed tongue twenty scollops of the size of a two- shilling piece; place these also on another saute* pan, and mark them as thus far ready for use; and let me add, the trimmings from the fowl and from the slices of veal should as soon as possible have been placed on the fire} covered with cold water, and made to boil, nicely skimmed, and a little sliced carrot, onion, and celery, also a bouquet of parsley and green thyme placed in the same. Let me also add, the carcase of the fowl should be chopped up rather small, so as the more readily to extract the flavour from it.66 BLANCMANGER OF FOWL GARNIE AUX TRUFFES. This should slowly boil or simmer for about three hours; it should then be mixed into a white sauce and finished with a little double cream. The quantity of sauce required for the two entrees would be a pint and a half: it should be prepared stiff enough for masking. When masking, take care your hands are very clean, and place each scollop on the fingers of the right hand and gently dip the same into the sauce; they should be very lightly masked, and neatly arranged on a saute pan; and let me remark, I feel tolerably certain that no plan that could be invented could be better than the hand for finishing this particular kind of dish. Disli them on an ornamental border of aspic, and as you dish them, glaze the scollops of tongue and place one scollop on each scollop of the fowl and veal, dishing en miriton as it is termed in kitchen parlance, which means dishing them in a circular form, one piece leaning on another, in the same manner that you would a dish of cutlets. The garniture should be peas, fresh gathered if in season, and cannister peas if not. If cannister peas, let them boil up once after putting them in boiling water which has a bunch of mint boiling in the same; then strain, and when cold add a couple of tablespoonfuls of liquid aspic jelly; toss them in this, and when the aspic jelly has set, place or pile the peas in the centre of your entrees, adding a little chopped aspic round the base and a few croutons, and serve. 80. Blancmanger of Fowl Garnie aux Truffes. Boil two fine large fowls, and when well done place them to get cold. Then melt about a pint and a half of aspicBLANCMANGER OF FOWL GARNIE AUX TRUFFES. 69 jelly, and select two plain round moulds (quart size), and have bv you in a tin or basin three pounds of pounded ice; then pour about a gill of aspic jelly into each mould to chemise the moulds, which is done by turning the moulds round and round in your hands till the inside has been entirely covered by the jelly, and slightly adheres to the same. Now pour what remains into the other mould, placing the mould you have thus far finished on the ice, and take care it stands level in the same. Then serve the other in the same manner, pouring out what remains into the aspic you have by you and placing both moulds on the ice. Now cut a few truffles into thin slices (the truffles should be as large as you can obtain them), and then proceed to ornament the bottoms of the two moulds, making a hand- some star or any other design, as your fancy may direct. When you have finished one, pour a little aspic jelly to cover your ornamental work, about two tablespoonfuls should be sufficient, when both moulds are finished. Then take a very clean three-pint stewpan, place in this about three parts of a pint of liquid aspic and beat with a wire whisp till it becomes as white :is cream and about the consistence of double cream; and if it shows no sign of immediately setting, chemise the moulds with this (one at a time); pour enough in to half-fill the mould, then turn it round and round, covering all the inside of the. mould, and pour out the remainder into the stewpan containing the other part. It should be about an eighth of an inch thick, or a little thicker makes no difference. Then slightly warm what is left and proceed to whisk it atjnin, melting it sufficiently to become quite smooth to•jo MINCED MUTTON AU GRATIN. chemise the other mould, which finish the same as the last. Next take the skin from the two boiled fowls and cut off all the white meat, chop the same a little; then pound it in the mortar with a little cream, and when you think it fine enough rub the same through a fine wire sieve. Place this in a three-quart stewpan, and add another half-pint of cream, mixing the same very gently with the chicken. Then collect what aspic jelly you have left, particularly that which you have been using; melt this and add a little more to it if needed, so as to have a little more than half a pint; proceed again to whip it up till it becomes quite white, but is still in a liquid state. Mix this with the prepared chicken to which you have just added the cream; mix all together with your whisp gently, then fill your two ornamented moulds with this, and pour a little liquid aspic, when what you have placed in the mould is set, over the same. When you serve these, they should be dipped in warm water the same as a mould of jelly, and turned out upon silver plates, garnished at the base with croutons of aspic jelly placed at equal distance round the same, and a little chopped aspic between the croutons, also a few sprays of chervil. Economical Entrees of Fish, Flesh and Fowl. 81. Minced Mutton au Gratin. Take the remains of cold mutton and cut the lean part into dice of this size |g; cut up sufficient to nearly fill a quart basin, and chop up half a handful of picked parsley with a dozen mushrooms taken from a canister of the same;MINCED MUTTON AU GRATIN. 71 mix these together, seasoning the same with a little cayenne pepper and salt. Place a little more than half a pint of brown sauce in a stewpan, let boil till reduced one-third, having, when placing on the fire to boil, added two ounces of good glaze. When the sauce is ready, add your minced mutton, chopped mushrooms and chopped parsley, taking care the parsley has been previously dipped in boiling- water for a minute; when all are mixed nicely together, place in the larder or upon some ice to get cold. Then make half a pound of short paste, that is, half a pound of flour and three ounces of butter rubbed into the same, and mix with a little water into a rather stiff paste; cut this into a circular piece of paste after rolling out to a quarter of an inch in thickness; prick this with a fork over the surface and then bake the same—(half a pound of flour should make two). Then make the half of a half-quartern loaf into bread-crumbs, not using the crust; and now, if your minced mutton is quite firm, build this up into a sugar-loaf shape upon your round of short paste; smooth it nicely with a knife, dipping the same in hot water; when smooth, take one yolk of egg and one whole egg, add a little salt and mix well together, and with your egg-brush eizg over the surface of your pile of mutton, and well cover the same with bread-crumbs, patting the same with your hands and putting on as much as possible. Some give two coats of bread-crumbs to this dish, and I think it is best to do so; following the same plan as the first. Next dip a clean brush into some clarified butter, and run a little over the surface that has been coated with bread- crumbs, and place the same in a moderately-heated oven till it becomes a light yold colour, when pour round72 MINCED BEEF AU GRATIN. some good brown sauce not too thick, or a sauce of tomatoes, or piquant sauce. Now, any remains of poultry, or turkey, or game, can be done in the same manner, using a little tongue or ham minced and put into the same before putting it into the prepared sauce. Various kinds of sauces can be used, also various kinds of garnitures, such as mushrooms, peas, beans, or macedoines, the best sauces to use are tomato, espagnol, bechamel or Italian j and the same with remains of fish, as the following will show. Note.—Use as little sauce as possible with these dishes au gratin, so that they may keep their shape. 82. Turbot au Gratin with Tomato Sauce. Take the remains of a boiled turbot and cut the same as far as possible into dice shape, mincing the remainder; then place half a pint of good brown sauce, with two ounces of glaze cut up, on the fire to boil in a three-pint stewpan; let it reduce to one-half, then strain through a pointed wire sieve and add a little anchovy sauce, cayenne pepper and salt. The quantity of turbot required would be enough to fill a quart basin, and if any lobster remains, use the same with the turbot and finish in the same manner as the minced Mutton au Gratin. Serve with a tomato sauce round the base, and send to table very hot. Note—These kinds of dishes are excellent for a dinner en famille, or for luncheon, or breakfast. 83. Minced Beef au Gratin Is served the same as Mutton au Gratin. (See No. 81).SWEETBREADS AU GRATIN EN CASES. 7J Another very excellent manner of serving the remains, or what is left from a former dish, is to serve the same in paper cases, placing some fried bread-crumbs on the top and serve with a little fried parsley round them. The paper cases are sold at the Confectioner's, and are called foudu cases: they should be round and not too large. 84. Sweetbreads au Gratin en Cases. Take the remains of sweetbreads, cut them into rather large dice shape, thus Ell, and then chop any of the garniture that may be left, such as truffles or mushrooms, rather fine ; and if any sauce is left, strain it and add a little more to the same; reduce this, adding a little bit of glaze and a little seasoning. When you think it has boiled sufficiently, add to this your sweetbread; and if you find you have not enough to serve the number you have to dinner, obtain another sweetbread and cook it, adding it to the rest. Then take as many paper cases as you require, .and pour into each a little salad oil, or take a butter-brush, and dipping this into salad oil cover the inside and outside of your cases lightly with it; then turn them upside down on a dish and place them in the screen, when they will quickly become quite stiff and will bear going into the oven for the time needed. Now take a double handful of fresh- made bread-crumbs, add to this (first melting the same in a saut6 pan) two pats of butter; then mix your bread-crumbs with this, and place your crumbs, or more properly speaking jour saute pan containing the crumbs, on the hottest part of the hot plate, holding the handle of the saute" pan in74 RISSOLES OF FOWL A LA REINE. your left hand, and with a wooden spoon in your right stir the bread-crumbs to and fro, also giving the saut6 pan a shake now and then. After a few minutes you will find the bread-crumbs begin to take colour, and then be very careful they do not burn; to prevent this, shake the saut6 pan frequently, and stir them quickly with the spoon. "When of a pale gold colour they will do, and at once turn them on to a dish. Now fill your paper cases with your sweetbreads and cover them with your fried bread-crumbs, placing them in a moderately-heated oven for about ten minutes before you need them. Then dish and serve in a pile on a napkin, with fried parsley to garnish. Note.—As far as my experience goes, and it has been very great, I have found, and that very frequently, that these economical dishes have been partaken of with greater relish than the original dishes; and almost any kind of entree, or remains of a dish, can be served in cases, par- ticularly the following: Dressed fillets of soles, dressed mullet or cod fish, or any remains of game or poultry can be served in cases as the above, taking care to make the- sauce very savoury and good. You can also use the same remains for Rissoles or Croquettes; as follows: 85. Rissoles of Fowl a la Reine. Take the remains of boiled fowl or turkey, mince the same- or cut into dice this size H; take also a few thin slices of tongue and cut these also in same manner; add a litllfr cayenne, and reduce half a pint of brown sauce with about, an ounce of glaze added to the same. When sufficientlyRISSOLES OF FOWL A LA REINE. 75 reduced, strain it into a basin and place your fowl and toneue in this, taking care that it is not sloppy, or m other words, that there is only sufficient sauce to cause the fowl and tongue to adhere together, and to appear when cold nice and firm. Now take some trimmings of puff-paste, such as the remains of vol au vents or patty cases; add a handful of flour to this and roll the flour into it, which wdl take two or three rolls; when smooth, roll it out as thin as a bronze penny and as square as possible, and cut it into pieces three inches square; then take two yolks of eggs, add a few drops of water to these, and with your egg- brush lightly touch with the yolks of eggs the surface of the square pieces of paste before you; then mould with a dessertspoon the chicken and tongue into round pieces about the size of a walnut, placing each piece near the outer edge, so that the other part will overlap or cover that part where the chicken and tongue is; close the edges thoroughly, and then cut them into half circles with a patty cutter, taking care they are not too large. Then egg the upper surface and cover this with fresh-made bread- crumbs : some use broken vermicelli for this purpose, but bread-crumbs are best; fry them, when needed, in clean hogs' lard, taking care the same is not too hot, and fry them of a light gold colour, and be careful the paste, is well cooked. When finished, pick a handful of parsley from the stalks and dip it in water, taking care to squeeze all the water from the same, and place the same in a frying basket and then into the fat you have been using, and fry the same, taking care it is crisp before taking it from the fat. Garnish with this, and dish on a napkin. N0te.—Rissoles can be made from any kind of butcher's76 CROQUETTES OF FOWL AND TONGUE. meat, game or poultry, adding a few chopped mushrooms and also truffles when you wish them to be extra good. Should it so happen that you have no trimmings of puff- paste, make half a pound of flour into paste, using only five ounces of butter to the same; make in the same manner as for Vol au Yents of Lamb Sweetbreads (see No. 40), giving the paste the same number of rolls as therein described. 86. Croquettes of Fowl and Tongue. Prepare the meat for the croquettes in the same manner as for the Rissoles. Take one pint of good brown sauce, add to this two ounces of glaze cut up, and let boil till reduced to half a pint; then strain through a pointed tin sieve and mix with this I he fowl and tongue, keeping some of the sauce back in case you should not need it all; then place the croquette meat on the ice, having previously placed it in a stewpan. When quite cold and firm, make it into balls of about one inch in diameter, taking care they are all of the same size. Then make some very fine bread-crumbs, about the half of a half-quarten loaf, and crack three whole eggs, add a little salt, beat them up a little, and dip your croquettes in this very lightly, that is to say, not to have two much egg about them; one person should dip them in egg and an assistant should place the bread-crumbs on them, patting each between the hands to make the bread-crumbs adhere. They should be bread-crumbed twice over, using exactly the same process as for the first putting on of the bread- crumbs. When finished, place them in the cool tillFRITOT OF FOWL WITH SAUCE OF TOMATOES. ^^ needed; and when required, fry them in clean hogs' lard or clean fat. They should be fried a few at a time. Serve twelve for a dish, with fried parsley to garnish, making them into a round pile on a napkin. Another method of preparing economical dishes, and the last but we believe not the least, is by frying the same in batter and serving a sharp sauce with them, which consists of tomato or a piquant sauce (see No. 97); and by way of example, we will again take the remains of boiled fowls, bearing in mind that if you have not quite sufficient you can add to the same by ordering more of the same article; and also bear in mind that in describing these economical dishes, the particulars apply to one entree only, and that the same can be served for breakfast, luncheon, or a dinner enfamille; furthermore, by paying strict attention to the same, you not only save your own labour but to a great extent you lessen the expenses of the kitchen. Chopped truffles or tongue can be added if you wish them extra good. 87. Fritot of Fowl with Sauce of Tomatoes. Takk the remains of boiled fowls, cut what you obtain therefrom into pieces not quite so large as a cutlet; place them on a dish and shake a little flour over them; mark these pieces on a plate, and place them aside till needed; then prepare a batter the same as for Fritot of Cre'me of Fowl (see No. 3). Dip the pieces of fowl into the batter, masking them nicely as you do them. Put them in clean hogs' lard ready for frying, and place them on a wire sieve as you cook them, keeping the same near to the fire, so asMUTTON BROTH. to keep them hot and crisp. Dish in a pile in centre of an entree dish and serve sance of tomatoes round same. Note.—Slices from a saddle or leg of mutton, or from cold roast beef, and from almost every kind of poultry and game, can be served as a fritotj the same with the remains of any entries can also be so served, adding a little more of the same kind of article of which the entries were composed, if needed. 88. Mutton-Broth, Chicken-Broth, and Beef-Tea; For Invalids. I. is worthy of remark that when the Doctor is called in to the prostrate invalid he generally orders one of the above to be given during the day and night. And if such is deemed necessary by the medical profession, how necessary is it that the same should be well made; and not as it frequently is made-so bad and with such little goodness and strength in it that the palate of the invalid revolts and turns against the same ! Whereas, if made from the best quality of meat or fowl, and thoroughly nutritious, very different results would be apparent. The invalid receives them with welcome, and the most beneficial results are the consequence, particularly when made from fresh materials. 89. Mutton-Broth. Take a le* of Southdown mutton, cut the same in two (a W weighing about nine pounds would well serve our purpose), hang one half in the larder for future use. Re- move any fat from the part you are about to use and cut all79 CHICKEN OR FOWL BROTH. the lean meat from the bone, cutting the same into small dice-shape pieces about this size Place the same in a well-tinned stewpan, and to every pound of meat add one pint of cold water; watch it carefully come to the boil, and then skim it well and leave it gently to simmer for an hour and a half, adding a very little salt. Then strain it through a napkin, and keep the same in the cool, giving the invalid a teacupful when needed. Note.—Be most particular to let the broth boil or sim- mer very gently indeed, giving strict attention to the same. 90. Beef-Tea. Take three pounds of rump steak, and be particular to obtain the same from a first-class butcher. Remove all the fat and cut the lean into dice shape pieces about the same size as for the mutton-broth; then to every pound add a pint of cold water, placing the same in a well-tinned stewpan, and watch the same come to the boil; then skim it well and let the same gently simmer for an hour and a half, adding a very little salt; strain through a napkin, and give the invalid half a teacupful at a time, or when needed. 91. Chicken or Fowl-Broth. Take a fine fowl, draw the entrails and giblets from the same, being particular not to break the gall; remove the crop, cut off the head, and chop the whole of the fowl up into small pieces and weigh the same, adding a pint ofESPAGNOL OR BROWN SAUCE. 8o water to each pound of chopped fowl, and the finer the fowl is chopped the better—bones as well; then add the neck, liver and gizzard, placing the same in a well-tinned stewpan on the fire to boil; thoroughly skim the same and add a little salt. Let this gently simmer for one hour and a half, when strain through a napkin and serve when needed, not too much at a time—say half a teacupful. Note.—If more of either is required, fresh meat must be used and also fresh fowl, but by no consideration use the same meat twice over. This may appear expensive, so is medical attendance and so also is medicine; but in our simple opinion, nothing should be considered expensive that can restore the invalid to health, or tend to save life 1 And the above, if carefully prepared, can certainly do this; and I have found by experience it is well to give mutton- broth on one day, chicken-broth on another, and beef-tea on the following day. The remains should be placed in the stock-pot for general use. Culinary Sauces. In addition to the sauces already described throughout this little work, I have thought it well to specially give the three foundation sauces and one or two others, which will be found as follows: 92. Espagnol or Brown Sauce. Take four pounds of soup beef (leg of beef) and four pounds of knuckle of veal cut from the bone; then take aESPAGNOL OR BROWN SAUCE. Si well-tinned stewpan holding eight quarts, rub about a quarter of a pound of butter over the bottom and place three slices of cut ham on the butter; cut the veal in slices, place these on the ham, and on these the beef, also cut in slices; add half a pint of water, and take care the cover of the stewpan fits tightly. Cover the stewpan and place on a red-hot part of the hot plate to what we call run down, which means, when the juice has come out of the meat and has run down to a kind of glaze and is nice and brown (be very careful not to burn it, to prevent which you must be very attentive.) It will take about one hour and a half to run down, when lift the lid and scrape off with an iron spoon a little from the bottom. If it has run down sufficiently you can readily do this; and by examining it, you can see how it is progressing and guard accordingly; when brown enough, take about five quarts of cold water, beat one white of egg into this and pour over the meat in the stewpan which you have been running down. Bring to boil as quickly as you can and well skim the same, adding one good-sized carrot, two medium size onions, and one small head of celery. Let boil as gently as possible for six hours. Then take a couple of pounds of butter, place it to slowly melt on the hot plate; when melted thoroughly, strain off the pure butter, leaving the sediment behind; strain it (the pure butter) into a two-quart stewpan and stir in sufficient flour to make a thickish kind of paste (say as thick as peas-pudding when the peas have been well mashed), and let this slowly cook on a cool part of the hot plate, or that part which is not too hot, for about half an hour, stirring the same with a wooden spoon frequently; GESPAGNOL OR DKOWN SAUCE. 82 and while nice and white remove one half into a basin, and let the remainder be kept on the hot plate till it becomes quite brown, stirring all the time with a wooden spoon till it becomes so, when place the same in a basin also j these are what is called white and brown roux, and they are pre- paid expressly for thickening white and brown sauces j also for thick soups, such as mock turtle, or ox tail. Now, we will presume that the stewpan which you run down and which we intended for brown gravy, has been slowly boiling for six hours and is quite ready. Strain the same off through a hair sieve, or through a soup-cloth kept for this purpose. Next take a three-quart stewpan and into this place two large wooden spoonfuls of your brown roux which you made out of the butter and flour; hold a good kitchen whisk made of wire in your right hand, and pour about a half pint of the hot gravy which you have just strained off over the two spoonfuls of roux; mix these well together adding another half pint, and keep stirring round and round till you have used two quarts; place this on a quick fire to boil, and when about the thickness of good single cream it will do; if not, add a little more roux and make it so; then let this sauce very gently boil for about one hour, when you will perceive the butter with which the roux was made, together with a little scum, Boat on the top. Skim this off into a basin, and when perfectly free from every particle of grease or butter, and you feel it is thick enough, squeeze the same through a tammy-cloth into a basin; then for a few moments stir it to and fro to cause the steam to rise from it and thereby become cool. When this has been done, place the same in the larder forVELOUIE AND BECHAMEL SAUCE. use. Sometimes a few fresh mushrooms are chopped aud added when you first, mix it. Note.—When your brown gravy has begun to boil add to same a nice large calf's foot, cut up, letting same boil six hours in the stock; this will give body to your gravy and make it stronger and all the better for the summer season. Further, fail not to add trimmings of fowl, if any are obtainable, to the stock, which always makes a wonderful addition to the flavour of the sauce, an old hen being frequently added when you want it extra good. Season with a little salt and cayenne pepper. 93. VeloutS and Bechamel Sauce. Cut up four pounds of knuckle of veal and four pounds of leg of beef, also any trimmings of fowl, or an old hen is best. Cover the same well with water, say an inch above the meat, and bring to the boil rapidly and skim it well; let this boil six hours, adding a large calf's foot to the same, if in summer season. Strain this and mix with your white roux after the same manner as for brown or espagnol sauce, taking care it is thicker (as thick nearly as double cream); let this slowly simmer till the butter from the roux has risen, then skim and finish the same as the espagnol or brown sauce, adding a few fresh mushrooms chopped up, and let well boil in the sauce before squeezing through tammy. A tammy-cloth is a species of cloth kept expressly for squeezing sauces through; the best are those from France, and can readily be obtained from any French house in England.8^. BECHAMEL SAUCE. Note.—The same vegetables as for the brown gravy should be used for the white. This sauce is kept to make other sauces from as will be seen in the following: 94. Bechamel Sauce. Take one quart of velout6 sauce, and boiling the same reduce it to the consistency needed, then add half a pint of double cream (taking care it is quite fresh), stir this into your boiling veloute sauce; and when it has well boiled pass it through a tammy-cloth by squeezing and twisting the same, which is done in the following manner: Spread the tammy-cloth over a basin and pour the sauce into it; then two persons take hold of the extreme ends of the tammy-cloth, one on each side of the basin, one twisting to the right and one to the left the ends of the tammy-cloth; by this means the sauce is readily forced through the tammy-cloth into the basin. Or you can pass the sauce through a pointed wire sieve, tapping the same with a wooden spoon on the edge of the pointed sieve, when the sauce will easily pass through—holding the sieve in the left hand; one person only is required for this latter process. Note.—The remainder of the made gravy should be put in the larder and used for soups, &c, and the remainder of the stock meat should be again just covered with water and let boil for three hours, and then placed aside for use. We will now proceed to give a few special sauces, sufficient as we trust to serve every purpose of this little work; and let me add, should these sauces be required toPUREE OF TOMATOES. 85 be very good use less roux iii mixing them, and reduce to the consistency needed. 95. Italian Sauce. Chop up fine a dozen sprays of paisley picked off the stalks, and with the same one dozen mushrooms from a canister; add two glasses of sherry and a gill of mush- room juice, taken from the canister in which the mush- rooms were preserved. Add one pint of brown sauce, and let boil gently for a quarter of an hour, then serve. The sauce, when ready, should be of the same consistency as brown sauce; season lightly. 96. Bohemienne Sauce. Chop four truffles very fine, add two glasses of sherry and one pint of brown or espagnol sauce; let boil a few minutes, adding the juice from truffles, also from mushrooms, and serve. 07. Puree of Tomatoes. Cut eight medium size tomatoes in slices with three peeled eschalots, a little lean ham (sliced), half a teaspoonfnl of salt and the same of pounded sugar, aud three tablespoon- fuls of malt .vinegar; add a half pint of white stock, and let all stew together till quite tender,—about a quarter of an hour will cook them; then rub them through a hair sieve, pat into a stewpan, and add a gill of veloute sauce and one ounce of glaze, and mark off ready for use.S6 BUTTER SAUCE. 98. Hollandaise Sauce. Scrapr half a stick of horseradish and pour over this a wineglassful of elder-flower vinegar; let the horseradish steep in this for ten minutes, then take a pint of bechamel sauce made hot, add two yolks of eggs, a pat of hutter,. two tablespoonfuls of cream, and also the vinegar from the horseradish; mix these all well together with a small wire whisk, and stir over the tire as if for a custard, to set the eggs but not to boil; when the eggs have some- what thickened the sauce, strain through a pointed sieve and place, while nice and smooth, into a clean stewpan. This sauce should be made hot by standing one stewpan in another with a little boiling water in the bottom one; if allowed to boil it would curdle and be spoilt. It is an excellent sauce for turbot, fillets of soles, and boiled haddock. 99. Butter Sauce. Place one pint of water in a quart stewpan to boil; then mix four tablespoonfuls of flour in a basin with a gill of cold water; strain through a pointed sieve, and when the pint of water is boiling stir this flour into the same, stirring it round and round till it boils; then draw it aside and whip or stir into the same half a pound of good butter, taking care not to boil the butter, but well mix in the same. ^ The above sauce can be used for asparagus, adding a little pepper and the juice of half a large lemon. Also for lobster sauce, adding about half a gill of live spawn rubbed through a hair sieve with a few drops of water, and stirredCALt-S-FOOT JELLY. &7 into the same. Then cut up the flesh from a medium size lobster into dice shapes of this size R§|, and place them in the sauce with the juice of half a lemon and a little cayenne pepper and salt; cooked spawn taken out of the tail of a lobster and pounded with a pat of butter will also serve to colour lobster sauce, adding also a little anchovy sauce. Shrimp Sauce is also made by adding picked shrimps and a little anchovy essence to the same, with juice of half a lemon and a little cayenne; and so with prawns. The dishes which are to follow will be Second Course Dishes, and which we will give in the order in which they are served. We give the vegetable entremets first, that is, the dressed vegetables which are usually served with the second course rots. But before these, we give the manner of making calfVfoot jelly, and also aspic or savoury jelly; being two articles of the greatest importance in the second course. 100. Calf's-Foot Jelly. Take six calves feet, and cut or chop them in pieces; place them closely in a six-cpiart stewpan, cover well with water and bring to boil as soon as possible; when boiling skim them well, and let them gently simmer for six hours; then strain the stock through a hair sieve into a basin, and cover the remains again with water and let simmer for three hours; strain this second stock also through acalf's-foot jelly. 88 hail- sieve. The feet will require watching a little, and if a little more water requires adding do so, and this is more than likely,—your guide should be to keep the feet covered with water about one inch. The stock, as it is termed, that comes from the feet should be placed where it will soon get cold. Six feet should make about five quarts of good stock, that is to say, a stock nice and stiff. The next day make as much jelly as you need, proceeding as follows: With an iron spoon remove the oil that settles on the top of the stock, then wash the same with warm water, and be most attentive in removing every particle of oil, using several waters. When quite clean, place two quarts of the first stock that you strained off in a stewpan, and with your smallest size cooking knife (made very sharp) peel very thin nine lemons, taking care to smell the same before peeling them—for you will find lemons sometimes as musty as musty eggs; and if so, would spoil your jelly. Care should be taken, when peeling or chipping the lemons, not to cut off any of the white part, which you will find has a bitter taste; let the peel drop into half a pint of syrup, which should be in a small kitchen pan by your side; when the nine lemons are peeled cut them in two lengthways and squeeze them into a pointed sieve, letting the same run into the basin containing the lemon peel and syrup; add these to your calf's-foot stock, adding a few coriander seeds, one piece of cinnamon about three inches long, four cloves and one pound of lump sugar; place your stewpan containing these ingredients on the fire, and when a little warm, crack eight nice fresh eggs into a basin, adding the shells also; add one gill of water to these, beat well together and mix with your warmcalf's-foot jelly. s9 stock on the fire. Now, if you really wish to have brilliant jelly, and what will run through your jelly-bag easily, mix your jelly as here instructed, and then place vour stewpan where it will soon boil. Be very attentive to the same, not letting it boil over, also stir it gently now and then to prevent it burning; I may say it is truly wise not to leave the jelly from the time you place it •on the fire till you have poured it into the jelly-bag and it is running brilliantly through the same. Note.—"When it begins to boil, it will rise rapidly in the stewpan; and when it begins to do this, it should be pulled aside to a cooler part of the stove and allowed to remain for five minutes to gently dimmer; then pour the same into a jelly bag, that has been washed very clean. After about the first pint has run through the bag, let a little be run into a clean wineglass; hold the same to the light, and if brilliant it will do. Then pour back into the bag the first pint that has run through, placing a clean pan for the jelly to run into, and cover up the jelly-bag and stand with a table-cloth, so as to prevent the cold air striking the bag and so prevent the jelly becoming cold before it has run through the bag. Now, in the above directions, I omitted to tell you to taste the jelly when all the ingredients had been added and the sugar melted. This, of course you should do, and if you think more su^ar is required, add the same. It should not taste to-i acid, but the acid should be nicely softened by sugar. Tinally, take care your jelly stoch is not too stiff when you commence. You can well judge of this by pressing the same with your finger or placing a little in a small mould on some ice; remembering that calf's-foot jelly90 SAVOURV, OR ASPIC JELLY. should and ought to be as delicate as possible, and most certainly not too stiff. It is necessary to say that if you need a maraschino or noyeau jelly you have only to add a wineglass of either to a mould of jelly; and so with wine, or brandy, or curagoa; but more will be said regarding this matter in the list of jellies hereafter to follow. 101. Savoury, or Aspic Jelly. In the making of this jelly, very great liberties are fre- quently taken and great departures from the correct manner of making the same; and it certainly should not be the stiff, sour, and tasteless mess that is so frequently met with and sent out by what ought to be considered most respectable houses of business. But let us proceed : The flavour of fowl should be readily tasted in aspic jelly; therefore, when you are about making the same, collect all the trimmings of fowl, no matter how rough they may be (even the bones of poultry or game should be most welcome), and if you are ordering poultry, take care also to tell the poulterer to send in the necks and giblets from the same, also a good size old hen. Put these together with four pounds of soup meat (half knuckle of veal and half leg of beef) without any bone. Place these, having chopped and cut up all you can obtain of poultry, in a stewpan and cover the same with water, which should be two inches above the meat and bones; bring this quickly to boil, and then take care to thoroughly shim the same. Now cut up two onions (roughly), the yellow part of two.SAVOURY, OR ASPIC JELLY. 91 carrots, one head of celery, a dozen sprays of green thyme, and twenty-four sprays of parsley. Tie these last two items into a bouquet, place all in the stewpan, and then let your stock boil very gently for six hours; then strain it off through a soup-cloth, taking care that you have previously skimmed off any fat showing on the top of the same. Note.—This stock for aspic jelly should be always prepared the day previous to its being wanted and placed in the larder to get cold; it should, in fact, be made at the same time as the calf s-foot stock for sweet jelly, a portion of which you have reserved to aid in making the aspic jelly. Now proceed as follows: bring from the larder the stock, with the flavour of chicken in it, also the reserve of calf s-foot stock; wash the same very clean and free it from every particle of grease, place an equal quantity of each on the fire, and when melted try its strength by placing a little on the ice. It should be very firm indeed, and if you think it is not sufficiently so add some more calf s-foot stock or some gelatine to make it sufficiently firm; add to this one gill of tarragon vinegar, also a little green tarragon and chervil, a small handful of pepper- corns, three blades of mace, and half a tablespoonful of salt. When it is warm, crack nine whole eggs, beat them well together, and add one pint of your warm stock, beating the same with a whisk well together; then add this to the stock on the fire, adding the egg- shells also, and bring the same to boil slowly; do not place the same over the fire but bring it to boil on the hot plate, and by this means prevent it from burning (I judge the quantity you are making to be about threeSAVOURY, OR ASPIC JELLY. g2 quarts, but frequently not more then one or two quarts are needed); when it boils, let it continue to do so for about ten minutes, then with a silver tablespoon take some of the jelly and examine it closely j if you see the eggs have separated and the jelly shows very bright you may be sure it will do, but taste the same and see if it is to your palate. Perhaps it may require a little more salt, or a little more vinegar, and also a little sugar; and if you think so, add them. When ready it should be passed through a jelly-bag kept expressly for aspic jelly, or through a napkin washed in warm water and spread over a kitchen basin, into which the aspic should be very gently poured; and when you have poured about half, let an assistant take hold of two corners of the napkin and your- self take hold of the other two corners, and raise the same a few inches above the basin into which you are straining the jelly; should it not prove quite so clear or brilliant as you could wish, let it again be placed in the napkin and strained once more. Serve the remainder the same, and when passed place it where it will be ready for use. Pill two quart plain moulds about three-parts full, one for cutting into croutons, one for chopping, and the re- mainder for borders. And if you pass this jelly through a napkin, when it is running brilliantly through the same make a loop of a piece of string, pass this round the ends of the napkin and hang up the napkin by this in a warm corner till all has run through. Note.—The same remarks apply if your jelly is passed through a jelly-bag instead of a napkin; and further, if a smaller quantity is needed less calf s-feet should be required; the size of the party regulating the supply.93 CHAMPIGNONS A LA BORDELAISE. Entremets of Vegetables. 102. Champignons a la Bordelaise. Take two quart baskets of mushrooms, which ought to be very fresh, or in other words, gathered on tbe day they are needed for use ; they should be what are termed champignons, that is, the firm small mushrooms; cut off the bottom part of each stem and throw them into a pan of water as you do them ; then wash them well in two waters, and strain them on a sieve for a short time; after which, dry them in a cloth and place them in a large size saute pan, aud pour under them one gill of salad oil; then chop very fine a handful of picked parsley (the stalks picked off) together with four peeled eschalots; sprinkle the same over the mushrooms, and when needed, fry them or saute them over a sharp fire till they begin to look slightly brown; then cut a lemon in two, and when you have drained off the oil in which you have fried them, squeeze the juice out of two half lemous over the mushrooms and sprinkle a little pepper aud salt over them, adding about half a pint of brown sauce. Serve very hot, dishing them in a pile iu the centre of two small oval dishes, and place a border formed of fleurons of puff-paste round them, and serve. Note.—Fleurons are made from puff.paste made the same as for patties. After the same has been rolled out to the thickness of an old penny, cut them out with a patty cutter two inches in diameter. Cut each piece in two, place them on a baking sheet,94 BOTTOMS OF FRENCH ARTICHOKES A i/lTALIAN. egg over the same as patties, and bake them. You will require about sixteen pieces. Or you can use croutons of bread this shape and about one inch and a quarter high, cut from slices of bread a quarter of an inch thick, fried in hot fat, and stuck round the dish with a little flour mixed into a paste with the while of an egg, placing a little on the bottom of each crouton and sticking the same on the silver dish so as to form a neat border, and then placing the same in the hot closet to dry, to be ready for the mushrooms when needed. 103. Tomatoes farced with Cream of Fowl. Take sixteen tomatoes of the same size, cut off a thin slice about a quarter of an inch thick from the stalk end ; then with your small knife, or a wooden skewer, clean out the seeds from each : make a creme of fowl, using only one fowl, and with this fill up the cavities from which you have taken out the seeds. Arrange them on a small baking sheet with a little stock under them, and a sheet of buttered paper over them; when needed, bake them in a rather hot oven for ten minutes, or a little longer if necessary. Serve under them an Italian sauce (see No. 95). 104. Bottoms of French Artichokes a l'ltalian. OPEN two quart tins of the bottoms of French arti-SALAD OF TOMATOES A LA FRANCA1SE. 95 chokes; place them caiefully in a stewpan with their own liquor and a little white stock. When needed, make them hot in this and dish them en miriton and serve with an Italian sauce poured over and round them: they should be served on two dishes with fleurons round them. 105. Salade of Tomatoes a la Prangaise. Take twelve ripe tomatoes of medium size, and of as good a round shape as possible; with a very sharp knife cut them in slices about as thick as a penny piece. Then chop a small handful of parsley from which the stalks have been picked,—chop it fine, and then place it in a pointed tin sieve and dip the same in boiling water for a minute, having a little salt in it; dry the parsley in the corner of a kitchen cloth and place the same on a plate; arrange your slices of tomatoes on a large China dish, and season with pepper and salt; then take half a gill of the best malt vinegar and also a gill of salad oil; beat these together with a fork and place a little over the slices of tomatoes, and sprinkle the chopped parsley over them, when dish them in a pile in the centre of two silver soup plates or small oval dishes ; dish them so as to look as high as possible. When dished, pour over them the remains of the salad dressing, which is the oil anl vinegar previously mixed. Should you think a little more salad dressing is needed, mix a little more and add it to the tomatoes and serve.go POTATOES VKIED A LA FRANCAIS* 106. Cauliflowers au Parmesan. Boil off six cauliflowers, taking care they are well done; then press three together removing the large stalks, and make them as round as possible, that is, to resemble two round balls ; place these on a small baking sheet a few inches apart, take a little cold bechamel sauce and spread lightly over the same; cover this well with grated parmesan cheese,—you must be particular not to put too much sauce on the cauliflowers. When needed, place them in the oven, sprinkling the same with clarified butter; the oven should not be too hot, and the cauliflower should be a nice gold colour when sent to table. Dish carefully on two oval dishes and pour a little bechamel sauce round them and serve. A few neurons of puff-paste can be added; for which see Champignons a la Borde- laise, (No. 102.) 107. Potatoes fried a la Franchise. Take twelve round potatoes, not too large, peel them and divide them into eight pieces, each of the same shape as the quarter of an orange,—rounding off the sharp edges with your small knife. When all are done place them in a very clean frying or saute pan, pour over them a gill of clarified butter, and toss the potatoes in this ; then place the frying-pan on the hottest part of the hot plate, but not over the fire of97 FRITTERS AU PARMESAN. fae same, letting them slowly gratinate or become brown, tossing them over now and then, or with an iron spoon turn them over, so as to make them of the same colour. They will take about twenty minutes to dress and should be of a light brown. Let the remains of any butter be removed when dishing them, and a little salt should be sprinkled over ; dish them in piles and serve: you can also serve a little prepared parsley chopped fine and blanched, sprinkling the same lightly over the potatoes before serving. Note.—Potatoes dressed in this manner are excellent, and certain to give satisfaction. Savoury Dishes for second course, to be handed or served before the sweet dishes. Pain of Fat Livers a la Celestine. Bombs of Lobsters a la Cardinal. Salade of Lobsters a la Francaise. Salmi of Partridges a l'Aspic. Chaud Froid of Quails a l'Essence. Blancmanger of Fowl garnis aux Truffes. For preparing the above, see list of cold entrees m Index. Savory Dishes of Cheese. 108. Fritters au Parmesan. PLACE half a pint of milk in a quart stewpan, and in this two ounces of butter; place on fire to boil, and when it «Joes so stir in six ounces of the finest flour, HgS FRITTERS AU PARMESAN. •which has been previously sifted; stir the flour into the milk and keep stirring for a couple of minutes till it has become a rather firm and smooth paste, and when you touch it with your finger the paste will not stick to the same. Then remove it from the fire and stir into the same six yolks of eggs, two at a time ; then two whole eggs, one at a time; and after the eggs stir in about two ounces of grated parmesan cheese. Add also a little salt and cayenne pepper, and a teaspoonful of fresh made mustard. When needed for use take what is termed a biscuit bag, with a tin pipe tied with string; the tin pipe should be half an inch in diameter, and the bag should come to a point; place some of the fritter mixture in the same, and squeeze upon a buttered sheet of paper a few circular pieces of the fritter mixture, about the size of a small or medium size walnut; and, having some clean hog's lard which has been made hot, place the fritters which you placed upon paper in this, and mind your fat is not too hot, say sufficiently so to fry a piece of bread of a brown colour. They should be moved to and fro while cooking with a ladle or spoon with holes in the same, giving them all your attention; always fry a couplVto test them, and if you think the mixture requires two or three more yolks of eggs, add them They should fry into the shape of round balls, and become double their size by frying; and if they do this they will be all right, but if they spread too much, add two or three more yolks. As you fry them place them on a wire sieve and keep them before the kitchen tire. Fry about six or eight at a time; dish on a99 LITTLE FONDUES IN CASES AU PARMESAN. napkin and send very hot to table; if for sixteen persons you would require two dishes, and this would require double the quantity to be made. Note.—You can with a very little practice mould the fritters with the forefinger of the right hand, scooping with the same finger as much as you require to the top edge of the stewpan, and forming the portion taken into round balls and placing the same on buttered papers before you commence to fry them, taking care they are as nearly as possible of the same size. Some sprinkle a little grated parmesan over the fritters, and salamander the same before serving. 109. Little Fondues in cases au Parmesan. Place half a pint of milk in a quart stewpan, add three ounces of butter and place on fire to boil; then mix four tablespoonfuls of fine flour with sufficient cold milk to mix the same to the consistency of double cream, taking care it is very smooth ; if not so, pass the same through a pointed wire sieve into a small basin; and when your milk boils in which you placed the butter, stir this into the same, and keep stirring for about three minutes, so as to dress the flour (which means to cook it) ; then take it from the fire, and stir into the mixture seven yolks of eggs, one and two at a time, then add a little salt and cayenne pepper and a teaspoonful of freshly-made mustard : and take care to place your seven whites of eggs into a clean stew- pan to be reserved till needed. You should be par100 CROUTES A LINDIENNE AU PARMESAN. ticular that they have no yolks or parts thereof with them. When your mixture to which you have added the seven yolks of eggs has become cold or nearly so, add to it three ounces of grated parmesan cheese lightly stirred in, and when time to finish them, take a very clean wire whisk and whip the whites of eggs till they become quite firm (like whipped cream), and then stir this into the fondue mixture; the whipped whites should be stirred in very lighly, half at a time. Fill as many paper cases as you require with this fondue mixture a little more than three parts full, and bake in an oven not too hot; when nearly done sprinkle a little parmesan cheese over them, and serve on napkins. Note.—You should be very particular not to place them too soon in the oven, and also that they are ready when wanted; therefore, be sure your oven is in suitable condition, or in other words, at the proper point of heat when you are prepared to bake them, which should be after sending your entrees to table. 110. Croutes a PIndienne au Parmesan. Boil a young fowl for half an hour, when cold cut it into dice shapes this size gg, also a few slices of dressed ham the same, and add to these a few chopped mushrooms and truffles; then reduce a pint of veloute sauce to half its quantity, adding to this two table, spoonfuls of Indian chutney sauce, three parts of a tablespoonf ul of curry powder, and about one ounce of glaze ; let boil and mix altogether, and put to get cold.MACEDOINE AU PARMESAN, IN CASES. IOI Then prepare forty-eight pieces or rounds of bread the size of a crown-piece, and as thick as a bronze half- penny, and fry the same in clarified butter of a light gold colour. Then divide the prepared chicken, ham, &c, which you have placed to get cold into twenty, four equal portions, and place one of these between two rounds of fried bread ; flatten the preparation, so that the top and bottom fit nicely even; and when all are prepared place them on a saute pan, taking care they are neatly prepared and that the preparation does not protrude; then mix about two ounces of grated Par- mesan cheese with about two ounces of butter, and make the same into round pieces about the size of a small marble, and place one on each slightly flattened, and bake in an oven not too hot; when done, hold the salamander over them to brown them. Dish on napkins and serve very hot, twelve on a dish. 111. Maccaroni au Parmesan, in Cases. BOIL a quarter of a pound of Italian maccaroni in a quart of water, placing in the water two ounces of butter. When quite tender, place the maccaroni in cold water, and then cut it into half-inch lengths; dry the same in a cloth, and mix with half a pint of cold bechamel sauce, sprinkling in as you do it a quarter pound of grated Parmesan cheese, adding a little salt, cayenne, and also a little white pepper, and a tea- spoonful of fresh-made mustard. Fill the number of cases required, with this mixture, and sprinkle a little102 PUDDING A LA COBOURG. grated parmesan on each one, and run a very little clarified butter over the parmesan which you have placed on each. A moderate oven should suffice, and take care they are of a light gold colour when served. (Second Course Remove Dishes, to follow the Rots. 112. Pudding a la Cobourg. Take a Savoy cake made in a plain round mould, cut out the inside reserving about half an inch all round and the same at the bottom ; then cut into pieces, about this size g§ four apricots and four slices of pine apple which have been preserved, and two dozen preserved cherries; add to these one dozen ratafias, which break up and sprinkle over the fruit which you have cut up; with these add sufficient of the cake broken up to fill the hole made in the Savoy cake; take care the fruit and ratafias and part of the cake used are well mixed before putting inside the cake. Then make a custard to pour in the cake as follows:—A pint and a half of milk, six eggs, the gratings or zest of one lemon and half a grated nutmeg; beat well together and pour this into the centre of the cake over the fruit, &c, adding before you pour it two tablespoonfuls of pounded lump sugar. N0te.—The mould in which the Savoy cake was made is the mould you must use to steam the pudding in and the mould must be nicely buttered. When103 DIPLOMATIQUE PUDDING. you have cut out what is needed, the cake should be placed back in the mould, and there filled. Be particular not to pour in the prepared custard till you are going to steam or cook the pudding; and when you have poured in the custard, fold a piece of buttered paper over the top. Then place a stew- pan on the fire, with a piece of paper folded several times; on this stand your pudding, and round the mould containing the same pour about one quart of boiling water, and let the pudding gently boil for three quarters of an hour ; be particular that it keeps boiling for that time, and that it is properly cooked before serving. You can tell this by pressing the pudding with your fingers, when, if it feels quite firm, you can rest assured it is done. Serve a wine sauce made as follows: place one gill of water on the fire to boil, add this to a good table- spoonful of powdered sugar and one gill of sherry, and when these boil stir in one tablespoon ful of arrowroot or corn-flour mixed with half a gill of cold water, stirring the same till it boils; add a few drops of cochineal to improve the colour, pour a little of the sauce over the pudding and the remainder round it. The sauce should be about as thick as syrup. 113. Diplomatique Pudding. This is a cold pudding, and is mostly served in the summer; proceed as follows: Place two ounces of theDIPLOMATIQUE PUDDING. 104 best pied de veau gelatine in half a pint of water to soak. Then make a pint and a half of milk into a smooth custard, thus: place the milk on the fire to boil in a two-quart stewpan; in the meantime crack five whole eggs into a basin with three yolks of eggs, add to them two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar ; beat these well together with a wire whisk, and when your milk boils add a little at a time (about one gill) and mix in well with your eggs and sugar; keep doing this till all your milk is used or mixed with the eggs. Then pour back into your stewpan and again place on the hot plate, not in too hot a part, stirring the same to and fro and round and round, trying it with the middle finger of the right hand to see if it begins to thicken. Instantly that you perceive that it does and so as to show on your finger, remove from the fire and pour into a clean kitchen basin and stir for a short time to prevent it curdling. A little cream, say half a gill, added after you remove it from the fire, will aid in preventing it curdling. Now take the gelatine you put in soak, and place the same after you have strained the water from it in a small stewpan on the fire, and when melted and slightly warm stir it in the custard, also a wineglass of maraschino, and place it on the ice; taking about half a gill to test its consistency, and putting the same in a small mould, place this also on the ice. Next proceed as follows: Take a pudding-mould that will hold one quart and half a pint (if plain all the better), then melt half a pint of calf's-foot jelly; and while in a liquid state, but not warm, pour it into the pudding mould, which shouldDIPLOMATIQUE PUDDING. have been previously on the ice to get cold ; turn the mould round and round in your hands so as nicely to coat or chemise the mould with jelly; then orna- ment the same with preserved cherries, angelica, and chopped pistachio nuts, adding a little more jelly to fix your ornamental work as you. proceed. When your mould is ornamented, cut up, say three apricots, three slices of pine apple, and two dozen cherries which have been preserved; then take six sponge cakes, cut them in two lengthways, and spread a little apricot jam between each, cutting each into four pieces ; now examine your custard, and if satisfied with its con. sistence, place it on the hot plate for a minute or two, so as to have it of about the consistence of double cream; then sprinkle a little of your fruit at the bottom, and over the same place the sponge cakes which you have cut up; add a few ratafias, and pour over these about a gill of your prepared custard, taking care your mould is surrounded with ice ; when the custard is firmly set, proceed with another layer the same as the first, and so on till the mould is full. Serve the following sauce : boil a pot of currant jelly in an equal quantity of water very slowly, and when the jelly is dissolved, place a few stoned cherries (fresh or preserved) in the same, and put them to get cold on the ice; turn your pudding out of the mould the same as you would a mould of jelly by dipping the same in warm water, and pour the sauce round the base and serve. We shall now give a few Hot Cakes, which will be found most excellent removes, and which can be served hot in winter and cold in summer.106 BABA WITH PINE APPLE. 114. Baba -with Pine Apple. One pound of superfine flour, ten ounces of good butter, eight eggs, one pound of slices of preserved pine apple (from a canister), an ounce and a half of very fresh German yeast. Proceed as follows: dissolve the German yeast in one gill of warm milk, add suf- ficient flour (about three ounces) to make the dissolved yeast into a sponge a little thicker than double cream. Stand this in the warm to rise, and during the time the sponge is rising, rub the butter into the flour; then place these into a four-quart kitchen basin, or pan, crack four eggs, taking care they are very fresh, add these to the butter and flour, and work them into the same; then add the other four eggs and beat well together with your right hand till the flour, butter and eggs are well blended together; then look at your yeast, and if you perceive it has nicely risen, and that the globules have began to burst, you can be sure your sponge is ready. Spread the same evenly over the Baba paste, and with both your hands mix the sponge into the same as lightly as you can. Clean your hands with a little flour over the Baba paste; then clarify a quarter pound of butter, or in better words, place the butter in a small stewpan to gently melt on the hot plate where it is the least hot, and when melted pour off the pure butter from the sediment into a small pan, letting the same get partly cold. Then select your Baba mould, and be very particular that it is very clean; and to make quite sure it is, and further to make yourBABA WITH PINE APPLE. 107 mould thoroughly fit for its intended use, rub a little lard over the inside and then place it in the oven to get partly hot; then with a clean dry cloth rub the inside of the mould and wipe out the lard ; after ■which, with a clean butter-brush work or beat your clarified butter till it looks white and creamy ; then with this butter your Baba mould, coating the inside so that there will be no fear but what your cake will leave the mould readily when baked; and when the butter has set on the mould, then chemise your mould with a portion of your Baba paste; that is to say, with the fingers of the right hand line the mould with a very thin coating of the Baba paste ; now mix in your slices of pine apple, which have been cut into dice shape pieces about this size. ^| They should be mixed very lightly into the paste ; after which put the paste into the Baba mould to rise, placing a band of buttered paper tied round the mould to prevent the paste from falling over the mould when rising. When it has nicely risen, or has become about three times the size it was when first placed in the mould, it will be ready to bake; then fold a piece of paper about six times and place this on a baking sheet, and on this stand your mould containing the Baba, and bake in an oven of moderate heat. It will take about three-quarters of an hour to bake ; when you wish to feel quite sure it is done, take a thin skewer making the point sharp, and run this through the centre of the Baba. When you withdraw it, if the same leaves the cake without any portion adhering to the skewer, you may be certain it is done. Now remove the band of paper, and holding the Baba mould in your rubber,io8 BABA WITH APRICOTS. or kitchen cloth, tap the mould gently on the edge of the kitchen dresser two or three times, turning the mould round in your hands as you do so, and turn it out on to a hair sieve. Then take the syrup that came out of the canister in which the pine apple was pre- served, and add to this a little more plain syrup and about half a pot of apricot jam and a wineglass of brandy, in all about three parts of a pint; let these boil together. About half an hour before your Baba will be wanted, place the same in the screen, or in the oven for a little while, so as to become hot through. Then turn it upside down and cut off the crust from the bottom, and cut out a piece from the centre in the shape of a pointed sugar-loaf about two and a half inches long ; and, while your sauce is very hot and just before serving, pour about half the sauce into the cake by the hole thus made; then dish your Baba on a silver dish and pour round the base the remainder of your sauce and serve. Note—If the cake is required cold, all the sauce should be poured into the cake ; and it should also be as light as possible or allowed to become so before baking. A little whipped cream a la vanille should be served round the cake and a little pounded lump sugar sprinkled over it, after masking the same with the re- mainder of the sauce hitherto described. 115. Baba with Apricots Is made the same as with pine apple, usingFRITTERS A LA CELESTINE. IO9 preserved apricots, cut up in pieces the same size as the pieces of pine apple, using a pot of apricot jam and plain syrup, together with a glass of brandy to make the sauce. 116. Baba with Cherries Is made the same as the above, using one pound of preserved cherries instead of apricots, but using the same sauce and serving in the same manner, but with, out any pine syrup. 117. Baba with Mixed Fruits Is made the same as the above, using one pound of mixed fruit, consisting of sultanas, currants, lemon peel, and orange peel, using apricot sauce with brandy. There are a few other cakes made and served some- what after the manner of the above; but the similarity is so great, that I think what is given will suffice. Note—In reference to the fruit used for the above cakes the same should (if canister fruit) be boiled up in syrup and allowed to get cool, strain off the syrup, using the same for its sauce, and the fruit for the cake. 118. Fritters a la Celestine. Make a paste the same way as for the Baba with Pine Apple, (see No. 114) ; and when the same hasFRITTERS A LA CELESTINE. I 10 been made about one hour—observe it must be without pine apple and not placed in a mould, but left in the kitchen basin in which it was made, covered with a cloth—take twenty tartlet pans and butter them with a little clarified butter ; then take about half the Baba paste, divide this into twenty equal parts, or into twenty pieces a little larger than a walnut; make these into round balls, using a little flour on your pastry slab or board and dusting a little over the twenty pieces, so as to enable you to mould them into round balls. As you do them place them in the buttered tartlet pans. When all the tartlet pans are filled, with the middle finger of your right hand, dipped in flour, make a hole in the centre of each, but do not let your finger pene- trate to the tartlet pan; make the hole sufficiently large to hold about half a teaspoonful of apricot jam ; then leave them for about half an hour to rise round the jam; when with your finger and thumb squeeze the paste together, so as thoroughly to enclose the apricot jam in the centre: then let them prove for another half hour. Next prepare some clean hog's lard ready for frying, and place the tin or baking sheet containing your fritters in the oven or in the screen, for a couple of minutes, so as to make them slightly warm, when, taking one at a time between your finger and thumb, turn them into the hot fat, about six or eight at a time, and fry them of a pale gold colour, keeping them moving in the hot fat so as to become of uniform color. When all are finished, they should be placed on a baking sheet; a little powdered sugar, with some vanilla in the same, should be put on them fromIll APPLE FRITTERS A L ANGLAISE. the dredger, and then salamandered and sent on napkins to table. You can, instead of dishing them on napkins, serve a little apricot sauce under or round them when dished in a silver dish; and serve. 119. Fritters a l'Excellence. Open a canister containing slices of pine apple, which mince as fine as possible, and afterwards pound the same in your marble mortar till it has become quite a pulp; then place the same in a kitchen pan, and peel, core, and cut in slices eight good stewing apples, adding half a teacupful of water and two table- spoonfuls of powdered sugar; let slowly simmer till they have become a puree, then pass them through a wire sieve with a wooden spoon, and add this pulp to the pounded pine apple you previously prepared. Then weigh the same, and to each half pound of the apples and pine apple add four ounces of powdered lump sugar. Place these together and boil gently for ten minutes, or a little longer if you think such is needed, stirring the same with a wooden spoon; when finished place in jam pots. When cold, use this for the Fritters a l'Excellence instead of apricot jam, finishing in all other respects and particulars the same as the Fritters a. la Celestine. 120. Apple Fritters a l'Anglaise. of Make a fritter batter as follows: one poundAPRICOT FRITTERS. 112 sifted flour of the best quality, place this in a two- quart kitchen basin, add one yolk of egg, one gill of salid oil, and half a pint of light coloured ale (but use only a gill of the ale to commence with.) Stir these together with a small wire whisk lightly; it should be of the thickness of double cream, and till it is so keep adding a little more ale. The slower and lighter you mix the oil, flour, ale, and yolk of egg, the better; and before using, try it with the point of your finger, dipping the same in the batter, and if it readily and smoothly masks the same it will do; or fry one as a sample, which will enable you better to judge. The apples should not be peeled too soon. Peel eight middling size apples, cut each apple in three or four slices, then with a cutter take out the centre from each, and place them on a plate or in a basin, and grate the zest of one lemon over the same. Dip one piece at a time in your batter, and then into your hot lard ; fry off about eight pieces at a time and place them on a wire sieve till all are done, then coat them with powdered sugar, salamander them, and serve on napkins, the sugar side upwards. Note.—This batter will be found a most excellent one, and will always eat and be crisp, and requires no whipped whites of eggs to be added to the same. 121. Apricot Fritters. Open two cans of Ponson's half apricots into a kitchen pan; peel the same, and when all are peeled placei ORANGE FRITTERS. them on a dish, arranged ready for dipping in batter and frying. Then prepare the batter the same as for apple fritters, and finish in the same manner. 122. Orange Fritters. Take six fine oranges of the same size but not too large ; cut the skin off the top and also off the bottom with a little of the orange attached; your knife for this should be very sharp and thin ; then cut the skin from the right side, from the top right under to the bottom, then turn your orange round and cut another piece equal in size to the first; and I should mention that the white part or pith, and the skin, and also a very thin part of the orange should come away with this slice; when you have cut away these two slices, you will readily see how you should cut away the skin and pith that remains; for the orange will still require a little more pith to be removed, as you will see; and when this is done, cut the orange in four equal parts. ' Next cut away the white piece of pith that runs down the centre of each quarter, and remove any pips you see, and place the quarters as you do them into a kitchen basin; when all are done sprinkle over them a little powdered sugar and add one glass of maraschino, and toss them in this; they should be placed on a kitchen cloth to absorb a little of their moisture before dipping Into the batter. Then finish the same in all particulars as the apple fritters. We now come to the sweet entrements, such as jelliescalf's-foot jelly a la macedoine. creams, bavaroises, charlottes, and pastries; and which will form the concluding chapters of our little work. 123. Calf's-foot Jelly a la Macedoine. Take one quart of calf's-foot jelly (see No. 100), and melt the same by placing it in a jar of hot water, adding a wineglass of maraschino. Then take a quart jelly mould, and when the jelly is melted pour a little into the same, and place a few strawberries picked from the stalks, and a few green and black grapes into the mould ; then place the mould in a kitchen-pan with a little ice round it and a little water, which will cause your jelly to set quickly; when the grapes and strawberries, which should be arranged alternately, or iu other words, first a black grape, then a strawberry, then a greeu grape; when these are set and covered with jelly, make three or four piles of fruit, as great in variety as you can obtain, adding a couple of peaches peeled and cut in quarters, a nice mellow pear, and a few bunches of white and red currants ; these fruits should be so arranged in piles as to look well when the jelly is turned out of the mould. You must therefore proceed slowly and with judgment, adding only a little fruit at a time, also a little liquid jelly, and taking care the mould is a cylinder mould, or one having a flute in it. When you have finished your piles of fruit and the mould is filled up with jelly, add a little more ice round the mould to make the same firm when turnedVICTORIA JELLY. out, and by attending to this you will run no risk of breaking the jelly in turning out the same. ]S[ote-—To turn out your jelly, hold the mould in your right hand and plunge the same quickly into half a pail°of warm water; then dry the mould with a cloth, and use both hands, one at the top of the mould and one at tbe bottom ; give the mould a slight shake, having the silver dish by your side, and when you feel it is loose draw your hand from the bottom; and, having the jelly mould right in the centre of the dish, raise the mould from the jelly, which should place itself in the middle of the same, and serve. 124. Calf's-foot Jelly a la Macedoine (another method). Melt the jelly as above, adding also a wineglass of maraschino, and set it quite plain in a cylinder mould ; then pick a nice variety of fruits, and put these in a basin; pour over them a little noyeau and maraschino, with a spoonful of clear syrup, and place in the cool till needed. When your jelly is turned out on the silver dish, with a silver spoon pile the mixed fruits round tbe jelly, adding any liquor that is with them. This last method looks extremely well, and is certain to please. 125. Victoria Jelly. Blanch two ounces of pistachio nuts by boiling two or three minutes, then strain them and put in coldi [6 calf's-foot jelly with wine and brandy. water for the same time ; strain them again and dry in a cloth, then rub them in the cloth slightly to get the skins off. Now pick the green nuts from the skins, and cut these lengthways into shreds as fine as you can, having a book of gold leaf by you; then melt a quart of calf's-foot jelly, and add to this a wineglass of maraschino, and when cold (but not beginning to set) open your gold leaf book and blow into the jelly four of the gold leaves, and with a desert-fork break the gold leaves into particles; then add about half your shred pistachio nuts to the jelly, standing the vessel which contains the same in water with some ice in it. And with a silver spoon stir the jelly very gently to and fro; and when you see it be- ginning to set place it in a quart jelly mould, and keep a little ice round it till wanted for use. You can also serve a compote of fruit round this jelly or without. Note.—It is wise and well not to add your gold leaf till the jelly is almost beginning to set; and the same yith the pistachio nuts. 126. Calf's-foot Jelly with Wine and Brandy. Take nearly one quart of calf's-foot jelly (see No. 100), melt the same, and add thereto one glass of the best, sherry, and also one glass of pale brandy. Ornament the jelly mould at the top with a few fine grapes, and keep a little ice round the jelly mould till ready u> serve.117 CREAM A L'lTALIAN. This jelly will be found most excellent for the inva- lid, or persons exhausted by fever: this I well know by many year's experience, and by its results on many who have partaken of the like. 127. Cream a l'ltalian. Rub five fragrant lemons on a piece of lump sugar so as to obtain the zest from the same ; scrape this off the lump of sugar and place it in a stewpan, and squeeze the juice of the lemons upon it; add to this a gill of sherry and about as much pounded sugar, and let this remain for a time ; then put three-quarters of an ounce of pied de veau gelatine to soak in a gill of water. Then whip half a pint of good double cream till it becomes a firm but light substance; place the same on a hair sieve till you need it, and place your gelatine which you put in soak on the fire, having strained it through a pointed sieve first, and then place it in a stewpan with half a sill of boiling; water ; stir it till it is dissolved. Add this to the lemon juice, zest of lemon, wine and sugar, and stir on the fire till all are well mixed, but do not let it boil. Then ornament a quart jelly mould with a little clear jelly, about one gill, and place a few strawberries or grapes in this, and let it set by placing it in ice. And now take the ingredients that you just removed from the fire, turn them into a clean two-quart stewpan and stir for a little while till cold, but not set; and now, with a small -wire whisk, stir your whipped cream quickly into the mixture youI iS STRAWBERRY CREAM. have been making cold ; mix well together, and pour into your ornamented mould, and leave with a little ice round it till wanted. Turn out the same as described for macedoine jelly, but have the water a little hotter for creams. Note.—You must be very particular indeed that the mixture containing the gelatine has not in the least degree began to set, if it has, place it a moment on the hot plate before mixing in your cream, and all will be right. 128. Strawberry Cream. Kub sufficient fresh strawberries through a hair sieve to make half a pint of pulp or puree, add about four teaspoonfulsof powdered lump sugar and the juice of a small lemon and a little cochineal; then put three quarters of an ounce of the best pied de veau gelatine in half a pint of water to soak for half an hour; and here let me observe, whenever I mention, or have mentioned, gelatine to be used, I mean the best pied de veau gelatine, which means that made from calf's feet. There is a very easy way of making the same yourself; which is by making a very strong stock from calf's feet, and freed or cleaned from the oil that settles on the top ; boil the same down as you would glaze, to half its original quantity, and keep in a basin in the larder, boiling the same now and then in the summer (say once in three days); this will be found the best and purest substance you can use for119 KASPBEKKY CRE.xJl. setting creams, &c, and for all kinds of cold entrees, where the sauce used needs extra substance to aid its perfection and appearance. But let us return to the gelatine you put in soak : place the same in a small stewpan and pour over it a gill of boiling water, and stir this till it has dissolved, letting it boil for a minute ; then place it aside for a few minutes, and whip half a pint of good fresh double cream till it becomes a firm light substance, and place it on a hair sieve. Then ornament a quart jelly mould with a little clear jelly and place a few fresh strawberries in the same, placing them so as to look well when you turn out the contents of the mould. Now add the gelatine to your puree of strawberries, mix them well together and add your whipped cream ; when all are nicely mixed pour into your ornamented mould, taking care the jelly inside is set and the cream is a bright pink colour; if it is not so, add a little cochineal to the same. 129. Raspberry Cream Is made the same as the strawberry, substituting raspberries for strawberries. Note.—In the winter time you must make the above from preserved pulp, or from jam ; if from jam, make the same hot, adding a little water and rub through a hair sieve; the same with preserved pulp, adding a little cochineal and lemon juice, and as much sugar aa is needed; then the dissolved gelatine and whipped120 BAV\R01SE ^0R BAVARIAN CREAM) A LA VANILLE. cream, using the same quantity as for the fresh straw- berry cream. k.nj kind of fruit cream, such as apricot or peach, or plum, or apple, can be made on the same principle, by simply boiling the fruit in a little water till quite tender and rubbing the same through a hair sieve, obtaining therefrom one half-pint of pulp for each cream, and using three-quarters of an ounce of gela- tine and half a pint of cream for each, the same as for the strawberry cream. 130. Bavaroise (or Bavarian Cream) a la Vanille. Place one ounce and a half of gelatine in half a pint of water to soak. Then make a pint of milk into a smooth custard as follows :—Cut one stick of vanille, or rather split the same lengthways, and scrape out the contents, which consists of small black seeds forming a moist substance; rub a tablespoonful of powdered lump sugar with this (with your knife on the board or dresser), till these seeds have separated and are well mixed with the sugar, place the same in a small basin or plate till needed. Then cut up in pieces the two parts of the stick that formed the pod of vanille, and add these to your pint of milk, and let the same boil gently for a few minutes; then take two whole eggs and four yolks of eggs ; place these in a basin, cracking the whole eggs, and be particular that neither the whole eggs or the yolks are musty. Add to these threeBAVAROISE (OR BAVARIAN CREAM) A LA VANILLE. 121 tablespoonfuls of powdered lump sugar, also the seeds from the pod of vanille; mix these together with a small wire whisk, and then beat them for a minute; strain your boiling milk into a basin, and mix this a little at a time with your sugar, vanille and eggs, and place in a stewpan and stir on the hot plate till the same becomes a nice smooth custard, taking care not to boil it or curdle the same. When sufficiently thick (which you can see by dipping your finger into the same), and if it well mask the point instantly remove the same and pour it into a clean two-quart stewpan and keep stirring for a few minutes, so as to drive out the hot steam and prevent it curdling; (a wooden spoon is the best instrument with which to make the custard, particularly if the top part of the bowl is square instead of circular). When you have finished your custard straiu through a pointed wire sieve, place it on the ice to get cool, and meantime prepare your gelatine, putting the same in a small stewpan and cover it with one gill of boiling water, and stirring till melted, then place aside till you need it. Now whip one gill of fresh double cream till it becomes a light but somewhat firm body; place on hair sieve when ready. (I omitted to mention that a quart cylinder jelly mould should have been previously ornamented with a little jelly and fruit according to fancy and the season of the year). Then finish as follows : Mix the dissolved gelatine well with the custard, and then mix in your whipped cream, and fill your ornamented mould with the same. Note.—It is as well to try the custard by placing a122 PAIN d'aBKICOIS A LA ROYAL. couple of spoonfuls in a plain mould on the ice, to see if it is sufficiently firm before mixing in your whipped cream ; and it is well to prepare a little more gelatine than what you think you may require (or in other words in case of an accident), and which will be sure to be used another time, should you not then need it. 131. A Bavaroise Is also flavoured with a strong extract of coffee, and also with chocolate. It is also made of pine apple, cutting the pine in small dice and using the syrup that comes out of the canister, to flavour ; also using a little more gelatine; in all other respects finishing the same as the Bavaroise a la Vanille : They are preferred by many to creams, not being so rich. 132. Pain d'Abricots a la Royal. Take a pint canister of puree of apricots, add to this half a pint of syrup and one glass of brandy; let these boil on the fire for a few minutes. Skim and rub through a very clean hair sieve or tammy-cloth on to a china dish ; and, having one-and-a-half ounce of gelatine, which has been soaking for half an hour in a pint of water, place the gelatine with a little water on the fire to nearly boil, after straining the same in a stewpan (say a two-quart one), then add your puree or pulp of apricots to this, also the juice of one lemon, and see that it is to your taste; and when so, put a little on the ice to judge of its firmness, and the123 PAIN OF ORLEANS PLUJIS, entire body also to get cold or partly set; while this is taking place, prepare a little jelly, about a gill, the same as for the Victoria Jelly (see No. 125) : pour tins into a quart jelly mould and let it set on the ice, and when your pain d'abricot is sufficiently cold, place the same in the ornamented mould; add a little ice round the mould to make the same quite firm. Note.—When the pain d'abricot is cold it should be stirred with a wooden spoon till it just begins to set, then pour into a jelly mould, and keep a little ice round it till wanted; when you have turned it out on the dish on which it goes to table, pour round the same a little vanille custard made the same as that described for the Bavaroise a la Vanille (see No. 130) but without any gelatine, about a gill and a half will do ; then serve. 133. Pain of Orleans Plums. PLACE two dozen Orleans plums in a two-quart stew- pan with half a pound of sugar (powdered lump), a gill of water, and the juice of one large lemon ; let boil very gently for a quarter of an hour, then rub them through a hair sieve, that is, the flesh of the plums, throwing the skins and stones aside; having put previously in a half pint of water one ounce and a half of gelatine, which should soak in water for half an hour, strain the same on a sieve, and then place in a stewpan with one gill of boiling water, and stir the same till dissolved or brought to boil on the hot plate ;124 PAIN OF RHUBARB. add this to the pulp or puree of Orleans plums, and mix well together with a little liquid cochineal and sufficient calf's-foot jelly to make up the quantity to till a quart cylinder mould. Be particular to taste the same to see that it is sufficiently sweet, or if it needs a little more lemon juice, and that it is sufficiently firm to turn out of the mould when you need it. When prepared to send to table, serve round it some plain custard, the same as for the Pain d'Abricots Dip the mould in warm water aud turn out the same as a mould of jelly, and serve. 134. Pain of Apples. Peel one dozen pippins, as white in colour as you can obtain them, cut the same in quarters and cut away the core ; put them into one pint of water well sweetened, and also squeeze the juice of two lemons into the same. As you peel the apples and core them, throw them into this, which will help to keep them white ; when all are prepared put in a stewpan with about a gill and a halt of water and three cloves, and some zest of lemon, half a pound of powdered sugar; let boil quarter of an hour and then finish the same as the Pain of Orleans Plums, and send to table in the same manner, but keeping the same as white as possible. 135. Pain of Rhubarb. Peel sufficient young rhubarb, green or pink. Cut125 CHARTREUbE OF STRAWBERRIES. the same up m one inch lengths, add half a pound of powdered lump sugar and one gill of water; you want sufficient to make a quart mould, and you will require two ounces of gelatine ; finish the same as for a Pain of Orleans Plums, adding a little cochineal if red rhubarb, and a little vegetable green if green rhubarb, to aid its colour ; take care to add sufficient sugar, as you will find the acid strong in rhubarb, and for this reason a little more gelatine is required. Note.—Pains can also be made from peaches, from pears, from strawberries and raspberries, and from cherries, in fact from any pulpy fruit, and most excellent they are, being preferred by many to creams or bavaroises. The tammy-cloth can be used in pre- ference to the hair sieve for rubbing the pulp or puree through; and the puree will be found a little smoother by being passed through the tammy-cloth than through a hair sieve. A glass of brandy will be found a great addition to all kinds of Pains. 136. Chartreuse of Strawberries. Take a quart plain mould and place the same in a two-quart kitchen basin and surround it with some rough ice ; then take an empty fruit bottle (a quart bottle) wash the same very clean and half fill with cold water, and stand the same in the centre of the mould ; then melt about a quart of calf's-foot jelly, and take a silver tablespoon, and when the jelly is melted add or pour into the mould about three spoonfuls of jelly, thenCHARTREUSE OF STRAWBERRIES. 126 arrange a row or round of strawberries in the jelly, and when set, which they will soon do being in ice, pour a little more j elly over them, sufficient to just cover the same; and when these are set proceed with another round of strawberries, and when these are set with another, and so on till you have filled the mould ; when the same are firmly set in jelly, then empty the water out of the bottle in the centre of the mould, and fill the same with warm water; after a minute twist the bottle very gently and blow down the side of the same, when you will be able to gently remove the bottle; but you must be very particular that the jelly in which you have placed the rounds of strawberries is very firmly set before you commence this operation; when you have removed the bottle, whip one gill of cream to a firm snow, and make a puree of strawberries, about one teacupful, or three parts of a half-pint, and melt half an ounce of gelatine, which has been soaking in water for half an hour, add this to the puree of straw, berries with a good tablespoonful of powdered sugar, also a little cochineal, and the juice of half a lemon. Stir them nicely together and then mix in your gill of whipped cream, and pour this into the well made in the mould by the removal of the fruit bottle ; and after this operation, ornament the top of a small round mould by pouring into the same some Victoria jelly, about half a pint; this small mould should be selected so as to fit the top of the plain chartreuse mould con- taining your strawberries (a pint jelly mould is about the size you will need), which half fill, and when you have turned out of the mould the chartreuse, place on theCHARTREUSE OK PEACHES, OF ORANGES, ETC. 127 top the Victoria jelly which you put in the small mould, taking care it is nice and firm. The chartreuse should be turned out of the mould the same as a jelly, by dipping in warm water, and the same with the top, taking care to dry the same—I mean the bottom part of the orna- mental top, so as to make it readily adhere or fix itself on the chartreuse before sending to table. 137. Chartreuse of Apricot. Take sufficient apricots of the same size, but not large, to go round a mould the same as the strawberries in the above dish, and finish the same in all respects as for the chartreuse of strawberries, taking care to evenly peel or skin the apricots and place a puree of the same in the centre. 138. Chartreuse of Green and Black Grapes. Arrange the same as for the chartreuse of straw- berries, taking care to add some maraschino to the jelly in which you arrange or build up the grapes, and serve a puree of grapes in the centre. 139. Chartreuse of Peaches, of Oranges, and of Pippin Apples Are all made after the manner of the above, taking care to cut your apples and peaches into nice shapes, and to/28 MAIDS OF HONOUR. conk the same in some weak syrup if they are not quite ripe enough ; and the apples as a general rule are, (after having been cut into quarters or halves and cut into the same size pieces) always cooked till tender in a little weak syrup, then placed on a hair sieve and allowed to cool, and the same with American peaches. When cold dip them in liquid jelly and build up and arrange the same as for the chartreuse of strawberries; building them in the same kind of mould and finishing them in the same manner 140. Maids of Honour. Place eight potatoes in the oven to bake, when done cut each in half and with an iron spoon remove the inside from each, placing the same on a wire sieve and rub them through the sieve, putting a plate underneath to receive the same as it goes through ; when finished place aside and proceed as follows: Take half a pound of butter and place it in a two-quart stewpan and make the stewpan a little warm, then with a wooden spoon keep beating the same for a few minutes till it becomes white and creamy in appearance, and when so add half a pound of powdered sugar and beat together for a few minutes longer; then beat in two whole eggs, and four yolks of eggs, add the whole eggs one at a time, and the yolks of eggs two at a time ; the mixture should be kept well beaten as you add the eggs, and when all are beaten or mixed in, weitfh six ounces of the prepared potato and two ouncesPASTRY A L'ARTOISE. I2Q of grated cocoa-nut (the white parti, and the gratings of one lemon; mix these very lightly into the mixture of sucrar, butter and eggs, and when finished place in the cool to be used when needed. And now prepare your puff-paste, say one pound, the s.ame as for Vol au Vents or Patties (See No. 41), which should have been prepared first thing in the morning, and kept on some ice so as to become nice and mellow, and which should have been kept covered over with a damp cloth. Now roll the half of the same into a thin even sheet about as thick as a bronze penny and about as large as a crown piece ; they should be cut out with a fluted patty cutter and placed in ordinary tartlet tins, turning each one upside down as you place them in the tins, pressing the two middle fingers of the right hand in the centre of each rather firmly, so as to leave their impression on the same, and with your fingers and thumbs, squeeze up the edge of the paste all round the edge of the tartlet tin, and place an equal quantity of the maid of honour curd, about the size of a walnut, in each; then with a fork prick each maid of honour once or twice, letting the fork go right through to the tin. Bake in an oven not too hot, letting your maids of honour be of a nice golden colour. When cold, dish about fifteen on a silver dish or plate, with a dessert paper under them, and serve. 141. Pastry a l'Artoise. Make one pound of short paste as follows: rub half ^ pound of butter into one pound of flour, add two Kl^j PASTRY A L'ARTOISE. yolks of eggs and a small teacup of water and mix into a, nice mellow paste; roll out the same after it has been made a few minutes to the thickness of a bronze halfpenny, and place this on a medium size copper baking sheet (well tinned); trim the edge with your knife, and then dip your egg-brush into a couple of yolks of eggs, adding a few drops of water, which mix with the yolks of eggs, then add a little of this with your egg-brush round the outside edge of the paste with which you have lined your baking sheet; then place a few spoonfuls of apricot jam in the centre of the egged border, spread the same about as thick as a halfpenny all over the paste inside the egged border. Now roll out your puff-paste (the same kind as you used for the maids of honour) a little thicker than a halfpenny; the paste should be rolled out very even and level, and prove sufficient to cover over the whole of the baking sheet; then press it down tightly all round on the border where you put the yolks of eggs, and with your knife cut off the surplus paste round the edge of the baking sheet; then egg with yolk of eggs the whole surface on the baking sheet, dipping your brush iato water and mixing the yolks (by dipping your brush in a little water you can give a smooth surface or eco- all over the paste); when you have done so, with the back of your knife mark out the surface into oblona squares of three inches in length and one inch wide °in the centre of each make a little wreath with ihe point of your small knife, and bake in an oven not too hot. When done, a little pounded sugar should be sprinkled through the sugar dredger over the surface,TARTLETS WITH CHERRIES . and then salamander, and when quite cold cut out into oblong squares and dish on a dessert paper en iniriton, and serve. 142. Tartlets with Cherries. Line as many tartlet tins with puff-paste as you require, cutting the paste out with the same size cutter, and of the same thickness as for the maids of honour. Make them into suitable shape by pinching up the edge of the paste a little higher than the rim of the tartlet tin, and then placing what is termed a dummy in the centre of each; the dummies are made as follows : take two ounces of lard and boil the same in a pint of water; then take two pounds of flour and mix it into a paste—a stiff paste, with the boiling water in which the lard has been boiled. Mix with a woodeu spoon to begin with and finish with your hands, moulding it into a smooth compact paste, and then dividing it into equal portions about the same size as the thick-half of an egg, and squeezing the centre into a point or pip about a quarter of an inch long; then bake them and keep them by you to be used when needed, placing one in each tartlet before baking. By using these dummies your tartlets will all have the same size hole in the centre, and will look more uni- form when you dish them up. And here let me observe, when the tartlets are baked, remove the dummies and shake a little powdered sugar over them,I32 TARTLETS WITH CHERRIES. then salamander and place aside for use. Now stone sufficient cherries, that is, remove the stones and stalks. You will find a quill pen an excellent instru- ment for stoning cherries ; cut off the nib of your pen, hold the cherry in your left hand, and when you pull off the stalk, slip the pen beside the stone and force out the stone. Place your cherries in a kitchen basin as you do them, and pour over them when finished some boiling syrup—made by boiling a pound of lump sugar in half a pint of water, and directly you have poured the syrup over them cover the same with paper, which fix tightly on the top, screwing round the edge to keep in the heat and steam. This will be found an excellent way of dressing all kinds of fruit so as to serve them in a whole state, such as straw- berries, or apricots, or greengages, or green currants, or green gooseberries. When you find they are nicely dressed, strain off the syrup into a stewpan and let boil; and thicken the same with arrowroot or corn- flour, mixed with a little cold water and stirred into the syrup when boiling, adding a little cochineal if your fruit is red and you need a better colour; when thickened pour your syrup again over the fruit and let remain till you fill your tartlets, which should be a little before sending to table. And note: before thickening your syrup, examine your fruit to see if it is well cooked, and if not, place the vessel containing the same in the oven for a short time, or on the corner of the hot plate which will soon finish them, though in a general way the boiling syrup will accomplish what is needed. Fruits prepared as described are also excel-133 SOUFFLEES A LA REINE. lent for vol au vents of fruit, and for serving as sauce for puddings hot or cold, also for cakes, such as babas. 143. Mirletons a la Franchise. Line some tartlet tins with puff-paste, cut out with the same cutter as for maids of honour, and prepared the same as for vol au vents. Then take three ounces of ratafias, rub these with a rolling pin till very fine; then crack three fresh eggs, and add to these two ounces of sugar, and beat the eggs and sugar well together; then add two ounces of butter just melted in a stewpan, and add this to the sugar and eggs; mix in, and then add your ratafias, mixing all nicely together; place a large tablespoonful of this in each tartlet tin, having previously placed a little apricot jam (say half a tea- spoonful) in each tartlet. They should be filled equally and not too full, and shake powdered sugar over them before baking, which should be done in an oven not too hot. Dish about a dozen or fifteen on a dish upon a dessert paper and serve. 144. Soufnees a la Heine. Place half a pint of milk in a quart stewpan to boil, having in the same a little vanille sugar and gratings of lemon, and two ounces of butter. Mix two large table- spoonfuls of the best flour with one gill of milk ; when very fine and free from lumps mix, or rather stir, the134 CONVERSATIONS. same into the milk, butter, &c, on the fire, that is to say, when the milk boils it should be stirred for a couple of minutes so as to cook the flour; then remove from the fire and stir in five yolks of eggs, one at a time; and when all the yolks are stirred in, whip five whites of eggs very firm, as if for merangue, and, let me observe, your pan and whisk should be particularly clean for this purpose. When firm stir them into your soufflee mixture, one half at a time. Then prepare some tartlet tins exactly the same as for the Mirletons h la Francaise, and place a dessert-spoonful of this soufflee mixture in each tartlet, and when neatly and uniformly filled in, roll out a little puff-paste as thick as a halfpenny, and cut the same into shreds about two inches long and make a cross with these so + on each soufflee, then shake a little powdered sugar from your dredger over each, and bake in a steady oven, when cold°dish about fifteen on a dessert paper on silver plate or dish, and serve. ^ote —A very little jam, of any kind, should be placed in each before filling in the soufflee mixture. 145. Conversations. Make a short paste of one pound of flour in which you have rubbed half a pound of butter, add two yolks of ecras and a gill of water, and make into a Bice smooth paste. Then prepare the same kind of mixture as for the Soufflees a la Reine (without the whipped whites of eggs.) Prepare also a royal icing as follows : take three whites of eggs, very fresh and free from theCONVERSATIONS. T3! slightest part of the yolks, place them into a clean china basin, and mix with them some superfine icing ; sugar enough to make them as thick as good douoie cream, or say a little thicker, and with a very ckan wooden spoon beat them up for about five minutes, or in other words, keep striking the mixture in the centre of the same with your wooden spoon; then cover with a sheet of damp paper till you need it. Now roll out your short paste to the thickness of a shilling, and with a plaiu round cutter cut out as many pieces as you require conversations—they should be of the same size as your tartlet pans; place these neatly into the same (say twenty-four) and with your finger and thumb make them thin round the edge of the tartlet tin, then place half a teaspoonful of apricot jam in each, and on this some of the pastry custard, about one dessert-spoonful in each should suffice ; make this level, then with a little yolk of egg and water moisten with your finger the edge of the paste with which you have lined the tartlet tins, and roll out some puff-paste, the same as prepared for vol au vents. Roll this out to the same thickness as you did for the short paste (as thick as a shilling) with which you lined the bottoms of the tartlet tins, and be very particular to look that your cutter is of the right size so as nicely to fit the top of your conversa- tions, and thereby enable you to have the right size pieces of paste. Having cut them out, fix them firmly on the other paste which you moistened with yolk of egg. When you have finished them spread a little royal icing on the top, and with your knife smooth the same; and here let me remark, if your icing is too stiff, add aI36 PASTRY A LA CONDE. few drops of water, and be sure not to place the icing on too thick. When all are iced, roll out a little puff- paste and cut this into shreds the same as for the soufflees a la royal and make a cross on the icing thus-^- with four little holes between the cross where the four dots are placed. Bake them in a steady oven, taking great care not to bake them too dark a colour; about twelve will make a dish. Serve with a dessert paper under them: they make a most beautiful pastry if well attended to. 146. Pastry a la Conde\ Make them in all respects the same as the conversations with the exception of the tops, or surface, which finish as follows: After fixing on the puff-paste to form the surface, cut out also a few rounds the size of a shilling, and then cut out the centres from the same pieces about a quarter of an inch in diameter: then, with your finger, egg the centre of the top and fix these pieces right in° the centre. Now prepare the following : take two ounces of ground almonds, place these in a quart basin, add two whites of eggs to the same, and beat these well together for a couple of minutes; add a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, and still keep •beating for a couple of minutes more; if it is of tho consistency of double cream, or a little thinner, it will do ; then make what is called in kitchen parlance a corney or piece of paper somewhat in the shape of a pointed sugar loaf; place a pin in this to keep it137 PETITS PAINS A LA DUCHESSE. together, cutting off the extreme point, so as to leave a hole in the same of about one-quarter of an inch m diameter (foolscap paper is the best for this purpose). Now place some of your almond mixture in your corney and force out the same round and outside the round pieces of paste that you placed on the top of the Condes: the almond mixture should be placed on as thin as possible, taking care it does not run over the sides, and now and then taking your small knife to aid this operation and enable you to finish the same neatly and uniformly. When all are done, sprinkle a very little powdered lump sugar over the almonds and bake in a moderately-heated oven. This is also an excellent pastry when properly made and properly baked. Dish on a dessert paper, about one dozen to a dish or silver plate, and serve with a little red currant jelly in the centre of each Conde. 147. Petits Pains a la Duchesse. PLACE half a pint of milk in a two-quart stewpan to boil, add to this three ounces of butter, and weigh six ounces of the finest flour and sift it on to a sheet of paper; and when the milk boils in which you have placed the three ounces of butter stir the flour into the same, and keep stirring slightly for about three minutes, in fact, till such time that if you place your finger lightly upon it it will not adhere thereto, thus showing that the flour is sufficiently cooked; then stir in three whole eggs, one at a time, mixing each egg wellPETI1S PAINS A LA DUCKESSE. into the paste before you acid another ; they should be stirred in quickly, adding three yolks of eggs. After this, butter lightly a baking sheet, and place about half the paste into a Savoy biscuit-bag and squeeze out the paste into half rounds about the size of half an egg ; place them on the tin about two inches apart and bake in a slow- oven. When done and cold, cut a slit near the bottom, and through this slit introduce a little jam of any kind, or a little whipped cream, or a little custard which has been thickened by adding a little corn flour or dissolved arrowroot; before you add a few yolks of eggs to set the same, add also a small pat of butter and a little sugar. This is called by French cooks, f rangipan. The same should be flavoured by adding a little Vanille sugar, or lemon or orange zest. And your duchesse cakes can be greatly varied by mixing a few drops of water to two yolks of eggs, and eo-oino- the duchesse cakes with the same lightly, and sprinkling chopped almonds or pistachio nuts chopped fine, over the same, or a little sugar in grains, white and pink, mixed with a few currants, which latter have been'washed, picked, and dried. They can also be made iu an oval shape in the following manner: take two plated tablespoons, and have by you a pint of boil- ing water, and also your Pain a la Duchesse paste, into which dip one of your spoons, and pressing the same when full of the duchesse paste to the side of the stewpan, so as to get a spoonful from the same ; then with a knife dipped in the hot water smooth the surface, and dip your other spoon in hot water and with this scoop out about three-parts of the spoonful139 SANDWICH PASTRY A LA FRANCAISE. of. duchesse paste, aDd arrange them as you do them on a slightly buttered baking sheet, two inches apart; and finish these in accord with the above directions ; if neatly and uniformly made of a nice oval shape, they make an excellent change from the round shapes. After a very little practice they can be as readily made as the round ones. And in baking them take the greatest care not to attempt to bake them in a hot oven; for, if you do, you will run a great risk of spoiling them. 148. Sandwich Pastry a la Franchise. Take some puff-paste prepared the same as for vol au veuts or patties, and give it one more full roll as therein explained ; and roll it out to three-eighths of an inch thick, and keep the same in an oblong shape bo as to make the rounded edge—I mean in this shape )—foe on your right hand side ; then cut from the body of your paste the entire length containing this rounded edge, which should be about three inches wide; then lay this lengthways before you and cut it into strips a quarter of an inch thick, and lay them as you do them on a clean baking sheet (not buttered); be particular that the side that your knife has cut through is that which is placed on the surface of the baking sheet, the pieces should be placed one inch and a half apart, and they should be baked in an oven of pretty good heat; while you are preparing them, or before you commence, place your salamanderGENOISE GLACEE AVK PISTACHIOS. 140 in the fire to become red hot; and when your pastry is done, shake a little powdered lump sugar from the sugar dredger on each (lightly), and salamander them; that is, pass the hot salamander over them, holding the same about two inches from them so as to melt the sugar, and thereby give them a bright tint and glossy appearance. (And here let me say it is necessary that the pieces of paste should be cut all of the same size). When cold spread a little apricot or other conserve over one piece, and then place another piece on the top of the same, taking care that the glazed or sugar side shows outward ; furthermore, that the jam is not placed between the paste only a short time before serving, and that the same is nice and firm. Dish on dessert paper and serve en miriton. Note.—If more pastry is needed, roll out and cut more pieces from your paste in the same manner as described. 149. Genoise Glacee aux Pistachios. Make one pound of Genoise cake the day before it is required for use, as by this means it will cut out more perfect into any shape you need. Prepare as follows :—One pound of butter, one pound of powdered lump sugar, one pound and two ounces of the finest flour, and eight good sized eggs, one glass of brandy and the gratings of two lemons. Now, in a china basin or stewpan make the butter warm, and beat it with a wooden spoon for five minutes, or till it becomes141 GEN01SE GLACEE AUX PISTACHIOS. white and creamy in appearance ; then add your sugar and beat again for the same time, when add your eggs two at a time, being particular they are quite fresh. You must beat the eggs well into the batter as you add them; when all the eggs are in, then add one glass of brandy and stir in; and lastly, your flour, which should be mixed in lightly. Now butter a middling size baking sheet and line the same with paper, and butter this also with clarified butter; then spread your Genoise cake in this, smooth it level in the sheet and bake it in an oven not too hot, and the next day ornament or garnish the same. I will here describe a few different ways: I mean the different ways of ornamenting this favorite pastry. In the first instance, proceed as follows :—Cut your Genoise cake in lengths two inches and a half wide, and with a sharp knife cut or split each length in two, spread some jam, apricot or raspberry, or any other kind, on one of the split lengths, then place the other length (I mean that you split in two) on the half containing the jam, they should be placed evenly one on the other;, and if not so, trim with your knife and make them so. And now take half a pound of icing sugar, rub the same through a wire sieve, and place in a basin ; add the juice of half a lemon, a little maraschino, and a drop of cochineal, enough of the latter to give a nice rose tint to the mixture; spread this equal on the Genoise cake (in which you have placed the jam) sufficiently thick to nicely mask the same; and to do this neatly you should prepare the icing about the thickness of good cream. Sprinkle some chopped pistachio nuts142 GENOISE MARBREE AUX CO\SERVE. chopped fine, prepared the same as for Victoria Jelly (see No. 125), then cut into uniform lengths one inch wide and place them on a china dish with paper under them ; as you do them, place them in the oven, leaving the door open for a few minutes, or in the Bcreen° where they can receive the heat. If in the oven, stand by them till finished, and turn the dish round once or twice, a very few minutes should set the icing ; and if duly attended to they will shine like a looking-glass ; and to tell if your icing is set, place your finger°on the top of one or two, and if dry at once remove them from the oven, and the same if placed in the screen, as they should not be allowed to get hot through, and instantly they are dry remove them to a cool place. They should not be dished till quite cold. 150. Genoise Glacee aux Amandes. BLANCH and chop half a pound of almonds, chop them rather fine and partly dry them in the screen ; then prepare some strips of Genoise cake the same as for Geuoise Glacee aux Pistachios, making this difference when finishing, namely: let your icing be white instead of pink, using almonds instead of pista- chios with a little pink sugar in grains sprinkled between the chopped almonds; finish the same as those above. 151. Genoise MarbrSe aux Conserve. CUT your strips of Genoise cake and finish with jam asGENOISE MARBREE AUX CONSERVE. M3 for the Genoise Glace'e aux Pistachios; and now give your best attention. You will require two icings for this pastry, one pink and one white, and both of the same consistency, which you can test by the following method: When you think the icing is ready place the point of your finger in the same, and if your icing will nicely mask or cover the same without instantly running off, it will do. Now mask the surface of your strips of Genoise cake which you have prepared with jam between ; do this with your white icing, and when nicely to a point, so to speak, take a teaspoon and stir the same round and round for a minute, and raise the spoon now and then, to see if the icing—the pink—will form a string when running off the spoon, so much so, in fact, that those experienced in this matter could with the same write their name ; and now, having arrived at this point, dip your teaspoon well into your pink icing, and form lines, say five, along the whole length of your Genoise cake, which you have just masked with white icing ; then take a dessert fork and with your Genoise cake lengthways before you draw the fork very lightly across the red lines formed with your pink icing, do so evenly all along the cake, and you will at once see you have produced an imitation of marble ; trim the edge with your knife, or if needed cut the outer edge off. Then cut into lengths, the same as the Genoise Glacee aux Pistachios, and finish at the mouth of the oven in the same manner. There is also another way of finishing your Genoise Marbree, which is as follows: When you have marbled your Genoise cake as the above, take a plain round144 ICE PUDDING A LA DUCHESSE. cutter two inchess in diameter and turn the point of your Genoise cake to you, cut out a piece of the same, which will leave a half-circle before you; then proceed with your round cutter to cut out the whole length of Genoise cake into pieces the shape of the new moon, or crescent -shaped ; finish these also in the screen or mouth of the oven, taking care they are of the same size. Removes of Ice Pudding. 152. Ice Pudding a la Duchesse. Take a medium size pine apple (one preserved m a tin), and with a very sharp knife remove all the brown specks and thinly peel the same, after which cut into dice shape pieces this size |g; P^e the same in a quart stewpan with the juice that was in the tin in which it was preserved; add to this six ounces of powdered sugar and one gill of water, and let the pine apple gently simmer on the hot plate for about half an hour; take then one quart of very fresh double cream, strain the syrup from the pine into this with the juice of one large lemon; mix well to- gether and place the same in a three-quart pewter freezer, and place your cut-up pine in a small basin to get cold. Then prepare and freeze the pudding as follows: break up or pound as fine as possible twenty pounds of rough ice and put the cover on your freezer, mix three or four double handfuls of fine salt with the pounded ice well and rapidly together; place the same round the freezer m1CJE PUDDING A LA DUCHLSSE. 145 a tub or pail, and by holding the handle, turn the freezer round and round for about ten minutes; then take off the lid of the freezer, and with the ice spatule remove the pudding, which you will find has frozen to the side of the freezer, and mix the same with the unfrozen part of the pudding; now put on the lid and proceed again as in the first instance, turning the freezer round and round for about another ten minutes, when again remove the lid and mix the frozen with the unfrozen part, taking care to beat the same well together with your spatule till it becomrs smooth and uniform in appearance. You should now turn the freezer by the aid of your spatule, beating the pudding with the same so as to make the freezer spin round; this should be continued till the pudding is sufficiently frozen and by this process becomes very smooth and firm, after which, gently mix in your cut-up pine apple, adding two dozen pistachio nuts, which have been previously blanched in boiling water, and cut lengthways into shreds after removing the skins. Then fill your pudding mould as follows: remove the freezer from the ice and scoop the remainder of the ice into a pail, mix fresh salt with the same as before, and then with your spatule, or a spoon, fill the ice pudding mould with the frozen pudding, tapping the same so that the pudding will, when turned out of the mould, show smooth and compact. The pudding should bo well embedded in ice, under and over it; and if more ice is needed, proceed to prepare as in the first instance; let the pudding remain in this till required for dinner, when remove the mould from the ice and dip it into a pail of water, slightly warm; then dry it in a cloth, remove the lid, also the bottom of the mould, and the pudding with a little L146 ICE PUQDING OF RICE A LA PRINCESS shake will leave the mould and fix itself on to the silver dish upon which it should be sent to table. Note.—You must be very particular that no salt gets into the pudding—for a very small quautity would spoil the same, and that the freezer is well washed in hot water before using it, also that any kind of fruit with which you garnish the pudding should be well preserved in syrup before putting into the pudding. If this is not attended to the fruit will appear like lumps of ice, and will be sure to bring descredit on the maker. Take care to add two more handfuls of salt, mixing the same in the ice as you imbed the pudding. 153. Ice Pudding of Rice a la Princess. Planch one gill of Carolina rice in boiling water for a couple of minutes; then strain it off and place the same in a stewpan with one quart of milk; let all boil very gently till the rice is quite tender and the milk is reduced to half its original quantity; then remove the same from the fire and add one pint of double cream and the inside of a stick of vanilla, which should be well mixed with a spoonful of powdered sugar, so as to thoroughly separate the black seeds from the vanilla pods; now add six ounces of powdered sugar, mix well together and pour into a clean freezer and place the same in a tub or pail, when prepare the ice and freeze after the same manner as for the Pudding a la Duchesse. Then prepare a macedoine of fruits, as follows: take some strawberries, black and green grapes, apricots, peaches, and a nice mellow pear or two, also some cherries, and147 ICE PUDDING A LA REINE. red, white, and blaok currants; pick the strawberries and grapes, peel and quarter the peaches, apricots, and pears, stone the cherries and pick the currants, and mix the sanie in a kitchen basin, about one quart is what you will re- quire; pour over the same one wineglassful of maraschino, one of noyeau, one. of brandy, a tumbler of champagne, and half a tumbler of elder-blossom syrup, which is simply a syrup in which elderberry blossoms have been boiled when in full bloom; cover the basin with paper and place it in n. larger basin with pounded ice round it till needed, which will be when you have turned out your pudding and are sending the same to table; then place this macedoine neatly round it, pouring the syrup and liquor round the same, and serve. Note.—In the winter season you can give a selection of preserved fruits cut in pieces and served as the above. 154. Ice Pudding k la Reine. Put on the fire one pint of milk and one pint of cream to boil, and when boiling remove the same on to the dresser; then take the yolks of eight, new laid eggs, add to these six ounces of powdered sugar, and mix the same well together ; then add your milk and cream a little nt a time, beating the same well together with a wire whisk till the yolks of eggs are well blended with the milk, cream and sugar. Stir the whole over the fire or on the hot plate to make into a custard, and give the same your best attention so as not to let it curdle; a wooden spoon is best to stir it with, which should be moved to and fro over the bottom of the stewpan, watching the same most attentively; instantly148 ICE PUDDING A LA MODERNE. you perceive the same begin to thicken remove it from the fire and turn it into a clean basin, adding another gill of cream and keep stirring the same for a few moments to prevent it curdling; add, when cold, two glasses of brandy and the zest of two oranges rubbed on sugar. Freeze and mould the same, as for the Pudding a la Duchesse. Then prepare a compote of apricots in the following manner: peel and cut 111 halves twelve apricots of equal size, which neatly arrange m a kitchen basin; take one pound and a half of lump sugar, add to this three-parts of a pint of water and let it boil; when it does so, instantly pour the same over the apricots, twist some paper over the basin and keep the steam in as much as possible. After about one hour examine the apricots, and if they are tender they will do, if not, reboil the syrup and pour over again, and when nearly cold place them on the ice to become quite so. Then boil a few pistachio nuts for a few minutes, strain and rub them in a cloth to remove the skins, after which split each nut lengthways and cut them in shreds as fine as possible; now look to your apricots, pour half the syrup from them, and pour into the remainder about one gill of maraschino and sprinkle the cut-up pistachio nuts over the same ; then dish them en meriton round the dish, in the centre of which place the ice pudding when needed, pour the syrup in which you have placed the maraschino and pistachio nuts over the apricots and serve. 155. Ice Pudding k la Moderne. Make a quart of single cream with six whole eggs and six ounces of sugar into custard, after the instructions givenICE PUDDINGS—VARIOUS. 149 for the Ice Pudding h la Peine (No. 154); adding the zest of two lemons, one piece of cinnamon three inches long, and a tablespoonful of vanille sugar. Freeze in the same manner as for the Pudding a la Duchesse (No. 152), adding a wineglassful of brandy before doing so. When frozen, place the ice pudding-mould, in which the pudding is to be filled, in a kitchen pan with pounded ice round it; and when you fill the frozen pudding in this leave a hole an the centre, taking good care 1o line the mould all round with the pudding to the thickness of an inch, and fill this hole with a compote of mixed fruit, prepared the same as for the Pudding a la Princess (No. 153), which must be of fresh fruit over which has been thrown a wineglassful of maraschino and two spoonfuls of powdered sugar. Cover the same well with your frozen pudding, and then with plenty of pounded ice and three or four double handfuls of pounded salt well mixed with the same, place the ice pudding in a pail and the salted ice well round and several inches over the same; this should be done two hours before serving. Turn it out of the mould the same as for the Pudding a la Duchesse when you serve. 156. Ice Pudding with a Compote of Cherries a la Moderne. Make a compote of cherries (fresh), stone the same, adding some noyeau and pounded sugar, and finish as the above. 157. Ice Pudding with a Compote of Pine Apple a la Moderne. Finish the same as the above.150 ICE PUDDINGS VARIOUS. 158. Ice Pudding with a Compote of Apricots a la Moderne. Finish the same as before described. 159. Ice Pudding with a Compote of Grapes a la Moderne. Cot the grapes in two lengthways, and serve as before- described. Note.—Any suitable fruit, when fresh and duly ripe, can be served as above, and makes, in the summer season, the best of all Eemoves. Mr. Samuel Hobbs, the Author of this Work, begs to- say that he is still actively following his profession as opportunity serves; and is open to dress Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts and Ball Suppers at the Residences of the Nobility and Gentry, in Town or Country; and that his charges will be found very moderate. Address—Mr. Samuel Hobbs, 55, Edith Grove, West Brompton, S. W.DEAN & SON, PUBLISHERS, 160a, FLEET STREET, ExT" FOOTMAN AND BUTLER; THEIR DUTIES AND HOW TO PERFORM THEM, FROM PAGE TO BUTLER. BY WILLIAMS. Third Edition, Eevised by the ex-Butler to the Earl of Komney. CONTENTS: ■Chapter I.—Summary of Duties, from Town to Country,—Abroad,—Know- Boy to Butler. j ledgeofTowns,—Deli\eringMessages Chapter II.—House Boy or Page,—Be- 1 and Cards, — Opening Doors,— Ke- haviour,—Instructions. ceiving Letters and Parcels,— Be- Chapter III.—Footman's Duties from ! haviour to Fellow Servants,—Health, time of Rising to going to Bed,— how to Preserve. Serving Dinners,—How to arrange | Persons op Rank, How Styled and the Table in various ways for Break- Addressed. fast, Luncbeon, and Children's Din- I Chapter VI.—The Butler; his Duties, ner,—Elaborate Luncheon,—Dinner \ and how to perform them. Duties,—Different styles of Dinner,— Chapter VII. — The Service oT Wine Dessert,—Arrangement of Side Table generally,—The Cellar,—Wines and and Sideboards, — Different points Been, including Blending, Fining, respecting Plates,—Bills of Fare,— I Bottling, Binning, Decanting, &c. Different ways of placing JointB and j Chapter VIII. — American and other Fruits,—Epergne,—Removal of Din- | Drinks, including Punch, how to ner,—Diagram of Dinner Table for j make and concoct, various Numbers, — Dinner a la 1 ChapterlX.—Cooling Drinks,—Recipes Kusse,—Dessert ditto,—Coffee,—Tea, for Champ gne, Claret, Loving, and — Handing of Tea, — Tea in tne other Cups. Drawing Room,—Serving of Supper, ; ChapterX.—Liqueurs,—Syrups,—Wine Drawing Room Lights,—Receiving Possets, various Receipts, of Company,—Giving out Names,— Chapter XI.—Salads, various, how to Rules to be observed when Company j Mix, — English, Italian, French, leave,—he, he, he. Spanish, Russian, and German. CtiapterlV.—VariousDutiescontinued, , Chapter XII.—Wages,—Keeping Ac- including Glass. 1 counts,—Dress,—Visiting,—Attend- ChapterV.—Footman, General,—Duties | ance after Ladies.—Useful Prepara- aud Behaviour, — Travelling from tions,—Receipts, &c, &c, he. Price Two Shillings and Sixpence;—or, with the Addenda of "Serviettes, or Dinner Napkins," 'Ihree Shillings and Sixpence. Price One Shilling and Sixpence, cloth gilt. SERVIETTES; DIl^lTBR ZLST .A. IP IECI IN" S, AND HOW TO FOLD THEM: By Georgian* C. Clark. CONTAINING ABOVE ONE HUNDRED ILLUSTRATIONS. THE HOUSEMAID AND PARLOURMAID: WHAT THEY HAVE TO DO, AND HOW TO DO IT. By an Experienced Housekeeper. Price One Shilling.DEAN & SON, PUBLISHERS, 160a, FLEET STREET, EC. Confectio?iers to Her Majesty — Berkeley Square. Fifth Edition, Enlarged, with Additional Receipts; Strongly Bound, Price Six Shillings. GUNTER'S MODERN CONFECTIONER. A Pructieul Illustrated Guide to the Latest and most Improved Methods of Making the various kinds of Sweets for Table, Compotes, Fruit Pastes, Candies, Cakes, Scones, Vienna Bread, Biscuits, Ices—both Cream and Water, Jellies, Syrups, Liqueurs, fyc. With Designs for Preparing and Laying Out Desserts, Dinner a la Busse, &c. The 452 receipts in this Book for Pastry, Cukes, and Sweetmeats are original, and have been used with uniform success by Mr. William Jeanes, Chief Confectioner at Messrs. Gunter's, Confectioners to Her Majesty, Berkeley Square. They are drawn up in a style so plain as to be intelligible to servants and persons of moderate capacity. AMONG THE CO SUGAR CLARIFYING, the different kinds.—The Nine Essential Points or Degrees, — "The Mystery of Confectionery and Confectionery Colours explained." SYRUPS, — General Directions for, and lli very useful Receipts. PRESERVED FRUITS, — General Remarks on, and Receipts, in- cluding whole Fruits. BOTTLED FRUITS and Fruits for Ices, Tarts, Receipts, &c. COMPOTES,—General Remarks on, and Receipts for. FRUITS IN BRANDY. — General Remarks on, and Receipts. JAMS AND MARMALADE,—Re- ceipts for. JELLIES, — General Remarks and Instructions on FRUIT AND OTHER PASTES,— General Remarks on, and Receipts, —Pate de Jujubes,—Pate de Gui- mauve. COOLING DRINKS & WATERS. HOW TO MAKE CREAM AND PERFUMED ICES, — Ices for Home Use,—Ices in Fruit Moulds, —Ice-houses,—Custard Ices, &c. WATER ICES, — Ice Puddings, — Nesselrode Puddings. BISCUITS AND CAKES,—On the Oven and Biscuits generally, with 70 good Beceipts for all Classes of Biscuits. CANDY AND LIQUEURS, — Re- ceipts for. NTENTS ARE:- CRYSTALLIZE—How to,—and to Crystallize Fruits, &c. CARAMEL : 18 Receipts for Mixed Fruits, &c, in Caramel. ROCK SUGAR Tablets, Fruit Tablets, and various Receipts for same. COMFITS: Receipts for making various kinds. CHOCOLATE, —Receipts for Pista- chios, Chocolate with Nonpariels, &c.,&c. LOZENGES, — Directions and Re- ceipts, including Brilliants and Transparents. IOEINGS AND PIPINGS for Tops of Cakes and Biscuits,—Almond Iceings for Wedding Cakes. GUM PASTE,—General Directions for Makinir,—Modelling Flowers, &c.—Biscuit Pastel-Confectioners* Paste, &c. MOULDS, DISTILLATION, AND DESSERT.—Bomba au Cafe,— Knots, Brochettes, Lunettes, Sc., in Paste, &c, &c. Appendix to Third Edition. — 50 Additional Receipts, including Macedoine of various Fruits,— Frittens,—Omelettes,— Entremet s, Charlotte Russe,—Whipped Jellies, —Chartreuse Cake, — Fancy and Perfumed Ices,—Liqueur Cups, &c. Appendix to Fourth Edition.—29 Additional Receipts,—Fancy Bis- cuits, — Cakes, — Napoleons, — Scones,—Unfermented and Vienna Bread,—Sec.