R '2-VlfafcDigitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b21958610%//: (ry. C-. L c^L-Lo- 7 CH / / OUTLINES OF THE COURSE OF LECTURES ON MILITARY SURGERY, ■ DELIVERED IN THE UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH. BY SIR GEORGE BALLINGALL, M.D., F.R.S.E. REGIUS PROFESSOR OF MILITARY SURGERY, FELLOW OF THE ROYAL COLLEGEOF SURGEONS; 8UROEON EXTRAORDINARY TO THE KINO; ONE OF THE SURGEONS TO THE ROYAL INFIRMARY; CONSULTING SURGEON TO THE EDINBURGH SURGICAL HOSPITAL, AND MEMBER OF THE MED1CO-CHIRURGICAL SOCIETIES OF EDINBURGH, FIFE, AND BERLIN. , PRINTED FOR ADAM BLACK, EDINBURGH; AND LONGMAN, REES, ORME, BROWN, AND GREEN, LONDON. M.DCCC.XXXIII.Edinburgl . Printed by A. Balfour and Co. Niddry Street.TO THE PRESIDENT AND FELLOWS OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS OF EDINBURGH. Gentlemen, The anxiety which you have always shown to increase the professional acquirements of young men who are desirous of jiossessing the Diploma of the Royal College, led you, upon the last revision of the Regulations, to introduce into your curriculum the course of Military Surgery, giving to those gentlemen who may choose to avail themselves of it, the option of attending this class in lieu of part of the Surgical attendance enjoined upon them. It will, I make no doubt, be gratifying to you to learn, that this resolution of your body has been followed by a similar one on the part of the heads of the medical depart ments of the Army and Navy, giving the same option to candidates j'or Medical Commissions in these branches of the public service. Should this publication be the means of proving to you that the patronage which you were the first to give to the Class of Military Surgery has not been misplaced, I shall be amply compensated for the labour bestowed upon it; and if any thing could possibly enhance the satisfaction which I feel in dedicating these Outlines to you, it would be the circumstance that the Chair of the College is at present filled by my Colleague, Dr. Camp- bell, one oj the earliest and most esteemed of my professional friends. I have the honour to be. Gentlemen, Your most obedient humble Servant, GEO. BALLING ALL. llenol Row, Feb. 5, 1833.Notice transmitted to the Professor of Military Surgery by Sir James M‘ Grigor. N. B.—It is optional with a Candidate for the Medical Department of the Army to take courses of Surgery for twelve months, or to take six months of Surgery and six of Military Surgery: hut in selecting Candidates, those are preferred who have attended Military Surgery. (Signed) J. M‘GRIGOR, \ ' ■ Director-General, Army Medical Department. London, 29th October 1832. Department of the Physician of the Navy. Admiralty, 24th Nov. 1832. SIR, I have to acquaint you, in return to your letter of the 6th instant, that six months' attendance at your Lectures on Military Surgery will be allowed to reckon as part of the period of Surgical attendance required of Candidates for admission into the Naval Medical Service. I am, SIR, Your most humble Servant, (Signed) W. BURNETT, Physician of the Navy. Sib Geo. Ballingall, M. D. University, Edinburgh-PREFACE. The following’ pages contain a full Outline of the course of lectures which has been delivered to the Class of Military Surgery in this University for a pe- riod of ten years. The arrangement which I have fol- lowed in teaching this department of medical science is one altogether arbitrary ; and without presum- ing to think that this, the first attempt, approaches to any thing like perfection, 1 may be permitted to say, that it is an arrangement which I have found satisfactory and convenient, in conducting the busi- ness of my course. This course consists of three divisions, the first of which embraces numerous topics connected with the formation, discipline and economy of armies, and which, although not exclusively of a profes- sional nature, are yet highly important to the health of the soldier. The second, comprising theVI PREFACE. great body of the course, embraces those surgical accidents and diseases peculiarly incident to military and naval men, and to which the nature of their profession exposes them in all quarters of the world. The third division embraces the consideration of the diseases incident to troops on foreign stations, and of those semblances of disease which the mili- tary or naval surgeon frequently finds it more diffi- cult to combat than the reality. By this arrangement I have been enabled to throw into the introductory and concluding divisions of the course, the discussion of those subjects which require least demonstration, which may be studied with most advantage in private, and upon which I have expressed myself at length in former publications; while, at the same time, I have concentrated to- wards the middle of the course, during the most fa- vourable part of the season for anatomical pursuits, the consideration of those subjects, which neces- sarily require demonstration on the dead body. For the convenience of my pupils I have subjoin- ed to each of these divisions a short list of the most useful works and papers upon the subjects respec- tively embraced in them, particularly those pub- lished by military and naval surgeons. In all that relates to the important subjects ofVll PREFACE. Wounds, Gunshot Fractures, and Amputations, it will be seen that I am greatly indebted to some of the leading authorities in military and naval surgery, particularly to the writings of Baron Larrey, the late Dr. Hennen, Messieurs Guthrie, Hutchison, Hammick, and Samuel Cooper. On many points relating to fractures and amputation, I have quoted largely from a series of Clinical Lectures which I delivered some years ago to the Students of Surgery in the Royal Infirmary. To explain the circumstance of these quotations being generally expressed in the past tense, it may be ne- cessary to observe, that the lectures to which I al- lude consisted in a summary of the most interest- ing cases occurring during each course, and of the observations arising out of them, which were deli- vered as a concluding lecture, and subsequently printed for the use of the students. On the subject of Ophthalmia, I have obtained much valuable information from manuscript reports in my possession by Staft-Surgeons Murray, Dease, and Lindsay, and particularly from the writings of Dr. Vetch, whose observations I find to corres- pond, in almost every instance, with my own, and of whose language 1 have frequently availed myself.Till PREFACE. To Sir Andrew Halliday, the late Mr. Webster of the 4th Dragoon Guards, Dr. MacLachlan of the 79th, and Mr. Marshall of the 87th regiment, I am indebted for valuable communications on the treat- ment of the Venereal disease \ and in the recent writings of some eminent surgeons, particularly Mr. Lawrence and Mr. Bacot of the Grenadier Guards, I see much to confirm me in the views which I have ever entertained on this subject. For the information contained in the section on the distribution of the troops, the prevalent dis- eases on foreign stations, and the proper period for sending out reliefs, I am almost exclusively indebt- ed to Deputy-Inspector-General Marshall, to whom I have also to offer my warmest acknowledgments, for numerous suggestions relative to this work, and for a continued series of valuable written and verbal communications, from the time Iliad the honour to be placed in the chair of Military Surgery, up to the present hour. In conducting the department allotted to me in this great medical school, I have constantly en- deavoured to place the subject under consideration in those points of view most interesting to the mi- litary and naval surgeon. 1 have confined myself, almost exclusively, to practical views of the diffe-IX PREFACE. rent surgical subjects, and have generally entered but little into the pathology of disease, not from underrating its value, but from a persuasion that there are here other and ample sources of patholo- gical information, and from a conviction that the pathology of those accidents and diseases, falling more particularly within my province, is compara- tively simple and easily understood. In conclusion, I may be permitted to state, that in consequence of unexpected delays at the print- ing-office, the labour of correcting the press has devolved upon me at the busiest and most inconve- nient period of the year, which will account for several errata which I have corrected, and will, I trust, apologise for others which I have no doubt overlooked. University of Edinburgh,^ 5th February 1833. JERRATA. Page 192, line 22, for to read by. 256, 17, for are yet sufficient to excite, read may yet excite. 405, 20, for Cotne read Conte. 414, 29, for living read bony. 415, 16, for as read so. 421, 20, for most read more. 537, 13,for those read them. 541, 8, for unseasonable read unreasonable. 549, 24., for muscular read vascular. 563, 31, for when read whose. 568, 31, for felt, as of a circumscribed read felt as if a cir- cumscribed... * CONTENTS. Page INTRODUCTION 1 Selection and Examination of Recruits for the Army 29 Diet, Clothing, and Exercise of Troops . . 37 Accommodation of Troops in Camp, in Barracks, and in Billets . .... 48 Diseases in Camps and Garrisons . . .63 Proportion of Sick in Armies ... 65 Hospitals . . . ... 69 Transportation of Sick and Wounded . . 94 List of Works connected with this Department of the Course ...... 108 SURGICAL DISEASES OF SOLDIERS AND SEAMEN Inflammation . . . . . Burns ...... Ulcers ...... Hospital Gangrene .... Wounds ...... Incised Wounds . ... Punctured Wounds . . . . . 109 111 141 154 175 190 200 211XU CONTENTS. Poisoned Wounds .... Lacerated and contused Wounds Gunshot Wounds .... Wounds of the Arteries .... Aneurism ..... Wounds of the Nerves .... Tetanus . .... Wounds of the Head .... Wounds of the Spine .... Wounds of the Face and Neck Wounds of the Thorax .... Wounds and Fractures of the Extremities Luxations ..... Amputation ...... Ophthalmia ..... Syphilis ...... Gonorrhoea ..... Strictures ...... Punishments ..... List of Works connected with this Department of the Course ...... Page 216 219 221 242 2G0 275 277 288 30G 309 313 353 384 398 426 458 489 503 518 52G DISEASES OF TROOPS ON FOREIGN STATIONS 529 Extent and Distribution of the British Army . . 530 Yellow Fever ..... 536 Tropical Dysentery . . . . .551 Liver Disease ..... 567 Feigned and Factitious Diseases ... .574 List of Works connected with this Department of the Course ...... 588INTRODUCTION. Amongst the numerous subdivisions which now exist in the extensive range of medical science, the department of Military Surgery cannot be considered in its origin the most novel, or in its practice the least important; it is, however, only within a very recent period that any provision was made for a course of public instruction in this branch of medicine ; and it is to me a matter of regret that the professorship which I have the honour to hold, is still the only one of the kind in the uni- versities of this kingdom. While this circumstance leaves me unfettered by habitual trammels or established usages in the conduct of my course, it lays me under a load of respon- sibility in presenting to my pupils and to the public an out- line of the course of lectures which has been delivered for ten years in this university; and in entering upon the sub- ject, it seems necessary to advert to some of those peculiarities which characterise military surgery as a separate branch of study, to offer a few historical notices of the progress of the art itself, and of the lives of those who have been its most distinguished practitioners. Every one is aware of the great and leading division of the healing art into physic and surgery, a division which B %2 MILITARY SURGERY. has existed from a very ancient date, and which it seems to me too much the inclination of the present day to abolish. A superiority in either of these provinces must, in a great measure, result from a knowledge of the same principles. Yet at the same time each of them will probably be carried farther when separately patronised by different institutions, and practised by different individuals. This, indeed, seems to accord with the decisions of experience; for of those who have arrived at singular eminence in either of these arts, few have chosen to invade the province of the other. “ Ches- elden did not prescribe in a fever, nor did Radcliffe under- take an amputation.'1'’ But if there is any one position in which it is impossible to adopt a minute division of profes- sional labour, it is in the position of an army surgeon ; it will readily be seen how inexpedient it would be to have our ar- mies furnished with a host of followers in the shape of phy- sicians, surgeons, accoucheurs, dentists, oculists, and aurists, calculated, in times of difficulty, to increase all the privations of an army, and leading, in the day of battle, to inextricable confusion. It is not, however, in a combination of the two great branches of the profession that the essence of military surgery consists, so much as in the peculiarity of the circumstances in which they fall to be exercised; and it is not perhaps more in the surgical than in the medical division of the subject that this peculiarity exists. Military Surgery may be consi- dered as a judicious application of all the subdivisions of the healing art to those varied circumstances in which soldiers arc placed both in health and in sickness. “ Ce n’est pas toutefois une science distinctc, ni meme une branche parti- culiere de Fart de guerir, mais une application raisonnee de toutes les parties de cet art aux circonstances variees dans lcsquelles se trouvent les homines de guerre, taut en saute qu’en maladie.'13 INTRODUCTION. This simple explanation will go far to obviate some of the objections which are occasionally made to military surgery as a separate branch of study. I have sometimes been tempted to think, from the tenor of their observations, that surgeons in civil life were fearful of being thought incompetent to the treatment of wounds, the amputation of limbs, and the man- agement of other complaints which fall to be treated, if not more judiciously, at least more frequently, by the military surgeon. It is not enough for those who have passed an ho- nourable and a useful life in the practice of domestic surgery, to exclaim, “ Is the arm of the hero of the age, or are the arms of his heroic followers, of a different anatomical mould from the limbs of him who guides the plough ?” No mili- tary surgeon will say, in reply, that he ever dreamt of such a distinction ; but he will say with truth, that the arm of his country’s champion is subject to accidents of a kind little known to the ploughman or the labourer; and he will say that these accidents fall to be treated in circumstances totally unknown to the tranquillity of civil life. But it is perhaps rather to the name than to the art, rather to the shadow than to the substance, that this ob- jection has been applied. The term Military Surgery has been considered inappropriate to this department of medicine, as having too limited a signification, where a large pro- portion of the practice, in peaceable times, falls distinctly within the usual province of the physician; but I can see no great impropriety in applying to this subject as a whole a term analogous to that which has at all times and in all countries been applied to its practitioners; it is in- deed by no means unnatural that the art and its professors should have taken their designation from that branch of it which, upon all great and momentous occasions, constitutes its most distinctive feature. But, farther, I maintain, that the education of every man destined for the public serviceMILITARY SURGERY. 4 should be primarily and essentially surgical ; no good nor well educated surgeon can be destitute of that knowledge of physic which will enable him upon all occasions to acquit himself with judgment and discretion, while, on the other hand, a man educ;Ued exclusively to physic, without the knowledge and also the practice of surgery, will, upon many occasions, be found a most inefficient follower of the camp. Of this several instances have fallen under my own observa- tion, some of them abundantly ridiculous, if the sense of ridi- cule was not lost in the inconvenience. In this view of the matter I am fully borne out by the ex- isting regulations of the British service at the present mo- ment. By an edict of his present Majesty, the appointments of physicians and apothecaries to the forces were annulled, while the surgeons and assistant-surgeons retain their place; and it is not a little curious to observe, that after repeated changes in the designation, rank, titles, and implied acquire- ments of the medical officers of the army, we should now ap- pear to be acting in conformity to the sentiments which pre- vailed upon this subject two hundred years ago. In the preface to a Treatise on Gangrene and Sphacelus, written in the time of Charles the First, it is said, that “ whereas there hath been a question amongst some of the ancients by w hat name they may most properly call the ar- tist; the more learned sort are justly styled by the title of physicians, and the more experienced sort are called chirur- geons, by means whereof sometimes there hath grown differ- ence and offence, which I do advise each discreet surgeon to avoid, and that they give the physician his due honour and precedence, comparisons being odious and unmannerly amongst good men. Each man will conceive that medicine is a prin- cipal part of healing and curing of sores, diseases and sick- nesses ; for who is he that can cure a wound, a tumor, an ul- cer, yea but an ague with his hand only without fitting me-INTRODUCTION. ilicines ? Surely no man. Then it must necessarily follow that surgery, diet, and medicine, (I mean both outward and inward,) are inseparable companions, and therefore all to be used in the art of curing man’s body, and that in the person of one man; and why not then in the surgeon who practiseth on military occasions, as in ships and camps more especially, where neither his Majesty nor the merchant allows the physi- cians or apothecaries any place, and where the whole scope of heal inn- the bodies of the bravest and most valiant warriours O and hardie seamen are upon all occasions wholly referred to the skill of the surgeon ?” But without entering farther into those subdivisions of the healing art which have been established by convenience, cus- tom, or caprice, I may observe that all arts, trades, and professions expose those who practise them to different dis- eases, the number, nature and severity of which vary accord- ing to the influences, more or less hurtful, to which indivi- duals are subjected, and according to the kind of life which, by custom or necessity, they are compelled to lead. While many of the exercises and habits of soldiers are undoubtedly of an invigorating and salutary description, there is no class of men exposed to more numerous or more fertile sources of disease, in the frequent, sudden, and unexpected changes of climate to which they are subjected,—in the urgent and unseasonable calls of duty which they must not disobey,—in the privation of food, of shelter, and of every comfort to which they must occasionally submit; and in the thoughtless ex- cesses of every kind in which they are too prone to in- dulge. If to the study of all these causes, and their effects upon the human frame, we add the consideration of those complicated wounds which it is their peculiar lot to receive, we shall find abundant occupation for the exercise of all the talent and industry which the most active and assiduous professional man can bring to bear upon the subject of militaryMILITARY SURGERY. 6 medicine and surgery. “All those who have practised medicine in armies have observed, that the practice of it there presents difficulties which are very remarkable, whether on account of the nature and severity of the affections which attack soldiers, on account of the complicated forms in which those affections are met with in camps and in hospitals, or on account of nu- merous obstacles and interruptions to the usual and approved modes of treatment in civil life. Hence it is that, indepen- dently of the theoretical and practical knowledge necessary for every physician, he who is destined for the service of the army ought to have accurate and precise information with regard to the condition of the soldier, his manner of life, his habits, his duties, his exercises, the numerous causes of dis- ease which beset him, and the extraordinary circumstances in which he is placed, particularly in the time of war.” These circumstances may be supposed to have claimed, more or less, the attention of reflecting men ever since war came to be studied as a science, or practised by civilized na- tions. It has indeed been observed, by an elegant writer, that “ military surgery, rude and imperfect though it might have been, if not the very first, was at least amongst the earli- est of the arts which the follies and the infirmities of mankind forced them to cultivatebut it is obvious, that this remark applies rather to those rude and imperfect traces of the art, such as it was practised by the heroes of antiquity, and no- ticed in the writings of historians, than to. a branch of science which now affords a theme of study, and a field of occupation for a numerous class of practitioners. Military surgery, as it now exists, is so essentially the creation of the late war, its principles have been so fully developed, and its future prac- tice must be so much influenced by the experience acquired in the recent campaigns, that to this experience I must chief- ly refer in laying down the rules of treatment applicable to those formidable diseases which assail our fleets and our armies,INTRODUCTION. 7 and to those severe and complicated injuries which it falls to the lot of the soldier and the seaman to endure. In proceeding to give a brief sketch of the history of mili- tary surgery, I conceive it quite unnecessary to dwell at any length upon the imperfect traces which we find of this art previous to the invention of gunpowder. I his produced such essential changes in the features of war, and continues to ex- ercise such a paramount influence in all our military opera- tions, that to enter into details previous to its invention and employment in battle, were, in my opinion, not only super- fluous, but altogether idle. Of the consternation which the first use of gunpowder occa- sioned amongst the troops, we may form some idea from the following relation, extracted from Monro’s account of his ex- pedition, with the worthy Scots regiment, called M‘Kay’s re- giment, levied in August 1626. Speaking of the invention of artillery, he observes, “ it is thought the invention of can- non was first found at Nurenberg, for the ruin of man ; being at first, for a long time, used for battering down of walls and cities, and for counter-batteries, till at last they were used in the field to break the squadrons and battailes of horse and foot; some carrying pieces called spingards, of four foote and a halfe long, that shot many bullets at once no greater than walnuts; and how soon the trumpet did sounde, the enemy were thundered on, first with these as with shoures of hail- stone, so that the enemies were cruelly affrighted with them, men of valour being suddenly taken away, who before were wont to fight valiantly and long with the sword and launce, more for the honour of victory than for any desire of shedding of bloud ; but now men are martyrised and cut downe at more than half a mile of distance, by those furious and thundering engines of great cannon, that sometimes shootc fiery bullets able to burne whole cities, castles, houses, or bridges, where they chance to fall ; and if they happen to light within walles.MILITARY SURGERY. 8 01 amongst a brigadd ol foote or horse, as they did at Leip- sigh on the grave "V on Torne his brigadd, they spoil a num- ber at once, as, doubtlesse, the devilish invention did within Walestine.” Of the effects of cannon and grapeshot, so pathetically described by Monro, none were more appalling, or led to more individual distress, than the new species of wounds presented to the view of the army surgeons. The alleg- ed poisonous nature of the ingredients composing the pow- der, or of the balls projected by it, immediately became the subject of their theoretical disquisitions, while their practice, in the first instance, was mostly confined to prayers, charms, and incantations ; these were superseded by a farrago of in- congruous applications, which have gradually been exchanged for the simple practice of our own times. It was not, however, until the wars in which France was involved between the years 1732 and 1743, that the subject of military surgery began to assume its present systematic form. Hitherto the states of Europe had been content to enjoy the benefits of the labours of military surgeons, without having taken any direct part in the honour or advancement of this art. In France, indeed, various ordonnances were issued between 171 8 and 1747, containing some dispositions favour- able to the instruction of young surgeons destined for the ser- vices of the hospitals and troops, but these it appears had been but very imperfectly executed during the war. The peace of 17G3 appeared favourable to Richard, who was nominated inspector of hospitals, to realize a project which he had formed while first physician to the army in Germany, and he submitted to the Due de Choiseul, then minister of war, the propriety of requiring the army surgeons to give a regular account of their practice, and to correspond with the inspector-general on the subject. From this corres- pondence an interesting volume under the title of “ RecueilINTBODUCTION. 9 d’Observations de Meilecine lies Hospitaux Militaires,” was published in 1766, and another in 1772- The many va- luable memoirs contained in these two volumes appear to have in some measure rivetteil the attention of the French government to this subject, and to have greatly contributed to the improvement of military medicine in France. The favourable impulse thus given led to the translation into French of the excellent work of our countryman, Dr. Donald Monro, and to the publication of the “ Code de Me- decine Militaire” in 177^, and of another treatise, “ d’Hy- gierne Militaire” in 177$? by Colomhier, one of their most distinguished physicians. Long accustomed to live with the soldier, acquainted with his habits, his tastes, his prejudices, his fatigues, and his dangers, he was well qualified to lay down rules for the preservation of his health, and, in 1778? Colomhier gave to the public a general and valuable treatise on the health of soldiers in seven volumes octavo. The publication of these various works, in which questions the most important to the service of the hospitals were discus- sed, created a considerable sensation amongst the ministers of Louis XVI., and led to various ordonnances, by which the publication of the correspondence of the army surgeons, which had fallen into disuse, was again decreed ; and schools of in- struction for those devoted to the public service were esta- blished at Lisle, at Metz, anil at Strasbourg. By a subsequent decree of the 1st of July 1778? the plan of committing the care of sick soldiers to their respective regimental surgeons, and the institution of regimental infirmaries, was established, against the remonstrances of many of the older surgeons. Indeed, it does not appear that this plan of conducting the treatment of the sick soldier, which is so well understood, and so highly appreciated in the British service, has ever acquired the same popularity and efficiency in France. The publica- tion, however, of the records of the military hospitals in that10 MILITARY SURGERY. country has gone on, particularly since the peace of 1815, with a most commendable spirit, under the auspices of the secretary of state for the war department; and while we have excelled the French in the administration of our regi- mental hospitals, we would do well to imitate them in the publication of official documents bearing on the medical sta- tistics of the army. Amongst those who have successfully cultivated and ex- tended the boundaries of military surgery in France, I would claim particular attention to one of their earlier writers, Ambrose Pare, who was successively surgeon to four kings of France, and who followed the French armies in all their cam- paigns from 1536 down to the battle of Moncontour in 1569. In his writings, which were collected and published by Guil- lemau, at Paris, in 1582, we have a picture of the wretched state in which Pare found military surgery at the time he en- tered the service; and to him we are indebted for many sub- stantial improvements in its practice. He it was who first banished from surgery the celebrated oleum catulorum ; an oil prepared by the boiling of live whelps, and reckon- ed a sovereign remedy for gunshot wounds. To Pare, also, we are indebted for the introduction of the needle and ligature, an improvement in the art of surgery, for which the name of its inventor will ever be respected. Pare’s humanity would appear, from the following anecdote, to have been equal to his skill; “ A party had gone out to attack a church (where the peasants of the country had fortified them- selves,) hoping to get some booty of provisions, but they came back very soundly beaten; and one especially, a captain-lieu- tenant of the company of the Duke de Rohan, returned with seven gashes on his head, the least of which penetrated through both tables of the skull, besides four sabre wounds in the arm, and one across the shoulder, which divided one half of the shoulder blade. When he was brought to quarters, his mas-11 INTRODUCTION. ter, the Duke, judged him to be so desperately wounded, that he absolutely proposed (as they were to march by day-light) to dig a ditch for him, and throw him into it, saying, that it was as well that the peasants should finish him. But being moved with pity, I told him, says Pare, that the captain might yet be cured ; many gentlemen of the company joined with me in begging that he might be allowed to go along with the baggage, since I was willing to dress and cure him. This was, accordingly, granted ; I dressed him, put him into a small well-covered bed in a cart drawn by one horse. I was at once physician, surgeon, apothecary, and cook to him, and, thank God, I did cure him in the end to the admiration of all the troops ; and out of the first booty, the men at anns gave me a crown a-piece, and the archers half-a-crown each.” It was actions like this which brought Pare into so much re- pute amongst the French soldiery, that we find their princes and generals willingly took the field when they could prevail upon Pare to go out along with them ; and at the time when all the noblesse of the kingdom were shut up in Mentz, which was besieged by Charles V. in person, at the head of a hun- dred thousand men, they sent an embassy to the king their master, beseeching him to send Pare to them. An Italian captain, for a great reward, introduced him into the city ; they instantly sent at midnight, to awaken the prince who com- manded the garrison with the good news of his arrival. The governor begged of him that he would go next day and show himself on the breach. He was received by the soldiers with shouts of triumph. We shall not die even although wounded —Pare is amongst us ! Mentz was at this time the bulwark of France, and it has always been ascribed to the presence of this single man, that they kept the city till the gallant army which lay around it perished beneath its walls. But although I have been tempted to give this brief no- tice of one who may be in some measure termed the fatherMILITARY SURGERY. 12 of military surgery, yet I do not propose to trace the lives of those numerous writers belonging to the same nation who have done honour to themselves and to this art. I must ra- ther confine myself to the history of Military Surgery in Eng- land, chiefly as portrayed in the lives of those distinguished individuals who, after spending a portion of their time in an irksome attendance upon the armies, have left in their writ- ings proofs of a professional enthusiasm, and a devotion to the service of their kings, princes, and generals, which carried them through inconceivable toils and privations, while they were rewarded only by a pittance which, in the present day, would be spurned at by tbe lowest menial. Of the amount of this pittance, it so happens, that a very minute and particular account has been preserved in Rymer’s Foedera, from which we learn that, when Henry the 5th of England carried on war with France in 1415, he took into his service Nicholas Colnet, as field-surgeon for a year. He was bound to carry with him three archers on horseback, and to accompany the king wherever he went. In return he was to receive yearly forty merks, to be paid at the rate of ten merks per quarter. He was allowed also twelve pennies per day as subsistence-money, and each of his archers had twenty merks a-year, and six pennies daily as subsistence. The chief army- surgeon Morstede wras engaged with fifteen men, three of whom were to be archers, and the remaining twelve, surgeons. Both Colnet and Morstede could receive prisoners and plun- der, but when the latter amounted to twenty pounds in value, a third part of it was to be given to the king. Those head men got each a quarter’s pay in advance; and that they might always have security for the next quarter, the king engaged to put into their hands, by way of pledges, as many jewels or other articles as might be equal to one quarter’s pay and sub- sistence. What was the nature, and what the extent of the profes-13 INTRODUCTION. sional services rendered to the king by Colnet and Morstede, whose remuneration was thus minutely specified and care- fully secured, I am unable to say, neither of them having left any professional writings which have been transmitted to us. The next Military Surgeon of England whose services and whose writings entitle him to notice, is 1 homas Gale, who was born m 1507, and educated under Richard h erns, ser- geant-surgeon to Queen Elizabeth. Gale served in the army of King Henry VIII. at Montrieul, in 1544, afterwards in that of King Philip, at St. Quintin, in 1557, and finally settled in London, where he became eminent in the prac- tice of his profession. His works were published in 1563, and, amongst other surgical writings, contain a “ Treatise 011 Gunshot Wounds,” designed chiefly to confute the error of Jerome of Brunswick, John de Vigo, Alphonsus Ferrius, and others, in supposing these wounds to be of a venomous nature. He takes pains also to prove that a bullet does not acquire such a heat, in its motion, as to render its wound similar to a cautery, which was then the common opinion; thence he recom- mends a milder method of dressing these wounds, directing his endeavours to the procuring a laudable digestion, and in all respects considering them as common contusions. A subse- quent volume of this surgeon’s works is dated in 1566. The first two pieces it contains are “ A Brief Declaration of the Worthy Art of Medecine,” and “ the Office of a Chirurgeon.” The chief object of these tracts is to give a general history of the healing art, and to inculcate the necessity of a scientific method of study in attaining it. Numerous complaints of the intrusion of illiterate pretenders and empirics into the practice of medicine and surgery are interspersed through these pieces ; some of which are worth notice, as they contain curious information of the state of the profession at the time. Of the deplorable condition of military practice in his day we may judge from the following relation: “ I remember,” says he,MILITARY SURGERY. 14 “ when I was in the wars at Muttrel, in the time of that most famous prince, King Henry VIII., there was a great rabble- ment there that took upon them to be surgeons. Some were sow-geklers, and horse-gelders, with tinkers and cobblers. This noble sect did such great cures that they got themselves a perpetual name, for like as Thessalus’s sect were called Thes- salians, so was this rabblement, for their notorious cures, call- ed dog-leeches ; for in two dressings they did commonly make their cures whole and sound for ever, so that they neither felt heat nor cold, nor no manner of pain after. But when the Duke of Norfolk, who was then general, understood how the people did die, and that of small wounds, he sent for me and certain other surgeons, commanding us to make search how these men came to their death, whether it were by the griev- ousness of their wounds, or by the lack of knowledge of the surgeons ; and we, according to our commandment, made search through all the camp, and found many of the same good fellows, which took upon them the names of surgeons, not only the names, but the wages also. We asking of them whether they were surgeons or no ; they said they were. We demanded with whom they were brought up : and they, with shameless faces, would answer, either with one cunning man or another who was dead. Then we demanded of them what chirurgery stuff they had to cure men withal: and they would shew us a pot or a box, which they had in a budget, wherein was such trumpery as they did use to grease horses1 heels, and laid upon scabbed horses1 backs; and others that were cobblers and tinkers, they used shoemakers1 wax, with the rust of old pans, and made therewithal a noble salve, as they did term it. But in the end this worthy rabblement was committed to the Marshalsea, and threatened by the Duke’s Grace to be hanged for their worthy deeds, except they would declare the truth what they were, and of what occupation, and in the end they did confess as I have declared to you before.INTRODUCTION. 15 The next writer of note upon military surgery is William Clowes, who appears to*have commenced the practice of his profession as a navy surgeon, as he mentions serving on board one of the Queen’s ships, called the Aid, in 1570. He afterwards settled in London, was appointed surgeon to St. Bartholomew’s and Christ’s Hospitals, and was subsequently sent for, by letters, from the Earl of Leicester, general of the English forces in the Low Countries, to come and take upon him the care of the wounded men ; and thither he went in 1586, by command of the queen, together with William Godorus, her serjeant-surgeon. His earliest publication, en- titled “ A Brief and Necessary Treatise touching the Cure of the Disease now called Lues Venerea,” was first printed in 1585 ; here he laments the great frequency of the disease, and in proof of this states, that in the course of five years he had cured about a thousand venereal patients in St. Bartho- lomew’s Hospital. The next and most important work of Clowes, is “ A proved Practice for all young Chirurgeons, concerning burnings with gunpowder, and wounds made with gunshot, sword, halberd, pike, launce, or such other.” In the treatment of gunshot wounds he adopts what has some- times passed for a more recent improvement, the use of mild emollient dressings ; and in the relation of several dangerous and complicated cases of this sort, shows himself a skilful practitioner. For the suppression of haemorrhage after ampu- tation, he employed buttons of an absorbent and mildly as- tringent powder, applied to the vessels, and sustained by bolsters of lint and tow, with strong compression. This, he says, never failed him, and though he was acquainted with the method of drawing out and tying the arteries used by some French surgeons, he never practised it. He speaks everywhere with great respect of his cotemporaries of the pro- fession, both native and foreign, but is severe upon empirical pretenders, many of whom, he laments, were intrusted toMILITARY SURGERY. 16 practise on board her majesty’s ships, to the great detriment of the service. In “ A Discourse on the whole art of Chirurgery,” written by Peter Lowe, in the form of a dialogue between himself and his son, and dedicated to James Hamilton, earl of Aber- corn, we find that Scotland has the honour of being the au- thor’s birthplace. He acquaints his readers that he had practised two and twenty years in France and in Flanders, had been two years surgeon-major to the Spanish regiment at Paris ; and had followed his master, Henry IV. of France in his wars, six years. In the title page of his book he calls himself Doctor in the faculty of surgery at Paris, and ordi- nary surgeon to the king of France and Navarre. His work is dated from his house in Glasgow, Dec. 20th, 1612. How long he had been settled there does not appear, but he men- tions that, fourteen years before, on his complaining of the ignorant persons who intruded into the practice of surgery, the king of Scotland granted him a privilege under his privy seal, of examining all practitioners in surgery, in the western parts of the kingdom ; and in virtue of this grant, the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow', claiming tg be the lineal offspring of Peter Lowe, is at this moment carrying on a lawsuit, for the purpose of compelling those gentlemen w ho have obtained the degree of Master of Surgery from that University, to submit to a further examination before the Faculty, previous to their being licensed to practise in that district. Lowe’s w'ork appears to have been sufficiently esteemed in its day, a fourth edition having been printed at London in 1654 ; and of the author’s private character we have an ami- able picture from a rude epitaph on his tombstone, in the cathedral church at Glasgow, quoted by the antiquary, Pennant. About the year 1549? was born John Woodall, a distin-INTRODUCTION. 17 guished military surgeon, and who, in that capacity, went over to France, in 1589, with the troops sent by queen Eli- zabeth to the assistance of Henry IV. under Lord Willough- by. On his return to England, after a lapse of several years spent in travelling on the continent, he settled in Lon- don ; became a member of the Surgeons Company about the year 1812; was elected Surgeon to St. Bartholomew’s Hos- pital, and also surgeon-general to the East India Company. It is to be inferred from several circumstances, that he was employed some considerable time as surgeon to a ship, and in that capacity made one or more voyages to the East Indies. In 1626, when the naval forces of the kingdom were aug- mented, and warlike preparations were carried on with vi- gour, the charge of fitting out the chirurgical part of his ma- jesty’s service was committed to the Corporation of Sur- geons, and by them to Woodall. The king, Charles I., on this occasion augmented the pay of the Navy Surgeons, and granted a sum of money proportioned to the rates of the ships, towards furnishing the medicine chests. Among several other publications of Woodall, those more immediately connected with military and naval practice are his “ Surgeon’s Mate,” the earliest of his productions, which contains an enumeration of all the instruments, utensils, and medicines of a surgeon’s chest, with a brief description of their uses and qualities. His next wrork, entitled “ Viaticum, or Pathway to the Sur- geon’s Chest,” was written in 1626, and published two years after. It is written with the same general design of instruct- ing young practitioners, chiefly in reference to the treatment of gun-shot wounds, although under this head there is nothing materially different from what was given in his Surgeon’s Mate. The last of his works is a treatise on gangrene and sphacelus. Several useful remarks on amputation occur in this tract, and it seems to contain the first hint of amputat- ing as low as the ancle in diseases of the foot. For having £> cMILITARY SURGERY. 18 observed, while in the East Indies, that persons who had un- dergone the punishment of having their feet cut off, were able to walk very well after the stumps were healed by putting them into cases of bamboo, he expresses a wish that the prac- tice might be imitated by surgeons, though he acknowledges that he himself should not venture upon such an innova- tion. The next author whom I shall mention demands especial regard, whether we look upon him in his civil or his military capacity ; I mean Richard Wiseman, serjeant-surgeon to king Charles II., who was bred amidst the horrors of our civil wars, serving a long and weary apprenticeship to that profession, in which at last he attained to an eminence scarcely surpass- ed by any man since his time. Of his eight Chirurgical Treatises dated in 167^, one is expressly devoted to the consideration of gun-shot wounds r and m this, after ad- verting to the great contentions amongst the learned about fire and venom in such wounds, he observes, “ in these our later times, although they do not call them venomous, yet it is a difficult thing to dissuade many of our chirur- geons from dressing these wounds with the tincture of myrrh, and honey of roses, and thrusting in of great tents.” Amongst many very remarkable cases and excellent precepts which Wiseman’s work contains, he observes, “ in heat of fight, whether it be at sea or land, the chirurgeon ought to consider, at the first dressing, what possibility there is of preserving the wounded member ; and, accordingly, if there be no hopes of saving it, to make his amputation at that instant, while the pa- tient is free of feverthus giving his testimony in favour of the practice of immediate amputation—a point to which we shall, in a subsequent part of the course, have particular occasion to advert; a point which was the subject of much discus- sion during the late campaigns ; and which discussion, afterINTRODUCTION. 19 the lapse of a hundred and fifty years, terminated in confirm- ing the maxim so distinctly laid down by "Wiseman. Two years after the appearance of Wiseman’s chirurgical treatises, “ A complete Discourse on W ounds, both general and particular ; as also, a Treatise on Gun-shot Wounds in general,” was published at London, by John Brown, sworn chirurgeon in ordinary to king Charles II. This is a work of considerable learning, and is illustrated by a reference to the author’s experience in the navy, during the Dutch war of 1665, in which he was severely wounded. From this period until 1744, we have no express treatise of any note on the subject of wounds, which I have hitherto been considering as more particularly the province of military surgery. In this year a small treatise on the method of treating gun-shot wounds, was published by John Ranby, prin- cipal serjeant-surgeon to king George II. ; a second edition of this work appeared in 1760, containing the result of the au- thor’s observations while he had the honour of attending his majesty to the wars in Germany. “ This work,” says he, “ was penned in a camp, and was intended to recommend plentiful bleeding very early in the treatment of gun-shot wounds, to advise likewise the application of light easy dress- ings to them, and particularly to introduce the signal use of the bark.” The next English writer who falls to be noticed, is one whose physiological and surgical talents have elicited so many compliments, that the language of panegyric is nearly exhaust- ed in his praise. I shall readily be anticipated in mentioning the name of John Hunter, whose imperishable work on “ The Blood, Inflammation, and Gun-shot Wounds,” was publish- ed in 1794, and contains observations drawn from the author’s experience while serving as staff-surgeon at Belleisle, and in Portugal; subsequently to which he was appointed surgeon- general to the army, and inspector of regimental infirmaries.20 MILITARY SURGERY. Mr. Hunter's work above referred to, and his treatise on the venereal disease,another subject peculiarly interesting to themi- litary surgeon, are universally known, and generally esteemed. From the date of Mr. Hunter’s writings, until 1804, no work appeared on the subject of wounds, which claims any au- thority from the personal experience of its author. In this year was published “ Chirurgical Institutes on Gun-shot Wounds,” by St. John Neale, a work which, although the writer alludes to his personal experience during the American war, has never attracted any attention, having been always looked upon as a translation of Le Dran. The conclusion of the war with France, in 1815, gave oc- casion to the appearance of two excellent works on military sur- gery, by Mr. Guthrie and Dr. Hennen. Mr. Guthrie’s work on gun-shot wounds of the extremities, was first published in 1815, and in subsequent editions it has been greatly enlarged and improved, under the title of “ A Treatise on Gun-shot Wounds, on Injuries of Nerves, and on Wounds of the ex- tremities requiring amputation.” Here he enters into the consideration of gun-shot wounds in general, and illustrates his doctrines by a reference to the most extensive experience which perhaps any of his countrymen have ever enjoyed ; the whole, as it now exists, forms a work wThich every one agrees in considering a standard authority upon those points of which it treats. The nature and objects of Dr. Hennen’s work, a third edition of which has recently been published under the title of “ Principles of Military Surgery,” will be best understood from the elegant language of its author. “ At the termination of a series of wars, which, for a large portion of a century, have desolated the finest regions of the Euro- pean world, and drenched their fields in blood, the medical philanthropist will naturally ask, what results have accrued from such ample sources of experience ? What progress has been made in softening the miseries of pain and disease, and21 INTRODUCTION. in extracting from such multitudes of victims antidotes to the waste of human life ? The younger practitioner also who may enter the service of his country will inquire, where am I to collect the fruits of that experience with which so many cam- paigns have enriched my predecessors ? and how, if the op- portunities come within my reach, am I best to avail myself of them ? It is in some degree," says Dr. Hennen, “ to an- swer these interrogatories that I have ventured to make the following observations. In arranging them I have carefully availed myself of the written and oral remarks of the best ar- my surgeons, both domestic and foreign, to whose works and conversation I have had access, or who possessed more exper- ience than myself. I have studiously avoided controversial discussions, when they could lead to no practical result; and theory, unsupported by experience, I have altogether rejected.11 Dr. Thomson’s report of the state of the wounded in Bel- gium, after the battle of Waterloo, was published here in 1816; in this will be found much information highly inter- esting to the military surgeon, and his chapter on amputa- tion contains an admirable history of that operation. In the same year was published the first edition of a work en- titled “ Practical Observations on Surgery,” by Mr. C. Hut- chison, an experienced naval surgeon, who shortly after published some farther “ Observations on the proper period for amputating in Gun-shot Wounds.11 This contains a series of reports on the surgical cases after Lord Exmouth’s naval ac- tion at Algiers, and is enriched with many valuable observa- tions which entitle Mr. Hutchison to the same distinguished consideration in the naval branch of the service which Guthrie and Hennen hold in the military department. Within the last two years, we have also been favoured with another work from the naval department by Mr. Hammick, surgeon of the naval hospital at Plymouth, which contains many valuable observa- tions on amputations, fractures and strictures of the urethra,MILITARY SURGERY. <99 Mr. Samuel Cooper of London, and my late colleague, Mr. Allan of this city, although their observations have not been published in a separate form, but introduced into their syste- matic works on surgery, are also entitled to a distinguished place amongst those who have given to the profession the fruits of their personal experience in the treatment of wounds. At the head of a numerous list of writers, who, although not military surgeons themselves, have yet given us many import- ant observations on this branch of surgery, stands Mr. John Bell, whose discourses on wounds, published here in 1795, con- tain much ingenious doctrine, and many excellent practical pre- cepts. To his brother, Sir Charles Bell, we are indebted also for many interesting and valuable observations on wounds. Here I must not omit to mention the ingenious little work of Mr. Chevalier on Gun-shot Wounds, published in 1804, and which had been distinguished the preceding year by obtaining the Jacksonian prize awarded by the Royal College of Sur- geons of London. In the above list, I have confined myself almost exclu- sively to writers of the English school. To enter into any thing like a circumstantial account of the writings of foreign au- thors, would carry me far beyond the bounds necessarily assign- ed to this preliminary detail; of these I cannot undertake even a a bare enumeration, but I may observe that, in the list of French writers on military surgery, numerous beyond that of any other country, the names of Belloste, Le Bran, Faudaque, Ravaton, and Le Cat hold a conspicuous place, while the memoirs of the French Academy of Surgery teem with communications from various authors on subjects abundantly interesting to the military surgeon. At the commencement of the revolutionary war, Baron Percy published an excellent little work, under the title of Manuel de Chirurgien d’Armee; and towards the close of that war, Baron Larrey communicated to the world, in his “ Memoires de Chirurgie Militairc,” the results of his23 INTRODUCTION. •extensive experience in numerous campaigns. Some of these authors evince a practical acquaintance with the subject, su- perior perhaps to what lias been shown by writers of the same period in our own country; but whatever advantage they had to boast of at the beginning of the late arduous and protracted conflict, before its termination, our surgeons were noways behind those of the enemy in skill, dexterity, judgment, or in any other qualification becoming an accom- plished army surgeon. But while we may please ourselves with the foregoing re- flection, we must admit, that in the formation of schools of , military surgery, and in the attention given by the state to the instruction of medical men for the service of the army, the French, the Prussians, and other continental nations have gone far before us. Of this, abundant and useful proofs will be found in the perusal of the Journal of Military Medicine, Surgery, and Pharmacy ; and in a continuation of it, under the title of “ Recueil des Memoires de Medecme, de Chirur- gie, et de Pharmacie Militaires,” published at Paris, by or- der of the Secretary of State for the war department; a work now amounting to upwards of thirty octavo volumes, and from which we learn that in the medical schools established in the military hospitals at Metz, at Lisle and at Strasbourg, the system of clinical instruction, now so much approved of by all judicious teachers, was first made known to the medi- cal youth of France I have now mentioned many of the most conspicuous names in the province of what maybe more strictly termed MilitarySur- gery, but were I to stop my enumeration here, I should lead to a very imperfect and erroneous opinion of the nature of the service, of the duties which devolve on a military medical officer, and of the merits of many who have performed these duties with honour and success. The carnage, even in the great battle of Waterloo, an event sufficiently unique and24 MILITARY SUROERY. distinguished to mark the age we live in, is in no long time equalled by the mortality amongst those brave men who are employed in defending our foreign possessions, and it would he unpardonable to omit mentioning numerous authors who have written well upon the diseases to which our troops arc exposed in these distant climates. I have yet said nothing of the writers on the diseases which afflict the soldier in camp and in garrison ; in this list the names of Pringle, Brocklesby, Monro, and Cleghorn stand particularly conspicuous ; amongst writerson the diseases more peculiarly incident to seamen, Lind, Blane, Trotter and Burnet, hold the most distinguished place ; and from a numerous catalogue of winters upon tropical dis- eases, I would particularly recommend the works of Hunter, Jackson, Bancroft, Chisholm, Curtis, Johnson, and Annesley. In adverting more particularly to our own position in this great school of medicine, and to the utility of a separate class for the instruction of military surgeons, I may observe that in a letter addressed to me sometime ago by the Director-General of the medical department of the army, he expresses his deep regret that similar establishments do not exist in the other uni- versities of this country. I have also been gratified by per- ceiving in the preface to Baron Larrey’s “ Clinique Chirurgi- cale, a work for which I am indebted to its distinguished au- thor, that he also expresses his regret at the want of a similar establishment in the Parisian metropolis, which it appears was at one time promised to him by the minister of the day ; the import of such an expression from the most experienced military surgeon of this or of any age,—a man of forty years experience, and of six and twenty campaigns,—cannot fail to be fully understood. But while I thus refer with pleasure to the sentiments of the living, I must not omit to do justice to the memory of the dead, to the memory of one who, although not a military sur- geon himself, was perhaps better qualified than any man olINTRODUCTION. his day to have done honour to this department of practice, to whom 1 hold this school of medicine in general, and this chair in particular, to be deeply indebted, and who advocated the cause of military and naval surgery with an energy that can never be surpassed. The late Mr. John Bell, after having been educated in the dissecting room, and practised in a large civil hospital, after being fraught with every information which could grace a practitioner and a teacher, left this his native city, and repaired to the naval hospital at Yarmouth, to witness the treatment of the seamen wounded in the battle of Camperdown. Here we must suppose that he soon saw enough to convince him of the advantages likely to accrue from a course of instruction specially adapted to military and naval surgeons. In a memoir dated from Yarmouth in January ] 798, and addressed to Earl Spencer, then first Lord of the Admiralty, he dwells on the disadvantages under which the naval surgeons of that day la- boured, and urges upon the Government the formation of a national school of military and naval medicine. “ Ever,” says he, “ since I have been capable of thought, I have struggled for objects far beyond my reach to obtain. In this anxious moment, w-hen I have about me no selfish views, no mean nor worldly cravings, no desires which I should not be proud to avow, there dwells upon my mind this oppressive and prophetic feeling, that I am perhaps go- ing to suffer the sorest of all disappointments. I am upon the eve either of achieving by my zeal a great public good, or of preventing by an imprudent and too sudden movement, a new order of things in that department which needs most of all to be improved. “ But, my Lord, I have a claim upon your Lordship which you will not refuse. I have studied naval surgery with par- ticular care. I have bestowed upon it of money, of time, of labour, more than 1 am entitled to bestow. I have followed yom victorious fleet, and attended your prisoners and your26 MILITARY SURGERY. wounded, as if I had been attached to Government by old ser- vices and high rewards. These, my Lord, are my privileges. I am now retiring from this busy scene, and all my claim to your Lordship’s notice is this desire to be useful. “ 1 am but ill prepared to speak upon the most interesting of all subjects; I am fearful of that enthusiasm which is so apt to mix. itself with thoughts such as I am now to lay before your Lordship. I am anxious above all how my advice may be received by those accustomed to judge of high matters; yet I feel myself entitled to propose the establishment of one great school of Military Surgery. It were almost, I think, an object of national gratitude ; surely it were an institution humane, charitable, useful above all others.” This spirited writer then goes on to deplore the very inadequate encourage- ment held out to the naval surgeons of that day, and the con- sequent difficulty of obtaining men of competent education for this branch of the public service. “ Perhaps,” says he, “ in a whole fleet there arc few surgeons’ mates, not one may be, who is able to perform the greater operations of surgery. It has happened- that, after the most earnest entreaties of the officers, of the surgeon, and of every one concerned, a ship of the line has gone into battle without one assistant on board; no, not one to screw a tourniquet, to tie an artery, to hold a shattered stump, to put a piece of lint on a bleeding wound !” It is well known that although there is yet much room for improvement in the situation of the navy surgeons, there no longer exist those defects either in their number or in their pro- fessional education which Mr. Bell so feelingly laments ; and amongst those who have contributed to these improvements, no one held a more distinguished place than the venerable author of the Medicina Nautiea, of whose death I have lately heard with regret. But Mr. Bell, to whose memoir I return, was not satisfied with pointing out the evil which existed; he entered into various details for its removal, and laid down a27 INTRODUCTION. plan for a course of military surgery, which shows that he entertained a perfect conception of what was wanted in a course of this kind. “ 1. The Professor,” says Mr. Bell, “ must teach with perfect care the essentials of anatomy ; the great principles of surgery he must found upon dissections; and all the great operations, all the accidents which each part of the body is li- able to, all kinds of wounds must be fully explained. “ 2. These general principles of the science must next be applied to the peculiar duties of the military surgeon; the professor must teach carefully the peculiar nature of gun-shot wounds. “ 3. He must deliver a short code of military medicine, explaining the fevers, fluxes, spasms, infectious diseases, and all the peculiar duties of the camp and the hospital; he must also explain the scurvy, ulcers, and all the disorders most fre- quent in ships of war. “ 4. He must teach medical geography ; the climates, sea- sons ; coasts of various countries; the manner of conducting soldiers on a foreign expedition ; the general care of their health ; the choice of encampments ; the forming of hospitals onshore; howto convert churches, garrisons, public build- ings, into occasional hospitals ; how to attend an army in the field; how to lay the wounded in besieged towns ; how to carry them off the field in a retreating army. “ 5. Along with these must be taught military economics, diet, exercise, clothing, general medicine, and all methods of preventing disease. Without this knowledge, no man is entitled to serve. How few are thus taught ? How few are fit for ser- vice ? How few are there who are not conscious of those blurs and blots in their general education, which no diligence of their own can ever do away ? “ 6. The last and not the least important duty of the teacher should be to point out for his pupils a future plan of28 MILITARY SURGERY. study ; to make for them a selection of books ; to deliver criti- cal and practical observations on those which are to be most used. The teacher must not only instruct his pupils for the present, he must select objects for their future study. He must teach them this truth, that their education is only be- gun, and that the best of their studies remain as yet untouch- ed ; he must show them how to think for themselves, and then he may hope to reap in his turn the fruit of their la- bours, and live to see their observations and cases published under his own care.’1 Of the peculiarities of the study on which we are about to enter, I have already attempted to give some general idea. Every candid man who is conversant with the recent writings of military and of naval surgeons, will admit that there are a sufficient number of accidents peculiar to njilitary life, or at least of accidents so modified in their nature, progress, and treatment, by the circumstances peculiar to military life, as to afford ample room for a course of this kind ; and of the nume- rous inducements which are held out to the study of surgery in general, none are more striking than those arising from its obvious importance to military men. “ We must,” says Dionis, “ allow the necessity of chirurgery, which daily raises many persons from the brink of the grave. How many men has it cured in the army ? How many great commanders would have died of their ghastly wounds without its assistance ? Chirurgery triumphs in armies and in sieges. ’Tis there that its empire is owned ; ’tis there that its effects, and not words, express its culogium.”EXAMINATION OF RECRUITS. 29 SELECTION AND EXAMINATION OF RECRUITS FOR THE ARMY. Before proceeding to the treatment of those accidents and diseases peculiarly incident to soldiers and seamen, it will be useful to advert to some of those points in the phy- sical constitution of individuals which best qualify them for the duties of a soldier, and to some of those circumstances in the accommodation and equipment of troops, upon the due regulation of which their efficiency and exemption from disease mainly depend. The subject which naturally presents itself as the first ob- ject deserving our attention, is the materials of which an ar- my is composed. “ The selection,” says Dr. Jackson, “ of persons possessed of intellectual and physical capacity for the practice of war, and the systematic instruction of persons so selected in approved forms of discipline, may be regarded as an object of high national concern. It conduces to the pre- servation of national independence, and, on this ground, it de- mands the deepest attention of patriotic statesmen, and the closest study of scientific soldiers.” In the celebrated work of Vcgetius “ Dc re Militariwe have some curious and interesting observations upon this sub- ject. He remarks, that “ all nations which are near the sunMILITARY SUROERY. 30 are dried by too much heat, that they are indeed abundantly wise, hut unsteady in action, having too little blood, they are fearful of wounds ; that northern nations, on the other hand, abounding in blood, (largo sanguine redundantes) are more determined in battle, but are rash and inconsiderate. He therefore prefers conscripts from the more temperate regions, the inhabitants of which, says he, have a sufficiency of blood to render them regardless of wounds and of death, while pru- dence is not awanting, which preserves moderation in camp, and does no little good in council and in action.” In his 3d chapter, he inquires whether recruits from the country or from towns are the more useful, and hesitates not to give the pre- ference to the rustic ; “ bred in the open air, and in laborious occupation, capable of bearing the sun’s heat, and negligent of shade ; ignorant of baths and of delicacies, of a simple mind, and inured to toil, the warrior and the husbandman are the same, with ohly a change of weapons.” From the coun- try, therefore, the strength of an army is to be supplied; “ for I know not,” he exclaims, “ how he should fear death most who knows least of the luxuries of life.” In this work are many more observations to the same pur- pose ; and however fanciful the reasonings of Vegetius may appear to be, it is surprising how nearly his practical conclu- sions correspond in many instances with the experience of more modern times. Thus Dr. Jackson observes, that “ the poor, the pastoral, and semi-barbarous nations seem at all times to have been the conquerors of the rich, the commercial, the manufacturing, the polished, and refined. The peasants of a country, particularly the shepherds and the hunters, arc exposed in their daily occupations to vicissitudes of weather, and familiar with the situations and hardships which fall to the lot of soldiers in times of war. On the contrary, manu- facturers and artisans, men little familiar with vicissitudes of weather, unaccustomed to exertion, to hardship, to fatigue,EXAMINATION OK RECRUITS. 31 seldom temperate or healthy, helpless, and dependent on im- aginary comforts, are ill calculated for the business of war.” This view of the matter is strongly confirmed by a state- ment contained in a very interesting paper on the health of the Peninsular army, by Sir James M‘Grigor, published in the sixth volume of the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions of London: “ Of the classes of society from which soldiers are recruited, I believe it will be found that, cceteris paribus, tradesmen and manufacturers, particularly those from large towns, are soonest swept away by the fatigues and diseases of an army ; and that those who have followed agricultural pur- suits are the most healthy. Three hundred and fifty-three recruits joined the 7th regiment in Portugal, in the years 1810—11. Of these two hundred and one were artificers and manufacturers, and one hundred and fifty-two had followed agricultural pursuits. In the course of a few months one hundred and twenty-two of the former died, and sixty-two of the latter; the proportion being six out of ten in the former case, and four out of ten in the latter.” These authorities go far to set the question at rest, as to the superiority of the agricultural over the manufacturing part of the population, for the purposes of warfare ; and it is almost superfluous to add, that my own observation induces me to concur entirely in the opinions just quoted. For cer- tain branches of the service ; for the cavalry and horse artil- lery particularly, recruits from the agricultural districts, men accustomed to the management of horses and of wheel car- riages, are still more peculiarly eligible. And it may not be out of place to remark, with reference to the three great branches of the service, and to the description of men best adapted for each, that the infantry of the line are, during active operations, called upon for the most constant and un- remitting exertions, are the most exposed to night duties, and in marching are loaded with their knapsacks, arms, andMILITARY SURGERY. 32 accoutrements, amounting to not less than sixty pounds weight; the duties of the cavalry, including the necessary at- tention to their horses, arc also unremitting, but they are less exposed to night duties, and their marches arc infinitely less fatiguing; the artillery arc often subject to exertions of a la- borious description requiring great physical powers, but they are much less exposed to harassing duties by night, and their services are more of a temporary or occasional character. On the subject of stature and of bodily conformation, it may be observed that crowned heads seem in general to have a predilection for men of lofty stature andimposingappearance; and what are termed the household troops in this and other countries, consist of men much beyond the average height; but such men frequently owe their superiority to an additional length of limbs, and are often found to have defective chests very disproportioned to the bulk of their extremities. This ren- ders them, particularly in our variable climate, subject to pulmonary diseases, and it has been stated to me in conversa- tion by the surgeon of the Blues, one of the most splendid regiments in Europe, that his men are particularly liable to suffer from such complaints. Tall men are said to be more subject to diseases, particularly those of the chronic class, than men of a medium size, and they are frequently the first to fail under fatigue ; men of this description therefore are not the most eligible for the general run of military duties, and “ in the present time, when the fate of battle is often decided by fire-arms, to which the hand of a man of six feet gives no more impulse than the hand of a man of five, it is not easy to see the reason of the rule which so generally influences the choice of those who select subjects for the formation of armies.” The age at which soldiers are enlisted is a point of much importance, and does not appear to have always met with that attention which it merits. Upon the principle of inur- ing men from an early age to those pursuits in whicli they 433 EXAMINATION OF RECRUITS. are subsequently to be employed, it is generally thought : that we can scarcely enlist men too young ; there is no- . thing, however, so mysterious in the duties of a soldier as to | prevent a man, possessed of the necessary physical powers, : from learning them at almost any period of life, while, on the other hand, by enlisting hoys, before their growth is com- pleted and their constitutions formed, it is quite impossible . to foresee whether they will ever attain those physical powers necessary to capacitate them for the duties of a soldier ; some of them will perhaps turn out better than we expect, but many of them will also, in all probability, turn out worse, and will ultimately prove a loss to the service, or what are termed in the army, “ the King’s hard bargains.” My sentiments upon this subject, as regards the selection of men for the Indian service, have long been before the pub- lic ; and they are strongly confirmed by what has subsequently been written by Dr. Whitelaw Ainslie, and by Mr. James Annesley of the Madras army, as well as by Mr. Marshall and Dr. Burke of the king’s service. Although my remarks upon the inefficiency of young recruits, in my essay on the “ Diseases of the European Troops in India,” refer chiefly to men employed upon that station, yet I believe they will ap- ply, more or less, to the service generally, in all parts of the world. The opinion of Sir James M‘Grigor upon this point may be gathered from the paper already quoted on the Health of the Peninsular Army, in which he observes, that “ lads, un- equal to the harassing duties of the service,” as well as men whose frames have been worn out by disease, ought uniformly to be rejected ; and Dr. Luscombe, in his work on the Health of Soldiers, is still more explicit upon this important subject. “ I must give it,” says he, “ as my opinion, formed on obser- vation and experience, that it is very prejudicial to the effi- ciency of an army to admit lads or very young men, for these D34 MILITARY SURGERY are not only unequal to the fatigues of war, but their consti- tutions not being as yet firmly established, they are almost certain to suffer greatly from change of climate, and to become sickly even in the ordinary course of service.” Even in the con- tinental armies, in which the troops are employed almost ex- clusively in their native climate, similar objections have been made to young recruits, as we find from Kirckhoff and from Coche, who in his work “ De l’Operation Medicale du Re- crutement,” &c. states it “ as his deliberate opinion, that re- cruits at eighteen years of age are commonly unfit for the du- ties of the army, not only in time of war, but even during peace.” On the other hand, in services such as ours, when men are enlisted for an unlimited period, it is of importance that they should not be admitted at too advanced an age; and upon a full consideration of all the circumstances, I think we may state that the most eligible period of life for enlist- ment is from twenty to twenty-five years of age. Into the physical defects which ought to lead to the rejec- tion of recruits presented to a medical officer for examination, we can only enter very generally : they could not be easily borne in mind individually, and being specified in the printed instructions furnished to surgeons on this subject, their enu- meration here becomes less necessary. My chief object at present is to inculcate the advantages of a systematic mode of proceeding in the examination of recruits. This examination ought never to be entered upon when the recruit is intoxicat- ed, a state in which he is not unfrequeritly presented to the surgeon. He is, of course, to be stripped naked, and exa- mined generally a capite ad calcem, both in front and in rear. He is to be made to move about the room, and to extend his joints and limbs in various directions, which will give the sur- geon an opportunity of observing any glaring malformation or distortion of the bones or contractions of the joints. The surgeon is then to proceed more minutely to examine the35 examination of recruits. head, where, if any obvious defect in its general formation, (r any marks of severe fracture, with depression, nodes, exostoses, or tinea capitis, are observed, they must be considered as un- fitting this individual for the service. All defects in the eye or lachrymal passages, polypi in the nose, malignant tumours in the mouth, extensive deficiency particularly of the front teeth, any appearance of caries in the jaws, either upper or under, are for the most part sufficient causes of rejection. In the neck, tumours, or rigidity of the muscles, with the marks^of previous scrofulous ulcerations, are the circumstances most commonly met with as causes of incapacity, Distortions of the spine, and original malformations, or injuries leading to distortions of the ribs or sternum, so as to affect the circula- tion or respiration, are decided causes of rejection ; as are all indications of a phthisical habit. Abdominal tumours, and herniary protrusions of every description, varicose enlarge- ments of the spermatic vessels, and diseases of the testicles, should be considered as sufficient to incapacitate the individu- al for the service. Distortions of the anns, thighs, legs, or ancles; exostoses, nodes, ulcers, or extensive cicatrices of ul- cers ; varicose veins, and contractions or rigidity of the joints, are all to be looked upon as causes of rejection. By adopting this systematic mode of proceeding in succession over the head, trunk, and extremities, much time will be saved ; any very serious defect can scarcely escape the surgeon’s observation ; and it behoves him, as he values his own credit, the character of his corps, and the interest of his Majesty’s service, to be accurate and minute in this inspection. A duty of equal difficulty and importance devolves upon the military surgeon, in deciding upon the cases of men about to be discharged from the service, particularly of such as are to become a permanent charge to the public as pensioners or an- nuitants. While, in the examination of recruits, it is the surgeon’s duty to see that no man is admitted into the army,MILITARY SUROERY. 3G who is not in every respect qualified for its duties, it must be equally his care to see that no man is discharged as an invalid, or placed upon the pension list, unless positive and permanent disqualifications exist. Here he must be constantly upon his guard, not only against imposition on thepart of the soldier, but he must be prepared to resist the importunities of a command- ing officer, an adjutant, or the captain of a troop or company, who are often disposed to load the surgeon with the responsibi- lity of discharging a man who, although possessed, of the ne- cessary physical powers, may be troublesome, worthless, or unseemly. Many of the disabilities already enumerated are liable to occur in the common routine of duty, others origi- nate from wounds, and from the vicissitudes of foreign service, to such an extent as to unfit men for the active duties of military life. These disabilities are more particularly speci- fied in the instructions furnished to medical officers, and it seems unnecessary to enter more minutely into the detail of duties ■which must be in a great measure executed according to the established regulations of the service. The instruc- tions which are from time to time issued to medical officers on the passing of recruits and invalids, in so far as they go, must form an implicit guide ; but there are still many points which no regulations nor standing orders in this country distinctly provide for. In the writings of Dr. Hennen, of Mr. C. Hutchison, of Dr. Cheyne, and, above all, of Deputy- Inspector Marshall, much interesting and authentic information is con- tained applicable to the examination of recruits for the British army, and to the fictitious diseases of soldiers and seamen. Mr. Marshall has made this subject almost exclusively his own; his “ Hints to Young Medical Officers of the Army on the Examination of Recruits, and respecting the feigned Disabilities of Soldiers,” and a more recent work on the enlist- ing, discharging, and pensioning of soldiers, contain a fund ofDIET, CLOTHING, AND EXERCISE OF TROOPS. 37 valuable information for which the most experienced will be ready to offer their acknowledgments to the author. On many of the points thus cursorily noticed, a medical of- ficer may be greatly assisted in forming an accurate judgment by an attentive study of the French “ Code de la Conscrip- tion,” of which an abstract is to be found in the sixth volume of the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal. There is also a “ Memoire sur le Choix des Hommes Propres au Service Mili- taire,” published by Beaupre, an article on the “ Simulation des Maladies,” in the “ Dictionnaire des Sciences Medicales,” by Baron Percy, and some observations on this subject in the “ Hygiene Militaire” of Revolat, well deserving attention. The many attempts made to evade the operation of the con- scriptive laws in France during the revolutionary war, induced the authorities to frame and enact a set of regulations for the guidance of those concerned in examining conscripts, embrac- ing almost every point on which a doubt or difference of opi- nion can exist. DJET, CLOTHING, AND EXERCISE OF TROOPS. The importance of wholesome diet to the preservation of health, and its efficacy in resisting the inroads of disease, arc universally acknowledged. The food of a soldier may be coarse, but it should always be wholesome, nutritious, and, I should say, abundant, although a distinguished military writer has dwelt upon the advantages of inuring soldiers to habits of abstinence. Dr. Jackson observes, that “ dignity of mind and real military virtue have no connexion with sumptuous living.3 ii MILITARY SURGERY. The conqueror is ordinarily frugal and homely; the con- quered is frequently rich, luxurious, and what is called re- fined. It is reported of General Wolfe, who, while a man of superior goodness, was perhaps the most perfect soldier of the age in which he lived, that the cook and butler did not much engage his attention. He never gave an elegant, and rarely an eatable dinner to persons of the liaut gout; the epicurean was disgusted—the soldier was regaled. General Wolfe’s table was said to be an epitome of a Spartan mers- room ; no one rose from it without having been furnished with the opportunity of carrying away a military lesson; and few left it without feeling an accession of military importance communi- cated to the mind by the impressive influence of a hero’s spirit.” In his last work on the “ Formation, Discipline, and Economy of Armies,” Dr. Jackson has adduced much inge- nious argument in support of his views of this subject; and he concludes by observing, that luxurious living places the military character on the brink of destruction ; “ for,” says he, “ if there be any thing like correct observation among men, it may be confidently asserted that, if high living be the life of the gentleman, it is the death of the soldier.” It is obvious, however, that such observations as the foregoing, al- though just in themselves, can only be addressed with pro- priety to the officers—to the educated and reflecting part of the army ; and habits of abstinence are so little congenial to the disposition of an English soldier, that he will never prac- tise them when he can do otherwise. It is desirable, in all cases, that the issues of provisions should be as regular as possible in point of time, whether cir- cumstances enable us to render them abundant in quantity or compel us to deliver them with a sparing hand. They should always, if possible, be issued daily ; for when three days rations are issued at once, as is often the case, the soldier is frequent- ly found to devour or waste the whole in one day, and must39 DIET, CLOTHING, AND EXERCISE OF TROOPS. necessarily starve for the two following, unless he has an opportunity of plundering, to which this very circumstance becomes an additional inducement. When salted provisions are issued, it becomes an object of considerable importance to have them properly prepared, by being steeped in water for some time previous to their being dressed. We find this practice enjoined by general orders in Knox’s American campaigns, and seamen are every day in the practice of towing their salted meat overboard for some time previous to its being cooked. Of the injurious consequences which sometimes occur from ignorance of the mode of cooking salted provisions, a remarkable example which occurred at Gibraltar is recorded by Dr. Andrew Marshall in a thesis De Tucnda Salute Militum, published here in 1732. Wherever circumstances will admit, great advantages are derived from an established system of cooking in small messes. We know from experience that soldiers almost uniformly pre- fer, when they have it in their power, to roast or fry their morsel of meat, and often devour it at a single meal. This is by no means making the most of it : if boiled with vegetables and salt, and made into a wholesome soup, this soup will suffice for a large portion of one meal, while a part of the meat may be reserved to be eaten cold on a future occasion. “ C'est la soupe qui fait le soldat.” Soup is always most advanta- geously prepared in messes ; the meat should be well boiled with a proportion of vegetables and salt, whenever they can be procured; and as to the selection of vegetables for this purpose it is not necessary to be over fastidious; besides the various kinds of cabbage, carrots, turnips, &c. the produce of the gar- den, there are various kinds of cresses, sorrel, and other vegeta- bles growing wild in the fields which make no unpleasant nor unwholesome additions to soup. The system of cookery is sim- ple and soon learned, in so for as respects the soldier. The fundamental rule consists in boiling slow and in roasting quick.40 MILITARY SURGERY. The practice of breakfasting on tea or coffee has lately been commenced in many regiments, and it is hoped will become gene- ral in the army, as the comfort and advantages of this practice are, I believe, admitted by all who have thought upon the subject. It was one of the prophylactic measures recom- mended by the distinguished physicians sent to the assis- tance of the troops at Walcheren in 1809, and of its benefi- cial effects upon the health of soldiers under particular circum- stances, I witnessed a remarkable instance while surgeon of the 33d regiment. During the prevalence of a malignant fe- ver in this regiment, then stationed in the garrison of Hull, in the autumn of 1817, amongst other measures calculated to check the rapid extension of the disease, I recommended the regular supply of a breakfast of warm coffee to the men. This ivas immediately ordered by the commanding officer, and no- thing appeared either to the officers, to the soldiers, or to myself, to have so much effect in obviating attacks of the fever. We are informed, on the authority of two experienced na- vigators, Captains Forrest and Bowen, that they had uniform- ly observed, when sailors became fond of tea, they were weaned from drinking strong liquor to excess; and therefore, says Captain Forrest, I encouraged tea-drinking as much as possi- ble, but without assigning my reason for so doing. No break- fast is, I believe, so generally acceptable to English soldiers and seamen as tea or coffee; and those *who declaim against the supposed relaxing qualities of these beverages, may be an- swered in the words of Sir Gilbert Blane, “ I would ask,” says he, “ whether British courage and hardihood appear in the late exploits by sea or land less splendid than at Cressy or La Hogue? whether there is to be found in the results of the battles of Trafalgar and of Waterloo any proof of British nerves being unbraced by the habitual use of this beverage ? and whether the physical and moral energies of our officers and41 DIET, CLOTHING, AND EXERCISE OF TROOPS. men will not stand a comparison with those ol their forefa- thers, or of their enemies, neither of whom were drinkers ol tea ?r1 Before quitting the important subject of diet, it may be well to offer a few remarks on the intemperate use of spirits, which has at all times proved such a bane to the British ser- vice. Of the destructive effects of dram-drinking on the health of soldiers, we have a remarkable instance noticed by Dr. Rollo, who states that, in the year 17^9, the 45th regiment, then stationed in Grenada, lost within a very few weeks twenty-six men out of ninety-six sick, and of such of these as were opened, the whole were found to have ulcer- ated intestines ; and fourteen of them had abscesses in the li- ver. The circumstance was the more remarkable, as the island was at that time considered healthy ; and, upon an in- vestigation into the causes of the mortality, one was particu- larly remarkable; the common breakfast among the men was a glass of raw spirits, with a small slice of broiled salt pork, the spirits being not unfrequently repeated during the day. It is chiefly indeed upon foreign service that the ruinous consequences of excesses amongst the soldiery are conspicuous ; and perhaps there is no situation where it is seen in a more deplorable shape than in the remote quarters in India. There, as well as upon other foreign stations, it was, until lately, not only the practice but the positive duty of a soldier to drink his allowance of spirits, amounting to nearly half a pint, daily ; the habit of dram-drinking being thus engendered, the men were induced to straggle to a great distance from the camp or cantonments in search of liquor ; they obtained it of the very worst description, and when in a state of brutal intoxication from its influence, they often lay exposed to the sun, to the parching land-winds, or to the night dews, all fertile sources of disease in that climate ; and they were also not unfrequent.. ly, in such circumstances, subjected to the ridicule, insults, or42 MILITARY SURGERY. maltreatment of the natives. Individuals are to be found in every regiment, to whom the words of Bishop Berkeley, mutatis mutandis, are sufficiently applicable :—“ Albeit there is in every town or district in England some tough dram- drinker set up as the devil’s decoy to draw in proselytes.” And how successful these decoy-ducks are in the army, the numerous instances of madness, of maiming, of suicide, and of murder, which occur on some foreign stations, and parti- cularly in India, afford melancholy proofs. While habits of intemperance were fostered by the daily issue of spirits, no rational hope could be entertained of check- ing the abuse; but the abolition of an indiscriminate issue of spirit-rations to soldiers on ship-board and on foreign stations, through the meritorious exertions of the late secretary at war, Sir Henry Hardinge, has removed one fertile source of habi- tual intemperance. And in addition to those local precau- tions against this evil which are applicable to particular stations, forts, or barracks, I would recommend, as general measures calculated to check this destructive habit, the regu- lar establishment of two, or, in situations where the abundance and cheapness of provisions renders it practicable, of three meals a-day ; the frequent payment of the soldiers’ balances, daily instead of weekly or monthly, as used to be the case, by which these balances will be prevented from ever accumulating to a sum capable of supporting any continued course of dissi- pation ; the augmentation of the hospital stoppages on the Indian station to the same amount as in other quarters of the world ; the furnishing the men upon all stations with the most approved description of clothing and appointments, cal- culated to add to their comfort and efficiency, while it tends to diminish the sum of money left at their own disposal; these, and the supply of genuine liquor, where it cannot be altogether withheld, constitute the principal means whichDIET, CLOTHING, AND EXERCISE OF TROOPS. 43 a surgeon has it in his power to recommend, or a command- ing officer to enforce. In adverting to this subject on a former occasion, I hinted my desire of seeing a register of deaths kept in every regiment, calculated to show, amongst other interesting particulars, the proportion which the deaths of the orderly and well-behaved soldiers bear to the drunken and dissipated. This might, perhaps, eventually, be turned to some account, in restraining those excesses so prejudicial to the character, to the discipline, and, above all, to the health of the soldier. Upon the subject of clothing, I conceive it unnecessary to extend my remarks far; the exterior appearance of troops in their dress and appointments is considered so exclusively the business of the commanding-officer, that the suggestions of the surgeon are not, perhaps, likely to meet with either attention or respect; nevertheless, occasions do occur on which defects, either in the quantity, quality, make, or timely supply of clothing, may materially affect the health of the troops ; and in every such case it falls within the legitimate province of the surgeon to make a respectful representation to his com- manding-officer on the subject. The great purpose of cloth- ing in these climates is to protect our bodies from the cold; and the principal objects of attention in constructing the soldier’s dress, are to procure a due degree of warmth while he is not burdened by an unnecessary weight, and to take care that he is not hampered by an undue constriction of his limbs, or cramped in his motions by tight ligatures around the joints. These objects are by no means incompatible with that uniformity of appearance, and that gay coup d’oeil of a parade so much prized by a military eye ; for the part of military dress in which the surgeon is really most interested is that farthest from becoming an eye-sore to the commanding- officer ; I mean the part of it nearest the soldier’s skin. “ I be experience,” says Sir John Pringle, “which weMILITARY SURGERY. 44 have had of under-waistcoats during the winter campaign in Great Britain should teach us to make the same provision for the whole army in any future war. . None of the foreign soldiers are without this necessary part of clothing ; and, in- deed, no man of the meanest condition abroad. Under-waist- coats would not only be useful in winter quarters, but greatly so on first taking the field, and towards the end of the cam- paign.” That the above sentiments are perfectly in unison with those of the present Director-General of the Medical Department, may be learned from the following paragraph of his paper on the health of the Peninsular army :—“ In what- ever climate or quarter of the world a regiment is stationed, the yearly supply of clothing for it should be sent out, so as to arrive in due time, and so that the soldier may put it on before the accession of the cold season ; that is, before winter sets in in Europe, and by the time the rains set in in tropi- cal countries. The waistcoat is an indispensable part of the clothing of a soldier, and ought never to be omitted. He should have linen trowsers to march in, when in a warm climate like that of the Peninsula, reserving the cloth panta- loons for the cold and rainy season. The best clothed were generally among the most healthy regiments.” Some objections have been offered to the general use of flannel shirts as part of a soldier’s dress, particularly the dif- ficulty of having the shirt so frequently washed and changed as it ought to be, without which it is, perhaps, worse than useless ; but in some given situations my- personal experience enables me to vouch for the utility of flannel. Of this we had a very striking proof in the second battalion of the Royals, while suffering from a most aggravated form of dysentery in India. General Conran, the late Lieutenant-Governor of Jama'ca, who at that time commanded the Royals, was so fully persuaded of the benefits likely to accrue from the gene- ral use of flannel, that he went down from Wallajahabbad,DIET, CLOTHING, AND EXERCISE OF TROOPS. 45 where the regiment was then stationed, to Madras, on purpose to represent to the government the distress of his men, and to suggest the expediency of a supply of flannel shuts, d his he did with so much effect, backed by the late Dr. Anderson, the Physician-General, that the flannels were immediately ordered, and, in my opinion, contributed much to check the alarming progress of the disease. In some instances the very mode of cleaning the soldier's clothing has been a means of inducing disease; thus the cleaning of the white trowsers with wet pipe clay, and put- ting them on before they are thoroughly dry, is apt to occasion rheumatic attacks, of which I have seen numerous instances. It therefore becomes the surgeon’s duty, by his personal re- monstrances and representations to the officers, to do every thing in his power to check a practice so likely to hurt the health of his men. The use of pipe-clay indeed ought strictly to be confined to the belts, gloves, and other leathern appoint- ments, and ought not to be employed so much as it is in cleaning other parts of the dress ; it is at the best (as a facetious friend of mine used very emphatically to express himself) only putting a quantity of white dirt over a quantity of black dirt. On the subject of personal cleanliness, it might naturally be supposed that few injunctions would be necessai-y, and that men, even when left to themselves, would take the most effec- tual means of securing a comfort so essential to their health. Experience, however, teaches us otherwise; and we daily see men whose sloth and dirtiness are such that neither the im- mediate comfort arising from cleanliness, nor the ultimate effects resulting from the want of it upon their own health, nothing indeed short of actual punishment is sufficient to en- sure a due regard to it. We never fail to observe, both in the army and the navy, that those men who are most slovenly in their persons are always the first to suffer from disease. The46 MILITARY SURGERY profuse perspirations induced by active military operations, the quantity of sordes collected about the persons of soldiers by marching on dirty roads, or even going through the evo- lutions of a field day, are only to be removed by perfect ablu- tion ; and for this purpose bathing should be encourag- ed, wherever circumstances and season render it practicable. One of the most important steps toward personal cleanliness which the English army has made, since I knew any thing of it, is the general adoption of cropping, and the consequent abolition of those quantities of powder, soap and pomatum, with which the heads of the soldiers used to be besmeared. “ To live comfortably,” says General Maitland, “ men must be cleanly; it improves every advantage and lessens every evil ; cleanliness in the person of a soldier, and in the bar- racks and hospital, are almost certain indications of a good regiment.” The benefits which accrue to health from habits of exer- cise are so well understood, that it is surprising to find strong prejudices sometimes existing upon this subject; some officers in the army, although disposed to take plenty of exercise at their own time, and in their own way, are quite unable to see the utility or advantage of being summoned at an early hour in the morning to parade for drill along with the men. They will contend that these drills, so unpalatable to themselves, are injurious to the health of the soldiers, and broadly hint that it is the surgeon’s duty to represent this to the commanding officer; but I have always been excessively slow of conviction upon this point, being decidedly of opinion, with Sir John Pringle, that “ although a soldier is occasionally liable to great fatigue, the most frequent error of people of that class, if left to themselves, would be on the side of rest.” The Ro- mans, who owed more to the discipline of their armies than any nation upon earth, were extremely rigorous and persever- ing in their exercises. They practised their soldiers in every 4DIET, CLOTHINO, AND EXERCISE OK TROOPS. 47 species of service that might occur, so that nothing at any time happened with which they were unacquainted. Actual war was in reality a time of relaxation to the soldiers of this en- terprising people. The Romans were not only sensible of the advantages which those habits of exercise procured them in action, but had also the penetration to discover that they were eminently serviceable in the preservation of health. We learn from Vegetius that the Romans exercised their men daily in the Campus Martius when it was fair weather, and under cover when it rained or snowed, and this author adds a remark by no means flattering to the members of our profession, Rei militaris periti, plus quotidiana armorum exercitia ad sanita- tem militum putaverunt prodesse, quam medicos. While troops are conveyed in transports to foreign stations, the general orders direct that, when the weather will admit of it, they ahould be frequently drilled on deck in the open air, and that such amusements should be encouraged as are calcu- lated to keep them in exercise. It is of consequence also that troops coming to a climate different from their own should be somewhat habituated to it before they enter on the fatigues of service. New levies, or regiments having many recruits, should, if possible, be first sent on garrison duty. Recruits, by this means, attain the habits of soldiers, and are inured to the climate and peculiar service before they enter into all its fatigues. While stationed in such garrisons, they should be fully exercised as preparatory to the duties of the field ; and Sir James M‘Grigor gives two very striking illustrations of the advantages which seasoned men possess over recruits in going through the fatigues of a campaign. From the 19th of August 1811 to the 20th May 1812, the 7th regiment lost one hundred and sixty-nine recruits out of three hundred and fifty-three landed in the preceding June; while in the same period it lost only seventy-seven out of eleven hundred and forty-five old soldiers. The 40th regiment lost, during theMILITARY SURGERY. 48 above period, one hundred and four recruits out of four bun- dredand fifty landed in the preceding July, and only fifty-six out of eleven hundred and seventeen old soldiers ; yet no regiments on that service were more ably commanded or better officered, than the Fusileers and 40th regiments. It would be easy to en- large here on the importance of exercise as a branch of mili- tary education, but my remarks must be limited to what is needful towards preserving an army in health ; and without specifying more minutely the exercises or amusements which ought to be encouraged, it may be observed that walking, run- ning, leaping, swimming, wrestling, and fencing, are exer- cises often useful in the actual practice of war. ACCOMMODATION OF TROOPS, IN CAMP, IN BARRACKS, IN BIL- LETS, DISEASES PREVALENT IN CAMPS AND GARRISONS. Of all the circumstances connected with a camp, the most important is its site ; the experience of all ages has proved, that the neighbourhood of marshes, grounds subject to be overflowed by large rivers, surrounded with foul stagnating water, or low places covered with wood, are most injurious to health ; and the noxious effluvia arising from these situations are augmented in proportion to the heat of the climate, or the season of the year; hence such neighbourhoods become more dangerous for encampments in tropical regions, and in our own country during the heats of summer and of autumn. The danger of such situations is also, in some degree, depen- dant upon the temporary or permanent nature of the establish- ment we have in view. Thus ground may sometimes be taken up for a night’s residence, which would be very ill adapted for a permanent station. For the moveable camps of49 ACCOMMODATION OF TROOPS. 1 India, where the army encamps at the end of every day’s march, and often changes its situation daily for months in ■succession, positions are occasionally taken up which would be ill adapted to the stationary camps sometimes formed in this country, still less to an entrenched camp, or to a barrack. VWhen necessity compels an army to encamp on wet or marshy .ground, every effort should be made to render it as dry as pos- sible, by means of drains cut across the field, and round the tents ; wherever circumstances permit, an abundance of straw, Jerns, or heath should be furnished to the men, to be inter- posed between their bodies and the ground, when lying in the tents; and when a camp is inevitably situated near a standing pool or marsh, that side of the tents, marquees, or huts, which faces the marsh should be closed as much as possible, and all ithe openings, windows, and doors, should be made on the op- posite side, in order to shun the ill effects of the exhaling va- pour. The situation of a camp must sometimes be regulated by accidental circumstances, over which the opinion of a medical officer can have little control; but whenever a choice of the ground for encampment is submitted to professional ipinion, it will be proper to recommend a dry elevated situ- ation, remote from marshes, swamps, stagnant waters, and from the immediate neighbourhood of orchards, forests, or mderwood, which are calculated to retain moisture. A ;amp is most advantageously situated on a gentle declivity, in a dry soil, and in the vicinity of a running stream. In mler to ascertain the state of the ground, it may sometimes )e necessary to dig into it to some extent, for although appa- •ently dry on the surface, it may be found sufficiently wet at ;he depth ot a few feet; and if so, ought, if possible, to be changed, particularly if an encampment is to be stationary. A. camp should never be formed on ground recently occupied, aor on a field of battle where much carnage has recently oc-50 MILITARY SURGERY. curved. Many favourable spots for encampment are to be found on the banks of rivers, which perhaps, upon the whole, afford the most eligible sites. We must yet bear in mind, that when the banks of the river are low, or the country sub- ject to periodical rains, or sudden inundations from the melt- ing of snow on contiguous mountains, there may be a very se- rious danger from this cause. Against the danger of such a position we are cautioned in Mezerey’s “ Medicine d’Armee,” where he states a case in which the Austrian army lost 500 men and 200 horses, from a sudden inundation of this kind. When an encampment is inevitably situated in a low or unfavourable position, the kindling of large wooden fires in the windward parts of the camp is recommended by Mindere- rus in his “ Medicina Militaris,” as contributing to preserve the health of the troops; and with the same view discharges of artillery and bonfires in the streets have sometimes been adopted in sickly garrisons, for the purpose of purifying the atmosphere; but the heat which they occasion and the terror which they inspire, render their efficacy very questionable. Various modes of ventilating tents have been recommended, some of which are described in a little work entitled “ The Soldier’s Friend,” by Mr. Blair, formerly surgeon of the Lock Hospital in London; but as none of these plans have ever come into general use, nor indeed have been found requisite, it is unnecessary to enlarge upon them here. The most ob- vious and perfect wray of thoroughly airing the tents is by striking them occasionally, and exposing the straw, blankets, and soldiers’ clothing to the open air; the necessity of fre- quently changing the straw, and enforcing cleanliness in camp, in every possible way, arc circumstances too obvious to require any effort of reasoning to enforce. With this view, the slaugh- tering of cattle, and every thing likely to create noxious or putrid effluvia, ought to be conducted without the camp, and on the side of it opposite to that from which the wind generally blows.ACCOMMODATION OF TROOPS. 51 Notwithstanding every precaution, filth is apt to accumu- late in camp, and consequently stationary camps for the most part soon become unhealthy. In such circumstances, it is con- sonant to all experience, that the most effectual step has always been a change of ground; a measure distinctly recommended by Vegetius—“ Si autumnali festivoque tempore diutius in iis- dem locis militum multitudo consistat, ex contagione aqua- rum et odore ipsius foeditatis vitiatis haustibus et aere corrupto pemiciosissimus nascitur morbus, £ qui proliiberi non potest aliter nisi frequenli mutatione castrorum.’ ” Whenever, therefore, a camp becomes offensive or unwholesome, from the accumulation of filth, instead of trifling or inefficient attempts to remove the nuisance from the camp, the proper re- medy is to remove the camp from the nuisance, and, if possible, to takeup aposition towindwardof the ground formerly occupied. For the accommodation of the sick in camp, the general regu- lations enjoin the propriety of obtaining, if possible, an ad- joining house for their reception; and where this cannot be procured, every exertion is to be used to render the hospital- tent dry and comfortable ; a trench should always be made round it, and the floor boarded with deals, when these can be procured. While the foregoing considerations demand serious atten- tion in judging of the site of camps, similar views will natur- ally influence our decision in recommending a site for the erection of barracks; but here every consideration naturally becomes more important in proportion to the expense, the du- rability, and the permanence of the establishment. Barracks well situated, well ventilated, and kept thoroughly clean, are eminently calculated to promote the health of troops ; and in no other situation do we find soldiers, in general, so exempt from disease, while at the same time their concentration in these establishments facilitates their training, and effectually sub- jects them to the wholesome surveillance of their officers.52 MILITARY SURGERY. Dry, elevated situations, with an abundant supply of whole- some water, remote from the neighbourhood of swamps and of marshes, are the positions which a regard for the health of the troops would naturally induce us to select as the most eligible situations for the construction of forts and of barracks: and it so far fortunately happens that the erection of these build- ings on high or elevated situations may often be conducive to the defence of a country. From Dr. Price’s calculations, there is reason to believe, that, in hilly districts, half the numbers born live to the age ol forty-seven, and that one in twenty reaches so far as eighty years of age; while in marshy districts one only in fifty-two attains that period of life, and only one-half the numbers born survive to the age of twenty five. Nothing can more forcibly point out the advantages of elevated situations, and the fatal tendency of low ones, than the foregoing statement; and whenever a country is taken possession of by troops with a view to its permanent occupation, they cannot be too forcibly pressed on the attention of those in command. Previous to the erection of forts and barracks, or fixing the cantonment of troops, a professional survey should be made by a committee of military and medical officers, so that the advantages and disadvantages of the situation may be fairly and fully estimated, and stated to the commanding officer. From a survey of this nature it is scarcely possible but that such information will be obtained as may enable those intrust- ed with the direction of affairs to combine defence and conve- nience, with a due regard to the preservation of health. The plan of assembling a board of health on the arrival of troops in a new or unknown country, first recommended by Dr. Jackson, is very strenuously enjoined by Dr. Millingen in the “ Army Medical Officer’s Manual,” where he has insert- ed a very judicious list of queries for the investigation of such a board. These queries, although all highly important, areACCOMMODATION OF TROOPS. 53 too numerous and minute, to enable me to enter into their enumeration here; the chief topics which they em- brace are, the qualities of the soil, and the nature of its pro- ductions ; the usual diseases of the country ; the particular districts or provinces in which they are found most destruc- tive ; the seasons of the year, and the particular winds, which are reckoned most unwholesome ; the particulars as to diet, mode of living, and temperance of the inhabitants, which are supposed to influence their health ; and the modes of practice followed by the resident physicians. Upon all these subjects much important information may be obtained from the old residents, or from the native medical practitioners of a country, provided they are not hostile to our views, and under temptations to deceive us, a circumstance which should always be most cautiously guarded against. Native practitioners, if so disposed, may be enabled to point out in almost all countries particular spots, sometimes indeed of a very limited extent, which have, by a long train of ob- servation, been found hostile to the human constitution, and which, of course, are to be avoided either for the temporary or permanent residence of troops. In the construction of barracks, the two great objects to be kept in view are the means of thorough ventilation, and of perfect cleanliness, and with a due regard to these, every mi- nor arrangement will be best submitted to the skill and ex- perience of the scientific and accomplished officers of the en- gineer department; but upon the subject of ventilation so im- mediately and so essentially affecting the health of the soldier, a few remarks may be offered. Ventilation implies a constant removal of the foul and fre- quently respired atmosphere, and the introduction of a fresh supply of air without exposing the inhabitants of an apart- ment to violent and irregular draughts or currents. I he indispensable necessity of this kind of ventilation in54 MILITARY SURGERY. all inhabited buildings, but especially in those where numbers are collected, is so perfectly well known, that it would be su- perfluous to enter upon it here, were it not to advert to some errors in the common practice upon the subject, and to point out the means of obviating them. To ensure a due and re- gulated supply of air requires some address, for ignorance is as frequently conspicuous in its introduction as in its ex- clusion ; and when left at the discretion of capricious, un- thinking, or uncontrolled individuals, bad consequences often ensue. The class of society from which soldiers and their wives are taken have an incorrigible aversion to the free circulation of air, a circulation which is rendered more necessary for them than for the higher ranks, in consequence of their less minute attention to personal cleanliness. The essential part of the mode of ventilation which I would recommend, is to convert the passages, lobbies, and staircases of a barrack or public building into spacious air-trunks, or re- servoirs, communicating directly with the external atmos- phere, and supplying the rooms adjoining them on either side, both by means of the doors opening into such pas- sages, and by means of additional apertures made for the spe- cial purpose of ventilation. Thus at either extremity of the passages, there should be a window reaching from the ceiling to the floor of each story, the upper part capable of letting down, and the lower of lifting up, so contrived, however, as not to shut perfectly close at either top or bottom, but to leave a slit or aperture at least two inches wide, forming at all times a direct communication with the external atmosphere ; and in fine weather these passage-windows may remain open to any extent, giving the most unlimited access to the external air. In the floor of each passage one or more apertures should be made of at least two feet square, covered with strong iron gratings, and in the roof a properly sheltered aperture or penthouse, so as to admit the escape of the air outwards,55 ACCOMMODATION OF TROOTS. while it effectually prevents the entrance ol snow or rain. By this direct and perfect communication of all the passages with the external atmosphere, as well as with each other, a constant supply of pure and unrespired air will exist within the building. To place the passages thus prepared in action as ventilators, there should be placed over each of the doors opening from them into the adjoining apartments, a Venetian window reaching to the ceiling, while the door itself should not reach within an inch of the floor ; but the principal dependance for a uniform supply of air should rest on means independent of the ordinary openings, and may be effected in the following manner. Into each room, on a level with the floor, let aper- tures be made of six or eight inches diameter, and from ten to fifteen feet distant from each other, communicating with the passage or main air-trunk ; and the same description and number of apertures are .to be made close to the ceiling cor- responding with the unbored spaces of the lower range of air- holes, it being observed that this upper row of perforations must be conducted through the exterior wall of the building, communicating directly with the external air, and so disposed as to prevent the access of rain or snow. By this means we provide for a constant supply of unrespired air from the pas- sages or reservoirs by means of the lower range of perforations, while the respired and heated air is permitted to escape by the upper range. In a room thus ventilated, the inhabitants are not exposed to direct currents of wind striking upon their bodies, for the entrance of the fresh air is below their sleeping places, while the exit of the foul air is above their heads. The heated and rarefied air escapes upwards, while that which is rendered spe- cifically heavier by the accumulation of carbonic acid gas, and which consequently occupies the lower part of the room, will be constantly diluted and refreshed with unrespired air; in- deed the more the atmosphere of an apartment thus venti-MILITARY SURGERY. 56 lated may be heated by respiration, or otherwise, the more certainly will a circulation of air be established through it; and the superiority of this plan over that where the ventila- tion depends chiefly or solely upon windows placed at the or- dinary height from the floor is obvious, for they operate di- rectly only upon the purest part of the air of a room, viz. the middle-layers. A great advantage of this plan of ventilating, which is more fully detailed in my introductory lectures published some years ago, is, that it does not interfere in any degree with the means already established, and that it may be introduced at a very trifling expense into buildings already erected for barracks, or occasionally occupied as such. But the great and leading advantage which attends the mode of ventilating barracks by means of the air occupying the passages and lob- bies is, that we have the supply completely under the control of the military or medical officer at all times and in all sea- sons, constantly existing within the building itself, let the storm rage how it may without. Before concluding this subject, I have only to observe that the mode of ventilating barracks by perforations in the walls and passage-floors, is merely a modification or extension of the plan of ventilating hospitals recommended by Dr. Donald Monro, in his £< Health of Soldiers,” so long ago as 1762 ; and of its practical utility, examples are to be found in the Bristol Infirmary, fitted up on the suggestion of the late Mr. Howard, and in the wards of some of the temporary barrack hospitals in England; amongst others which I have seen was that at Hastings in Sussex : while in foreign coun- tries, several examples are to be found of barracks, hospitals, and workhouses ventilated in the same way; thus the Ca- serne of St. Elizabeth at Brussels, the hospital of the Je- suits in the same city, and the workhouse at Amsterdam. In guardhouses, which are frequently crowded with prisonersACCOMMODATION OF TROOPS. 57 : and overheated, and which are furnished with fixed bed-places that do not admit of a free circulation of air under them, per- forations on a level with the floor and with the ceiling should never be omitted. The same should be introduced into black- holes, and other places of confinement, which frequently prove sources of much more severe punishment than they were ever intended to be. In barrack necessaries the due admission of air is seldom sufficiently attended to by architects, insomuch that offensive and noxious vapours are accumulated and re- tained, while the detection of the most palpable filth is but too often rendered difficult by the want of a sufficiency of light. In cases where it is necessary, for the sake of admit- ting light, to have windows opening into close or inaccessi- ble areas, it would be well that such windows were invariably place d at such a height from the floor, and so grated over as to prevent dirty or indolent soldiers from throwing out filthy or offensive matters into places whence they cannot easily be removed. The system of dry scrubbing for cleaning the floors of bar- racks has now universally taken place of the practice of fre- quent washing, in all weathers, which formerly existed, and which in many instances was found injurious to the health of the soldiers ; but there are certain circumstances under which washing with soap and hot w'ater, or scouring with sand, may still be requisite. By’the general introduction of iron bed- steads into barracks, cleanliness has been essentially promoted, and ventilation improved; for those cumbersome w:ooden bed- steads formerly in use, not only obstructed the circulation of air, but even materially diminished the cubical bulk of it con- tained in a room. In rooms perforated as I have proposed, the bedsteads should be placed, relatively to the perforations, in such a manner that the air beneath them should be con- stantly changing, and its current directed along the floors and walls. This may be done cither by placing a bedstead overMILITARY SURGERY. 58 each air-hole, or where an air-hole comes in the interval be- tween two beds, placing a slip of board or sheet iron before it, in such a manner as to force off a portion of the air laterally ; and the bedsteads should always be placed at a few inches distance from the walls, and never huddled together, or forced into corners and recesses as they often are. The white-washing of barracks and hospitals is a subject of considerable importance, and I have often seen occasion to re- gret the obstacles to its accomplishment; the delays and diffi- culties in getting the work commenced; the tedious and slovenly manner in which it has been proceeded in ; the in- sufficiency with which it has been performed; and the unne- cessary expense to the public with which it has been attended. In a much shorter period of time, and at an expense much below the usual estimates, barracks and barrack hospitals might be effectually white-washed by employing soldiers for this purpose, to whom the necessary materials should be fur- nished ; and in the case of hospitals, a charge for brushes, lime, Sec. might be allowed in the hospital accounts, thus en- abling the surgeon to have his hospital white-washed, without a moment’s delay, whenever it may become necessary. In proof of the superiority of barracks to every other accom- modation as connected with the health of troops, the following observations from Dr. Brocklesby’s “ Observations on Mili- tary Hospitals, and on the Diseases of Soldiers,” may be ad- duced. “ The general use of barracks,” says he, “ is a sub- ject of so great importance, that it cannot be sufficiently en- forced. How is it possible for the men of each company, scat- tered up and down the ale-houses of a great town, ever to be re- gularly messed together ? How is it possible without barracks to make a private soldier always wholesome and cleanly, far- ther than at a stated hour on the parade for momentary show ? The day of battle is once or twice in a long campaign, when men must be used as they arc wanted ; but an attention to theACCOMMODATION OP TROOPS. 59 well-being of the men, and the preservation of their health, i ought to be a constant serious business, and an unceasing care < of their officers, as well as of the doctor.” While he thus urges the establishment of barracks on the : most honest and humane of all principles,—“ the necessary ; care of men’s lives,” he deprecates the construction of some of the older barracks in this country, particularly those at Hilsea, near Portsmouth, “ built with salt water bricks, and fitted up with low ceilings, and without ventilation. Such bar- racks,” says he, “ are worse for the inhabitants than any to- lerably clean king’s ship riding at anchor in harbour or at Spithead.” These observations of Dr. Brocklesby will show what just opinions this distinguished physician entertained of what was most objectionable in the construction of barracks ; and how far they are calculated, when well constructed, to pro- mote the comfort, health, discipline, and efficiency of the troops. Of billets, the next means of accommodating the soldier, no- thing favourable can be said, in so far as the health of the troops is concerned. They remove the soldiers in a great measure from the wholesome surveillance of their officers ; they give them opportunities of indulging in dissipation, and throw them in the way of many temptations to which in a barrack they are not exposed ; they lead to relaxation in discipline highly prejudicial to the health of a soldier, and to neglects and oversights when sick, sometimes attended with the most fatal consequences. The distress to the individual, the disad- vantage to the surgeon, and the injury to the service which at- tends the billeting of soldiers, seems to have been severely felt, and are pathetically lamented by Dr. Hamilton in his work on the “ Duties and Qualifications of a Regimental Surgeon,” published in 1787- “ The billets in England, and, I may add, in Scotland, are always in public houses; and the land- lord never fails to look on the soldiery not only as a nuisance, but as a great drawback on the profits of his business. They60 MILITARY SURGERY. are treated coldly, and frequently lodged poorly. The places allotted for them are generally some uninhabited garret or lum- ber room, where the very air they are obliged to breathe is so vitiated as at first entrance considerably to affect a person un- accustomed to it. “ It must be obvious that this will affect the surgeon in his practice, for we need not add, that while the cause exists the disease must continue. The most judicious plans of practice may be laid down, but, under such circumstances, it will be next to impossible that they can prove successful.11 It is to be wished that more recent experience would enable me to give a different picture of the disadvantages attend- ing the billeting of soldiers throughout England, but these, as pourtrayed by Dr. Hamilton, are in every particular perfectly coincident with my own observation ; and of the fatal consequences which sometimes occur from the practice of billeting soldiers, one of the last cases which I had occasion to treat in the service afforded a melancholy example. A fine healthy young soldier, of the 33d regiment, then oc- cupying billets in the town of Nottingham, was severely in- jured in a drunken brawl, and received several contusions on the head. He was brought to the hospital, labouring under violent symptoms of phrenitis, which, in spite of very active treatment, proved fatal in a few hours after his admission. On examining the head, the cause of his death was sufficiently conspicuous, a considerable quantity of matter having already formed on the surface of the brain ; but I was extremely puzzled to account for the rapid termination of this case, un- til the circumstances were developed before a coroner’s inquest, when it turned out that the fatal injury had been received se- veral days previous to his appearance at the hospital, and that his comrades, and the people in his billet, desirous of hushing up the whole affair, had kept him concealed, and had been reating him with hot ale and gin. T o this a facility61 ACCOMMODATION OF TROOPS. . was unfortunately given, from the young man having been i employed in manufacturing tufts for the men s caps, and ha\- i ing in consequence been excused from parades. Billets, however, notwithstanding the objections I have j pointed out to them, become, in many cases, the only accom- modations to be procured for soldiers; and, in such cases, it is the duty of the surgeon, as far as his more urgent avocations will allow, to visit the different billets of his men, particular- ly such as may be reported to him as damp, deficient in point of ventilation, cleanliness, and comfort; and when he finds them so, it becomes his imperious duty to make an imme- diate and distinct report to his commanding officer on the subject. Having offered these cursory remarks on the accommodation of troops, it now only remains for me to advert to what may be attempted for their comfort in those urgent circumstances in which they are totally without accommodation and without shelter, when they arc under the necessity of bivouacking. Here every thing which can reasonably be devised is compre- hended in the following extract from Dr. Millingen’s Army Medical Officer’s Manual. “ In selecting ground for bivouack, little can be remarked; as it is merely necessary that, in this temporary situation, the site should be healthy, and in the vicinity of wood, water, and straw, if possible. It is in this harassing situation, more es- pecially in cold and wet weather, that hoods attached to the great coats will be found of material benefit. “ When military circumstances permit it, fires should be kindled ; and when a General does not wish to show an ex- tensive front, they should be lighted in circular clusters, that the men may lie between them, and the heat be more gene- rally diffused ; amidst these, the troops should lie, not singly, but by squads, spreading two or three blankets on the ground, over straw or fern leaves, &c. when it can be procured : theirMILITARY SURGERY. 62 heads covered with their hoods, their ears previously protected by the flaps of their forage-caps ; their feet converging to- wards the fire ; their heads supported by their packs. They should lie close to each other, covered with the rest of the blankets; in wet and cold weather, a half ration of spirits should be issued previous to their retiring to rest. “ In very cold weather, sentries should only be kept on an hour, or even half an hour; and when relieved, the men should not be permitted to lie down immediately by the fires, but be kept pacing round them, till the sensation of numbness is relieved. Under similar circumstances, only one-half of the troops should be allowed to lie down at a time, the other half being kept in motion round the fires, with orders to awake their comrades after two hours’ sleep, that they may rest in their turn. “ When sleeping on the snow-covered ground, the men had better pile up a heap of snow on each side of them ; these banks will afford a comfortable protection. Under these cir- cumstances, incredible comfort will arise from anointing the face and ears with oil before retiring to rest or going upon duty. “ On arriving on the bivouack ground, the sick should be put under canvass, or accommodated in adjoining buildings, each corps assembling its sick in the rear of its centre.” A due attention to the foregoing circumstances in the selec- tion of recruits, the diet, clothing, and exercise of troops, and their accommodation in camp or in quarters, will do much to obviate the occurrence and to check the progress of disease amongst soldiers ; but it has been, perhaps justly, observed, that in all large armies, more men perish by inbred disease than by the sword of the enemy, and that more campaigns have been decided by sickness than by battle ; it is therefore neces- sary that we should be aware of the particular kinds of disease most prevalent in the field and in quarters.DISEASES OF CAMPS AND GARRISONS. G3 The diseases of soldiers, while they admit of all the usual classifications and nosological arrangements into febrile, in- flammatory, and so forth, have, with reference to their pecu- liar mode of life, been divided into diseases of the Camp and of the Garrison. The former have also been characterised as the diseases of summer and of autumn, this being the season of the year for encampment; and here fever and dysentery have, from the earliest ages, been the scourge of armies; have always been a source of infinite loss to the service, and of un- ceasing labour to the medical attendants. Of the extent to which these two diseases prevailed in the Peninsular army, some conception may be formed from the following statement extracted from Sir James M‘Grigor's account of the diseases of that army. There were admitted during the years 1812-13, and part of 1814, sixty-eight thousand eight hundred and ninety-four cases of fever, of which six thousand seven hun- dred and three died, equal to 9-7 per cent. ; and during the same period there were admitted into the regimental hospi- tals seven thousand five hundred and twenty-six cases of dysentery, of which four thousand seven hundred and seventeen died, or 62.5 per cent. The diseases incident to soldiers in garrison, or quarters, have also been characterised as the diseases of winter, and of the early part of spring; they consist, in this part of the world, chiefly of inflammatory affections of the chest, rheumatic complaints, venereal diseases, and ophthalmia. The diseases prevalent amongst troops on foreign stations will be more particularly noticed in a subsequent part of the course, but in estimating the proportional sickness amongst troops at different seasons of the year, Sir John Pringle lias given a statement from his experience in Germany, in Flan- ders, and in this country, during the campaign of 1742 and the subsequent years, which may not be undeserving of at- tention. “ In the beginning of every campaign,”' says he.64 MILITARY SURGERY. “ we are to expect, for the first month at least, that the returns will be considerably higher than if the men had remained in quarters. The earliest encampment began on the 8th of April, and produced such a number of sick, that in a month’s time the returns amounted to a twenty-seventh part of the whole. In the year 1745, the campaign was opened on the 25th of April ; and in 17^7? on the 23d of the same month, both in the Low Countries, but in tlie year 1746, the troops encamped on the 23d of April in the north of Scotland, which, considering the latitude, may be reckoned tbe ear- liest campaign during the war. And from all these in- stances, there is reason to believe, that the first proportion mentioned will generally hold when the army takes the field in Flanders in the first or second week of April. At the end of the campaign in Germany, the number in the hospital were to the men in health as three to thirteen. In 1747, when the troops left the field, the sick made about one-fifth part of the whole number, but if we consider by itself the detachment sent that year into Zealand, this proportion was just inverted ; for the men in health were to the diseased only as one to four.” We learn also from the same authority, that of the troops sta- tioned, during 1747, in South Beveland and the Island of Walcheren, some of the corps were so sickly as not to have more than one hundred men fit for duty, which was less than the seventh part of a complete battalion ; “ the Royals, in particular, at the end of the campaign, had but four men that never had been ill.” The recent loss of nearly four thousand men on the island of Walcheren, is fresh in our memories, and gives this subject a painful interest to every British officer. It is obvious, how- ever, that only a very distant approach to accuracy can be ex- pected in our endeavours to estimate tbe loss likely to ensue on any given service, as this must ever be dependent on the climate, the state of the weather, the provisions and comfortsPROPORTION OF SICK IN ARMIES. Go ivith which an army can be supplied, the fatigue it under- goes, and its success or discomfiture by the enemy ; if we nclude the probable casualties from wounds, the calculation -s -rendered still more difficult; it may however be worth vhile to notice the following statement of the numbers of sick and wounded in the Peninsular army, from 21st De- cember 1811 to the 24th June 1816, as given in Sir J. ’M‘G rigor's paper. “ On reference to the returns of sick and wounded for the above period, it appears that three hundred and forty-six thou- sand one hundred and eight cases of disease or wounds were treated in the hospitals : of which were discharged cured two hundred and thirty-two thousand five hundred and fifty-three ; four thousand five hundred and eighty-six were invalided ; and eighteen thousand five hundred and thirteen died of their wounds or of disease ; including however every wounded man who had been received into hospital, or who had even been seen by a surgeon.” Into this statement some accidental error seems to have crept, as the numbers cured, dead, and invalided, does not correspond with the total number treated, but it gives us a view of the chances of war upon an extend- ed scale. It refers to a period of considerable duration, em- bracing very active operations, and is the most recent account wre possess of the contingencies incident to a European anny fighting on a European soil. The article Hygiene Militaire, in the Dictionnaire des Sciences Medicales, contains some observations on the pro- bable number of sick which an army is likely to furnish ; and Vaidy, the author of that article, states, that in gar- rison, in a healthy country, where provisions are abund- ant, and the barracks well constructed, we may expect about five per cent, of sick in the infantry, nnd somewhat less in the cavalry and artillery ; after a successful campaign, when an army has been victorious, he has known this number muchMILITARY SURGERY. CO reduced, as, for instance, after the campaign of Austerlitz, the French army cantoned in Bavaria, had only a hundred sick in a division of eight thousand men. During a campaign, however, we ought not to calculate upon less than ten sick for every 100 fighting men, a number which is often fearful- ly increased if the army is very numerous and much concen- trated, if it is encamped on wet ground, if it has experienced great privations, and finally, if it is discouraged by defeat or want of confidence in its chiefs. An army of 100,000 men may expect, according to Vaidy’s calculation, to have 10,000 sick during a campaign, independent of any rencontre with the enemy; of which number5000 or 6000 may be medical and the rest surgical cases; but after a battle, the proportion will be reversed, and under the most favourable circumstances, he calculates upon 10,000 or 12,000 wounded, in addition to the above. To this we have sometimes to add the number of wounded left in our hands by a vanquished enemy, to whom our cares are equally due. These calculations become of great importance to medical officers, particularly as they rise up- wards in the gradation of ranks, and come eventually to be consulted as to the extent of the necessary establishments for the sick, or to regulate the proportion of medical staff and hospital stores to be allotted for any given service. The foregoing details will enable us to understand what we may expect to meet with in accompanying an army to the field; but we are also encouraged to think that sickness is not always the necessary consequence of a military life,.and that professional skill and judgment may do much to obviate its ravages when it does occur. This may be learned from various interesting accounts both of ancient and of modern wars. In the circum- stantial details of the operations of Julius Caesar’s well disci- plined army, we hear of none of his enterprises having been frustrated by the prevalence of disease amongst his troops: and although in many instances exposed to fruitful sources of dis-PROPORTION OF SICK IN ARJIIES. G7 ease, and sometimes suffering severely from it, the gallant army which lately served in the Peninsula was kept for years together in a state of efficiency which enabled it repeatedly to conquer, and ultimately to triumph over a brave and de- termined enemy. That much of this efficiency was justly due to the zeal and ability which directed the medical concerns of that army, I hold the following fact to be an abundant proof. During the ten months from the siege of Burgos to the battle of Vittoria, inclusive, the total number of sick and wounded which passed through the hospitals was ninety-five thousand three hundred and forty-eight. By the unremitting exertions of Sir James M‘Grigor and the medical staff under his orders, the army took the field preparatory to the battle with a sick-list under five thousand. For twenty successive days it marched towards the enemy, and in less than one month after it had defeated him, mustered within thirty men as strong as before the action,—and this too without rein- forcements from England, the ranks having been recruited by convalescents. But it is in the navy, perhaps even more than in the army, that the effects of prophylactic measures, both medical and military, have had the most conspicuous influence in dimi- nishing sickness and mortality. A fleet under ordinary cir- cumstances, where the discipline and interior economy of the ships are good, the supply of warm clothing and wholesome provisions sufficient, the means of ventilation and cleanliness perfect, above all, where the officers have it in their power to keep disorder and intemperance in check, may attain a degree of health which can never be expected in an army on active sendee. A long sea voyage was formerly considered one of the most unhealthy situations to which a man could be exposed, while by the institution and enforcement of prophylactic mea- sures a ship’s company may now be conducted round the world, exposed to every vicissitude of temperature, and to allMILITARY SURGERY. G8 the hardships and dangers of the sea, with a smaller propor- tional loss of men than would happen in almost any other given situation. The gallant Lord Nelson is said, by proper discipline and wholesome regulations, to have kept the crew of a vessel which he commanded in such perfect health as not to have lost a man by death in three years, and this too on the West In- dia station! The name of this distinguished officer, thus honourably connected with the health of his crew, reminds me that al- though it belongs to the medical officer to suggest measures for preserving the health of seamen and of soldiers, it belongs to the commanding-officer to give them due effect. The means of preserving the health and efficiency of troops has not yet sufficiently engaged the attention of the authorities in the British army, although the superiority of prophylactic over remedial measures has been distinctly pointed out by nu- merous writers, and must never be lost sight of. Sir Gilbert Blane remarks, that it could be made evident in an economical and political point of view, independent of moral considerations, that the health and lives of men might be preserved at a much less expense than what is necessary to repair the ravages of dis- ease ; and Sir John Pringle has observed, that “ although most of the causes of disease are hardly to be avoided in time of actual service, yet as these only dispose men to sickness, and do not necessarily bring it on, it is incumbent on those who have the power to make such provision as shall enable the soldier to withstand most of the hardships of a military life and, he adds with much truth, “ that the preservatives from disease are not to depend on medicines, nor on any thing which a soldier has it in his power to neglect.11 It is unnecessary to adduce farther authority in support of a position almost self-evident, but I cannot resist this opportunity of pointing attention to the following passage, in which our late venerable and lamented pro- fessor of the practice of physic in this University has, with that09 HOSPITALS. force and eloquence so peculiarly his own, shown us how inade- i quate the habitual use of medicine is to secure that vigour of c constitution upon which the efficiency of a soldier so essentially i depends. “ Neque multo profecerunt qui ad normam medicam ' vivendi rationem semper accommodare tentaverunt; et minus adhuc qui ope remediorum prosperam valetudinem firmare et (conservare conati sint:—omnis autem tuendx sanitatis cura, (omnisque morborum arcendorum spes et fiducia, hoc solo car- dine versantur, nempe, ut a causis morborum remotis, cum ab iisqua' proclivitatem faciunt, turn quoque ab iis qua? in cor- pore sic proclivi facto morbum quemlibet excitent, quantum fieri possit, praecaveatur, et hie omni cura cvitentur, ilia; cor- ; rieantur.” 8 •*. HOSPITALS. In entering upon the subject of military hospitals, and at- tempting to trace the successive steps by which we have been led to the formation of establishments considered so indispensa- ble in the armies of modern Europe, it is much to be lamented that we possess little or no detailed information regarding the provision made for the treatment of the sick and wounded in former times. It does not appear from any ancient writings, either histo- rical or professional, with which I am acquainted, that the treatment of the sick and wounded was an object of serious at- tention to the leaders of armies; for although the states of Greece and Rome early saw the propriety and necessity of providing for soldiers who were disabled from farther service ;70 MILITARY SURGERY. anti although the justice of this is distinctly admitted, “ vulneratorum magnam liaberi curam tequum est,” yet this was obviously meant to apply to those permanent provisions now given to disabled soldiers in the shape of pensions, rather than to any professional means of treatment in the recent state of wounds, or in the acute stages of disease. We are informed that Solon deducted something from the pay of soldiers, and employed it for the education of children whose fathers had fallen in battle, that others might be encou- raged to bravery ; while Pisistrat'us, acting on the same prin- ciple, made an order, that those who had lost any of their limbs in war should be maintained at the public expense. The Romans recompensed their deserving and disabled sol- diers, by awarding them honours, privileges, and pecuniary pensions. A veteran was authorized to carry a cane, like ft centurion, when he entered a camp; and when guilty of a misdemeanour, he was not liable to be flogged, or to suffer any ignominious punishment. Constantine awarded to ve- terans waste lands in perpetuity, with an exemption from imposts. Each individual received a pair of oxen, a hundred bushels of grain, and a sum of money to enable him to pur- chase agricultural implements. As yet, however, we find no notice of anything like our modern establishments for the treatment of the wounded, and of those labouring under acute disease, excepting, indeed, the Valetudinarium of the Roman camp ; which is figured in Grrevius’s Roman Antiquities, but of the nature and regulations of which we possess, so far as I know, no detailed nor perfect account. One of the first houses for the reception of indigent sick, was that built at Rome by Fabiola, a Roman lady, the friend of St. Jerome, and who consequently lived in the fifth centu- ry. It is nevertheless true, that these older hospitals were rather established for the poor than for the sick ; and hospi-HOSPITALS. 71 : tals, according to the meaning of the word at present, that i is, such as were destined for the sick alone, were not intro- duced before the eleventh century. It is recorded in the life i of St. Lanfranc, who was archbishop of Canterbury in the year 1070, that he caused an hospital to be built there, and fitted up so, that one part of it was appropriated for the reception of sick men, and the other of sick women. It is probable that this prelate formed the institution here mentioned after the model of those which he had previously seen in his own coun- try, Italy : and, after this period, similar establishments for the sick are mentioned in various other parts of the world. Of the internal economy of the oldest houses for the recep- tion of the sick, I believe that no accurate information is to be found ; it is not even known whether physicians and sur- geons were appointed to them, nor in what manner they were supplied with medicines. In the hospitals at Jerusalem, the knights and brothers attended the sick themselves, bound up their wounds, and acted as their physicians, in imitation of the Grecian heroes; and Mohsen remarks, that the well- known baume de commendeur is one of the oldest compositions belonging to the times of knighthood. Profound or extensive knowledge of medicine could not be expected amongst these warriors, even if we were ignorant of the account given of their skill by Guy de Chauliac, who wrote his book on the healing of wounds in the year 1363. This author mentions different medical sects, and amongst these names the German knights as the fourth sect, who, he says, cured wounds by exorcism, oil, wool, and cabbage leaves. The first regular establishment for the reception of invalid soldiers which occurs in history is that formed at Constanti- nople by the Emperor Alexius Comnenus, at the end of the eleventh century, a complete description of which may be found in the history of that prince, by his learned daughter Anna Comnena. The emperor caused a number of buildings7- MILITARY SURGERY. which stood around a church to be fitted up as an hospital, into which were received sick and indigent persons of both sexes and of all ages, and, as the female historian expressly states, soldiers dismissed from service were admitted into it, and provided with bed, board, and clothing. Of the hospitals for invalids at present in existence, the oldest and largest is that established at Paris. The kings of France enjoyed from the earliest times what was called droit d'oblat, which consisted in the power of sending to abbeys and monasteries, in order to be maintained, officers and soldiers unfit for further service, and particularly such as had been wounded. It may be readily conceived how unpleasant these guests must have been to the clergy, and how little the ideas, mode of living, and manners of these two classes, would ac- cord with each other. The complaints on this subject had become so great under Henry IV., that he, at length, re- solved to cause all invalids to be lodged and maintained to- gether in a palace, called la Maison Roy ale de la Charite Chretienne. But as the revenues destined for the support of this establishment were not sufficient, it was abolished under the same sovereign, and the invalids again distributed amongst the abbeys and convents. In the course of time these houses purchased exemption from this burden, by giving an annual pension to their guests, who soon spent their money, and then fell into a state of the most abject poverty. On this account Louis XIII. renewed the experiment of founding an hospital for invalids, which, for want of money, was never completed. At length Louis XIV., in the year 1G70, commenced the present magnificent Hotel des Invalides. In the year 1G82, Charles II. of England commenced the hospital for invalid soldiers at Chelsea ; and the larger and more magnificent hospital for seamen at Greenwich, first sug- gested by Mary the consort of King William, was begun in 1G95, and from time to time enlarged and ornamented.HOSPITALS. 73 The first traces of field hospitals, or, as they are sometimes ailed, flying hospitals, occur perhaps in the east. At any rate, he Emperors Mauricius and Leo \ I. had along with their rmies certain followers termed deputati, (Aa/5roraro/,) who were distributed among the cavalry, and were obliged to carry off .hose wounded in battle. On this account they had on the left tide of the saddle two stirrups, in order that they might more •asily take up the wounded behind them ; and for every person hus saved they obtained a certain reward. They were obliged dso to carry with them a bottle containing water, for the pur- pose of reviving those who might have fainted through loss if blood. In early times, however, it would seem that the spiritual ather than the bodily wants of warriors were the chief ob- jects of attention ; for although an order was made by the first utouncil of Ratisbon, in 7^2, that every commander of an army should have along with him two bishops, with priests and chaplains, and that every colonel should be attended by a jonfessor, no mention is to be found either of field hospitals >r of army surgeons belonging to the first Christian armies, in the writings of the middle ages. We learn, indeed, from the works of Paracelsus, Thurneyser, and others, that they were present at battles and sieges, but they certainly were not appointed as army surgeons, and served merely as soldiers. The field surgeons who occur as accompanying armies in the beginning of the fifteenth century were destined rather for the use of the commanders and principal officers than for the ser- vice of the field hospitals. Their number was too small for a whole army; and as they were authorized by their commis- sions to receive prisoners and booty, and, like the knights, were obliged to bring with them archers, it is highly probable that to fight was a part of their duty also. Harte, in his Life of Gustavus Adolphus, seems to believe74 MILITARY SURGERY. that this prince first appointed four surgeons to each regi- ment, which he reduced from the number of 2000 or 3000, first to 1200, and afterwards to 1008 ; and Harte is of opinion that the imperial troops, at that time, had no surgeons, be- cause Tilly himself, after the battle at Leipsic, was obliged to have his wounds dressed by a surgeon established at Halle. However this may be, it is certain, that the field hospital esta- blishments of the imperial army, till the beginning of the 18th century, were on a very bad footing. Even in the year 1718, they had no field surgeons ; but at this period the company surgeons were dismissed, and a regimental surgeon, with six assistants, wras appointed to each regiment; and be- sides the field medicine chest, surgical instruments were pro- vided at the emperor’s expense. The establishment of field hospitals in Germany, would appear to have been prior to the middle of the lfith century; for Fronsperger, who wrote about that period, does not speak of field surgeons, army surgeons, and their servants, as if they had been then newly introduced, but in such a manner as shows that the need of them had been generally acknowledged and supplied before his time. According to his statement, it was necessary that there should be, along with the com- mander-in-chief, a field surgeon-in-chief, a doctor, •who had the inspection of the field surgeons, the barbers, nnd their ser- vants, whose duty was to drag the wounded from the heaps of slain, and to convey them to their masters. He was obliged to keep by him instruments and medicines, and at each muster to examine the instruments and apparatus of the field sur- geons ; he decided also in disputed cases, how much soldiers, whose wounds had been cured, ought to pay to the field-sur- geon ; and during marches, he was bound to remain with the commander-in-chief. Fronsperger says also, that there ought to be with the artillery a general field-surgeon, and with eachHOSPITALS. 75 company a particular field-surgeon, not, however, a paltry 'beard-scraper, (bartscherer) but a regularly instructed, expe- rienced, and well practised man. Field hospitals were first established in France under the il- lustrious Henri Quatre at the siege of Amiens in 1597 ’■> an(l benevolence of the institution was so gratefully acknowledged 'by the soldiers, that they distinguished the campaign in which they were established, by the name of the velvet campaign. Humanity to the -wounded seems, even long prior to this pe- riod, to have been a trait conspicuous in the character of the French monarchs, St. Louis himself, the ninth king of that name, having personally assisted in the cure of the soldiers, whose wounds were the consequences of the wars undertaken for the purpose of expelling the infidels from the Holy Land, or of his contests with our Henry Third. The appointment of regimental surgeons in the English army was, it is believed, coeval with their corps; but at what precise period it became customary for them to provide houses for the reception of the sick, and to treat them collectively in such receptacles, I have not been able to ascertain, although these institutions wrere certainly prior to the time of Munro and Broklesby, who wrote soon after the middle of the last century. Dr. Donald Monro, who seems to have examined the ancient writers with great care, for information on the subject of mili- ary hospitals, and for the means of accommodating the sick, and those wounded in battle, reports, that no ancient author that he had met with makes mention of the particular man- ner in which their military hospitals were conducted. We know, indeed, from the writings of Livy, Tacitus, and others, that it was the custom in ancient times to intrust the wround- ! ed, after great battles, to the hospitality of the neighbouring gentry, into whose houses they were received, a practice ccr-MILITARY SURGERY. tninly very inconsistent with efficient medical treatment; for, to say nothing of the impossibility of visiting sick sufficiently often, when thus dispersed, the hospitality of their entertain- ers would, no doubt, often be exercised to a very injurious ex- tent. Dr. Monro, however, says nothing of the first esta- blishment of military hospitals, either fixed or moveable, ge- neral or regimental, in the British service, but speaks of them both as well known in his time. “ In times of war,” says he, “ when the regiment is ordered on actual service, the surgeon and his mate always go with it, and their duty is to take care of the sick and hurt in their own Regimental hospi- tal ; and in spring or summer, when the regiment takes the field, they encamp with it, and have generally some tents pitched in the rear of the regiment, for the reception of such as may fall sick, till an opportunity oilers of sending those ill of fevers, fluxes, or other dangerous disorders, or who have received bad wounds, to the nearest General hospital.” Of the wretched accommodation provided for the sick sol- dier, even so late as the time of Dr. Brocklesby, we have a lamentable picture in his writings, which he concludes by ob- serving that, “ to the important subject of Military Hospi- tals, neither Montecuculli, Folard, Feuquieres, the great Conde, Marshal Saxe, General Bland, nor any other writer with whom he was acquainted, had paid much attention ; for officers in this respect conceived that they had little more to do than to consign the sick to the best of those accommoda- tions which chance, necessity, or a base parsimony, had pro- vided for them.1" This reproach is completely taken away by the arrangements of the present time; and I now proceed to advert to some of those points most deserving attention in car- rying these arrangements into effect. The remarks already made on the site, construction, and ventilation of barracks, for the most part apply a fortiori77 HOSPITALS. to military hospitals, and hence these points need not de- : tain us long. In the barracks of this country, both those of : a temporary and permanent nature, hospitals sufficiently c commodious, airy, and well ventilated are generally provid- ed, and these are such as to afford the surgeon every advan- ; tage in the treatment of his sick ; but when employed in a foreign country, it becomes a most essential part ol the surgeon’s duty to select and appropriate, under the authority of his commanding officer, such houses as arc best adapt- . ed for the reception of the sick and wounded. In large cities and towns where the principal establishments of an army arc formed, hospitals belonging to the country are to he found; but even if justice and humanity entitled us to turn out the wretched inhabitants of such abodes, it is not always that they could with safety be appropriated to our purposes, from the nature of the diseases prevalent in them. For hospital establishments in general the larger public buildings of a city are to be selected ; in Roman Catholic countries, monasteries, colleges, &c. are commonly to be found well adapted to this purpose, and, in many instances, palaces, spacious houses, barracks, granaries, &c. may be em- ployed for the reception of sick. Churches, which have been sometimes used for this purpose, are less eligible, particularly when the practice of the country permits the burial of the dead within their precincts. When we have an opportunity of making a selection we will naturally give the preference to buildings constructed on elevated and dry ground, with a fa- vourable aspect, and an abundant supply of wholesome water. When in a low country, care should he taken as far as pos- sible to prevent the hospitals from being exposed to marshy exhalations ; and in such situations the lower floor of a build- ing should not be occupied by the sick if it can be avoided. Ihe superior degree of health, frequently existing in an upper78 MILITARY SURGERY. floor of the same building, while the men on the ground-floor are suffering from disease, has often been remarked ; several instances of this are noticed by Sir John Pringle, particularly amongst the troops quartered at Ghent, in 1742, where it was observed, that such as lay in the upper stories enjoyed much better health than those who were below on the ground-floors, which were all very damp. In a very interesting and valuable paper, on the “ Nature and History of the Marsh Poison,” by Dr. William Fergus- son, published in the Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, he observes, that “ no experiments hitherto made have enabled us to pronounce whether it be specifically heavier or lighter than common air; but it evidently possesses an un- common and singular attraction for the earth’s surface; for in all malarious seasons and countries, the inhabitants of gi'ound- Jloors are uniformly affected in a greater proportion than those of the upper stories. According to official returns during the last sickly season at Barbadoes, the proportion of those taken ill with fever, in the lower apartments of the barracks, exceed- ed that of the upper by one-third, throughout the whole course of the epidemic.” Of this exemption from disease in the upper floor of a bar- rack while it raged below, a very remarkable instance fell with- in my own observation in the 69th regiment, at that time quartered in the fortress of Seringapatam, and occupying a building which had formerly been one of Tippoo’s palaces. I recollect also in the large hospital at Sourabaya in the island of Java, one of the best hospitals I have ever seen, we used to remark the more rapid convalescence of patients upon the upper floor. Indeed the lower story of this building was very judiciously appropriated to the necessary offices of the establish- ment, and but a small portion of it was occupied by the sick. When a medical officer is consulted as to the plan and con-79 HOSPITALS. ■struction of an hospital, the leading points he should bear in mind are, to have the hospital so situated with regard to the ■barrack as to prevent the ready access of idle visitors, or in- Jdeed any communication with the exterior which is not autho- rized by the medical officer. The wards should be lofty in the roof, capable of thorough ventilation, and not too large, per- haps those containing from twelve to sixteen patients are the most advantageous. In calculating the accommodation of an hospital, Dr. Hennen estimates that there should be at least six feet by six for each bed, or thirty-six feet square, whatever may be the height of the ward, and the room should in some measure be apportioned to patients agreeably to an estimate of its cubic contents ; thus, a room sixteen feet long, ten broad, and ten high, will contain 1600 cubic feet of air, and is calculated to accommodate two patients ex- tremely well, allowing 800 cubic feet for each; and it s should be a general rule, that when there are any fractional parts above the specific allowance, such fractional parts should be allowed as an equivalent for the portion of air displaced by the bedsteads, tables, forms, &c. Tenon, in his interesting work on the Parisian Hospitals, states, as the proper allowance for each convalescent patient, six and a half cubic toises of air, and seven cubic toises for each sick patient, (each toise being equal to 76-734.English inches ;) which, says he, is the pro- portion in those hospitals where I have found the mortality moderate, “ bu j’ai trouve la mortalite moderee.” The wards ought as much as possible to approach to a rect- angular form, so that the whole of the patients may be ex- ] posed at once to an officer’s eye the moment he enters the ward. All angular projections, recesses, cupboards, &c. ought to be excluded ; every additional crevice or corner is ge- nerally converted into an additional receptacle for filth, and every contrivance of the kind to which I allude is calculated to obstruct the cleaning and ventilation of the wards. WhereMILITARY SURGERY. 80 the hospital consists of two or more floors, the surgery, store- rooms, kitchen, and* in short, all the offices necessarily ap- pertaining to an hospital, should be situated in the ground floor, in order that additional space may be left for the ac- commodation of patients above. The subject of ventilation it is unnecessary to resume at any length, having already expressed myself fully on this point, in regard to barracks, and suggested a plan which, with due modification, is equally applicable to hospitals. In some instances, the supply of fresh air has been provided for by constructing a series of channels, or air-tubes, under the flooring of the wards, which communicate directly with the external atmosphere, and deliver the air into the wards through grated apertures in the floors. This plan of ventilation has lately been introduced into the clinical wards of the Royal Infirmary here, and also into the wards of the building formerly occupied as the High School, and now appropriated to the accommodation of the surgi- cal department of the Infirmary ; to those last mentioned wards I may refer as affording an excellent example of every thing that is desirable as to shape, size, height of roof, &c. The lead- ing principle upon which all our plans for ventilation should be founded, is the simple fact, that air heated by respiration naturally rises to the tops of the wards, while the cooler and heavier air occupies the lower parts ; hence judicious openings at the top and bottom of a ward will always ensure the exit of the upper stratum of air, with an influx from be- low to occupy its place. And 1 would only remark, that, while ill ventilated hospitals have, on the one hand, been re- presented as the ruin of an army, they have, on the other hand, when duly regulated in this respect, been looked upon as one of its greatest blessings. Sir John Pringle speaks of hospitals, although intended for its preservation, as one of the chief causes of sickness and death in an army, “ on account ofHOSPITALS. 81 the bad air, and other inconveniences attending them.” 'While Professor Brugmans, of Leyden, who was eighteen v years at the head of the Medical Department of the army in I Holland, states, as a proof of the efficacy of ventilation, that, i in 1799, they received into the military hospital at Leyden, the situation of which was not good, four thousand wounded men, but did not perceive amongst them the smallest trait of hospital gangrene, which he attributes to the vigilant atten- tion of Stark, the surgeon-major, in procuring “ a constant renewal of the air.” In order to render military hospitals more fully adequate to the purposes for which they are intended, it would he an important addition if they were all furnished with a receiving- room, or other commodious apartment, supplied with tubs, and with ample command of water, both cold and warm, in order to afford the means of making eveiy patient thorough- ly clean upon his admission ; hospitals should also be pro- vided with a foul linen store, and steeping-tubs adjoining the wash-house. The dead-houses, store-rooms, necessaries, &c., should not only be better Ventilated, but also much better lighted than they commonly are ; the surgeries, too, are often deficient in point of shelving, &c., for the commodious ar- rangement and preservation of the medicines. Many of the preceding remarks apply chiefly to houses expressly built, or hereafter to be built, for hospitals ; in ap- propriating other buildings to this purpose, many of the ac- commodations alluded to must necessarily be dispensed with ; but houses eligibly situated, substantially built, capable of being thoroughly cleaned and ventilated, are what we ought to select for the reception of our sick, wherever they are to be found. In proceeding to consider the interior economy of hospitals, which embraces the financial, purveying, and culinary ar- rangements, I shall chiefly advert to these matters as they are o82 MILITARY SURGERY. conducted in regimental hospitals ; these being considered by all experienced surgeons as the most desirable receptacles for the sick soldier, and being the establishments in which a large majority of the British troops fall to be treated when sick. In entering upon this subject, it is necessary to understand that regimental medical officers are, in every respect, except in points purely professional, under the orders of the com- manding officer of the regiment, on whom it is incumbent to take care that every attention is paid to the health of the men intrusted to his command ; that the sick are properly attended, kindly treated, and that they have every allowance to which they are entitled : but surgeons are always to per- form their professional duties under the instructions and con- trol of the Director-General of the Army Medical Depart- ment. The general expenditure of the hospital is under the immediate direction of the surgeon, who is responsible for the due appropriation of the fund allotted for its support, as well as for the general conduct of the hospital, and of the servants attached thereto. Under existing regulations, the sum of tenpence a-day is stopped from the soldier’s pay towards his maintenance when sick in hospital; and abundant experience has proved, that the aggregate sum arising from these stoppages is, under ordinary circumstances, and under judicious management, fully adequate to the necessary expenses of the hospital. The “ Fifth Report of the Commissioners of Military Inquiry, printed by order of the House of Commons in 1808,” con- i tains much interesting information as to the financial concerns of army hospitals; and an opinion as to the adequacy of the established rate of hospital stoppages to meet the necessary expenses, is there expressed in the following strong terms, by a very experienced medical officer, Dr. Borland : “ The new system has been introduced in the West Indies, by Inspcc- tHOSPITALS. 83 tor Kerr; in Sicily, by Deputy-Inspector Somerville; at : the Cape of Good Hope, by Deputy-Inspector Baillie, &c., 'where the savings have been greater than at home; and t there can be no doubt, that if one authority controlled, and one medical regulation pervaded the whole army, the hospital . expenditure, medicines included, might be defrayed from the hospital stoppages.” The rate of diet being in every case appropriated to the na- ture of the disease under which the soldier labours, it no doubt often happens, that what he actually receives, in the shape of aliment, is not equivalent to the amount of his stoppages; but of this he can have no reason to complain, considering that, if reduced either by the nature or duration of his disease to a s state requiring additional nutriment and wine, he is equally I furnished with them, however much their value may exceed i the sum stopped from his pay. On the Indian station, at the : time I served in that country, the hospital stoppages were, and, I believe, still are, only about one half of what is exact- ed on other stations. Why his majesty’s orders, on this head, have not been enforced in India, as well as in every other quarter of the world, I am unable to say; but if the dimi- nished rate of stoppage has been established as an act of be- nevolence to the sick soldier, the object has been completely defeated ; a soldier being able to accumulate money in hos- ] pital, is an evil fraught with the most serious consequences to himself and to the service, by holding out an inducement to him to remain in hospital, and by frequently leading him into excesses on leaving it* Upon home service it is the duty of the surgeon to provide the meat, bread, and every other article of diet required for the sick, at the market price, and of the best possible quality ; the price being ascertained and verified by the commanding- officer of the regiment, whose approving signature is necessary to authenticate the surgeon’s accounts. On foreign serviceMILITARY SURGERY. 84 the bread, meat, and more bulky articles of provision for the sick are frequently supplied by the commissary, so far as his resources enable him ; and it is the especial duty of the sur- geon to see that these articles are of the best quality to be procured, or to make an immediate report to his command- ing-officer on the subject should he find them otherwise. With reference to this point the following sentiments’of Dr. Millen- gen, applicable to the inferior officers and servants employed in the purveying department of large general hospitals, are particularly deserving of attention : “ whenever,” says he, “ a medical officer suspects that irregularities exist, he should diligently and silently watch every motion until fully able to bring the offence to light, and the offender to punishment. Medical officers must recollect that their professional charac- ter is deeply involved in the prosperity or failure of their ef- forts, which will be rendered nugatory if the interests of the sick are allowed to be sacrificed by the peculation of their servants. Fraudulent conduct, on the part of the administra- tors of hospital economy, is not a case of ordinary delin- quency ; for any act which, directly or indirectly, tends to weaken or cripple our armies, constitutes a national crime; and it is to be regretted that our military code does not pro- vide for the exemplary punishment of such offences.” The impropriety of having the purveying department of hospitals in the hands of the medical superintendant was pointed out by Dr. Donald Monro in the strongest possible terms many years ago. His observations upon this subject have long been familiar to me, and are fully confirmed by my own experience in India, where, until a very recent pe- riod, the surgeons held a contract for victualling and clothing their sick. The evils arising from this combination of the purveyor and the surgeon were then daily before my eyes, and the following extracts arc from an unpublished memoir upon military hospitals, written twenty years ago.HOSPITALS. 85 “ Independent of all temptations to abuse, which it is to be iihoped most of us could resist, this plan is in some cases ab- solutely incompatible with the proper dieting of the sick. It may be very possible for a surgeon, while lying quietly in gar- rison or cantonment, to furnish provisions for his sick without much additional trouble, but whenever his regiment comes to 'ibe employed in active operations against an enemy, all his talents and exertions are then required in his proper capacity, land he has his hands abundantly full, without having the complicated concerns of a victualling department to attend to. i It by no means follows, that because a man is a good surgeon he should be a good commissary also, and it is obvious, that •' whatever tends to withdraw his attention from the study and practice of his professional duties, must ultimately prove in- jurious to the service.” These observations were written - shortly after the capture of Java, where the disadvantages of the practice to which they refer were abundantly conspicuous, as was evident from the orders of the commander-in-chief; and where a case occurred, tending, perhaps more than any other circumstance, to confirm my opinion of the evils accru- ing from having the purveying department in the hands of the surgeon. That case I have noticed in the following words.—“ The present allowances are well known to be in general adequate to all the purposes required of them, but instances are not wanting where the surgeon has been for months together considerably out of pocket by a large demand for wine ; indeed, I know a case at this moment quite in point, it is that of an assistant-surgeon, left by the death of his sur- geon in charge of a sickly regiment requiring a large supply of wine. He has no prospect of retaining the charge of the regiment for any length of time, and, of course, no prospect of reimbursing himself at a more favourable opportunity. What is to he done ? This young man must either procure wine from his private funds and involve himself in debt, or8G MILITARY SURGERY. ho must withhold it and let his patients suffer; the alterna- tive is dreadful. In such a case it is extremely hard to say how far a man’s philanthropy and public spirit should carry him, and where an attention to his private interests ought to make him stop short; certainly nothing so important as the supplies for the sick ought to rest on the precarious footing of an individual’s liberality.” These observations may now perhaps be considered super- fluous, as tbe practice to which they refer has recently been abolished in India as well as everywhere else ; but I am pleased to have this opportunity of expressing my opinion of a practice which I have always reprobated, and am anxious that the members of the profession should never again be ex- posed to those ignorant, illiberal, and offensive insinuations to which they will always be subjected, when acting under a sys- tem where a man’s duty and his interest appear to be at va- riance, and where there is even the most distant ground for believing, that the surgeon, by stinting his patient, can enrich himself. In the book of instructions to regimental surgeons a diet table is given adapted to the products of this country, to the different descriptions and stages of disease, and to the periods of convalescence. This scheme must be rigidly adhered to wherever circumstances admit, and when, upon foreign ser- vice, it becomes necessary to deviate from it, a new scheme adapted to the nature and products of the country should be established by authority of a board consistihg of the senior and most experienced officers of the medical staff. When tables of diet are thus judiciously adapted to situation and circum- stances, few occasions will occur where it becomes necessary or proper to make any deviation, or to burden the diet-roll with expensive extra-allowances in the shape of food or wine. Such extra-allowances tend to create discontent amongst the men, who never can see the necessity of distinctions, nor ap-HOSPITALS. «7 ppreciate the motives which actuate a medical officer in direct- ing them for one more than another. They are really very scl- ildom necessary amongst a class of men accustomed to the ■ plainest food, all situated so much alike, and in many cases labouring under the same class of diseases. The most essen- tial part of a sick man’s diet, when any thing in the shape of animal food is admissible, is his broth, and this ought to be prepared with the utmost care and attention : when few men are borne on the tables on half diet, we cannot expect to ha\e it of sufficient strength, unless it be expressly piepaied for such patients as cannot consume solid animal food, by adding to the soup kettle bones, bullocks heads, shins, or such other parts as will improve the soup at an economical rate. In seaport towns where fish are abundant, they may with great propriety be employed as part of the scheme of hospital diet, giving them alternately with meat; and when fruit and vegetables are abundant, they may in some cases be given li- berally ; pics, however, cither of meat or fruit, are for the most part highly improper, and ought never to appear in our hospital diet-rolls ; when extra meat is required, it should be plainly dressed in the form of steaks or chops, and fruit should be always well stewed and seasoned. The articles for hospital diet might also be somewhat varied according to the seasons of the year. In the summer months less animal food is requisite ; and the proportion of fresh vegetables might be increased, while rice and barley must be substituted for part of these during the winter. Although no one would will- ingly contemplate, nor wish to be reduced to the extremities of suffering pictured in Baron Larrcy’s account of the dis- tresses of the wounded French after the battle of Eslingen, yet we should be aware of what has been done, and what may again be done for the wounded, even in the worst of times; the hospitals on the isle of Lobau underwent great privations in consequence of the difficult communication with the main88 MILITARY SURGERY. land, which was by means of a few boats, and the uncertain supply of provisions and the necessaries of life. Larrey was obliged to prepare broth for his patients made by boiling horse flesh, and seasoning it with gunpowder for want of salt. It has already been observed, that two different classes of hospitals are established in the British anny, and it may be right to give a summary exposition of the comparative advan- tages of general and regimental hospitals, for the information of those who have not had an opportunity of witnessing the contrast. General hospitals have sometimes been character- ised as general but necessary evils ; ' to them the observation already quoted from Sir John Pringle respecting the vitiated air of hospitals, as well as the following remarks of I)r. Jack- son, are more particularly applicable :—“ Height of roof is a property of great importance in a house appropriated to the reception of the sick of armies ; for the air being contaminat- ed by the breathings of a crowd of people in confined space, disease is originated, and mortality is multiplied to an extra- ordinary extent. It was often proved in the history of the late war that more human life u'as destroyed by accumulating sick men in low and ill-ventilated apartments, than by leav- ing them exposed, in severe and inclement weather, at the side of a hedge or common dyke. It is fit that the military officer mark this fact, and bear it in mind.*1 It is indeed conformable to all medical experience, that when large bodies of sick are brought together, disease is fre- quently aggravated, and contagion sometimes generated ; but independent of the evils arising from this concentration of disease, the slovenly, irregular, and unsoldier-like habits, so readily contracted by soldiers while patients in general hos- pitals, has often been a source of regret to commanding-offi- cers, and of serious injury to the service ; while the abuses and peculations existing in these hospitals, have been at all times an endless source of complaint. General hospitals arc how-.89 HOSPITALS. .BYer indispensable upon service, and much may be done to obviate the evils attending them, by a due classification of ppfitients. Independently of the usual arrangements of patients ’.according to the diseases under which they labour, wherever -space will admit of it, it would be highly useful to subdivide the sick according to the divisions, brigades, or regiments to ‘■which they belong ; so that medical officers of divisions and brigades, when serving in these general hospitals, may have their respective charges concentrated as much as possible ; while by the mere juxta-position of men belonging to the same regiment, the steady soldier or non-commissioned officer who feels for the character of his corps, may have a vigilant and controlling eye over those who may be disposed to irre- gularities, idleness, or malingering. General hospitals, when well regulated, afford perhaps advantages and superior comfort to the sick soldier worn down by protracted disease, as in them he has the advice and attendance of the ablest and most ex- perienced medical officers: as schools of instruction too they are capable of being made exceedingly useful to young men joining the army—advantages to be set off against the evils and abuses with which these establishments have been charged. Let it not, however, be supposed that I mean to dissent from the opinion entertained, I believe, by every experienced medical officer, of the superiority of regimental hospitals, which afford the means of effectually treating the sick of armies, without that accumulation of disease, irregularity of conduct, and complication of accounts, which have sometimes proved so detrimental to the service. Of the advantages de- lived from regimental hospitals in the late war, some estimate may be formed from the following passage of Sir James M‘Grigor’s paper on the health of the Peninsular army. However short a time a battalion or a corps rested in one place, a regimental hospital was established ; indeed as they90 .MILITARY SURGERY. carried with them medicines, bedding, stores, and all the ma- terials of an hospital, a regiment might be said to have its hospital constantly established even on the march. It was frequently established in the face of an enemy, and nearly within the reach of his guns. When a regiment halted, after getting the men under cover in some building, and con- structing chimnies, the first object was to make bedsteads, getting at the same time additional mattresses of straw, rushes, &c. It was really surprising to see with what rapidity this was done ; so much were the regiments in the habit of it, that latterly I found the hospitals complete in every thing, and the men most comfortably lodged in a few days after a regi- ment had halted. In short, by making every corps constant- ly keep up an establishment for itself, we could prevent the general hospitals from being crowded ; much severe and acute disease was treated in its early and only curable stage, and no slight wounds or ailments were ever sent off’ from the regi- ments ; by which means the effective force of the army was kept up, or perhaps increased by several thousand men, and this was effected by the joint exertions of the medical officers who served in the Peninsula; the result of medical science, and their experience of soldiers, their habits, and their apti- tude to particular diseases.” “ Regimental hospitals,” says Dr. Millcngen, “ hold out advantages which will in vain be sought for in general ones. Conducted under the eye of the commanding officers of corps, they form part of the regimental economy. The surgeon can acquaint himself with every individual’s character, habits, and description, circumstances which most materially tend to assist him in the execution of his duties :—The men, indeed, assembled 'in these establishments, are bound by ties of regimental discipline and economy, which constitute the su- periority of battalion hospitals—here misconduct is more thoroughly repressed, and malingering more easily detected ;91 HOSPITALS. an esprit de corps is kept up, which promiscuous intercourse .tends always to destroy. « If our medical arrangements in the field have not yet at- tained that degree of perfection, and rapidity of action, which distinguish the hospital ambulance of the continental powers, more especially of France; yet we have excelled all other armies in the establishment and administration of regimental hospitals ; and it is but justice here to observe, that to Mr. Knight, the late Inspector-General, the nation is chiefly in- debted for the efficiency and organization of these most im- portant establishments.” Having noticed some of the leading points most worthy of attention in the administration of military hospitals ; it only •emains for me, in order to complete the limited view of the subject here given, to advert to a proposal for the establish- ment of hospitals for officers upon foreign sen-ice. This is a measure which, although it has sometimes been partially acted lpon, particularly in the navy, has never yet been established n the British service on that general and extended scale cal- culated to ensure its advantages—would there were room for he opinion that such a desideratum had never been ex- perienced, or that the want of such an establishment had not )een more fatal to the officers of the army than inconvenient o their medical attendants. Twenty years have now elapsed since the necessity of such n institution was ably advocated by Sir Arthur Brooke Faulkner, in a pamphlet written aften the disastrous expedi- ion to Walcheren. The pictures there given of the miseries ncident to sick officers in billets are such as I apprehend the 'ublic is but little acquainted with.—A field-officer so wretch- dly accommodated as to render it necessary to remove him rom his billet, almost in arliculo mortis—another officer, la- ouring under fever., lodged in a mill, the noise of which was 3 loud and incessant, as to prevent his physician from hear-92 MILITARY SURGERY. ing his patient’s replies to the questions put to him—a third, compelled to remain in the market-place, while his compa- nion sought accommodation for him, and was ultimately glad to obtain it in an apartment over the tap-room of a common gin shop—a fourth, lying for four days upon the floor of a small dirty apartment, with the accumulated filth of that time unremoved.—These, and a thousand minor evils, of which the experience of every army surgeon will furnish ex- amples, are, I apprehend, enough, and more than enough, to rouse us to a sense of the distress to which sick officers are occasionally subjected in their billets, particularly when de- prived by sickness, incapacity, or misconduct, of the assistance of their servants. When gentlemen are thus in want of the usual comforts and decencies of life, it were idle to dwell upon the futility of exhibiting medicine under such disadvantageous circumstan- ces, or the impossibility of giving due medical attendance to sick officers distributed in billets over a large town. In such a situation it is impossible for the most zealous medical officer to apply his talents, either with justice to his patient, or any kind of satisfaction to himself. “ In the case of an officer ; affected with delirium, when it was dangerous to leave him alone even for a few minutes, I have been obliged,” says Sir A. Faulkner, “ more than once to remain a full hour by his bedside, while his servant w’as getting my prescription pre- 1 pared. Thus wTas the time of the physician, which unfortu- 9 nately could be but ill spared, consumed in performing the duty of a nurse.” The objections to the institution of an hospital for officers fl resolve themselves chiefly into the expense of such an esta- blishment, and the opinion that such a species of accommoda- tion would not accord with the feelings and habits of British officers. These objections are, I apprehend, altogether futile | and imaginary. Were an officer offered the alternative ofHOSPITALS. 93 .ubjecting himself to an hospital stoppage proportioned to the ate of his pay, and the extent of his accommodation, or of providing for the expenses of his own treatment in quarters, :t will not be difficult to decide which he ought to prefer on hhe score of economy; and there are few rational beings who would be disposed to prefer the gratification of false pride, and overstrained delicacy, to the restoration of health and the security of life. It would be a bad compliment to the good .sense of British officers to suppose that they would fastidious- ly reject a measure which has been advantageously adopted in the armies of our late rivals ; and we are indebted to Sir SA. Faulkner for obtaining an account of the accommodation provided for officers in the military hospitals of France. An- nexed to Sir Arthur’s pamphlet, is a letter from Boudriot, surgeon-major of the French army employed at Middleburg ■n 1809, in reply to one addressed to him requesting informa- tion on this subject. Boudriot’s letter is reprinted in the 6th /olume of the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, and he following is a translation of the first three paragraphs, he rest of it being occupied by details into which it is at pre- sent unnecessary to enter. “ 1. There is in each garrisoned town in France, and in i place singled out as the most healthy, a building known by he name of Military Hospital, of a handsome and good con- struction, the wards of which are lofty, well white washed, and urnished with parallel windows, which arc easily opened and hut at the pleasure of the officers of health. “ 2. In the same hospital there are always one or two oavilions, destined exclusively to receive the officers of all ahks, although nevertheless they are at liberty to cause hemselves to be attended (treated) in the house which they nhabit, and always at their own expense. “ 3. The officers’ ward must be furnished with beds, con- structed in the most careful manner possible, and distant94 MILITARY SURGERY. three French feet from each other, according to the regulation; separated by curtains, for decency, and in order to be enabled more easily, according to circumstances, to establish a current of air."1 TRANSPORTATION OF SICK AND WOUNDED. The principal assistance heretofore afforded to the surgeon in the execution of his duties, either in the field or in quar- ters, consists in the appointment of a few orderlies, detached from regiments, and these, for the most part, neither adequate in number, nor efficient in point of activity and intelligence. It is not indeed to be expected that commanding-officers of regiments, upon whom the surgeon is dependent for this kind of assistance, should be disposed to part with that description of men best qualified for the duties we have in view. The number of men often withdrawn from the ranks, by duties of fatigue, and casualties incident to the service, is materially increased by the number necessarily employed in attendance upon the sick,—an attendance which should not be left to be provided for on the spur of the moment, but should be esta- blished and organized on a liberal scale. For this purpose, the only effectual provision seems to be, the formation of an hospital corps, placed entirely at the dis- posal of the medical staff, and consisting of men either enlist- ed and embodied solely with this view, or transferred to the hospital establishment in consequence of having, from years or from accidents, become less effective in the line. A body of men of this description, trained to the particular duties re-transportation of sick and bounded. 95 juireil of them, qualified to attend the sick in the hospitals, >s well as to succour and bear off the wounded in the field, mould preserve the effective force of regiments; would af- ord a degree of comfort to the sick and wounded, to which hey are too often strangers ; and would give an efficiency to he medical staff, which the most zealous devotion to the du- uies of the service cannot otherwise ensure. The importance of this subject seems to have been duly estimated by Baron Percy, who has well observed “ that the first want of a warrior severely wounded in battle, is to be with- drawn from the melee, and transported to a place where he can receive the succour which his wounds demand.’1 To this distinguished surgeon the French army was indebted for the first organization of an hospital corps “ soldats d’ambulance ;” and Percy was found to join example to precept, for upon one occasion he, the chief surgeon of the army, was to be seen retreating across the Rhine, carrying on his back Lacroix, an officer of engineers, dangerously wounded. The bridge was battered by twelve pieces of cannon, and the French army, which had already gained the opposite bank, delight- ed with this noble action, encouraged with their cheers the generous efforts of Percy, under whose feet the ponton was falling to pieces. The carriages employed for the sick naturally resolve them- selves into two kinds; those carried by men, what may be termed hand-bearers, or litters; and into wheel-carriages, or !those drawn by horses or bullocks. Of the former, the loop- ed blanket is one of the most simple and common expedients; this may be formed by attaching loops to the two opposite edges of a common soldier’s blanket; the blanket is then doubled upon itself, one sergeant’s pike passed through the doubling, and another through the loop-holes in the outer edges of the blanket. A similar bearer has also sometimes been formed by bottoms of canvass ticking, with poles made on purpose to96 MILITARY SURGERY. support them. Both these forms of bearers, however, being without traverses or stretchers, are founil exceedingly defec- tive ; the weight of a patient sinks down the yielding blanket or canvass so as nearly to reach the ground, while the poles are pressed in upon the haunches of the bearers, so as to ham- per them in their movements, and to render it impossible lor them to proceed either with ease or celerity. These objections are completely obviated by the ingenious contrivance recommended by Dr. Millengen, which is figured in the frontispiece of his work, and of which a model has been shewn in my class for several years past. It is quite akin to the bearer (branchard) described in the Dictionaire des Sciences Medicales, and consists of two parallel poles, separated by two traverses or stretchers, with short legs, and supporting a canvass bottom. The poles of these bearers, when not employ- ed for this purpose, and armed with pikeheads, form weapons of offence and defence to the men of the hospital corps when escorting wounded, or guarding hospital stores or provisions. Each individual of this corps should be armed with one of these pikes, furnished with one of the traverses strapped Upon his knapsack, and one of the canvass bottoms girt round his waist, or stuffed into the crown of his chaco; and any two of them meet- ing together, will be enabled, in a few minutes, to equip a light and efficient bearer, capable of carrying off a wounded man with all the comfort of which his situation admits; his pack being placed under his head as a pillow, and his firelock slung from the side of the bearer by means of loops attached to it for this purpose. Dr. Millengen also proposes, that each transporter should be furnished with sling-belts, such as are every day to be seen upon our chairmen in the streets, by which the bearer will be slung from the shoulders, and thus more easily carried. The more minute details of this equip- ment will be found in Dr. Millengen’s work ; and at present I shall only observe, that it appears to me one of the mostTRANSPORTATION OF SICK AND WOUNDED. 97 s simple, efficient, and practicable contrivances for the convey- ance of the wounded which has yet been devised. A bearer somewhat akin to this was proposed by the late l Colonel Crighton of this place, which is figured in the first • volume of the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, and one of which is deposited in the Royal Infirmary, where it i may be seen by the pupils of the house. It consists of a a piece of frame-work, borne, like the former, upon two poles, supporting a tilted cover, and having a small cot or hung bed suspended from it, in which the patient is placed. I have upon two or three occasions employed this litter in conveying patients to or from the Infirmary, and have rea- son to consider it a very comfortable conveyance. It is, how- c ever, obviously the production of a man who had the Edin- burgh chairmen in his eye as bearers, and from its cum- brous and unwieldy form it is quite unfit for the service of the field. The only other conveyance of this kind I shall notice, is that which is very generally used in the Indian army, the Dooly. This varies somewhat in its form in different parts of the country ; in some cases it consists simply of a cot, or rather hammock, suspended from a bamboo, and screened by an awning from the sun, when it obtains the name of a Mancheel. In other cases it consists of a more finished piece of frame-work, covered by painted canvass, so as to protect the patient from the weather, and calculated to let him lie at length within it. A model of the Dooly used in the Madras army is always shown to the pupils of my class ; this dooly is suspended by a pole or bamboo passing through it, and is borne on the shoulders of four men.—Nothing can well be conceived more perfectly adapted to the conveyance of sick than doolies or palaquins, but the number of bearers required for them renders it impossible to bring them into general use in the armies of Europe. HMILITARY SURGERY. 98 Before describing the wheel-carriages used for the convey- ance of sick and wounded, I would solicit attention for a mo- ment to an intermediate description of carriage, neither borne by men nor drawn by horses ; I allude to the mode of convey- ance used in some cases by the French army in Egypt, upon the backs of camels. In the first volume of Baron Larrey's , Memoirs, there is a plate representing the necessary equip- ment for this mode of transport. It consists of two large boxes, or camel-trunks, fitted up as litters for the reception of the wounded, and slung, one on each side of the animal, over a pack-saddle. The camel is made to kneel, as in other cases, to receive his load, and thus the sick may easily be placed in such a conveyance. In a country where the camel is the only beast of burden, we may be again under the necessity of having recourse to this mode of carriage ; but from the pecu- liar gait of the camel, his pace is not well adapted to the comfort of a wounded man. In Larrey’s Memoirs there is a figure of what is termed the ambulance of Baron Percy. This is a four-wheeled carriage of a very simple construction. It consists chiefly of a sort of ridge-pole raised upon the frame-work of the carriage, and upon which the wounded are placed astride as if on horse- back, and here they sit protected by a sort of canopy. This can only accommodate men slightly wounded about the head, superior extremities, or upper part of the trunk, and is evi- dently unsuited to men who may have received severe wounds or fractures of the lower limbs. In the account of the Italian campaign, in the first volume of his Memoirs, Larrey describes two voitures or spring-car- riages of his own invention ; one with two and another with four wheels. The smaller one, of which I possess a model, is thus described by the Baron. “ The chest or body presented the shape of an elongated cube, arched on the top; it was pierced by two small windows in the sides, two folding-TRANSPORTATION OF SICK AND WOUNDED. 99 j< clod's opening before anil behind; the floor of the carriage I' was formed of a moveable frame, furnished with a hair-mattress hand pillow, covered with leather. This frame glided easily ji upon the two supports or cheeks of the body, by means of four ■ small castors, and it was provided with four iron handles, fas- ; tened into the wood. These handles were destined to receive t the belts of the soldiers, in order to carry the wounded upon t the frame as upon a barrow. The wounded could be dressed upon these frames, when the season did not permit them to he dressed upon the ground. The little vehicles were drawn by two horses, one of which carried the driver; internally they were 11 decimeters, 12 millimeters, (or 32 inches) wide. Two wounded could lie all their length in them easily ; bags were distributed in the inside of them to receive bottles or other ob- jects necessary for the sick. These carriages combined solidi- ty with lightness and elegance.” The larger one was eon- • structed upon the same principles, was calculated to convey four patients lying extended, and was drawn by four horses. The only conveyance hitherto in general use for the sick of the British army, are the common spring-waggons. They are supported on four wheels, and drawn by four horses ; calculat- ed to convey six or eight men with slight injuries, and to hold two lying extended horizontally. Their general outline bears considerable resemblance to the carriage just described from Larrey s work, hut they are much less commodiously fitted up in the interior. Some of them are floored with deals like a common cart, and others have a depression or well in the bot- tom, calculated to receive the mens’ feet, and to enable them to sit upright with more comfort. These vehicles are, how- ever, but indifferently calculated for the conveyance of the wounded ; and from the expense of their construction, and the establishment of men and horses necessary to render them efficient, prove a very cumbrous and unwieldy appendage to an army.MILITARY SURGERY. 100 The inconveniencies of the spring-waggon have led to the suggestion of other descriptions of carriages intended to super- sede it in whole or in part. With this view, a regimental long car has been proposed by Dr. Millingen, of which a small figure is given in the frontispiece to his work. These cars are calculated to be drawn by two horses, and to move to the rear, with facility, ten or twelve men each, wounded in the head, face, upper extremities, and lower extremities, without fracture, together with their arms, packs, and accoutrements. “ The cars here proposed are similar in construction to those vehicles commonly called in Ireland jaunting cars; they should be mounted upon four wheels, narrow, and sufficiently long to accommodate six men on each side, seated back to back, their feet bearing upon a splash board, outside of the wheels, their packs, &c. placed in the centre of the car; these carriages might also he constructed of the length of the conti- nental long ammunition tumbrils, and with three or four horses could bear off 24 wounded at a time. “ The body of these cars would also carry each regiment’s field hospital bedding, consisting of 12 palliasse and bolster- cases, 24 pair of sheets, and only weighing 9G lb. The comfort and advantage arising from the possession of these stores, can- not be sufficiently appreciated. When troops are moving at a distance from the theatre of war, these cars might also carry 12 rugs, weighing about 88 lb. and upon a march would con- vey sickly men, and the packs of those who are unable to bear them with their companies. “ It is true that in the cars here proposed, the wounded are not under cover ; but long and personal experience has con- vinced me, that the coverings of our spring-waggons are more obnoxious than grateful, except in rainy weather; and the ra- pidity with which a great number of wounded may be borne to the rear will fully compensate for this inconvenience, should it ever be considered as such. These long cars have moreoverTRANSPORTATION OF SICK AND WOUNDED. 101 ✓ the additional advantage of being narrow, and therefore less likely to block up roads, than waggons, wains, bullock-cars, ^&c. the usual heavy and cumbersome means of transporting ssick and wounded.” Such carriages as these would no doubt prove a most valu- able addition to the means of transport hitherto afforded to rregiments, but by far the most ingenious contrivance for the .’conveyance of sick and wounded which I have seen, is that of Mr. Cherry of Clapham, formerly a verterinary sur- _ geon in the army. This consists of a light single-horse cart, so constructed as to be readily adapted either to the convey- ance of wounded men, or to the carriage of stores and pro- visions ; for these two different purposes, a great part of the frame-work of the cart is moveable, and capable of being ad- justed to the object required ; but the most ingenious part of i the contrivance is that by which the ordinary springs of a i cart or other carriage may be protected from injury when car- rying heavy loads, while, at the same time, it admits of their free use when light loads are earned. This is effected by two moveable blocks sliding along the axletree; and which, by means of a lever connected with them, may either be moved outwards under the frame-work of the cart, so as to make its weight bear directly on the axle without injuring the springs; or, by turning the lever in an opposite direction, the blocks may be withdrawn from under the side-pieces of the cart in- to the hollow space formed by their thickness, and the springs thus again brought into action. Mr. Cherry’s contrivance is readily intelligible from the model with which he has been good enough to furnish me, and the part of it which I have just been describing is represented in a plate contained in the 38th volume of the “ Transactions of the Society for the En- couragement of Arts the silver medal of which society was awarded to Mr. Cherry for this part of his invention. This gentleman’s “ Observations on the Defective State of Army102 MILITARY SURGERY. Transport, with Suggestions for its Improvement,” show that he has considered the subject of military transport in all its bearings, and that his observations are the result of sound judgment and matured experience. I shall, therefore, make no farther apology for introducing the following extensive quotations from his work. “ The transport required by every army, independent of the ordnance service, which has its own peculiar establish- ments, may be classed under two heads; namely, that which is requisite to carry provisions, forage, and the ordin- ary supplies ; and that which is requisite to carry sick and wounded men; or, in other words, into Commissariat and Hospital transport.” “ But although the transport required by an army admits of being classed under these two heads, yet they again, in a great measure, resolve themselves into one, and require but one species of transport to supply both, more especially during an active campaign, when transport is most valuable ; because the wrants of each exist, principally in opposite directions; stores and supplies of all kinds requiring to be carried to the front, and sick men to the rear.” “ The first step, therefore, towards substantial improve- ment in our army transport, should be to adopt a carriage, simple in its construction, and applicable to the conveyance of every thing that an army requires to have carried. The next step should be to establish a system that will admit of the quantity of serviceable transport being speedily increased, at a moderate expense ; and to apply it in such a manner as will insure the means of transport being at the points where it is wanted.” “ The most simple, and at the same time the most really efficient, carriage that can be employed for military transport, is a light cart, drawn by one horse, and which, with little in- genuity, may be constructed to carry either the weighty and itransportation of sick and m ounded. 103 bulky articles that are required by an army, or sick and wounded men, with greater comfort and ease than can pos- sibly be afforded by the spring-waggon.” Mr. Cherry’s objections to this last-mentioned mode of i conveyance are detailed at length, and arc for the most part, II think, exceedingly well-founded. He very justly observes, lithat “ The ease and comfort procured to the sick and wound- ed soldier, by the spring-waggon conveyance, does not equal what it is sometimes supposed to do ; and therefore cannot on that score be said to compensate for any additional burden or expense.” “ The ease resulting from the elasticity of springs to a car- riage, particularly belongs to rapid motion over made roads. In very rough situations their effect is lost; and, under the most favourable circumstances, the production of ease depends upon a proper adjustment of the strength of the springs to the weight to be carried on them. The tvorst cases of sickness or wounds, of course, require the most ease in being moved ; but in spring-waggons they receive the least. The waggon is calculated to carry seven or eight men with ordinary com- plaints, and with the weight of these the springs may act; but when the M'aggon is occupied by one, or even two men, who, when very ill or badly wounded, are fully sufficient to occupy an entire waggon, their weight is not sufficient to act on the elasticity of the springs, and they M'ould ride quite as easy in a carriage M'ithout any. Was the strength of the springs, again, adapted to this lesser weight, their elasticity would be overcome by the greater, so that in cither one case or the other, the persons conveyed in spring-waggons are placed in a similar situation to what they would be on a car- riage M'ithout springs.” After noticing the impediments which not unfrequently occur to the movements of troops, from the breaking down or •sticking fast of waggons in bad roads, bridges, hollow ways,MILITARY SURGERY. 101 or other narrow passes, anil the difficulty with which these unwieldy conveyances are removed, he observes, “ The addi- tion of one spare horse to a cart doubles the power to get over any road particularly bad ; but in the case of waggons, even the adding of four horses, where it is practicable, to those usually allotted, increases but little the power, from the unwieldiness of so numerous a team, and the difficulty of making so many horses draw together. Again, over rocks or any occasional impediment, where the strength of a few men would be lost on a waggon and its lading, the same means applied to carts would surmount the obstruction with ease.-” “ When one horse, in a set of four, fails in strength from sickness or any other cause, the consequences extend to the other three horses of the team, inasmuch as increased exertion is required from them to make up for the defective horse. The tendency of this is to knock up them also; and a whole team, together with the waggon, has frequently been destroy- ed from the failure of one horse.” These inconveniences arising from the failure of a team of horses belonging to a waggon are also sometimes experienced from the failure of the men employed to drive them, of which, amongst other instances, one rather ludicrous than serious occurred to myself in France. When about to march off one morning from the village wrhere wre had halted during the night, the hospital sergeant came up to me in great distress to say, that the sick could not be moved ; that one of the waggon-drivers had deserted during the night, leaving one of his horses without shoes, and that the other driver was, as he termed it, a sort of an idiot. Upon inquiiy I found that the hospital cook, a Yorkshire man, amongst his other ac- quirements, knew something of the management of horses; he wras immediately put in requisition as a wraggoner, had the horse shod by the village blacksmith, and got the waggon under weigh amidst the jokes ol his comrades.105 TRANSPORTATION OF SICK AND WOUNDED. It will be obvious, upon a moment’s reflection, that such accidents as this, occurring either from the failure of morses, or from the desertion, sickness, or incapacity of dri- vers, are much more easily remedied in cases where carts are employed than when waggons are the only means of convey- ance ; for “ when the weight of a load does not exceed what one horse is able to draw, skill in a driver ceases to be requi- site, and it may be led by any man, however inexperienced. ''Neither man nor horse require instruction. From the mo- ment the horse is purchased, or the man enlisted, they be- :ome serviceable, and of course efficient augmentations may >e made without occasioning the expense and delay that at- end every extension of a waggon establishment.” “ The employing of carts, however, is not a novel experi- nent the advantages of which yet remains to be proved, and n truth no argument in favour of them is necessary ; their utility, in fact, is fully established. When, in the Penin- sula, the more laborious and tedious method of carrying on he backs of mules was not resorted to, it was by carts that he magazines were supplied, from which the men and horses mployed with waggons drew their support ; it was by carts hat far the greater proportion of sick and wounded soldiers * ,-ere carried to hospitals in the rear; in short, it wasjby carts hat all the efficient wheel-carriage transport was performed.” After these and many more interesting observations on the ubject of military transport in general, Mr. Cherry concludes y observing, that he has at length succeeded in completing ' machine sufficiently near perfection to be submitted to a rial of its advantages, which he enumerates in his pamphlet, nd which may be seen in my introductory lectures, along with ie official reports upon this conveyance, from Dr. James oibes, and numerous military and medical officers at Cliat- am. Enough has been said to excite reflection and inquiry intoMILITARY. SURGERY. 100 the details of“ a subject, the importance of“ which docs not ap- pear to me to have been hitherto duly appreciated. With regard to this particular topic, the transportation of sick and wounded, much remains to be pressed upon the attention of government, whenever a future occasion shall unfortunately occur. Were our means of conveyance more perfect, regi- ! ments would be less frequently compelled to leave their sick behind, and we should find that sick and wounded may be moved not only without inconvenience, but often with posi- ' tive advantage. Gestation has even been advocated as a re- medy in the treatment of fever by two experienced army sur- geons, my late friend Dr. Jackson, and Dr. Jones, formerly surgeon of the Greys ; and although my own experience docs . not enable me to speak to its effects in this particular instance, I have frequently had occasion to observe the improvement of cases in the course of a march. The formation of an hospital corps for the purpose of con- veying the wounded from the field of battle, and of subse- quently attending them in the hospitals, has often been sug- gested, and it is to be hoped may hereafter be carried into ef- fect, according to details given in the “ Army Medical Offi- cer’s Manual.” No other plan seems so well adapted to cf- ( feet the object in view, to afford prompt and efficient assist- ance to the wounded, and to preserve the integrity and effee- | tive force of regiments. ££ The feeling of humanity which prompts one soldier to give assistance to his comrade, or his officer, when wounded, has sometimes given a colourable pre- J text to another for turning his face from the enemy. One j firelock is withdrawn from the line by the wound of the sol- dier ; a second, by the impulse of humanity ; and a third, per- > haps, by the force of example.” From the foregoing observations it will be seen, that the * duties of an army surgeon are not solely those of a medical | man, and that many of the subjects of his attention are not ?107 TRANSPORTATION OF SICK AND WOUNDED. vxclusively of a professional nature. The examination of re- mits ; the clothing, victualling, and exercise of troops; "(leir accommodation in camp and in quarters; their ma- agement in hospital, independently of considerations purely ..rofessional; and the means of transporting them when sick r wounded, ought to be objects of unremitting care ; and the lumerous medical authors, both ancient and modern, to whom inference has been made, will afford the best possible proof of le importance which has at all times been attached to these natters by every enlightened military surgeon. “ Dc toutes les conditions humaines aucune n1 a plus be- nu des secours de la medecine que celle du soldat. Ce quo ; fouSue lle Ia jeunesse, la rigueur des saisons, les qualites jccieuses des alimens et les blessures les plus meurtrieres peu- Bnt produire de maux est resemble sur sa tete. Le choix 3S vetemens, du regime, d’une habitation convenable, suffit aur lui conserver toute la vigueur et par consequent son mirage que ne peut exister sans elle.” Although noways disposed to underrate the importance of lose surgical subjects on the consideration of which we are lout to enter, I cannot conclude this introductory depart- ient of the course without observing that, in the words of ihnson, “ war has means of destruction more formidable lan the cannon and the sword. Of the thousands and tens ’thousands that have perished, how small a proportion ever It the stroke of an enemy ?” At the same time it is conso- tory to reflect, that even in seasons the most inclement, un- r privations the most severe, in climes the most ungenial, id encampments the most unwholesome, the resources of our rofession have been successfully opposed to the disasters in- parable from the pursuit of war.MILITARY SURGERY. 100 Ainslie, IV. Asiatic Journal, 1020. BallingalVs Introduc- tory Lectures to a Course of Military Surgery. Bcclc- man's History of Inventions. Beaupre, Memoire sur le choioo des Homines propres au Service Militaire. Blair's Soldiers Friend. Brockelsby's Observations on Military Hospitals and Camp Diseases. Cocke De L'operation Medicate du Recrutement ct des Inspections Generales. Code de la Conscription, §"C. Colombier, Preceptes sur la Sante des Gens de Guerre. Faulkner on the Expediency of an Hospital for Officers. Hamilton's Duties of a Regi- mental Surgeon. Howard's Account of Lazarettoes. In- structions for the Regulations of Army Hospitals. Jack- son's View of the Formation, Discipline, and Economy of Armies, and various other works. Journal De Medecine, de Chirurgie, et de Pharmacie Militaire. Journal Mili- taire. Kirckhoff, Hygiene Militaire. Luscombe on the Health of Soldiers. Manual du Recrutement. Marshalls Hints to Young Medical Officers of the Army, §*c. Mar- shall on the Enlisting, the Discharging, and the Pension- ing of Soldiers. Millingen's Army Medical Officer's Ma- nual. Monro's Observations on the Means of Preserving the Health of Soldiers, and of conducting Military Hospitals. Percy, articles “Despotats" and “Simulation des Maladies," Diet, des Sciences Medicates. Pringle's Observations on the Diseases of the Army. Recueil des Memoires de Medecine, de Chirurgie, et de Pharmacie MUitaires. Report of the Commissioners of Military Enquiry on the Medical De- partment of the Army. Revolat, Nouvelle Hygiene Mili- taire. United Service Journal. Vaidy, article “ Hygiene Militaire," Diet, des Sciences Medicates.109 SURGICAL DISEASES OF SOLDIERS AND SEAMEN. !The subjects which naturally present themselves to our a attention in the surgical department of this course, are t those accidents and diseases to which soldiers and seamen are particularly exposed, and to which they are more or less liable in all parts of the world. In entering upon the consideration of these, it becomes necessary to offer a few words in explanation of the arrangement which I have been induced to adopt. In this arrangement, as in all systematic works in surgery, the subject of Inflammation occurs first. To this succeeds the consideration of Burns, Ulcers, and Hospital Gangrene, all of which are intimately connected with inflam- mation, either as a cause or consequence. Burns are incident both to soldiers and seamen in a severe and dangerous form, from explosions of gunpowder. Ulcers are much less com- mon in the service than they formerly were, but they are still met with in very aggravated forms upon some foreign stations. '■ Hospital, or as it has of late been frequently termed, Trauma- tic Gangrene, is a disease occasionally supervening upon wounds and open sores, particularly in hospitals, and the treatment of which consequently becomes an object of much importance to every military and naval surgeon.110 MILITARY SUROERY. Wounds, in all their forms and bearings—in all the various ; situations in which they occur, and accompanied as they often are by adventitious circumstances rendering them more complex i in their nature, and more difficult in their treatment, are a class j of accidents of all others peculiarly interesting to those prac- j titioners who may embark in the public service,—the consider- ation of these injuries constitutes the most essential part of mi- j litary surgery ; and to their treatment a large proportion of my observations are naturally devoted. Allied to the subject ] of wounds, and indeed often constituting the most formidable part of them, are Fractures of the bones, and Injuries of the . joints, subjects which follow next in order, and which must indeed be in some measure incorporated with the doctrine of wounds. The severe operations which these injuries often re- quire the military surgeon to undertake, leads us naturally to the subject of Amputation, in the consideration of which many important questions are involved—questions which must be discussed with a view to the peculiar circumstances of military life, and must sometimes be solved differently from what they would be with reference to private practice. Ophthalmia, and the various diseases of the eye, have un- fortunately for the army acquired a degree of interest to the military surgeon surpassed by no other disease ; and to many of the present generation of army surgeons this interest was enhanced by attempts to question their capacity for this branch of practice, to exclude them from a fair competition with their brethren in civil life, and to intrude into this depart- ment of military surgery, an individual who (whatever were . his merits as a dexterous operator) was certainly not superior to his military competitors, either in judgment or in general success. Of the maladies incident to those who indulge in promis- ! cuous and illicit amours, soldiers have always had their share, and the Venereal disease, in all its Protean shapes, has everIll INFLAMMATION. been a subject of deep interest to the military surgeon, an in- : terest which has of late been increased by the important revo- lution in the treatment of Syphilis brought about through the i medium of the army surgeons. The subject of Military Punishments, the last enumerated i in this department of the course, has greatly diminished in pro- I fessional interest, in consequence of regulations at which every one must rejoice ; but while corporal punishment continues to be sanctioned by the British military code, it becomes the un- j pleasant duty of the surgeon to see it put in execution, and of course it falls within my province to offer a few remarks, c calculated to guide the judgment in superintending the in- fliction, and in treating the consequences accruing from punish- i ments. INFLAMMATION. A knowledge of the phenomena of inflammation, its causes, seats, terminations, and treatment, is so indispensable to the scientific and successful practice of surgery, in all its depart- i ments, that it seems necessary to offer a few remarks upon it ; as an introduction to this department of the course. It is not, however, my purpose, nor is it within my province, to enter i into the various theories of inflammation, or to give a minute and detailed explanation of those appearances which are ob- served in inflamed parts, but rather to confine myself to a few general observations, on points of practical importance to the military surgeon. When inflammation is seated externally, so that the part affected is fully within the sphere of our ob- servation, we find it affected with Redness, Heat, Pain, and Swelling. These are the most conspicuous and characteristicMILITARY SURGERY. 112 of the local phenomena of inflammation, and are more or less obviously connected with an increased determination of blood to the inflamed part. In severe cases of inflammation the constitution becomes so far involved, that we have all the usual symptoms of fever accompanying the local affection, and this symptomatic fever is liable to assume every possible shape, from that which has been peculiarly denominated inflammatory, with strong vascular action, down through every variety of shade to the lowest, form of typhus ; it follows also the usual laws of periodical increase and abatement, sometimes nearly continued, at others remittent, or intermittent. We have this fever not unfrequently assuming the bilious character, particularly when connected with the form of inflammation termed erysipelatous, and it sometimes', even in this country, assumes all the characteristics of yellow fever. Upon this point I have expressed myself to the following effect in one of my clinical lectures, addressed some years ago to the students of surgery in the Royal Infirmary, and printed for their use. ££ One symptom appeared early in this patient’s case, j which I did not fail to remark to my colleagues, and which, as far as my observation goes, is a circumstance almost , uniformly foreboding a fatal termination; I allude to a pecu- liar yellow hue of the skin, which not unfrequently attends- the symptomatic fever supervening upon wounds and opera- tions. This has perhaps struck me more forcibly from being familiar with a similar appearance in the idiopathic fevers of tropical climates; and although I have no wish to alarm the citizens of Edinburgh by talking of a yellow fever in this part of the world, yet I am bound to state for your instruction, that I have occasionally seen it here as well marked as I ever saw it at Seringapatam or Batavia, and when supervening upon injuries, much more uniformly fatal.” “ A case of this kind occurred some years ago, which made a , deep impression on my mind, and which must have done so, •113 INFLAMMATION. I think, upon all those who had occasion to witness it; I al- lude to that ol‘ a seaman belonging to one of his Majesty’s ships, in the roads, whose limb had been amputated below the knee in consequence of an accident. The accommodation on board his ship was defective, and the vessel being about to sail, he was brought ashore to this hospital and placed under my care; here his stump sloughed, the symptomatic fever ran high, was attended with that dingy yellowness of the skin to which I allude, and in a few days he died. “ I observed to the surgeon of the ship, who came ashore to see him dissected, that this case wanted nothing but the black vomit to constitute a complete example of yellow fever ; and it was found, on laying open the stomach, that this circumstance, necessary to complete the parallel, was hardly wanting ; for here was a large collection of that dark grumous fluid resembling coffee grounds, which is so often evacuated from the stomach in tropical fevers.” There is one circumstance which perhaps more than any other has been held to be a criterion of the existence of inflammation, particularly when the inflamed part being situated internally, the disease is not to be detected by any of the local symptoms conspicuous to our senses, namely, that particular appearance exhibited by the blood drawn from patients labouring under acute inflammation, and which has been termed the huffy coat or inflammatory crust. The appearance of the huffy coat is dependant up- on the slower coagulation of inflammatory blood, in conse- quence of which the red particles fall to the bottom of the vessel, leaving a portion of the surface of the crussamcn- tum destitute of colouring particles. With reference to the presence of the fibrinous coat, we must particularly advert to the quick or slow stream in which the blood has flowed, in active inflammation of the fibrous texture the forma- tion of the huffy coat cannot be prevented, because the fib- i114 MILITARY SURGERY. rine in the blood is in great excess ; but when inflammatory action is more moderate, we shall learn more of the nature of blood from examining its texture, than from merely viewing the surface of the coagulum. In general terms it may be stated, that a firm texture of the blood points out a strong action of the blood-vessels, so as to give a presumptive sign that the bleed- ing has been proper, and vice versa, if the coagulum be re- markably loose in texture, we should particularly question the propriety of repeating the operation. The circumstances which give rise to inflammatory attacks may act either indirectly through the medium of the consti- tution, or directly on the part affected, and where there is any fault in the constitution dependant upon disorder in any of the three principal systems of organic life, the alimentary, the vascular, or the nervous, this fault impedes the curative process in disease, and in inflammation gives rise to actions excessive in degree, or imperfect and faulty in kind. For proofs and illustrations of the extensive influence of de- rangement of the chylopoetic viscera upon local disease, I must refer at once to the writings of Mr. Abcrnethy, who has de- monstrated, in the most convincing and impressive manner, the important truth, that health and strength spring from a right performance of the chylopoietic functions, and that weak- ness and disease are consequences of their disorder and de- rangement. Similar views of the effects of derangement in the functions of the alimentary canal on those diseases falling more immediately within the province of the physician, have been taken by my late respected colleague in the Royal Infir- mary, Dr. Hamilton, in a work which I conceive has done more to simplify and improve the practice of physic, and to inculcate just notions upon this subject into the minds of the profession and of the public, than any other volume that ever was published. But while fully disposed to admit the paramount influ-115 INFLAMMATION. ence of the digestive organs in modifying the phenomena of disease, I am still inclined to give much weight to the follow- ing judicious observations, relative to the vascular system, or to the blood itself, which are contained in an excellent essay on inflammation, by Mr. James of the Exeter Infirma- ry. “ An impure state of the blood exists perhaps more fre- quently than we are aware of; but as it is invariably connect- ed with disorder of the disgestive organs, the effects which partly arise from both causes, are often exclusively attributed to one. But when I see persons in whom every scratch festers into a sore, as in scurvy or scrofula ; when I observe that the atmosphere alone will change the disposition of every action, that poisons introduced, and acting upon the circulating me- dium will induce the most powerful effects upon the whole system,—I must profess myself to be a humoralist in a consi- derable degree, although quite ready to recognise the direct as well as the indirect influence of the digestive organs and nervous system in disease.” Upon the immediate influence of the nervous system in modifying the process of inflammation, I have but little to observe. Amongst soldiers, the class of individuals to whom my observations chiefly refer, we may in general expect these nervous dispositions to exercise a less extensive influence over the process of inflammation and other morbid phenomena than is to be observed in the promiscuous range of private practice ; the nervous system is in some persons extremely ir- ritable, and this irritability, while it is generally the result of disordered health, again becomes a cause of disorder in its turn ; indeed, it may be observed of all the three systems to which I have just adverted, the alimentary, the vascular, and the nervous, that they mutually act and re-act on each other, in such a manner as to render it often exceedingly difficult, if not impossible, to specify the extent to which each116 MILITARY SURGERY. of them operates individually in modifying the phenomena of local disease. The local causes which give rise to inflammation have been subdivided into those of a mechanical and those of a chemical nature; amongst the former are to be reckoned wounds of all de- scriptions, contusions, fractures, and even simple pressure: the effect of this last is often manifested in a way highly annoy- ing to the surgeon, as in those cases of accident or disease which necessarily confine a patient for a length of time to one position, and where those points upon which the weight of the body rests become in the first instance inflamed, and sub- sequently ulcerate, or mortify. Those mechanical causes of in- flammation to which soldiers are more particularly exposed, are incised, punctured, lacerated, and contused wounds ; the presence of foreign bodies, forcibly introduced and lodged in different parts of the system, as balls, splinters of shells or gun- carriages, &c. There arc many other substances capable of ex- citing inflammation in those places to which they are applied, without any obvious mechanical operation, and these constitute the class of chemical causes ; amongst these may be enume- rated extremes of temperature, both as to heat and cold, con- centrated acids, acrid vegetable and animal poison, blisters, and rubefacients; those from which the soldier is more parti- cularly liable to suffer, arc the intense heat of the sun in some climates, and explosions of gunpowder, a cause which often acts both chemically and mechanically. We may also mention a cause the very reverse of these in its nature, but in some cir- cumstances equally certain in its effects, I mean the applica- tion of cold. Our springs in this country, noted for their frequent changes of temperature, are well known to be peculiarly pro- ductive of inflammatory attacks of the mucous membranes of the nose, the fauces, and the bronchia:, while climates re-117 INFLAMMATION. markable either for extremes of heat or of cold, are equally productive of diseases which frequently render the soldier in- capable of those exertions required of him, or even deprive him of life. In India, we see him falling a victim to inflammation of the liver, and in the rigour of a northern winter often dis- abled by frost-bite. I may observe, in general terms, that inflammation is apt to occur, and its symptoms to run high, in proportion to the youth and vigour of the subject affected with it; and hence we see how naturally it occurs as a consequence of those injuries to which soldiers are exposed, when inflicted upon men with constitutions such as they generally possess,—men in the vigour of life,—men enjoying, for the most part, abun- dance of nutritious diet,—and men whose habits are, in some instances, rendered irritable by the use of intoxicating liquors. In speaking of constitution as modifying the nature and re- sults of inflammation, I may here notice what has been term- ed the scrofulous diathesis, a state of the system which, wherever it exists, gives a peculiar chronic character to every inflammatory disease, rendering it less painful in its attack, slower in its progress, and more difficult of cure; but upon this state of the system I do not consider this the proper place to enlarge. The instructions for the inspection of recruits direct that every individual bearing marks of scro- fula should be rejected from the service ; and with these instructions every surgeon who values his own comfort and credit will find it his best policy, as well as his bounden duty, to comply. It is, therefore, with a view of preventing the admission of such individuals into the service that I here enumerate the marks which have been considered as charac- terising the scrofulous diathesis ;—these are, a complexion remarkably fair, with florid cheeks; thickness and swelling of the upper lip and septaum nasi; the eyelids are occasionally affected with a peculiar tenderness and irritability, easily pass-118 MILITARY SURGERY. ing into a state of inflammation ; the skin thin, delicate, and white ; the hair also is, for the most part, fair or reddish, and the belly often tumid. Inflammation, like almost every other affection to which we are liable, exhibits great variety in its nature and intensity ; it differs indeed in almost every individual instance, from the nature of the part affected, from the age and constitution of the patient, or from the external circumstances of climate or of season ; and the symptoms, both constitutional and local, vary also in the progress of the same inflammatory at- tack. We find inflammation in some instances hurrying on rapidly to one or other of those terminations about to be described, while in other cases its progress is slow and attend- ed with comparatively little constitutional excitement, thus giving rise to a very common division of inflammations into Acute and Chronic,—a division, however, entirely relative, and marked chiefly in the one case by the acuteness of the pain and severity of the constitutional symptoms, and in the other by a comparative exemption from pain and absence of symp- tomatic fever. This has given rise to another division of in- flammation, into Active and Passive, the former corresponding to the acute, and the latter to the chronic. It is impossible, however, to assign any accurate limits to these different divi- sions. And although it is of much consequence, in the ap- plication of our curative means, to attend to the character of the inflammation, we find the states of active and passive in- flammation so insensibly gliding into each other, that it be- comes a difficult question in practice to ascertain the proper period for laying aside the remedies suited to the one state, and adopting those suited to the other. Every inflammatory disease has, in fact, its paroxysms of aggravation and remis- sion, which give it at one time the character of an active, and at another that of a passive inflammation. Various other classifications of inflammation have been pro- 1119 INFLAMMATION. post'd, and of these none has more generally or more deserved- ly attracted attention than that in which inflammations are arranged according to the elementary tissues in which they occur. Of inflammation, as affecting different textures, we may remark, that while the inflammatory affections of the skin have all something in common, which has been characterised by the term erysipelatous, there is no texture in the system in which we see such an endless variety of diseases bearing, in a greater or less degree, the common characters of inflamma- tion, redness, heat, pain, and swelling. Erysipelas, or inflammation of the skin, presents consider- able variety in appearance and intensity, but there are two forms of it which more particularly demand attention; in the one, the disease is confined to the exterior surface of the skin, is of a superficial, transitory and erratic form, often declining in one place, and attacking another ; in the other, the inflammation is more fixed and circumscribed; the whole substance of the skin is affected, the cuticle on its surface often elevated into vesicles, while the cellular membrane beneath becomes deeply involved, being sometimes loaded with serous effusion, forming what is termed (Ede- matous Erysipelas, at other times becoming the scat of ex- tensive purulent depositions and sloughs, constituting the Phlegmonoid Erysipelas; in both forms of the disease, the erratic and the phlegmonoid, the fever preceding or accom- panying the attack is very much of the kind termed by the French, gastro-enteritic, attended with great irritability of the stomach and alimentary canal; at its commencement, it is often of a very acute and inflammatory nature, but is ex- tremely apt to degenerate into typhus. From the extensive prevalence of erysipelas in hospitals, it has sometimes been looked upon as of a contagious nature; it is, at any rate, ob- viously epidemic in particular seasons, and at particular pe- riods of the year, and is liable to supervene upon wounds and120 MILITARY SURGERY. open sores. From the ravages which it has occasionally com- mitted in the Royal Infirmary here, I was, at one time, greatly inclined to look upon it as connected with circumstances in the locality and construction of the building, and the un- cleanly habits of many of our patients in this country ; subse- quent observation, however, has made me inclined to attribute less to these local peculiarities, and more to general atmospheric causes. During the present season, for instance, although erysipelas has not been so prevalent in the Royal Infirmary as upon some former occasions, yet I have seen much more of it, both in private practice and in the Military Hospitals, than upon any former occasion ; several soldiers have died of it with- in the last year, both in the cavalry and infantry barracks; and the Queen’s Bays, stationed at Piershill, have lost two officers, within a few months, from erysipelas supervening upon slight local injuries. In proceeding to consider the inflammatory affections of the other tissues, it may be observed, that the cellular mem- brane lying immediately under the skin, occupying also the interstices of the muscular fibres, and enveloping every vessel and nerve, is one of the most common seats of in- flammation, to which, when it occurs' in this particular texture, the term Phlegmon has been applied ; and from the appearances, progress, and terminations of which, the de- scriptions of inflammation adopted by most systematic writers have been chiefly borrowed. All the other membranes, as well as the cellular, are liable to inflammatory attacks, which, besides exhibiting the com- mon symptoms of inflammation, modify, alter, or destroy the natural secretions and functions of these membranes. On the first occurrence of inflammation in mucous membranes, the secretion from their surfaces is often for a time suspended, and this is succeeded by an increased formation of a thin acrimo- nious humour, or of a fluid bearing the character of pus ; andINFLAMMATION. 121 it seems to be a wise provision of nature, that mucous mem- branes, in the inflamed state, show no disposition to adhere, an event which, by closing up the different canals to which they afford a lining, would inevitably be attended, in many cases, with a fatal event. The serous membranes which line the three great cavities of the body, and which also afford an envelope or coat to the viscera which these cavities contain, are extremely susceptible of inflammation, the presence of which is ascertained by the severe and lancinating pain with which it is accompanied, and by the existence of symptomatic fever. In a state of inflammation these membranes are found to afford a copious effusion of serous fluid, sometimes of pus, frequently of sero- purulcnt matter, and very often of coagulable lymph ; the effusion of the latter giving rise to those adhesions which are so common a result of inflammatory attacks of the pleura or peritonEeum. The capsular ligaments of joints, the sheaths of tendons, the bursa: mucosae, in short, what are termed synovial mem- branes, are less susceptible of inflammation than the class of serous membranes ; but as the synovial membranes are liable to inflame from those external injuries to which soldiers and sailors are peculiarly liable, I mean from wounds and contu- sions of the joints, they demand much attention from the mi- litary surgeon. The constitutional symptoms are extremely difficult to control, and require the use of the most powerful antiphlogistic remedies ; in cases where the inflammation of these membranes arises spontaneously, or, at least, without any obvious cause, the constitutional symptoms are more mild in the incipient stage, but frequently, after a long continu- ance, assume the form of an irremediable hectic. Inflammation of the periosteum, of the aponeuroses of mus- cles, of tendons, and of ligaments, which, in a sound state, are endowed with little sensibility, is characterised generally by an122 MILITARY SURGERY. exquisite degree of pain, and often by a high degree of consti- tutional excitement; the inflammation of these membranes is not liable to terminate in suppuration, but it frequently ends in a thickening of the membrane, more or less permanent. Bones, the most solid and compact parts of our system, are susceptible of inflammation from many causes which the mili- tary and naval surgeon have abundant opportunities of witness- ing ; and although the progress of inflammation is often slow and protracted in this texture, it still exhibits those phenomena by which it is characterised in other tissues. The death or mor- tification of bone, termed necrosis, with the separation of the dead parts from the living, is a process of a very remarkable nature, and requires often a great length of time for its com- pletion. The constitutional symptoms attending this process vary exceedingly in-t severity ; and where the disease is ex- tensive, often assume the form of hectic fever. The muscular fibres, the nerves, the blood-vessels, both ar- teries and veins, and the lymphatic vessels, are all structures susceptible of inflammation, and alfording peculiarities which we shall have other opportunities of noticing. It may be re- marked, that the liability of different textures to inflame is, generally speaking, proportioned to the number of capillary vessels which they contain, and to the nerves which they re- ceive ; the skin, the mucous, the cellular, and serous mem- branes, and the parenchymatous substance of the internal or- gans, are the textures most susceptible of this affection ; parts of a fibrous structure, such as muscles, tendons, ligaments, and aponeuroses, are less liable to inflammation, and less so still are the bones and cartilages ; while some portions of the structure, such as the epidermis, the nails, and hairs, arc al- together unsusceptible of this process. Inflammation has long been looked upon as terminating in Resolution, Suppuration, or Gangrene; but more recent and ac- curate observation has led to a subdivision of these, or at least.INFLAMMATION. 123 of the two latter; and we now speak of several other pro- cesses, such as adhesion, effusion, ulceration, granulation, &c. as the results or concomitants of inflammatory action. Resolution is in general the most desirable termination ; and when complete, the symptoms, both constitutional and lo- cal, gradually decline, the increased action of the vessels of tthe inflamed part subsides, and, without any considerable or (obvious evacuation taking place, the inflamed part gradually 1 resumes its natural state and its proper functions. This is, in fact, the spontaneous cure of inflammation ; and while it is • sometimes altogether the work of nature, it may, at the same t time, be greatly promoted by art. Effusion is that effect of inflammation in which the fluid i naturally poured out by the exhalant vessels, from the sur- face of the serous membranes, is separated in a superabundant (quantity ; and this is a very common result of an inflamed ; state of such membranes, giving rise to hydrocephalus in the 'head, hydrothorax in the chest, ascites in the abdomen, and (anasarca in the limbs; in which latter case the fluid occupies (the cellular membrane. The process of Adhesion, another result of inflammation, is one of great importance to the surgeon ; it is to this process to which we look for the cure of many formidable wounds; it is upon this process we depend for reunion of the parts after the removal of morbid excrescences, and after the am- putation of limbs. Although, in a great proportion of cases, it is our purpose to promote this as a salutary process, we are 'Sometimes called upon to obviate the consequences of preter- natural adhesion, as producing hideous deformities, as imped- ing the motions of limbs, or interrupting the salutary func- tions of organs. Union by adhesion, or what has, ever since the days of Galen, been termed, union by the first inten- tion, has been considered under two different conditions: when the part divided by fracture, rupture, laceration, or124 MILITARY SURGERY. otherwise, has no communication with the external atmos- phere, by means of a wound in the superincumbent parts; or when the whole of the separated parts are divided by a wound penetrating from without inwards, or vice versa, and when, of course, a communication exists with the external at- mosphere. Of the minute and successive changes which take place in each of these circumstances, a minute and interesting account is given in the writings of Mr. Hunter, who, of all other writers, has been the most instrumental in elucidating ; the process of adhesion. By this process parts which have been separated by nature, by ; accident, or by design, are made to unite together, and to form a continuity of living solid. Every thing relating to the process ' of adhesion is an object of peculiar importance to the military surgeon. “ The universal doctrine and practice of procuring adhesion,'1 says Mr. John Bell, “ has done more for surgery in a few years, and most especially for the surgery of wounds, than any other general observation, not excepting even the greatest of all discoveries, the circulation of the blood.” As we shall have occasion to advert more particularly to the subject of ad- hesion when speaking of the reunion of wounds, I content my- self for the present wTith observing, that the steps of the adhesive process, in so far as they are readily conspicuous to our senses, consist, first, in the effusion and intermixture, from the op- posite edges of a wound, of what is termed eoagulable lymph; the subsequent penetration of this uniting medium by blood- vessels ; the complete establishment of a circulation through it, and the consequent reunion of the divided surfaces. For the completion of this process it seems only necessary that the con- stitution should be sound and vigorous, that the wound should be free from the presence of any extraneous matter, and that its opposite surfaces should be retained in close contact. We shall hereafter have occasion to enter into a detail of the artificial or auxiliary means by which the establishmentINFLAMMATION. 125 of a vital process, so desirable in itself, may be best promot- ed and secured; and, at present, I would refer those who :are desirous of studying the phenomena attendant upon the iprocess of adhesion, to an “ Essay on the Formation of New i Blood-Vessels,” lately presented to the Royal College of Sur- geons here, by Dr. Allan Thomson. When wounds do not unite by adhesion, their surface be- comes covered with purulent matter, which appears to be a secretion produced by a peculiar action of the vessels of the part; and this constitutes Suppuration,—a process which also iften takes place in different textures of the body, without the existence of a wound ; and when thus included in a shut sac, forms iv hat is termed an abscess. This is, perhaps, one of •he most common of all the results of inflammation.' We oee pus formed occasionally in all the great cavities of the oody, and we see it often, in consequence of chemical or me- chanical irritations, formed on the surface of those membranes .ining different canals, which in the sound state are covered vitli a secretion of mucus. Ulceration is that process by which ulcers are formed, by vhich abscesses are sometimes opened without the assistance if art, and by which the soft parts are removed so as to make vay for the passage of extraneous matters to the surface of th e iody.. This process is also a common result of inflammation, md is essentially performed by the absorbent vessels, which gradually remove a portion of the once living solid. While the last-mentioned process is productive of solutions >f continuity, and sometimes occasions extensive destruction >f parts, we must look to the process of Granulation for the ■estoration of such parts. The first step in this process, wliic h s obvious to our senses, is the effusion of a layer of coagulabl e ympli, at first exhibiting a smooth surface, but subsequently lecoming elevated into small red papillary eminences, known >y the name of granulations; and when these have risen to126 MILITARY SURGERY. the level of the surrounding parts, if a healthy disposition exists, the healing process is completed by the gradual exu- dation of a tenacious substance, which is subsequently con- verted into a tegument for the injured part, and this consti- tutes what is termed Cicatrization. When none of the preceding results occurs as a consequence of inflammation, but when the symptoms, particularly the constitutional ones, become aggravated, Mortification is likely to be the result of the local disease, the approach of which is marked by the fiery redness which exists in the commence- ment of inflammation passing into a dark and livid hue, the sensibility of the part becoming blunted, and the cuticle often rising into blisters ; the incipient stage of this process has been termed Gangrene, in contradistinction to what has more strictly been tenned Mortification or Sphacelus ; the former appellation, gangrene, is applicable so long as any degree of circulation continues through any of the vessels of the part affected, so long as any degree of warmth remains, and so long as the nerves of the part retain any portion of their sensibility; it is in short the intermediate stage between inflammation, which is its precursor, and sphacelus, which is, . I may say, always its termination. Gangrene admits also of another subdivision, into the infiammatory, humid, or acute ; and into the dry or chronic. Some recent writers, and particularly Baron Larrey, have also insisted much upon an important division of gangrenes into those from an internal j and those from an external cause; of the former a very re- markable species has been observed, and attributed to the feeding on spoiled or diseased grain, particularly to bad rye. The chief external causes of gangrene, are burns, caustics, the presence of ichorous, urinary, or fecal matter in the cel- lular membrane ; and those particularly affecting the soldier are extreme cold, and gunshot wounds. Of the former many interesting examples are recorded by Baron Larrey in his127 INFLAMMATION. Russian campaign, and instances of the latter are familiar ; to every military surgeon, particularly from wounds involv- ing the large arteries and veins of a limb. One species of gangrene seems dependant either upon some infectious principle, or at least upon causes simultaneously affecting numerous individuals; the whole ulcers and wounds in an hospital sometimes becoming affected with what has been termed Hospital or Traumatic gangrene, a disease to which we shall immediately have occasion more particularly to advert. During the byegone season, amongst several anomalous 1 events which have been observed in practice, some cases hav e occurred of what may bd .looked upon as idiopathic gan- grene, that is gangrene occurring rapidly without almost any appearance of previous inflammation or inordinate action iin the part affected. A soldier of the 90th Light Infantry, aged forty-seven,—melancholic temperament,—old appearance, '.much given to intoxication, and subject to attacks of delirium tremens, was admitted into the regimental hospital in Edin- burgh Castle about the middle of November last, complain- ing of sore throat, with dusky redness and small pustules covering the pharynx ; the larynx was also tender upon pres- sure, with difficult deglutition and considerable febrile excite- ment. The sore throat was relieved and the fever abated under the remedies prescribed ; but on the fourth day from his admission one of his thighs was observed to be red, and the integuments to have a tense and boggy feel, without any increase of temperature ; the patient was observed to a-ve a wild aspect and agitated appearance, and to have been at times delirious, although the febrile symptoms con- tinued moderate. On the following morning he was rational, and now for the first time stated that he had received a blow upon the thigh while in the guardhouse previous to his ad- mission. 1 he thigh was of a dusky red colour intermixed W1t yellow streaks, the whole extremity cold, the counte-128 MILITARY SUnGERY. nance pale and shrunk, and when I saw him about mid-day no pulse was perceptible in any part of his extremities. Sti- muli of every kind, both internal and external, failed to haVe any sensible effect, and he died in the evening. The case of a woman of the same regiment was, in some respects, still more remarkable. She began, while goin^ about her usual occupations in the barrack-room, to complain of some uneasiness in her thigh. Upon examination it was found swollen and livid, and in less than forty-eight hours she died, without, so far as I could learn, any trace of accident or pre- vious disease. On dissection of the male subject, the sterno- hyoidei muscles were found soft and discoloured, and a col- lection of purulent matter on the fore-part of the larynx. The affected thighs in both subjects were found to have a swollen and gorged appearance ; the cellular membrane loaded with bloody serum, in some parts broken down and gangrenous ; the muscles loose in texture, and easily lacerated. In both cases the arteries and veins of the affected limbs were minutely examined, but presented no morbid appearance, nor were any traces of recent disease found in the internal parts. For the particulars of these cases I am indebted to Dr. Robertson, the surgeon of the 90th, and I have been tempted to give this brief notice of them here because, after thirty years of professional study and experience, the circumstances which they presented were to me altogether new. Having offered these few remarks on the symptoms, causes, varieties, and terminations of inflammation, I now proceed to point out the means adapted to its cure, or, in other words, the means calculated to promote its termination in resolu- tion. This is strictly speaking the only way in which inflam- mation terminates; and as other opportunities will occur of pointing out the means calculated to promote adhesion, suppuration, Sec. I shall for the present confine myself to the detail of the most efficacious means of subduing inflam-129 INFLAMMATION. mation, and restoring the vessels of the inflamed part to a healthy mode of action. These means are twofold, Constitu- tional a,nd Local; and while the treatment of slight or limited cases of inflammation may often be trusted to local applications, where\ er the inflammation is acute and its site extended particularly if any vital organ is involved, we shall find oc- casion for the most powerful constitutional remedies. Whatever view has been taken by different pathologists of the immediate nature or proximate cause of inflammation, the utility of General Blood-letting in every severe case of this af- fection has been universally admitted ; in the employment of this remedy, we must have respect to the violence of the disease, the importance and texture of the organ affected, and to the age and constitution of the patient. One of the veins at the bend of the arm is, for the sake of convenience, generally selected as the spot from which blood is abstracted, and as much experience has taught us that more good is obtained by the abstraction of a smaller quantity of blood in a short space of time, than by withdrawing a larger quantity in a more gradual manner, we are led to the practical rule of making a large orifice in the vein, or, in robust constitutions and violent attacks, to open a vein in each arm. The early em- ployment too of general bleeding is one of the most certain means of promoting its efficacy, and when we are satisfied of its necessity, we cannot be too early in having recourse to it. As to the quantity necessary to be taken away, we ought to be regulated more by the impression which the bleeding makes on the disease, or on the system at large, than by any preconceived notions as to the particular quantity, measured y pounds or ounces. The occurrence of syncope, an event much dreaded by the patient, is one which the surgeon fre- quently looks forward to as the only thing which ought to limit the extent of the bleeding ; this event suspends for a time t e process of inflammation, by rendering the system incapa-MILITARY SURGERY. 130 ble of carrying it on, and thus proves one of the most cer- tain of all remedies. The quantity of blood that may be taken away before syncope is induced varies exceedingly in different individuals, and even in the same individual at dif- ferent times and under different circumstances. Many deli- cate people cannot bear the sight of their own blood, but will faint even before the vein can be well opened; and as an ex- treme case, on the opposite side of the question, I may mention that of a young soldier of the 33d regiment who was at- tacked with acute Ophthalmia. Having seen the disease in its very earliest stage, and expecting that a bleeding ad deli- quium would cut short the attack, a vein was immediately opened in each of his arms by a large orifice, while the pa- tient was standing in the erect position, (a position in which it is well known that syncope most readily supervenes), and to my astonishment the young man stood in this situation until ft fly-two ounces of blood flowed from him, when he fell into the arms of the hospital sergeant who stood ready to receive him. The ophthalmia completely disappeared for a time, but having recurred next day, the same treatment was repeated ; the patient upon this occasion fainted on the abstraction of thirty ounces of blood ; the inflammation of his eyes again disappeared, and did not recur. Although such copious depletions as the above may be em- ployed without much delicacy or reserve in young and vigorous habits, it becomes us to be exceedingly guarded in the use of the lancet in elderly persons, or in cases where a long and pro- tracted confinement must necessarily be expected. In hospital practice more particularly, in cases of compound fractures, or other severe injuries, the process of restoration may be interrupt- ed or altogether suspended by too copious evacuations. The state of the pulse is generally looked to as one of the most certain means of guiding us in the employment of bleeding,—in regu- ating the extent of the evacuation, and in judging of the pro-INFLAMMATION. 131 priety of its repetition ; and when taken in conjunction with other circumstances, the state of the pulse may encourage us to bolder perseverance, or lead to a useful degree of caution ; but in many internal inflammations where we judge of the seat, nature, and extent of the disease chiefly by the severity of the pam, I have no hesitation in saying, that the aggrava- tion or decrease of pain is a much less equivocal symptom than the state of the pulse. With reference to inflamma- tions of the abdominal viscera, it is now many years since I remarked, that in those inflammatory affections of the bowels so prevalent amongst the European soldiers in India, the state of the pulse is not a safe criterion either in forming a pro- gnosis or in regulating the treatment. I am further of opinion, and I may take this early opportunity of expressing it, that too much stress has been laid upon the state of the pulse in disease, and too much refinement has been introduced into medical writings upon this subject. When we see the pulses of different individuals so various in a state of health, how can we look for their being uniform in a state of disease ? “ It is not quickness of the pulse alone which indicates bleed- ing, for a quick pulse is often a proof of irritability, which bleeding will increase. The indication for general bleeding 1 is a hard pulse, when the action is strong, each pulsation feeling like the vibration of a wire.” But although the quick- ness of the pulse can be accurately measured, the other circum- stances connected with it are not always easily ascertained; “ The knowledge,” says Mr. Hunter “of the soft, the hard^ and the thrill, are such as can only be acquired with accuracy ! ky the habit of feeling pulses in these different states, and by i many is not to be attained. The late Dr. Hunter was a striking instance of this ; for though he was extremely ac- 1 curate in most things, he could never feel that nice distinc- tion in the pulse that many others did, and was ready to suspect more nicety of discrimination than can really beMILITARY SURGERY. 132 found.” The huffy coat of the blood, when it exists in con- junction with other symptoms of inflammation, is an addi- tional evidence that disease is present; yet it may be remark- ed of this as of the pulse, that it is a symptom which ought not of itself entirely to regulate our practice ; while the pre- sence of a buffy coat on the surface of the blood may encour- age us to repeat venesection, its absence ought not be an abso- lute bar to a further extension of this practice. Purgatives form one of our most powerful constitutional re- medies in the treatment of inflammatory diseases, and are ap- plicable to almost every form of these affections, with the exception, perhaps, of enteritis or inflammation of the intes- tine itself, in which the employment of strong or repeated purgatives is at least questionable practice. By the increased discharges which they occasion from the secreting surface of the bowels, they produce an evacuation highly favourable to the cure of inflammation, or to its termination in resolution. A deficiency of secretion from the alimentary canal is the cause of a great number of the diseases to which we are liable, as may be learned from an attentive study of Dr. Hamilton’s work on purgatives, to which I have already had occasion to refer. The internal surface of the intestinal canal is a secret- ing as well as an absorbent surface ; and of the importance of keeping up the action of this surface, we may form some idea from the following estimate of its extent, which is given in Sir Astley Cooper’s Lectures :—“ The internal surface of the in- testines is lined by glands ; the tube itself is on an average twenty-seven feet in length, and three inches at least in cir- cumference ; so that there are here near one thousand inches of surface from which in health continual secretion proceeds. What then,” says Sir Astley, “ must be the result of allow- ing so extensive a secreting surface to remain inactive ? the production and continuance of constitutional irritation.” Pur- gatives, then, produce the most beneficial effects in inflanuna-133 INFLAMMATION. tions, by exciting the intestines, producing a determination of blood to them, and abstracting it from the part inflamed, up- on the acknowledged principle, that two increased actions, of any extent, are not easily maintained in the body at the same time. In addition to the increased secretion from the bowels, it is of much consequence also to promote the action of the liver; and with this view mercurial purgatives are often given with great advantage. It is a common and highly useful practice to exhibit mercurials at night, and to follow them with saline purgatives in the morning. Saline purges alone, are also greatly conducive to the cure of inflammation. They should always be taken largely diluted; in small doses frequently repeated, their beneficial operation is prolonged ; and they produce in this way another good effect, which has not been sufficiently adverted to,—they excite in the patient a greater or less degree of thirst, which leading, as it should do, to the employment of diluent drinks, promotes their bene- ficial operation. • ' Diaphoretics are another important means of moderating the symptomatic fever attendant upon inflammatory com- plaints ; and from the extensive surface upon which they ope- rate, producing often a copious discharge from the whole skin, we may easily understand the beneficial effects with which they are attended. In the selection of medicines of this class, those containing opium are avoided by some practitioners, from an apprehension that this medicine will, by increasing the action of the heart and arteries, have an injurious effect upon the local disease ; and this it certainly will have, if the sudo- rific fails in producing a copious perspiration ; but when this desirable result is procured, it will more than compensate for any temporary excitement of the circulating system from the opium. Much experience in the employment of the common Dover’s powder, and of antimonial wine combined with lauda- num, has given me confidence in the use of these remedies,134 MILITARY SURGERY. aiul has led me to have less dread of the stimulating effects of opium than what is sometimes entertained. But while I thus attempt to obviate an objection to the use of opiate sudorifics, I must not overlook an important advantage attending another set of remedies of this class,—the antimonial diaphoretics, which, by producing nausea, and reducing the frequency and force of the pulse, as well as by opening the exhaling vessels on the surface of the body, have a most salutary effect in in- flammatory diseases. Analogous in its operation to sudorifics, and indeed a prac- tice often leading to a copious diaphoresis, is the use of the Warm Bath, a remedy always highly grateful, and, when pro- perly regulated, often attended with the most beneficial effects. The temperature of the bath should be made agreeable to the feelings of the patient, and in most cases this will be about 90 or 95 degrees. If it does not become necessary to remove the patient from the bath, in consequence of a tendency to faint, the use of this remedy ought to be prolonged farther than what it generally is in this country. Twenty minutes or half an hour is, perhaps, the shortest period in which the warm bath can be expected to produce its good effects ; and this may often be prolonged even to a whole hour, with advantage. A par- tial use of this remedy in the form of Pediluvium or Semi- cupium, by procuring an increased determination of blood to those parts to which it is applied, often produces a beneficial effect on distant parts of the body when affected with inflam- mation. It may not be altogether out of place here to re- mark, that a general and very prevalent error in this country is, to take too much of the cold and too little of the warm, bath,—to stay too long in the one and too short a time in the other. In entering upon the consideration of the Topical means for the treatment of inflammation, I scarcely consider it neces- sary to advert to the removal of those exciting causes of the135 inflammation. disease which sometimes exist in the shape of extraneous bo- dies, such as splinters, &c. forcibly intruded into the different textures. This preliminary step is so congenial to the dic- tates of common sense, that the surgeon will frequently find it executed by the patient or the bystanders, when its removal does not imply the necessity of any particular art or dexterity for its accomplishment. Of all the Local Remedies for the treatment of inflammation, Topical blood-letting is perhaps one of the most generally ap- plicable, and, whenever properly applied, one of the most ef- fectual. In extensive phlegmonous inflammation, local blood- letting is hardly ever improper. Were I to specify particularly the cases in which it was more peculiarly appropriate, I should include most of those inflammations supervening upon exter- nal injury ; and to these I should add amongst the diseases more peculiarly incident to soldiers, ophthalmia, hernia hu- moralis, and glandular swellings in the groin or elsewhere. In inflammations of the joints, whether entirely attributable to mechanical injury, or complicated with a constitutional cause, local blood-letting is eminently serviceable. In cases of internal inflammation of the great cavities, unless where the pain is much circumscribed or confined to one spot, local bleeding is not to be trusted to. In erysipelatous inflamma- tions, or those seated in the cutaneous texture, the propriety of local bleeding by leeches or the scarificator has generally been looked upon as inadmissible, the punctures being ex- tremely liable to inflame and fester, sometimes even to morti- fy, and this more particularly in peculiar habits and in pecu- liar situations and seasons. In the treatment of Phlegmonoid erysipelas, practices cal- culated to withdraw blood from the affected part, and at the same time to relieve more or less the tension of the skin, have of late been introduced and strenuously advocated. Repeated punctures with a lancet over the erysipelatous surface are re-MILITARY SURGERY. 136 commended by Sir Richard Dobson ; numerous short inci- sions through the inflamed skin are recommended by Mr. Copland Hutchison ; and longer incisions, to the extent of several inches, by Mr. Lawrence. The punctures are often advantageously employed in erysipelas of the face, and are calculated to relieve the over-distended vessels, and to obviate serous infiltration. The other two practices are beneficial, not only by the evacuation of blood and relief of tension in the first instance, but by facilitating the escape of pus and of sloughs from the cellular membrane, should these ultimately form. A considerable experience of all these three practices leads me to give the preference to the modi- fication recommended by Mr. Hutchison, from a persua- sion that we can by it most effectually accomplish all the objects above stated. The skin is seldom so equally and uni- formly tense over an inflamed limb as to enable us to relieve it so well by one long incision as by numerous short ones ju- diciously placed. And here I may remark, that while twenty years ago our practice in erysipelas was quite nugatory, inert, and futile, there seems now some risk of our running into the opposite extreme. One can scarcely conceive a whole limb so severely and uniformly affected, as to justify or to demand the practice noticed, I think, by Mr. Earle, in which the surgeon of a provincial infirmary made an incision from the trochanter major down to the malleolus externus. The impossibility of reconciling every useful practice with a preconceived theory, is in no instance more strikingly exemplified than in the local applications which are of ser- vice in inflammation. The proof of this is, that these ap- plications admit of one very broad division into cold and warm; and although a great proportion of cases receive most relief from the use of cold, sedative, astringent lotions, there arc constitutions and parts which derive most service from the local employment of warm emollient remedies.INFLAMMATION. 137 i Of the local remedies applied directly to inflamed parts, Cold i is undoubtedly one of the most powerful, and, from the faci- lity of its adoption, it is peculiarly valuable to the military ' surgeon. In reducing the temperature, cold diminishes the i morbid sensibility and pain of inflamed parts, and restrains i the inordinate action of the vessels by which these parts are supplied with blood. A common method of employ- 1 mg cold is by applying to the inflamed part, cloths which have been dipped in cold water; and along with the cold water used for this purpose it is customary to blend remedies of an astringent and sedative nature. The use of the acetate of . lead in this way is a practice sanctioned by very extensive ex- perience. M. Goulard, an enthusiastic French writer in favour >.of lead, has represented it as almost equally applicable to all -stages of inflammation, to suppuration, and even to gangrene; ebut, although this writer’s zeal has evidently carried him too tfhr, experience and observation teach us, that while there is a chance of procuring resolution, no local applications to ? phlegmonous inflammation can be more proper than cold so- lutions containing the acetate of lead. Besides this salt, the ' sulphate of zinc, the muriate of ammonia, vinegar, and alco- ' h«l, are common additions to the cold water applied to in- flamed surfaces. All these, however, seem to possess less of a specific effect than the acetate of lead; and in using them instead of this last mentioned remedy, or in using one of them in pieference to another, we are more guided by circumstances than by any acknowledged superiority in the respective ! powers of these remedies. Solutions of the muriate and also of ’ the acetate of ammonia have been thought more particularly applicable to swellings cf a chronic or passive character ; and 'whl,e ln fhe earlier or more active stages of such swellings they aie applied cold, they become, in the progress of the af- fection, more beneficial by being used warm.138 MILITARY SURGERY. Warmth and moisture combined, arc often found a power- ful means of combating internal or deep-seated inflammation. Inflammations of the intestines, urinary bladder, and other abdominal viscera, have been specified as cases in which the good effects of warm applications are generally conspicuous. In such cases, they may either he applied to the surface in the way of fomentation, or bath, or they may be thrown into the bowels in the form of injections. In preparing water for the purpose of fomentations, it is customary to boil in it poppy- heads, chamomile flowers, linseed, or other anodyne and emolli- ent ingredients; hut how far these are useful is not distinctly as- certained, and many practitioners believe that warm water alone is as efficacious as decoctions of particular herbs. While fomen- ! tations are only to he considered as a temporary or occasional ex- pedient, a more permanent form of emollient applications is used in the shape of cataplasms, which, to insure their full effect, should be frequently renewed, as they soon lose the degree of heat upon which their efficacy so much depends. It is, however, ' to the advanced stage of inflammation, when its termination in suppuration becomes inevitable, that cataplasms are more pe- culiarly appropriate. Various saline substances, such as com- mon salt, muriate and acetate of ammonia, &c., are sometimes added to warm fomentations, as well as to cold lotions, for the purpose of being applied to inflammatory affections ; and these warm discutient applications are applicable to chronic swell- ings, more particularly to some affections of the joints of an indolent character. Of the particular inflammations likely to be most be- nefited by the use of cold or of hot applications, it is diffi- cult to speak with much precision ; to inflammatory affections of the head, and of the extremities, we apply cold lotions freely, and often with the best effects; in inflammations seated on the trunk, there is a necessity for caution in theINFLAMMATION. 139 i use of cold applications, which may be followed by a trans- 1 ference of the inflammation from the surface of the body to i the pleura or peritoneam. The earliest stage of acute oph- 1 thalmia, and hernia humoralis, have been specified as cases in which, generally speaking, warm applications are preferable to cold ones ; and in this sentiment my own experience in- i duces me, in a great degree, to coincide. Mr. James has pointed out the propriety of adverting to the cause, or, at i least, to the concomitant circumstances of the case, in decid- i ing upon the nature of the applications to be used. Thus, in mumps and rheumatism, the constitution is chiefly to be attended to, and cold applications are certainly improper. In inflammation of the testis, proceeding from a blow, after leeches have been freely employed, he considers warm fomen- tations most useful, but does not think this practice equally i effectual in many cases of hernia humoralis from gonorrhoea, in which he prefers the cold lotion. In swelled testicle I have long been accustomed to use the cold and warm ap- ; plications alternately, and when the disease did not appear to be yielding to the one, to have recourse to the other. In 1 carrying this plan into effect, peculiar idiosynicrases are oc- > casionally met with, as in the following case:—A young gen- tleman, whose testicle had been considerably swollen from go- norrhoea, had it reduced by leeches and fomentations to nearly its natural size, and was then induced, by my advice, to em- ploy a cold solution of the acetate of lead. This was, however, in the course of the ensuing night, followed by a return of the swelling, and a very severe attack of sciatica ; the swelling of • his testicle was again reduced by leeching and fomenting, and the sciatica disappeared. Being exceedingly impatient to get nd of his complaints, on purpose to get away to the country, he was, after a considerable lapse of time, induced to renew the astringent application, in hopes of expediting his cure,MILITARY SURGERY. 140 but the sciatica returned with excruciating severity, and the testicle again inflamed so much as to threaten suppura- tion ; an event which was only averted by the employ- ment of general blood-letting, antimonials, warm baths, pur- gatives, and fomentations. He then told me, that his fa- ther had long been a martyr to rheumatism, and that many of his family had also suffered from it, circumstances which induced him to conceive that he inherited a peculiarity of con- stitution. Such occurrences shew how little wre can judge, a priori, of the benefits likely to accrue from the employment of any given remedy in any given case ; and while the impossibility of being more precise upon this point is much to be regret- cd, the feelings of the patient should always be consulted; “ for if the pain be materially alleviated by this or by that ap- plication, its employment will hardly ever be wrong.” The only remaining topic connected with the treatment of inflammation to which I think it necessary to advert, is the nature of the diet and regimen ; and, upon this point no dif- ference of opinion exists. Every scientific surgeon admits, that in acute inflammation, while a cure by resolution is practica- ble, and while this is the object of our treatment, the patient’s diet can scarcely be too abstemious ; his abstinence from vin- ous, or spirituous liquors, cannot be too rigid ; the body, and particularly the affected part, cannot be kept too much at rest, nor the mind too tranquil.141 BURNS. The inflammatory action succeeding to burns is the chief < object of attention in conducting their medical treatment, . and hence their consideration appears to me to he nppro- jpriately introduced as a sequel to the subject of inflamma- * tion. T. he accidents of this kind to which I would more par- ticularly advert, as incident to soldiers and seamen, occur perhaps less frequently from the fire of an enemy, than from accidental explosions of gunpowder, originating often from ignorance or inattention. The bursting of fire-anus, i the explosion of cartridge-boxes, the blowing up of tumbrils, i magazines, and batteries, are amongst the most common sources of burning in military life, and in such cases the burns : are frequently accompanied with lacerated and contused wounds so formidable as to render the burn a secondary < object. ^ o give some idea of the nature of such accidents, I may i refer to a case detailed in Trotter’s Medicina Nautica, of a seaman belonging to the Circe, who, by the explosion of a gun in the act of reloading, was blown into the main chains, and was there found with his face, head, and breast, scorched m the most shocking manner, part of both arms carried away, and the right arm fractured near the axilla—notwithstanding which, this individual was saved. But one of the most frightful pictures of this description is that recorded by Baron Larrey, in the first volume of his Memoirs, where he gives an account of the explosion of some redoubts blown up by the enemy, at the moment when the French soldiers had entered them. More than a hundred of our men were in the for- tifications at the moment when the mines wrere sprung; they were raised along with the debris of the batteries, and the142 MILITARY SURGERY. pieces of artillery which defended them. The fragments of this artillery, the stones, the men, or pieces of them, were scattered pcle-mele by the explosion, and fell here and there from a height more or less considerable. Many of the vic- tims of this frightful catastrophe had already ceased to exist at the moment of ascension ; others met their death in falling upon the rocks. Some were mutilated of one or more mem- bers, others were burned over the whole surface of the body, or in the principal regions ; some, with whom the commotion had been violent, or in whom the burn extended to the viscera of the lower belly, died a few hours after their entrance into the ambulance. I was obliged to amputate both the thighs of one of the soldiers who survived this disaster. Besides the sphacelus of the two limbs, produced by the total disorganiza- tion of the parts, he had the face, the breast, and the hands burnt; but notwithstanding the loss of his two extremities, and the enormous burnings with which he was covered, this brave soldier was saved and completely cured.” In such cases as these, the constitutional treatment adapted to the more severe injury, is equally appropriate to the lesser; and from the multifarious local remedies which have been re- commended for the cure of burns, we are to select those best suited to the complicated nature of the accident. Burns have been divided by systematic writers into three different classes or degrees : those which merely produce a superficial redness and inflammation on the surface, terminat- ing in resolution, and healing without the detachment of the cuticle,—those which affect the vitality of the cutis, accom- panied with the elevation of the cuticle into vesicles or blisters, and producing suppuration on the surface of the true skin—and thirdly, those where the whole thickness of the skin, and even the subjacent parts, are affected by the injury, lead- ing to the formation of a slough or eschar, which must ne- cessarily be detached before a cure can be accomplished.—BURNS. 143 IThcse subdivisions have been carried much farther by some vwriters, particularly the French, and in the edition of Sabat- : tiere’s Medecine Operatoire, lately published under the inspec- tion of Dupuytren, no fewer than six divisions or degrees of bbums are pointed out; but this minute subdivision of dis- ease, is more calculated to distract the surgeon’s attention ; than to benefit the patient. Where a difference in the symp- toms of a disease, or in the nature of an injury, leads to : the employment of a different line of practice, let it by all means be noted, and on every occasion attended to ; but to change our prescriptions for every minute shade in the ap- pearance of disease, would be equally impossible and equally futile as to change them for every variety in the complexion or in the features of the human face. It is obvious that all tthe three degrees of burning above noticed may, and very i often do, result from the same accident; indeed it is perhaps (only the first degree of burning which can exist alone, for the (occurrence of the greater mischief necessarily implies the pre- i cedence or simultaneous existence of the less ; the second is often accompanied by the occurrence of the first contiguous : to it, and the third by the occurrence of the two former de- . grees in the parts adjacent. It is, however, altogether unnecessary for our purpose to enter farther into the classification of burns, more particularly ‘ as ^as obviously been founded upon the appearances to t seen in those burns, originating from the common accidents ; of dvil life’ from the contact of boiling liquids, or the com- > bustion of the patients clothing. In all cases the pain of uins is exceedingly acute, and perhaps more so in those ' Cases where ic is confined to the surface of the skin, than w iere the texture of this is completely destroyed ; where the urnt suiface is extensive, the accident is not unffequently tended with convulsions, and in them the patient sometimesMILITARY SURGERY. 144 expires. The dangerous symptoms which proceed from the ex- tent of a superficial burn or scald in one instance, may equally result in another from an injury more circumscribed but pe- netrating deeper, so that in all cases, in estimating the dan- ger from burns, attention must be paid both to their extent superficially, and to the depth to which they may have affect- ed the subjacent textures; circumstances which are greatly influenced by the nature of the burning body, and the length of time it may have remained in contact with the skin. Thus it has been observed, that scalds occasioned by boiling liquids are more or less severe according to the various capa- cities of these liquids for caloric ; and burns from metallic bodies when the period of contact has been the same are propor- tioned to the heat of the metal. The danger is also dependant upon the age and constitution of the patient, and on the seat of the injury. Such accidents are generally considered more dan- gerous in cachectic habits, in childhood and in advanced years, than in hale constitutions and in the prime of life; more dan- gerous when seated about the head or trunk, than when affect- ing the extremities. When burns are occasioned by the contact of hot fluids, the first phenomena which present themselves are, redness of the skin and pungent pain in the burned part; to which succeed vesication, in consequence of a serous effusion under the cuticle, and a slight degree of swelling. The appear- ance and extent of the vesication is greatly influenced by the natural thickness of the cuticle in different parts of the body, and the facility with which it is detached from the subjacent texture. Thus vesications in the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, where the cuticle is thick and firmly adherent, are generally less extensive, and slower in making their appearance, than in other parts of the body. These local phenomena, when of limited extent, and confined to the ex-BURNS, 145 treme parts of the limbs, are often unattended with any con- stitutional symptoms whatever, and where the cuticle has not been elevated sometimes disappear in a few hours. When a vesication has once occurred, the period of complete restora- tion must necessarily be protracted, in order to give time for ' the formation of a new cuticle, which, in slight cases may, by proper management, be greatly forwarded previous to the de- i tachment of the old. In burns from gunpowder, it is to be observed that, from the momentary application of the cause, the injury is often of a superficial kind unless in those cases where, from the close contact or large quantity of the powder, or from the ac- 1 CIcIentaI combustion of the patient’s clothing, the contiguous ; parts become extensively and deeply involved. In many of the injuries originating from explosions of gunpowder, •the hands and face are more particularly affected, and there the structure of the parts as well as the nature of the ;iaccident contribute to limit the number and extent of the wesications; the surface is blackened, the eyelashes, eyebrows, "whiskers, and whatever hairs may be contiguous to the affect- ed part, are singed or entirely destroyed; grains of gun- powder are found lodged in the skin, some of them par- tially and others completely buried in it: when this has taken place an indelible mark remains after the cure, not, as some have supposed, from each distinct granule of the powder remaining undecomposed and enclosed in a minute capsule, but rather, I believe, from the granules being decomposed and partially discharged or absorbed, while the :arbonaceous or colouring matter remains in the skin ; as in t lose letters or emblematic figures which we often see artifi- cially imprinted on the arms of soldiers and seamen by pricking out the figure with a needle and inserting a little gunpowder into the skin, a mode of marking deserters which s enjoined by the articles of war.MILITARY SURGERY. HG In extensive burns even of a superficial kind, constitution- al symptoms of a very alarming nature follow the local in- jury. For several hours after the receipt of a severe burn, the leading symptoms indicate a general collapse of the powers of the system. Faintness, vomiting, chilliness and shivering, with a feeble, unequal, irregular, or intermitting pulse, and oppressed breathing are the most conspicuous symptoms, while in some cases convulsions occur; and if in this state the patient expires, lie sinks from causes which we cannot dis- tinctly explain. We can only refer his death to a general shock of the nervous system, which in many other kinds of injuries speedily overpowers the patient, and leaves no particular morbid appearance in the internal parts ; in such cases, perhaps, the most powerful remedies would not be of any avail, but in so far as we can expect them to be useful, Opiates and Cordials are obviously indicated. When a patient survives for four and twenty or eight and forty hours, reaction more or less vigorous commences, at- tended with a quick and for the most part small pulse, heat of skin, and urgent thirst; the shiverings still recurring at irregular intervals. In this state of symptomatic fever the patient may be carried off at any time previous to the tenth or twelfth day, and the phenomena observed on dissection will be those usually exhibited in other cases of fever, internal con- gestion, sometimes terminating in effusion in one or all of the great cavities. In such cases the head is sometimes the prin- cipal seat of congestion. Dr. Gulland of the navy mention- ed to me that, upon one occasion, he had the treatment of twenty-five men who were injured by the explosion of powder in a gun-boat, seven of whom died delirious, and all of them had effusion and plethora of the vessels of the brain. More frequently, however, the thorax is said to be the seat of the interior engorgement. Howr far this is countenanced by dissection, my ovrn observations do not enable me to stateHUH NS. 147 distinctly; but the sympathy existing between the skin and the lungs, from their both being exhalant surfaces ; the ad- ditional load thrown upon the latter by the cessation of the functions of the skin over a large surface, and the great dyspnoea which often exists during the life of the patient, all appear to me circumstances which render it highly pro- bable that the lungs are the organs most likely to suffer. Some of the French writers, full of the gastro-ententic doc- tune, attribute the patient’s death in such cases to inflam- mation of the internal surfaces of the abdominal viscera; but from whichever of these sources the danger may be ap- prehended, the indications in the acute stage of the symp- tomatic fever, are the same,—the exhibition of mild evacu- ants, laxatives, diaphoretics, and opiates, with the employment of blood-letting, whenever the severity of the symptoms re- quires it, or the vigour of the patient’s constitution admits of such a means of cure. After the lapse of ten or fifteen days, the severity of the febrile symptoms generally abates, and in favourable cases, a progressive amendment goes on ; but in severe cases, a temporary diminution of the febrile action, about the period just specified, docs not always indicate an exemption from ‘ danSer ’ fur thc febrile action is liable to recur, and the patient 1 may bc camed off b7 such recurrence, at any time from three to six weeks after the injury. When death occurs after this period, the patient for the most part sinks in a hectic state, ' exhausted by a profuse discharge of matter from an extensive suppurating surface. Here the indications are, to support the sinking powers by nutritious diet, by the exhibition of porter and wine; to obviate diarrhoea by opiates, and profuse sweat- ing by mineral acids. I o recapitulate, then, the leading indications for the inter- nal treatment of severe burns; the exquisite pain, the constitu- tional shock, and nervous agitation, immediately succeeding the14K MILITARY SURGERY. accident, and which endure sometimes for a period of forty- eight hours, are best obviated by the internal use of Opiates and Cordials. From the expiration of this period to the twelfth or fourteenth day, the febrile symptoms are, for the most part, acute, and the patient is best treated by a mild unirritating diet, by the exhibition of gentle laxatives, and by blood-letting. From the third to the sixth week, the febrile symptoms arc liable to become occasionally aggravated ; and are to be met according to their urgency, by the treatment just mentioned. Beyond that period the patient, if not decidedly convalescent, is liable to sink from exhaustion and hectic fever, which indi- cate the necessity of nutritious diet and wholesome air. In the local treatment of burns, two general and opposite plans seem, at all times, to have been pursued. One of them has for its object, to alleviate the symptoms of burns by the application of substances which produce a Cooling or refrige- rant effect; the other, to heal burns by Heating or stimulat- ing substances. Whether the one of these modes of treat- ment be in every instance preferable to the other, is a ques- tion upon which the profession is by no means agreed. From the sequel of the passage already quoted from Baron Larrey’s work, it appears, that this distinguished surgeon is decidedly opposed to the refrigerant applications in general use. He declares that he has been long struck with the bad effects of repellents, such as fresh water, with the muriate of ammonia, oxycratc, the vegeto-mineral water, and the solution of opium in ice-water, which are extolled in some modern books; and he expresses his belief that cases frequently prove fatal for want of more judicious treatment. He recommends that all deep burns should be dressed with fine old linen, spread with saffron ointment. The employment of this ointment, or of honey in- stead of it, is to he continued till suppuration takes place. When this is established, Larrey employs the ointment of tyrax, for the purpose of promoting a detachment of the149 BURNS. eschars, and checking the extent of sloughing. As soon as the dead parts have separated, the Baron again has recourse to the saffron ointment, for which he gradually substitutes dry lint, or stripes of linen spread with cerate, checking luxuriant granulations by touching them with lunar caustic, or solutions of the metallic salts. Internally, Baron Larrey recommends warm emollient and antispasmodic beverages. His patients are never deprived of light nourishment, broths, jellies, eggs, soup, &c.; “ his experience having,” he says, “ taught him, that soldiers cannot bear low diet so well as persons leading an inactive life.” Notwithstanding the above observations of Baron Lar- rey, to whose extensive experience as an army surgeon every deference is due, I am greatly inclined to lean to the .practice of using *cold applications, which were recommend- ed so long ago as the days of Rhazes and Avicenna, and advocated, in later times, by Sir James Earle, who, in “ An Essay on the Means of Lessening the Effects of Fire on the Human Body,” published some thirty years ago, has recommended the use of cold water, or of ice ; the burned parts to be immersed in the cold water, or covered with cloths dipped in the same, and changed from time to time, as they acquire warmth from the part. Where the burned part admits of being immersed in cold water, this proves of all modes of treatment the most soothing and agreeable to the feelings of the sufferer ; and from considerable experience, I am satisfied, that no mode of treatment will be found more ge- nerally efficacious. It is, I conceive, a great recommendation to remedies of this class, that they arc so easily commanded in military practice; for here we are frequently restricted in our choice, and often obliged to have recourse, not to those means which may be thought best, but to those most available at the moment. To show the extent to which cold applications have been150 MILITARY SURGERY. carried, a case may be mentioned, the treatment of which devolved upon myself, more than twenty years ago, when quartered at Prince of Wales Island. A native horse-keeper, belonging to one of the field-officers of my regiment, had the whole of his back, from the nape of the neck down to the but- tocks, severely scalded, in consequence of having had a large pot of boiling water spilt about him, while he lay asleep on the ground. The agony which the poor man suffered appeared to be extreme, and as the readiest means of relief, I directed him to sit down in a stream of water w'hich run past the stable where the accident happened. This advice he and his family, who were present, did not seem to relish ; but the expe- riment was insisted on, and the patient’s expressions of agony were speedily turned into laughter at me and my prescription. He was kept sitting in the rivulet from mid-day until sunset, with his back up the stream ; and on coming out, there was little or no perceptible mark of the injury, and he immediately returned to his duty. This practice, instituted upon the spur of the moment, is not however applicable in all climates, nor is the application of cold generally thought eligible in cases of extensive burns ; in many such cases, the general collapse of the system, the oppressed breathing, and the shiverings posi- tively forbid it, and stimulating or unctuous applications are much more suitable. To the class of cold or refrigerant applications may be re- ferred the use of vinegar, which, either pure or diluted with water, or mixed up into a thin paste with clay, is a remedy which has been in use from very remote times. In the latter form, it is mentioned as a remedy for burns in the writings of Celsus ; and in recent times, it wras again brought to public notice by the late Mr. Cleghorn, an eminent brewer of this city, of whose practice a detailed account is given in the second volume of the Medical Facts and Observations. Where this application has been used cold,BURNS. 151 in the slighter cases of burns, its employment, from the cold- ness alone, is highly gratifying to the feelings of the patient. But in more severe cases, where the cuticle is detached, the smarting produced by the application is often so great as to render it intolerable. A common domestic remedy for burns, in this country, is the application of a pulp of raw potatoes, formed by scraping or grating them down, and applying them in the form of a cataplasm ; an application in which no virtue resides, beyond that of its cooling effect. Stimulating applications have also been long in use, both by scientific and empirical practitioners; and of this class, one of the most ancient, one of the most vaunted, and perhaps one of the least employed, is the application of heat. This is a prescription as old as the time of Aristotle ; and “ of all the hot and attractive things,” says Pare, “ which, by ra- rifying, drawing out, and dissolving, assuage the pain and heat of combustion, the fire challengeth the first place, espe- cially when the burning is small.” This practice of employing extraneous heat for the cure of burns, has also been recom- mended by Wiseman, who observes, that by holding a burn- ing hot iron to the part, the “ fire calls forth that fire it made ; omne simile, simili gaudet; vel similem sibi trahit; ignis ipse esl sui ipsius alexiteriumi'1 Hcister, Van Sweiten, and various other writers, give their opinions in favour of the same practice; but all these high authorities have weighed but little against the pain and suffering which the practice ne- cessarily implies, and it has therefore never been employed to any considerable extent. Applications, however, so far analo- gous to this as to excite severe pain by their application, and to stimulate the burnt surface, have been recommended by numerous writers. Of these the most remarkable arc alcohol, and spiritous applications, in favour of which we have the tes- timony of Sydenham, and, in later times, that of Lombard, in his “ Clinique des Plaics par armes a feu,” where he urges152 MILITARY SURGERY. strongly the use of alcohol, and gives the case of a young wo- man, and the cases of two artillerymen who were severely scorched with gunpowrder, and treated successfully by the use of compresses dipped in spirit of wine. Several of the ancient writers mention resins and turpentine amongst the remedies in common use for bums ; and Heister observes, “ that in the first species of burns, oil of turpentine has good effects, if you apply it in time, and repeat it fre- quently.’"1 It is, however, chiefly through the medium of two essays, published by the late Dr. Kentish of Newcastle-upon- Tyne, that the oil of turpentine has been recommended to the attention of the profession as a remedy for burns. The accidents of this kind which Dr. Kentish had occasion to treat, were those which occur from the explosion of hydrogen gas in coal mines, and which are, in many respects, akin to those arising from explosions of gunpowder. Although Dr. Kent- ish’s theoretical views are not very satisfactory, the practice which he recommended was at one time very generally adopt- ed ; and in extensive bums, with great collapse of the powers of life, I am inclined, from considerable experience, to consider it advantageous. In the advanced stages of sloughing burns, tur- pentine and resinous applications are perhaps the best we can employ to promote the detachment of the sloughs. Besides those remedies, which are unequivocally either of a refrigerant or of a stimulating character, there are numerous other applications, of an intermediate description, in daily use. One of the most common is the linimentum aq. calcis, or carron oil, a remedy of all others of which I have had the mostextensive personal experience. This is a remedy peculiarly useful in those numerous cases where, either from the seat or extent of the burn, the employment of cold applications may be questionable ; or where, on the other hand, from the active powers of the system remaining entire, and the sensa- tion of the affected parts not only unimpaired, but morbidly153 BURNS. i increased, the application of stimulants may be more calculat- i ed to increase the patient’s sufferings than to expedite his cure. Lunar caustic has been recently recommended as an ap- plication to burns, when there is extensive superficial le- sion with intense redness and pain, or vesication ; and in : such cases, it it said, that under its use all uneasiness quick- i Iy subsides, and in a day or two the only traces of injury : are the desquamation of the blackened cuticle. Other appli- • cations of an astringent character have been sometimes made i to burns, and of these ink is strongly recommended by Lom- ! bard, in his work on wounds from fire-arms ; and he refers to * Galen, Avicena, and Paulus of Egina, in support of this i remedy. Of its use I have no personal experience, nor have I thought it necessary to ascertain what was the com- position of the ink used by those ancient writers ; but from the astringent nature of the ink used in modem days, it would seem to be no irrational application to burnt surfaces, either immediately after the receipt of the injury, or at a sub- sequent period, when in the progress of the cure the granula- tions are apt to become luxuriant and unhealthy. Although it would be vain to attempt an enumeration of all the popular remedies for burns, it is highly desirable that the military surgeon should be acquainted with a number of them. And there are two practices which it becomes necessary to notice particularly, as they have of late been very greatly commended and very extensively employed in the treatment of burns,—the envelopment of the parts in cotton,—and the sprinkling or dredging of the burnt surface with flower. The use of the former we have borrowed from the Americans ; the rationale of its employment I am not very fully acquainted with, nor satisfied of its superior efficacy. The application of flour to burned surfaces is another practice which has been lately adopt- ed, but which does not appear to me to possess any very ob- vious advantage. It has often the effect of locking up the pu-MILITARY SURGERY. 154’ rulent secretion, until it acquires an offensive character ; while I am not satisfied that the inflammation is in any degree di- minished, or the suppuration rendered less extensive by its ap- plication. In short,'the advantages of the two last-mentioned re- medies seem to me to be almost entirely of a negative kind ; and in so far as they check the meddling officious spirit which some- times prevails amongst young practitioners, they may be highly useful; but when we look to the endless variety of remedies which have had a transient reputation as specifics for burns, we naturally become sceptical as to the superior virtues of any one of them. In bums from the explosion of gunpowder, particles of the powder are often forced into and lodged in the skin. These we are recommended by some writers to pick out with the point of a needle, or other convenient instrument; and if this can be easily accomplished there is no great objection to it; but it seems to me scarcely necessary to pay much attention to this point. No military man will be thought the worse of for having a few grains of gunpowder lodged in his skin ; while, if the severity of the injury has been such as to lead to sup- puration, the grains of gunpowder are removed by it. ULCERS. The treatment of ulcers of the legs was, at no very distant period, one of the most essential parts of the duty of a mili- tary surgeon ; and until the doctrines of inflammation, and its consequences, were simplified and established upon a rational basis; until, in short, we saw distinctly how little art and how much nature contributes to recovery, the remedies employed155 ULCERS. for the cure of ulcers were endless in number, and often [highly injurious in effect. A more rational pathology has t taught us that very simple means will accomplish every thing \ which art can effect in the treatment of ulcers; and circum- stances have concurred to render the employment even of these ssimple means less frequently necessary. In the introductory part of a treatise upon ulcers of the legs, [published by Sir Edward Home, there are some interesting oobservations on the frequency of this complaint amongst sol- diers, and on the state of decrepitude and inefficiency to which* - regiments were sometimes reduced by the prevalence of ulcers. 'Sir Everard observes, that “ no surgical complaint incident to the soldier has deprived his majesty’s service of so many men sas that of ulcers in the legs,” a remark which will not apply tto the present state of the service. This favourable change is [partly to be attributed to an increased vigilance in excluding :from the service men who are suffering, or who may have suf- fered from this complaint previously to their enlistment; partly ito the improved modes of treatment which have been adopted ; but above all, I believe, to the great amelioration in the condition of the soldier, which has taken place under the auspices of the late Duke of York, and the present com- : mander-in-chief. The increased comforts with which the soldier is provided, the prospect of obtaining his discharge .at the end of a stated time, without having recourse to stra- tagem to procure it; the prospect of a pension upon com- jipleting a given period of service; the diminished frequency and extent of corporal punishments ; and the difficulty of ^finding employment in manufacturing and agricultural pur- -suits, arc all circumstances which have greatly tended to make ■ a soldiers life more desirable, and must have a powerful effect m diminishing the frequency of ulcers, by taking away the temptation to produce or to aggravate such complaints. ^ c h;lve now no ulcer of any formidable character occurrincr " O 315^ MILITARY SURGERY. in the army on home service ; but in other quarters of the world, this disease has very frequently, and indeed very re- cently, been the cause of severe and protracted suffering to in- dividuals, and of serious detriment to the public service. The ravages of this disease in the navy, under one of its most for- midable aspects, w as formerly such as to have literally crippled whole fleets, and forced them to quit their stations; Mr. Hammick, late surgeon to the naval hospital at Plymouth, states, that such was at one time the prevalence of malignant ulcer amongst the seamen, as to have led to the amputation of not less than fifty limbs in that hospital, in the course of one year; and from tables published in Mr. Copland Hutchi- son’s work, it appears, that in the two great naval hospitals of Haslar and Plymouth, there were admitted, during the war, 7065 cases of ulcers ; of these 144 died, 198 had their limbs amputated, and 1089 were invalided. It is altogether foreign to my purpose to enter in- to a detailed account of the classification, appearances, and progress of ulcers as they are met with in this country; but it is necessary to advert to a distinction very proper- ly observed by all intelligent writers upon this subject, between ulcers depending upon an accidental and local cause, and those depending upon a disorder of the general health, or depraved habit of body. Of the last mentioned class, by far the most important are the ulcers which have been termed Scorbutic, and the formidable sore familiarly known amongst us by the name of Hospital Gangrene, to which I shall here- after advert. The advanced stages of scurvy are mark- ed by symptoms indicative of great changes in the habit of the individual affected by it,—a great inactivity both of body and of mind,—an indisposition to exertion,—loss of muscular strength,—a bloated cedematous aspect,—swelling of the legs, —livid patches, or ccchymoscs, on different parts of the skin, —soft and spungy gums, w ith frequent discharges of blood from157 ULCERS. tthem. These symptoms arc familiarly known as incident to s seamen upon long voyages, and particularly when confined to ; salted meat with a scanty allowance of vegetable or farinace- < ous matters. Such were formerly the disastrous consequences 1 from the prevalence of scurvy, that Sir Richard Hawkins, a (distinguished commander in the time of Queen Elizabeth, ; states, that in the course of twenty years, he had known ten i i thousand men perish from this disease, out of the compara- i tively limited establishment of those days. Numerous in- • stances are recorded of the losses and miscarriages of naval en- j i terprises from this cause, but fortunately for the seamen of the present day, the antidote is as well known as the disease itself. The use of lime juice in sea scurvy is by no means so novel a practice as many imagine. Nothing can be more explicit than the recommendation given of this medicine by Woodall, two hundred years ago, “ I finde we have many good things that heale the scurvy well at land, but the sea chirurgeon shall do little good at the sea with them, neither will they in- dure. The use of the juyee of lemmons is a precious medi- cine, and well tried; being sound and good, let it have the cliiefe place, for it will deserve it. It is to be taken each morning, two or three spoonfuls, and fast after it two horus; and if you adde one spoonful of aqua vitae thereto, to a cold stomach it is the better. Some chirurgeons also give of this juyee daily to the men in health, as a preservative ; which course is good if they have store, otherwise it were best to keep it for need. I dare not write how good a sauce it is at meat, least the chicfc in the ships waste it in the great cabins to save vinegar.” It was not, however, until 1794, that the lime- juice was successfully recommended to the government by the naval surgeons of the day, and liberally supplied at the public expense, as a means of prevention. From this time158 MILITARY SURGERY. the scurvy declined so rapidly, that in two years it was extinct, and there are now surgeons in the navy, of long standing, who have never seen a case of it. One of the most striking proofs of the beneficial change which has taken place in this respect, is given by Sir Gilbert Blane, • who states, on the authority of Dr. Lind, that in one of the first years of the American war, six thousand and sixty-four men, mostly affected with fever and scurvy, had been sent ashore from the Channel fleet in the course of four months; that on another occasion, after a ten weeks1 cruise, two thousand five hundred men were brought into port ill of scurvy; while the fleet under Lord St. Vincent, which blockaded Brest in 1800, consisting of twenty-four ships of the line, kept the sea from the 27th of May till the 28th of September, without one of them being in port,—without the men having a single meal of fresh meat,—and without sending more then sixteen to hos- pital. The use of fresh meat and vegetables must ever be look- ed to as the great desiderata with a view to the preserva- tion of the health and vigour of ship’s crews, or of troops on ship-board. And when, from the deficiency of these, any thing of a medicinal character becomes requisite, the lime-juice is by common consent looked upon as the most desirable and efficacious remedy; this, indeed, is so much the case, that were it not for the chance that its supply in some circum- stances and situations may be found impracticable, it would be altogether superfluous to mention the various substitutes which have at times been adopted. Of these, perhaps, the most noted are the sour krout, or pickled cabbage, vine- gar, beer, molasses, onions, nopal, and the earth-bath. In mentioning the last, I do not express any confidence in its virtues, but it was a celebrated remedy in the days of Com- modore Anson, appears to have been used in later times,ULCERS. 159 as we learn from Knox’s account of the American Campaigns Ii under Lord Amherst and General Wolfe, and is said to be • still in use amongst the seamen employed in the whale fishery. The good effects expected, and said to be observed from this i remedy, are probably attributable more to its influence on the iminds than on the bodies of scorbutic patients, who, to say Ii nothing of the superstitious character of seamen, arc often of a imost desponding turn, likely to be benefited by any mea- s sures which show an interest in their fate, or which they can be led to look upon as a means of cure ; and it w ill be ob- > served, the very employment of the earth-bath necessarily implies a communication with the shore, the most effectual of all means of counteracting scurvy. When seamen or soldiers are placed in situations favour- able to the generation of scurvy, it is well known that long (previous to the occurrence of those symptoms wdiich I have i mentioned, as marking the more advanced stages of the dis- tease, their constitutions become so far impaired, as to give a (peculiar character to diseases under which they may accident- ally labour. This has been more particularly observed with i regard to dysenteric complaints, and to ulcers of the legs, the latter often originating from the most trivial scratches or ac- c cidental wounds, and even from the bites of minute insects. This last mentioned cause I have known to be productive of t the loss of several lives, and of many limbs, sometimes ren- i dering their removal by amputation necessaiy, and at other : times leading to such extensive sloughing of the muscular and : tendinous parts, as to produce irremediable contractions and distortions of the limb. The disastrous consequences here al- luded to, occurred in the 2d battalion of the Royals with which I proceeded to India in the year I8O7. This regiment was full five months on the voyage from Ebgland to Prince of M ales’ Island, without touching anywhere for water or pro-MILITARY SURGERY. ICO visions ; the men’s constitutions were in consequence much tainted with scurvy, and upon being exposed to musquito bites after landing, the trifling sores produced by these animals de- generated into ulcers of the most formidable description, thus affording an example of a very common occurrence,—an ulcer acknowledging both a local and constitutional cause. In such cases the ulcerative process advances with great rapidity, and soon removes a great extent of parts, sparing nothing which comes within its range; the blood-vessels are thus often ex- posed to the ravages of ulceration, and we have not unfre- quently an extensive haemorrhage superaddcd to the other ef- fects of the ulcer. Sometimes an ulcer, after having extended itself rapidly for a time, appears to receive a check, and becomes stationary for a long period ; sometimes it even advances to- wards a cure, and again suddenly resumes a destructive ac- tion. These phenomena were remarkably conspicuous in those ulcers which occurred amongst the men of the Royals after their arrival in India. It was then a very common thing to find an ulcer to all appearance doing well at the evening visit, and upon inquiring for the patient next morning, he frequent- ly observed,—“ My leg is going back, Sir.” And this alter- nate deterioration and improvement in the appearance of ul- cers occurs often without our being able to give a satisfactory account of it, or to promote the amendment of such sores be- yond a given point. Large ulcers, as I have already hinted, were often attributed to very trifling causes, such as scratches, bruises, and, above all, to the bites of musquitoes, which in place of healing up kindly, degenerated into foul and painful ulcers, with ragged edges, extensive surrounding inflamma- tion, and an ichorous offensive discharge. These sores, for the most part, spread rapidly, and often as it were by piece- meal, large portions of the inflamed parts contiguous to the ulcer falling out in gangrenous patches, and often laying theULCERS. 161 bones bare, while the patients suffered severely from pain, rrestlessness, general debility, impaired appetite, quick pulse, ;and other marks of a hectic diathesis. A more detailed description of these ulcers, as they occurred amongst the seamen in the Naval Hospital at Madras, will be 'found in a work on the diseases of India, published in 1807, by ■'Mr. Curtis, formerly surgeon of the Medea frigate: but the malignant ulcers described by Blane and Trotter, as frequent- ly occurring in the navy, although, perhaps, in some in- stances connected with a scorbutic disposition, are more allied to the nature of hospital gangrene, than to those ulcers which prevailed amongst the men of the Royals after their arrival n India. rI hese latter were at the time very generally, and ;[ am still of opinion, very justly attributed to the preva- ence of a scorbutic diathesis in the men’s habits from a long sea-voyage; it is necessary, however, to state, that sores of a imilar description have been observed in these localities in circumstances where the usual causes of sea-scurvy did not xist. In a collection of official papers on the Medical Sta- istiesand Topography of Malacca and Prince of Wales island, irinted in 1830 by order of the government at Pinang, we lave an account by Dr. Ward of the Madras establishment, fa destructive ulcer prevalent amongst the native troops at lalacca in the years 182/—28, which appears to me to re- semble, in every respect, the ulcer which I formerly had an pportunity of seeing amongst the European troops in that uarter. And instead of attempting a more minute description 1 this ulcer from my own remote experience, I prefer giving le following from Dr. Ward, who observes, that “ these ulcers ppeared in two forms, the common and the phagedaenic, the twiner differing little from ulcers occurring at other stations i India, the latter appearing in two distinct varieties, the 'ute and chronic phagedaina. ’1G2 MILITARY SURGERY. “ The First or Acute variety commenced, if in a previously indolent ulcer, by a small circumscribed fiery spot; if on the sound skin however, by a minute, bright red irritable pimple, which on being scratched, was soon converted into an ulcer. The after course was in both cases the same. It extended rapidly with great pain and constitutional irritation, some- times reaching the size of a half crown piece in less than twelve hours. There was little discharge from it, and when any, it was of an ichorous and acrid nature. The edges were raised, ragged, often deeply indented, resembling the outline of a map, and of a purplish or red colour. In a few days it extended over a considerable portion of limb, involv- ing in destruction, muscle, tendon, and ligament, which were soon converted into a black or brownish slough. In this re- spect, it somewhat resembled those cases described by Mr. Leslie in his paper on the sloughing Ulcers of Prince of Wales Island, published in the third volume of the Calcutta Medical and Physical Society’s Transactions. The constitu- tional symptoms were considerable fever, white dry and load- ed tongue, great irritability, restlessness and almost total sleeplessness. It generally occurred about the ancles, or on the front of the tibia ; in only one instance in the upper ex- tremities, and that in an opened abscess. If the progress of the disease was not checked, the ulcerative process went on, the irritibility and fever increased, and the patient died ap- parently worn out. In most instances however, when proper treatment was adopted early, the pain lessened, the slough began to separate, the edges became more regular, the con- stitutional symptoms decreased in violence, pus was thrown out and granulations commenced. In some, it put on the second or chronic form about to be described, when the cure was exceedingly tedious. In others, relapses took place, even from the slightest irregularity in diet or regimen, occasionallyULCERS. 1G3 indeed without any obvious cause. In the milder cases ot it, Lhe skin and cellular substance were the only parts that un- JJerwent sloughing, and in these, when the healing com- menced, the muscles and tendons were seen as distinctly as if they had been dissected by the knife of the anatomist. (During the prevalence of the disease, two cases occurred twhere it attacked a common sore on the penis. It could not :ie arrested, and completely destroyed that organ in both in- -stances. It occasionally also attacked blistered surfaces. 3 he most severe case I witnessed, was one in which it affected the whole foot, gradually destroying the toes, which dropped oil one by one, and lastly separating the foot itself at the ancle. IThe patient died exhausted from the discharge and long suf- fering.” “ The Second or Chronic variety was more frequent than :thc foregoing, and equally destructive, though slower in its iprogress. It occurred generally in weak sickly men, and seemed connected with a scorbutic state of the system. 3 he .pain and constitutional symptoms were much less violent than in the acute variety ; indeed in the most severe cases least pain was complained of. 3 here was much restlessness how- ever, and great anxiety of countenance. The characteristics of this ulcer, were its slow progress, its raised, clear and re- gular, shining red edges, a circle of oedema for three or four inches round it, and a thick cream-coloured, yellowish, or brownish-yellow slough so tenacious frequently as to resist the -scalpel. 3’he-discharges from it were intolerably offensive, so much so that no one could at first remain in the room ap- propriated to the patients affected with it, without nausea, and fumigations with nitrous acid or benzoin were constant- ly necessary. It sometimes threw out greenish cauliflower i excrescences, which covered the whole face of the sore, and rose considerably above the surface. The muscles when ex-.MILITARY SURGERY. 104 posed were frequently considerably swollen, as if inflated, bulging out in the centre of the diseased mass. The ankle and back part of the leg were the parts most frequently af- fected ; and in two or three instances the ulcer involved great part of the Gastrocnemius and Soleus muscles, completely de- stroying the Tendo Achillis. When the slough began to separate, the tendons were frequently found hanging in clus- ters from the half-destroyed muscles. No texture escaped its destructive influence; skin and cellular substance evidently suffered most rapidly ; muscles next; then tendon, and lastly bone, which sloughed off in pieces, during the progress of healing. The arteries or nerves were rarely affected. The separation of the viscid slough ; absence of the very offensive and very peculiar smell; a circle of healthy inflammation round the sore ; increase of pain, and improvement of the general health, indicated a favourable termination. The edges generally became clean first; and frequently in an extensive ulcer, one half would be throwing out granulations, and cica- trizing rapidly, while the other was still under the sloughing process. In the long continued cases, hectic fever was observed ; diarrhoea was a frequent occurrence.” “In few cases, when severe, did either form terminate without loss of life or limb, or the destruction of such a con- siderable portion of muscle, as to render the patient unfit for further effective service. Amputation was performed in three —in two of them however, at such a late period of the dis- ease, as not to succeed in saving the lives of the patients. Five in all died, including one, who expired the day after his arrival from Pinang.” “ The disease was evidently epidemic, depending either upon some peculiar state of the atmosphere; or upon some cause acting generally upon the whole body of troops. It seemed to attack the young and the old, the robust and theULCERS. 1G5 weakly, indiscriminately. Nothing occurred to create any suspicion of its being contagious, though for the sake ol cer- tainty, every precaution, such as supplying clean sponge to each patient, avoidance of contact, or crowding, and separa- tion of the bad cases from the more simple, was carefully taken.” Ulcers of a similar character were prevalent amongst the 'Madras sepoys at Ceylon during the insurrection of 1817 and 1818, as noticed in Mr Marshall’s interesting topography of the interior of that island ; and as they were frequently ob- served to succeed to leech bites, they have been very absurdly attributed to the “ poisonous leeches of Ceylon;” but the medi- cal staff serving on the island at the time saw more adequate and 'Satisfactory causes for their production, in the very reduced diet, excessive fatigue, inclement weather, and privations of every .kind to which the troops were subjected. Such ulcers also pre- vailed both amongst the European and native troops at Prome land Rangoon, and there they seem to have been consider- ed decidedly of a scorbutic nature. It appears from Mr. Welch’s account of the diseases prevalent in the 89th regi- ment, that his patients suffered greatly from privations of all kinds engendering a scorbutic diathesis ; and Mr. Pater- son of the Madras establishment, who served with the troops lately employed at Rangoon, in reply to a letter written to him at my request, states in very decided terms, that the ulcer prevalent there was of a scorbutic character, obviously attri- butable to insufficient diet, and that it was not contagious. Such ulcers as I have now been describing, for the most ; part involve a very extended surface, but the extent of ulcers is exceedingly various : it depends much upon the injury from which they originate ; and it is well known that an ulcer is not always so extensive, either in diameter or in depth, as it appears,—the thickening of its edges, and the distension of the skin, by the swelling of the part where it is seated, givingMILITARY SURGERY. 166 it often an appearance in this respect which it does not in re- ality possess. The form of ulcers, as well as their extent, is subject to great variation. We often find them quite irregu- lar in shape, sometimes approaching more or less to an oblong form, and in other cases almost circular. Their edges are sometimes ragged, often elevated with more or less hardness of the surrounding teguments, and occasionally inverted. It has been long since observed, that the circular form of ulcers was one unfavourable to their cicatrization ; and in as far as cicatriza- tion is promoted by the mutual approximation of the edges of the ulcer, it will readily be seen, that the means now chiefly used in this country to approximate the edges of wounds and ulcers, adhesive straps and bandages, cannot act so favourably on sores of a circular, as on those of an oblong form. In the progress of ulcers, some textures, as that of the skin and cel- lular substance, moulder away and disappear, as it were, en- tirely under the process, while it is to be observed, that parts of a firmer texture, such as aponeuroses, tendons, cartilages, and bones, do not follow this law, but, in the first instance, become mortified and separate in considerable masses, being isolated by the destruction of the contiguous parts which serve for their nutrition. Besides the division of ulcers formerly noticed, into Local and Constitutional, or Specific, other subdivisions calculat- ed to suggest the most appropriate applications have been adopted. Of these, one of the most useful is that of the late Sir Everard Home, who considers the impediments to the cure of ulcers as occurring from a defect or excess of action, which defect or excess may arise either from a general fault in the constitution, or in the part in which the ulcer is seated. And in the treatment of a simple ulcer, when the healing pro- cess goes on in a kindly manner, it will readily be understood, that beyond the necessary attention to cleanliness, and the re- moval of a superabundance of purulent matter, the surgeon167 ULCERS. i 1 has but little to ilo ; indeed, the less he interferes with the I process of nature the better, any over activity on his part will i in all probability retard the cure. The following remarks must be looked upon as more pecu- 1 liarly applicable to ulcers of the inferior extremities. In this : situation they are by far the most frequent, and here, also, va- rious circumstances concur to render them difficult of cure. While no part either of the surface of the body, or of the mem- branes which line the different canals, are exempt from ulcer- ation, yet the integuments, the muscular and tendinous parts of the legs, are peculiarly the seats of this disease; and here the proximity of a large extent of the tibia to the surface, the languor of the circulation, partly by reason of its distance from the heart, and partly by reason of the dependent position of the limbs, are circumstances calculated to retard the cure. The influence of these circumstances is rendered very conspicuous by a statement of Sir Everard Home, published on the au- thority of Dr. Young, who served several years as a regimental surgeon in the West Indies. Dr. Young observed, that “in the 32d regiment there were 145 tall men, and 276 short men. That in the course of four years, 22 were discharged from those of the first description, and only 23 from the se- cond on account of ulcers of the legs;” and this singular ob- servation does not stand alone, but is quite coincident with m own experience and that of others. In the treatment of ulcers of the legs, two general and op- posite principles have been enjoined,—Exercise and Rest; and each of these has in recent times had its abettors. Is a patient with an ulcer on his leg to keep himself still and quiet ? Is rest absolutely necessary for his cure ? Or may he be allowed to walk about as usual P These are questions which constantly present themselves, and have not hitherto received, nor do they indeed admit of any definite reply.168 MILITARY SURGERY. So numerous and so various arc the circumstances, appar- ently trivial in themselves, hy which ulcers are affected, that it is in vain to attempt, upon general principles, to determine • the quantum of exercise or of rest to be recommended, whether the object be to increase action or to diminish it,—to correct the local disease, or to improve the constitution ? Exercise, as an universal remedy in all cases of ulcerated legs, has been much insisted on; but the advice is too general to be very useful; and notwithstanding the number of instances adduced to corroborate the truth of the doctrine, many exceptions must be admitted. In cases of ulcers on the lower extremi- ties, accompanied with a state of irritability, or disposition to violent and inordinate action, where the edges are inflamed, and the surface exquisitely tender and painful, covered with a thin ichorous discharge, free and unrestrained motion proves highly injurious; but the advantages of rest and a horizontal posture are obvious. The inflammation around the ulcer abates, the pain and tension subside, and well formed pus is secreted, to the great relief of the patient’s feelings. It may also be remarked here, that ulcers accompanied with a vari- cose state of the veins of the leg, are, in many instances, cured hy horizontal posture and well-applied bandages, without re- sorting to the hazardous expedient of dividing or tying the va- ricose veins. Ulcers, on the other hand, accompanied by exces- sive languor in the circulation, oedematous swellings and cold- ness of the feet, such as are usually met with in chlorotic pa- tients, in persons advanced in life, or in persons who follow a sedentary occupation, are speedily improved in their appearance hy the moderate use of exercise, with a roller applied tight from the toes to the knee. And I may add, that the healing of ulcers under a moderate share of exercise, is found to be much more permanent, and the ulcers less liable to break out again, than when cured in the horizontal posture.1G9 ULCEKS. In the treatment of those ulcers which occurred amongst the men of the Royals at Prince of Wales island, little could be effected by the use of any local applications, unless, at the same time,attempts were made to invigorate the constitution by ; generous diet, bark, and wine ; but unfortunately the digestive , powers and the functions of the alimentary canal were, in many i instances, so materially impaired, as to prevent our obtaining ; any very obvious advantage from the use of these remedies. The men having to contend with the diseases incident to a : foreign and, unhealthy climate, as well as with the scorbutic diathesis prevalent in their systems from a protracted sea-voy- age, it is not to be wondered-.at, that many of them sunk in the struggle; and while, in the treatment of the ulcers with ’ which a large proportion of the regiment were afflicted, every I local application occasionally appeared to do good, there w7as not • one which did not often fail; indeed, it was only by a constant change and succession of applications that any thing like a progressive amendment could be kept up. In the highly ir- ritable state in which the ulcers often appeared, with much surrounding inflammation, emollient cataplasms were in some instances the only applications which could be borne with pa- tience. In the foul and sloughy state of these ulcers, acid and spirituous lotions, diluted alcohol, tincture of myrrh, and the diluted nitric and muriatic acids were frequently employed. In 11 ulcers of this description, the balsam of Peru was urgently re- commended by Dr. Whitelaw Ainslie, in a letter addressed to the Court of Directors of the East India Company in October 1806; and if I am not mistaken, a favourable opinion of this remedy was expressed by some of the surgeons employed at Rangoon, although my own experience does not lead me to concur in the high encomiums bestowed upon it. Where every application has so repeatedly failed in my own hands, I have some hesitation in holding forth any one170 MILITARY SURGERY. as deserving a preference; but if, in the foul and sloughing state of these ulcers, any one application appeared to me more ca- pable than another of expediting the detachment of the sloughs, of cleansing the surface of the sore, and of improving the qua- lity of the discharge, it was the use of the hot dressing, the basilicon, or unguentum resinosum, melted with a proportion of turpentine, and applied as hot as the patient could bear it. In speaking of the treatment of those phagedaenic ul- cers prevalent amongst the Sepoys at Malacca, in 1827- 28, Dr. Ward expresses himself as follows:—“ The treat- ment of the Phagedenic Ulcer varied of course according to the form which it assumed. In the first or acute va- riety, emetics of ipecacuanha and tartrate of antimony were invariably given, and sometimes with success at the com- mencement of the attack ; great attention was paid to the state of the stomach and bowels ; the strictest rest was enjoin- ed, and the applications were mild and emollient. Local bleedings, by means of numerous and repeated incisions, through the raised and thickened edges, followed by warm fomentations, were practised in most instances, and tended ge- nerally to relieve the pain and irritation, and forward the se- paration of the sloughs. When there was much fever, the nauseating solution of tartar emetic was diligently exhibited, with occasional purgative doses of calomel and antimony. When the pain was considerable, opium at bed-time, com- bined with the above, always gave relief. When the violence of action in the ulcer subsided, and the sloughs began to form, the treatment was the same as that of the second variety, now to be described.” “ The second or chronic variety of Phagedama required the exhibition of stimulants and tonics, both internally and externally, from the very commencement. The most useful stimulating external applications were the hot dressing, con-171 ULCERS. sisting of equal parts of oil of turpentine and unguent: resi- nosum—diluted, and pure nitric acid—solutions of nitrate of silver—balsam of Peru—powdered bark—finely powdered rhubarb—solution of camphor in spirit of wine—powdered bark and nitre—and powdered nitre,—with common, ferment- ing, or charcoal poultices. Liquid applications were always preferred to unctuous ones, at least as long as the sloughs con- tinued. Previous to the application of any of the above, free and numerous incisions were made through the thick tenacious cream-coloured sordes, with a scalpel, until blood flowed. I am inclined to attach some importance to this practice. Little advantage is to be gained from acting on the slough it- self ; the surrounding and subjacent parts possessing life, are to be roused into activity ; the remedies must be applied to them ; and this, I think, is ensured in some measure, by the deep incisions above recommended, which afford free access of the stimulating applications to the sound parts. Hence the superiority of liquid to unctuous dressings. After the scarifi- cations the whole surface of the sore was covered with the se- lected dressings, either spread upon or dipt into lint, some- times copiously poured over it; and over all the poultice was applied, and kept on by a loose bandage. Each of the above enumerated external remedies was occasionally found highly beneficial ; but they required to be frequently changed, as no one seemed to retain its good effect more than five or six days. In the worst form of the disease, that with little pain, and thick cream-coloured or greenish sloughs, where there was evi- dent want of action, the greatest benefit was derived from the application of pure nitric acid, by means of a feather, after scarifications through the sloughs, followed by the use of the fermenting or charcoal poultice. Finely powdered nitre sprinkled over the sore, was frequently found efficacious in de- taching the foul and offensive sloughs. When these began to separate, and healing spots were visible, the balsam of Peru172 MILITARY SURGERY. was found highly beneficial. It soothed the pain, removed the offensive odour, and hastened the separation of the dead parts from the sound. When this last process was complete, re- course was had to simple dressing, of either common or Tur- ner’s cerate ; and when cicatrization was fairly established, gentle pressure, by means of adhesive straps, was applied to the limb, for some distance above and below the sore, as re- commended by Baynton.” “ But both in the chronic variety and latter stage of the acute, the principal confidence was placed in the use of inter- nal remedies; and above all, in the liberal use of port wine, arrack, bark, or sulphate of quinine, and nourishing diet. Wine was abundantly supplied by the government of Fort Cornwallis. During the year, forty-four dozens of port were used in hospital, administered principally to those affected with ulcers ; and to this free exhibition of it am I inclined to attribute the small proportion of fatal cases.—Five out of a total of 222.” a Although these formidable ulcers, which occur in our eastern possessions, are almost the only serious complaint of this kind which we have now to contend with in the army, yet it is neces- sary to observe, that the description o'.'ulcer which formerly de- prived the service of so many men, and w'hich is still occasional- ly met with, is that characterised by Sir Everard Home as the indolent ulcer ; “ Ulcers in parts whose actions are too indolent to form healthy granulations, whether this indolence arises from the state of the parts or of the constitution.” Length of con- tinuance alone gives an indolent character to an ulcer; and it is immaterial whether at an early period it was healthy, whether it was attended with weakness and defective action, or whether it was irritable and sloughing, if not cured within a certain time, it becomes indolent ; and to this condition all ulcers of long standing arc, for the most part, ultimately reduced. The edges of the surroundingULCERS. 175 skin, become thick, prominent, smooth, and rounded ; the granulations soft, smooth, pale-coloured, and glossy on the ' surface ; the pus imperfectly formed, and often mixed with flakes of coagulating lymph, which adheres tenaciously to the surface of the granulations, and is with difficulty removed. In indolent ulcers there is a backwardness to form granulations; and in those granulations that are formed, a want of sufficient strength to form a complete cure; such granulations are unable to support themselves beyond a very short period ; and although the ulcer proceeds slowly towards amendment, so long as the granulations stand their ground, these are often suddenly absorbed, and the ulcer spreads nearly to its original size ; twenty-four hours may un- do all that had been formed in so many days, or even weeks. This is a change which takes place so frequently, and under such different circumstances, that it cannot be attributed to any external cause, but must be supposed to arise from the granulations which are formed in that indolent state of parts being unfit for the purpose for which they were intended; and in such cases the object of our treatment should be, not simply to heal an ulcer, but to render the cure as permanent as possible. With a view to produce granulations of a healthy character, various stimulating lotions and unguents have been employ- ed. Of the lotions, those containing small proportions of the nitrous and muriatic acids, solutions of the nitrate of silver, of the sulphates of copper, of iron, and of zinc, have proved the most generally useful; and latterly the black wash, solutions of the chlorurets of soda and of lime, have been much employed. Of ointments I know none more efficacious than those containing the red oxide, or the nitrate of quicksilver, and the subacetatc of copper. With a variety of these appli- cations it is necessary for every practitioner to make himselfMILITARY SURGERY. 174 acquainted; for 1 cannot too often repeat, that under a con- tinued use, the best of them will fail ; while it is only by oc- casional changes, either in the nature or strength of the appli- cation, that a progressive amendment can be kept up. In the treatment of indolent ulcers with surrounding oedema, blis- ters have of late been very frequently and successfully em- ployed by Mr. Syme, at the Surgical Hospital in this city. When an ulcer, whatever may have been its original character, is once reduced to the state of what is termed a simple purulent nicer, the employment of adhesive straps, as recommended by Mr. Baynton, will be found great- ly to accelerate the cure, and to render the recovery more perfect, by approximating the edges of the ulcer, and di- minishing the extent of the surface to be citatrized. When the discharge is inconsiderable, the adhesive strap is ge- nerally applied to the surface of the sore without any inter- vening substance; but even in cases where a considerable se- cretion of purulent matter takes place from the surface of an ulcer, the adhesive strap may occasionally be employed with advantage, by covering the sore, in the first place, with a little lint, and then surrounding the limb with a strap. The adhe- sive strap is a remedy of great importance in the treatment of ulcers of the legs, and few remedies have more completely an- swered the purpose intended. I can vouch for its efficacy in the treatment of ulcers of the legs under circumstances highly unfavourable, and in climates the most unhealth- ful. But a testimony perhaps less partial and more creditable to the practice is that of M. Roux, one of the surgeons of La Charite, who, in his Parallel of French and English Surgery, does ample justice to this practice, although it appears that he came to this country with any thing but prepossessions in its favour. The means of counteracting the attempts sometimes made175 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. by soldiers and seamen to exite ulcers, or retard their cure, will be noticed in the section on factitious diseases. And in here recapitulating the leading points in the treatment of ul- cers, I would observe, that in the highly irritable and painful state of ulcers, with much surrounding inflammation, emol- lient cataplasms and anodyne fomentations are the appli- cations most likely to be borne with patience^ or to be at- tended with advantage ; while, in some cases of this kind, I have seen the veiy best effects from the continued application of compresses soaked in cold water. In gangrenous sloughing ulcers, I know of no application more generally beneficial than the hot dressing. When stimuli, in a watery or unctuous form, are likely to be beneficial, those above enumerated will answer every purpose; and I may remark, that the former of these, watery solutions of the metallic salts, may be, to a certain extent, combined with the use of the adhesive strap, the ulcer being washed with the lotion at each dressing, pre- vious to the application of the plaster. Upon this last-men- tioned remedy I consider it superfluous to enlarge, and shall only observe, that the beneficial use of adhesive straps in ulcers of the legs, is almost the only practice within my recollection the merit of which is not overrated by its author. HOSPITAL GANGRENE. There is every reason to believe, that under peculiar cir- cumstances, wounds and open sores must at all times have been liable to assume some of the features of Hospital Gan- grene. But it is only in times comparatively recent, that we have any minute or accurate account of this formidable disease. Although it was seen by La Motte in the early part of the last century, yet there is no distinct and separate176 Military surgery. treatise upon the subject of an earlier (late than 1783, when an account of it was published in the posthumous works of Poutean; who, while a dresser in the Hotel Dieu at Lyons, was himself a sufferer from it. Although Poutean does not adopt the term hospital gangrene, he very distinctly ascribes the disease which he witnessed to the contaminated air of hospitals, “ au mauvais air qu’on respire dans les grands hospitaux.” And such was the opi- nion which this writer entertained of the destructive nature of the malady, that he seriously proposes the following ques- tion, “ Are hospitals then more pernicious than useful to hu- manity ?” The personal sufferings of Poutean may have pro- bably induced him to look upon this disease in the most un- favourable light; but, at the same time, we must allow, that to a person contemplating it as it has appeared in the large hospitals at Lyons and at Paris, and in the British military hos- pitals at Passages and Bilboa, such a question would not bean unnatural one. In the hospital at Lyons it is said to have car- ried off eleven-twelfths of all those patients who were attacked by it. And in 1814, in the Hotel Dieu at Paris, out of twenty- two amputations, not one escaped its malignant influence. M. Picard states, that in one of the wards of an hospital at Madrid, which contained a hundred and twenty-six wounded men, not less than fifty-four were seized with it at once. And at Tolosa, in Spain, it cut off a hundred men in two months, out of a hundred and thirty wounded. In a work upon gangrenous phagedena, published in 1318, by Mr. Blackadder, there are several notices relative to the disease from the older writers, including Celsus, Aetius, Paulus, Rolandus, Guido, and others. From the last-men- tioned author Mr. Blackadder gives several interesting ex- tracts, which may be looked on as conveying not only the views of Guido himself, but all that is deserving of notice up- on this subject in the works of his predecessors. Although no177 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. distinct notice of this disease is to be met with in the writings of Pare, under its appropriate name, there can be little doubt that many of his observations refer to hospital gangrene. Our countryman Wiseman, the most distinguished military sur- geon of his day, has some observations on putrid ulcers, which, without any great stretch of imagination, may be re- ferred to the hospital sore. The only circumstance casting a doubt upon the nature of the disease described by Wiseman and the preceding writers, is the absence of all mention of the contagious nature of the complaint; but this single circumstance does not necessarily imply a difference in the two diseases; for, as we find that the phagedena gangrenosa has been ex- pressly described by authors without any notice of its contagious nature, it is quite possible, on the other hand, that contagion may have had a place in some of the cases above noticed, with- out its being mentioned by the older writers, whose views on the subject of contagion and infection were less precise than those we now adopt. Hospital gangrene is probably the disease alluded to by Horstius in the beginning of the seventeenth century, when he observes, Hhat much contention and wonder had arisen why wounds were so difficult of cure, “ Cur hoc Martiali scculo, vulnera fere ovinia in pejus ruant, difficultcnjue cu- renlur; and he assigns, as the cause of this, a vitiated at- mosphere from the sordes of camps, and a cachectic habit of body, “ either bilious, or corrupted by the venereal disease.” La Motte seems to be the first author who considers the ' dlsease we are now treating of as a species of gangrene, and he speaks of it as an every-day occurrence in the Hotel I)leu at Paris, “ where,” says he, “ it supervenes upon or accom- ! panies almost all the wounds treated in that hospital, and a great part of the abscesses opened there, on account of the corrupted air which prevails, and which the wounded respire.” Since the time of La Motte the disease has been noticed by N178 MILITARY SURGERY. several of the continental surgeons, under the names of “ pour- riture d’hopital,” and, “ la gangrene humide des hopitaux.” In this country, we have many valuable observations up- on it, under the various appellations of putrid, contagious, malignant, and gangrenous ulcer, hospital sore, and hospital gangrene, by which name it is generally known to Eng- lish surgeons. As this is a disease with which I am per- sonally but little familiar, I shall proceed to notice in succes- sion the peculiar views adopted and the treatment recom- mended by some of the most distinguished writers upon this subject during the last fifty years. Reverting more particularly to the writings of Pouteau, whose personal sufferings have been already noticed, it is to be remark- ed, that in the second of two memoirs published by this author, “ Sur la Gangrene Humide des Hopitaux,'1 after a descrip- tion of the local appearances of the disease, he goes on to ob- serve, that the cause of the gangrene acts upon the affected spot by insertion, and upon the whole animal economy by a subsequent reaction. He then proceeds to recommend, as a local remedy, the actual cautery; or should the pusillanimity of the patient, or perhaps that of the surgeon, revolt at the cautery, we are to substitute boiling oil, or some medicinal me- lange susceptible of a heat yet greater than oil. The consti- tutional fever which accompanies this disease, he considers as of a malignant character ; and hence he speaks with reserve of the efficacy of bleeding, calls it a feeble resource, and only to be employed in sanguine temperaments. Bark, and other febrifuges, he considers useless ; but speaks favourably of eme- tics and purgatives ; and above all, he strongly recommends the use of camphor. Dussassoy, the successor of Pouteau at the Hotel Dieu of Lyons, persuaded himself of the great uti- lity of cream of tartar, so as, in the first instance, to ope- rate as a purgative, and subsequently, to produce its diuretic effects.170 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. Some years subsequent to the publication of Dussassoy in 11788, we have an essay, “ Sur la Gangrene Humide des Hos- jpitaux,” by Mureau and Burdin, the latter a surgeon in the i French army. These gentlemen attribute this disease, like IDysentery, Hospital and Jail fever, to the action of putrid mi- aasmata with which the air is surcharged. They proceed to lay (down the treatment under two heads, the preventative and the ccurative; with a view to the first is recommended storax, the (acetous or citric acid, and caustic potass applied locally; along with emetics, bark, and wine. These internal remedies are also recommended to fulfil the second or curative indica- tion, together with the local use of powdered hark, which, say (they, fulfils a double indication, absorbing the moisture and ppus, and giving tone to the part. In an appendix to Hr. Rollo’s Treatise on Diabetes, published in 1797? the hospital gangrene is treated of as •<£ a sore acted upon by a new or overlooked species of mat- ter.” The sores which were thus acted upon under Dr. :Rollo’s observation, occurred in the artillery hospital at \Woolwich, and chiefly amongst the men of the horse brigade, ■many of whom had sores on their legs from the kicks of horses. “ Impressed strongly with the notion that a morbid poison was applied locally to the sore, which, like the venereal poison, had the power of assimilation, as also of being absorb- 'd, producing effects on the system, and a reaction on the sore,” Dr. Rollo determined to adopt a local means of treatment. £ The oxygenated muriatic acid, and the nitrates of silver and aiercury, were the local applications employed ; and latterly, ■he oxymuriatic gas.” rl he former were applied in the form of dilute solutions, by means of lint; and by a due perseverance m their use, the poison and ulcer were destroyed. After the iction has taken place, and before a general disposition is form- ed, it might be possible, Dr. Rollo thinks, to stop its progress by >Tery active topical applications. £C We would prefer,” says180 MILITARY SURGERY. lie, e< the most active mercurial preparations ; and if an actual caustic was to be employed, we should have recourse to the strong nitrous acid.” Dr. Rollo, it is to be observed, prac- tised amongst a class of men endowed by nature with good constitutions, selected, perhaps, with more care than the com- mon description of soldiers, and well calculated to resist the progress of such a disease. Accordingly we find that, partly owing to these circumstances, partly owing to the su- perior accommodation and comfort which the artillery hos- pital at Woolwich is calculated to afford, and greatly owing to the abilities and active exertions of the surgeon, this disease proved much less destructive amongst the men of the royal artillery than what it has generally done in other hospitals, or on board ships of war. In the Medicina Nautica, Dr. Trotter has given us some valuable observations on this disease, chiefly in the form of re- ports made to the author by various naval surgeons. From these it appears, in some instances, to have been connect- ed with a scorbutic diathesis ; but its ravages seem to have been most severe in circumstances where scurvy does not usually pre- vail ; and by far the greater number of the naval surgeons are disposed to trace the origin of this disease to some connexion with the shore. Thus, Mr. M‘Dowal remarks, “ we received on board a number of bad ulcers from Martinique Island ; and so alarming was its progress, that on our arrival in the Downs, fifty-six were on our list of ulcers.” Mr. Arthur of the Bel- leisle observes, that “ the marines and landsmen who were sent on board to complete her compliment, a considerable time after the ship’s arrival in England, were as susceptible of the same kind of sore as the oldest part of the ship’s company.” And we learn from Mr. Caird’s account of this ulcer, as it ap- peared in the Queen Charlotte, from which ship many were sent on shore to the hospital, that “ this change of situation did not seem to operate much in their favour.” The change181 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. in this instance, however, was not very considerable, for the Queen Charlotte had, previous to the appearance of this ulcer, been long in harbour, where the men were living on fresh beef every day, with abundance of vegetables. Dr. Trotter himself observes, with regard to this ulcer, that it has been observed to prevail more in ships in port than at sea, or very shortly after leaving the harbour. “It has never,” says he, “ assumed the complexion of a scorbutic ulcer which is distin- guished by the dark-coloured fungous mass lying over its surface, termed by the seamen bullock’s liver. This, on being removed, is quickly regenerated, and is commonly attended with symptoms of scurvy, such as soft swellings of the legs, spongy gums, and sallow looks. On the contrary, in this ul- cer, when the putrid parts separate, the surface is of a light florid colour. The scorbutic sore is seldom painful; our ul- cer is attended, at times, with exquisite torment.” My learned predecessor, Dr. Thomson, who has given an excellent summary of the reports of others upon this subject, along with some observations of his own, in his Lectures on Inflammation, again adverts to it in his Observations on the Military Hospitals in Belgium ; and remarks, that, in the cases in which he had seen this disease occur in Great Britain, it appeared to be of a contagious nature ; but he is doubtful whether it was ever communicated from one patient to another in Belgium ; and is rather inclined to believe that it was ende- mial, depending on the same causes as the fevers of the country. In a recent work on traumatic gangrene, by M. Ollivier of 1 aris, the author questions whether this disease has ever pre- vailed epidemically in consequence of a general atmospheric cause. But, in small crowded wards, the gangrene may, he thinks, be transmitted from one patient to another through a vitiated atmosphere. Numerous experiments and observations are noticed by Ollivier, as those of MM. Dupin, Richerand, Dupuytren, and Willaume, tending to establish its non-con-MILITARY SURGERY. 182 tagious nature ; others, as those of MM. Pointe, Danillo, Clerc, Vautier, and Delpech, leading to an opposite conclu- sion. Dissatisfied with these contradictory results, he deemed it necessary to establish its contagious nature by a direct inoculation, made with virus taken from its source, and insert- ed into an individual not exposed to the ordinary epidemic causes which prevail in hospitals; an individual in good health, and altogether independent of every cause which could in any other manner favour the production of the disease. To ascertain this disputed point, Ollivier determined on inoculat- ing himself, and matter for the purpose was obtained at Ecija. It was taken from a case of the very worst description, and was inserted near the humeral attachment of the deltoid muscle of the right arm, by M. Ganderax, in presence of all the sur- geons of the medical staff at Ecija. The author was then in his twenty-first year, of a very nervous constitution, but other- wise in pretty good health. The operation was performed on the 17th October 1810, at six in the morning. During the following day he was on the road from Ecija to Carmona, and felt no inconvenience. On the 19th a vesicle, with a red areola, made its appearance ; and by the 22d, the part had assumed all the appearance of the author’s second variety of hospital gangrene, when he was induced to interrupt its pro- gress by removing the sloughs, rubbing the surface with ni- trate of silver, covering it with the same substance in powder, and dressing it with charpie dipped in camphorated spirit of wine. On the 24th he was induced to take bark, apprehending a constitutional affection from a swelling of the axillary glands. The wound was dressed regularly in the manner before men- tioned, and was not cured until the twenty-eighth day. “ This experiment,” says Ollivier, “ undoubtedly seems to prove the contagious property of traumatic gangrene. The facts which oppose this conclusion most assuredly depend on some peculia- rity of constitution, or some favouring circumstances, whichHOSPITAL GANGRENE. 183 i enable certain individuals to resist in general every kind of in- fection.” Several facts which have come to my own knowledge, tend to establish the occasional production of gangrenous ulcers by direct inoculation ; and of these, one of the most remarkable was recently stated to me by Deputy-Inspector Marshall. Ulcers of this description prevailed to a great degree in the hospital of a regiment stationed at Feversham, in 1806, inso- much that several men had each a limb amputated, and some j] punished men died. It was at last discovered that all the sores in the hospital were washed with one sponge. The sponge ’ was destroyed, and this mode of cleaning sores interdicted, : after which not a single case of the disease occurred. While the above observation, as well as others, goes to estab- lish the possibility of communicating this disease by inocula- i tion, it is not impossible, that in wards where hospital gan- ; grene prevails, a deterioration of the atmosphere may exist : sufficient to propagate the disease without immediate contact. Professor Brugmans of Leyden, has ascertained by an ana- lysis of the air in such wards, that it contains a peculiar ani- |! mal matter highly disposed to putrefaction, that the quantity jt of oxygen is diminished, and the quantity of azote and car- ' bonic acid proportionally increased, while the presence of sul- J] phuretted hydrogen is also to be detected. That partial de- 1 teriorations of the atmosphere take place, at different eleva- 1 tions, even in the same ward, may be inferred from a circum- stance noticed by Dr. Hennen, who remarks, that an improve- ment in the aspect of wounds and ulcers is often observed in military hospitals where means are found to elevate the bed- ding from the floors of the vrards, wrhere the most noxious part cof the air, from its comparative weight, accumulates. And this has also been noticed by Dr. Dickson as occurring in an hospital ship on the coast of Egypt, where a similar improve- ment was observed on elevating the patients from the deck.MILITARY SURGBRY. 184 In the valuable work of Ollivier already noticed, the au- thor attempts to characterise three different varieties of traumatic gangrene, which appear to me to be only different degrees of the same affection, influenced perhaps by the con- stitution of the individual, by the state or situation of the sore upon which it supervenes, and by the length of time during which that sore may have existed previous to the invasion of the disease. As these subdivisions have not been recognised by some of the most experienced practical writers, I shall content myself with a general description of the character- istic marks of traumatic, or hospital gangrene. In the simplest cases, where the disease supervenes upon a punc- ture, slight incision, or scratch, it is described by Mr. Black- adder as exhibiting local phenomena very much resembling those which arc produced by vaccine inoculation; and he gives a brief account of an accident which happened to himself in dissecting the stump of a patient who died of this disease. Having punctured himself with the point of his scalpel in one of the fingers, the part became inflamed, a vesicle, having a depression in its centre, and containing a watery fluid of a livid colour, formed upon a hard elevated base, tbe surrounding integuments became tumefied, and ex- tremely sensible to the touch ; about the distance of the fourth of an inch from the base of the tumour, a very distinct areola of a bluish-red colour made its appearance, and con- tinued visible for several days ; these local appearances were accompanied with general indisposition, hcadach, nausea, and frequent chilliness, which were relieved by the use of mutral salts, pediluvium, and warm diluents. The inflammation gradually subsided, but the sore had no disposition to heal; it did not enlarge externally, but was disposed to burrow under the integuments. This phagedenic disposition was ultimate- ly got the better of by laying open the sore, and by repeated applications of caustic ; but it was two months before a coni-HOSPITAL GANGRENE. 185 plete cicatrix had formed, and it was upwards of six months I before the part had regained the colour of the surrounding in- j t teguments. It is chiefly, however, with the appearances of this dis- ,<ease as supervening upon gun-shot wounds, upon stumps, jiand upon old suppurating surfaces, that, as military sur- igeons, we are concerned. And the following excellent de- • scription of it, by Staff-Surgeon Boggie, will be found in a Paper on Hospital Gangrene, published in the Transactions of the Medico-Chirurgical Society of Edinburgh. “ When a wound or ulcer is affected with contagious gangrene, it loses its healthy florid appearance, it becomes painful and > swollen, and the granulations which were small and distinct, ' become flabby, and appear sometimes as if they were dis- tended with air; at other times, vesicles containing a wa- Itery coloured fluid, or bloody serum, have been observed ; and i the sensation in the sore has been described as resembling the -stinging of a gnat. The secretion of pus is suspended, the 'wound is dry, and covered with a tenacious viscid ash-colour- i ed matter which adheres firmly to the surface. When this i morbid state has existed for some time, a discharge takes place of a thin ichorous matter of a very peculiar smell; the pain increases, the edges of the wound arc reverted, and in ge- neral assume a circular form ; an erysipelatous redness sur- rounds the wound, and sometimes extends to a great distance, even over a whole limb. The neighbouring glands, as those of the axilla or groin, swell, inflame, and sometimes suppu- i rate ; febrile symptoms become apparent; the pulse is accel- erated, full and strong ; the heat of the surface is much m- c creased; the patient complains of nausea and thirst; the tongpe is covered with a whitish or brown crust, and the bowels are in general constipated. The inflammation goes on increasing, the thin ichor continues to be discharged in great quantity, and a thick slough, apparently of coagulated lymph,MILITARY SURGERY. 186 covers the whole surface of the wound ; the fetor becomes in- tolerable, and the pain quite insupportable. In the last stage there is in general an oozing of blood from the surface of the wound, and not unfrequently distinct haemorrhage from the corrosion or destruction of the larger blood-vessels. Sphace- lus takes place to a greater or less extent; the strength of the patient fails ; the pulse sinks; his countenance becomes alter- ed and collapsed ; the skin is bedewed with a clammy sweat; and a diarrhoea with hiccup coming on, the scene very soon terminates.” With a view to the treatment of hospital gangrene, a ques- tion of much practical importance falls now to be noticed re- garding the nature of this febrile affection which we have de- scribed. Is it always symptomatic of the local affection ? And is it to be cured by checking this malady ? Or is the local sore always deteriorated through the medium of the con- stitution ? These important questions have been duly weigh- ed by numerous experienced military and naval surgeons of the present day; and Dr. Boggie conceives that to decide them, we must look to the causes of the disease, which he enumerates as follows ;—particular states of the atmosphere ;— inattention to cleanliness;—acrid and irritating applications; —stimulating food;—intemperance;—motion or mechanical irritation,—and specific contagion. Upon each of these causes some interesting and valuable remarks are given; and he con- cludes by stating, that, in his opinion, either the constitutional or local symptoms may precede, according to the source from which the attack originates. In the treatment of the fever he depends chiefly upon bleeding and antiphlogistic remedies, which he had the merit of introducing into the hospitals at Bilboa after the battle of Vittoria. He gives three successive monthly returns shewing a progressive diminution of mortality amongst the wounded, in proportion as the practice of bleed- ing and the antiphlogistic treatment were more fully adopted.187 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. The deaths, a large proportion of which were from hospital | j gangrene, appear in the first table as 1 to 15 of the number treated, and in the last, as 1 to 131. The local treatment < consisted of sedative, escharotic, or stimulating applications, according to the appearance of the sore and the stage of its progress. Dr. Hennen, we find, depends almost solely for the removal i of this malady on an improved state of the atmosphere in hos- pitals where it prevails, or on the dispersion of the sick in | i quarters, or lodging them in tents. For checking the progress i of the accompanying fever in its earlier stages, besides the i common evacuations by emetics and purgatives, he concurs with Dr. Boggie in strenuously recommending venesection, I from which he observed the best effects. And in adverting to the local treatment he speaks favourably of fermenting cata- plasms, levigated charcoal, and other antiseptics. Mr. Blackadder, who saw much of this disease in the ge- neral hospital at Passages in Biscay, contends strenuously for the local character of the affection, and in accordance with this opinion, places his chief dependance on the use of i a local remedy,—the arsenical solution,—the method of ap- 1 ptyiHg which to the surface of the sore is minutely detailed i in his work. Mr. Copland Hutchison, in his Surgical Observations, ex- ] presses his opinion in favour of the precedence of the local affec- tion; and he has given a translation of the official report of MM. Portal and Deschamps, to the National Institute of France, on a Memoir on Hospital Gangrene by Delpech, the distinguished professor of surgery at Montpelier. Mr. Hutchison has given us also a most valuable series of reports by several Surgeons of the Royal navy, in reply to certain queries addressed to them by the Commissioners for sick and wounded seamen. Although many ol these reports are not confined to ulcers hearing the character ol hospital gangrene, yet we learn from them this im-MILITARY SURGERY. 18« portant fact, that a great diminution in the number and in- tractable character of the ulcers prevalent in the navy has lat- terly taken place, which is attributed to improvements in the ventilation and cleanliness of the ships ; to more advantage- ous accommodation for the sick ; to improved diet, with more regular supplies of vegetables ; and to increased professional at- tention ; to which it would seem, from one of the reports, that the naval surgeons were, in some measure, roused in conse- quence of the trial by a court-martial of the surgeon of the Salvador del Mundo, on charges connected with the prevalence of ulcers in his ship. With regard to what has long been known in the navy as the Malignant ulcer, its more success- ful management is very generally attributed to the adoption of the antiphlogistic mode of treatment; and the naval surgeons almost uniformly concur in assigning the merit of this im- provement to Dr. Baird, the Inspector of Naval Hospitals. This leads me to observe, that one of the most marked dis- tinctions between the Scorbutic and Malignant ulcer is, that the former is incident to seamen or soldiers whose constitutions have been impaired by long confinement on ship-board and unwholesome diet, or to sepoys and lascars, whose vital powers are comparatively feeble ; and that it is most suc- cessfully combated by improved diet and relaxation on shore ; while the other, whether termed hospital gangrene or malig- nant ulcer, appears as an inflammatory disease, and is most successfully treated by bleeding and antiphlogistic remedies. Such appears to me to be the legitimate inference from the history and treatment of hospital gangrene, as detailed in the writings of the most experienced surgeons; and to the sum- mary which has now been given, my own observation docs not enable me to make any important addition. When a pupil at the Royal Infirmary here, twenty-five years ago, there were some cases of ill-conditioned sores which were spoken of as cases of hospital gangrene; but at this distance of time I do189 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. not feel myself entitled to speak with confidence as to their appearances or treatment. On some subsequent occasions, sores, bearing many of the characteristics of hospital gangrene, have fallen under my notice, particularly from punishments; and of these, one of the most remarkable was that of a soldier of the 3d battalion of the Royals, who was punished at Bexhill in 1807- He was one of seventeen punished men who lay in the same ward, in several of whom the sores had assumed a malignant appearance ; but in the individual above alluded to, the sloughing, although he had not received more than three hundred lashes, extended so far as to lay bare the spi- nous processes of the vertebrae, from his neck to his loins. The case was looked upon, by the surgeon of the regiment and myself, as so completely hopeless, that, anticipating the man’s death, and our own trial, we requested the Deputy-Inspector of the district to visit the patient, with a view to his giving evidence as to the correctness of our professional treatment. The propriety of that treatment subsequent events have made me very much disposed to question, inasmuch as it was every thing but antiphlogistic. Here, and in some other cases, the treatment was perhaps more adapted to the name than to the nature of the disease. The case, however, took a favourable turn, and the patient completely recovered. Of local remedies every form and variety have been used in this disease, from the actual cautery down to the application of dry lint. The cautery first employed by Dussassoy and Cartier, has been more recently recommended by Delpech, who states that, by this means, he treated successfully a hundred and fifty soldiers affected with hospital gangrene, after the siege of Pam- peluna. The efficacy of the lunar caustic is confidently spoken of by Ollivier. The undiluted nitric acid is recom- mended by Mr. Welbank, and is also favourably noticed in a manuscript report, which was furnished to me by Mr. Ste-190 MILITARY SURGERY. venson of the Madras army. The arsenical solution is recom- mended by Mr. Blackadder, and the red oxyde of mercury by Dr. Boggie ; while Professor Brugmans and Dr. Hennen express little confidence in local remedies, and rest their hopes chiefly on the means of improving the air of hospitals, and re- gulating the excess of the symptomatic fever. The local re- medies above mentioned, are so far consistent with each other, that they are all of a caustic or escharotic nature ; and I am naturally inclined to place most confidence in the most power- ful,—the actual cautery—looking upon the others as more or less efficient in proportion as their powers approach that of the cautery. In the treatment of the constitutional fever, so often of an inflammatory character, blood-letting, as recommended by Dr. Boggie and Dr. Hennen, is the only remedy in which I am disposed to place much confidence, particularly in the early stages of the disease, and amongst young and vigorous soldiers, who have not been long confined by their wounds, or debilitated by the fatigues of a protracted campaign. The necessity of attention to thorough ventilation, and to perfect cleanliness, is acknowledged by all, even by Mr. Blackadder, the most strenuous advocate for the local character of the dis- ease ; and when these essential points cannot be otherwise attained, I am disposed, with Dr. Hennen and Mr. Bell, to recommend the breaking up of the hospital and the tempo- rary dispersion of the sick. WOUNDS. There is no department of surgery in which the science and dexterity of the present day may be more favourably con- trasted with the rudeness and cruelty of former times, than in the treatment of wounds. Instead of permitting nature to follow the simplest and shortest method of cure, by approxi-WOUNDS. 191 mating the lips of a wound, and allowing them to adhere, <surgeons were formerly skilled in every contrivance which ccould possibly prevent the healing of a wound. It was stufFed vwith dressings, tents, and tubes ; and was only permitted to !heal after a lapse of weeks or of months, when it had been duly purged of its “ foul humours,” and had been methodically (■conducted through the stages of digestion, mundification, incarnation, and cicatrization. But before prosecuting this (■comparison farther, or entering into any minute detail of the [present method of treatment in wounds, it will be well to ■advert to a few general circumstances to be borne in mind in the treament of the wounded. It will be admitted, that medical and surgical assistance aare of most value when most promptly applied ; and it is [proved, by the experience of army surgeons, that wherever (operations are to be performed on the wounded, pain and suf- ‘fering are saved, and even the chances of recovery improved, by (these operations being performed without loss of time. Wherever iit can be conveniently done, particularly at sieges, one or more places of temporary rendezvous should be appointed, where : the first dressings may be applied, and the primary operations [performed. From this the wounded are to be conveyed : to hospitals in the rear, those who can walk carefully selected from those who require to be carried : and in the execution of this duty, the young and inexperienced surgeon will have meed of all his discrimination ; for, it has been truly observed, ■ “ that the most clamorous and troublesome among the wound- » ed, in the field, or before the walls of a besieged town, are often the worst characters in the army, and the most slightly injured.’' When placed in hospital, arranged and classed as far as cir- cumstances will permit, the labours of the medical officer will be j greatly abridged, by having a tray furnished with dressings ready prepared, and some of the most common formula; of me- dicines. Upon all occasions, and under all circumstances, the utmost attention should be paid to the regular and perfect wash-192 MILITARY SURGERY. ing of wounds, and to the enforcement of cleanliness in every respect; these are circumstances less equivocal in their opera- tions, and the salutary effects of which are better established than the virtues of any medicinal applications whatever. In regulating the diet of wounded patients, too much caution cannot be exercised, particularly in cases of wounds of the head. Independent of the abuse of food, daily experience shows, that even its moderate use is sometimes highly detri- mental. It has not unfrequently happened, that patients who have undergone great privations, combined with exposure to cold, have manifested no dangerous symptoms until taken in- to hospitals, where their wants have been supplied ; and many soldiers have lost their lives, by a childish facility of the younger surgeons, in allowing them what are termed extras,—a fre- quent cause of protracted illness, and a source of endless abuse in hospitals. Various definitions have been given of a wound, and various objections have been made to all of them. It is therefore, per- haps, a hopeless task to attempt a definition at once sufficient- ly concise, and, at the same time, so comprehensive, as to embrace every circumstance in accidents so complicated ; but to those who are more eager to acquire practical information than to quarrel with the imperfection of language, the follow- ing definition will, perhaps, be received as sufficient for every useful purpose. “ A recent solution of continuity, extending through one or more textures, and occasioned, for the most partj by external violence.” Such solutions of continuity may be occasioned by the mechanical action of all foreign bodies, which are harder than the texture of our organs; and as the number of such bodies is infinite, and the texture and functions of parts exposed to injury various, it will readily be understood, that an endless difference exists in the nature, the ex- tent, and the danger of wounds. To facilitate the study of this branch of surgery, systematic authors have, from the193 WOUNDS. (earliest times, adopted various classifications of wounds. An i anxiety to predict the ultimate issue of these injuries led to (one of the earliest, but, at the same time, one of the most i imperfect divisions of wounds,—into those which are mortal ;and those which are not. In the writings of Hippocrates we I find a methodical detail of such wounds as he considered 1 mortal; and he pronounces the inevitable fatality of all wounds iin the brain, the spinal marrow, the heart, the liver, the dia- ; phragm, and the bladder ; and from his opinion of the mor- t tality of wounds of the last mentioned viscus, he framed the c celebrated oath which was administered to his disciples against (cutting for the stone. Celsus has been somewhat more pre- cise in his enumeration of mortal -wounds, but, for the most jpart, he coincides with Hippocrates in his opinions upon this ‘subject. In more recent times, a detailed enumeration of 'wounds has been given, embracing the causes upon which their I fatality depends. Thus, mortal wounds have been divided into 1 “ those in which the nervous fluid is interrupted in its course to i the heart; wounds penetrating either the auricles or ventricles < of the heart ; wounds inflicted in parts where applications can- l not be made to restrain the bleeding, as deep wounds of the lungs, &c. ; wounds which interrupt respiration, as those of tthe larynx, the bronchiae, the diaphragm, and those pene- ttrating both cavities of the thorax ; and, lastly, such wounds as deprive the body of nutrition, by preventing the passage iof food into the stomach, the preparation of chyle, and the . conveyance of it into the blood.” While many of the general principles adopted in the fore- going classification are undeniable, the imperfection of its par- ticular details is a matter of every-day observation. There is • scarcely one of the specific wounds enumerated by the earlier 'writers as mortal, from which individuals have not occasion- ally recovered. In speaking of wounds of the head, we shall have occasion to notice cases in which the brain has, eithejr oMILITARY SURGERY. 191 by accident or design, been exposed to a great extent, and where it has been penetrated by balls or other missiles, almost to its centre; where large portions of this important organ have been removed, and where the patient has nevertheless survived, and has, in some instances, been enabled to resume the active duties of a soldier. In treating of injuries of the chest, cases will be noticed in which the lungs have been wounded by pointed weapons, musket balls, splinters of bone from a fractured rib or clavicle, and where the individuals have nevertheless been restored to health. There are also several cases on record, where patients have long survived wounds of the heart; and one case is well authenticated, in which a musket ball was lodged in the substance of the heart itself, whence it was cut out after the patient’s death, which took place after the lapse of six years, from disease altogether unconnected with the wound. In treating of wounds of the abdomen, we shall find that this cavity has been penetrated in every direction, both by pointed weapons and musket balls, that every important viscus contained in it has been wounded without fatal effects, and that balls have been lodged in this cavity during a large portion of a long life. In discussing the subject of wounds of the extremities, we shall have occasion to advert to cases in which the most formidable lesions, both in the soft parts and in the bones have been repaired ; above all, we shall here have occasion to admire the wonderful provisions of nature in those remarkable cases, of which many are on re- cord, where limbs have been tom from , the trunk without an alarming, much less a fatal hemorrhage. Such remarkable cases induce us to circumscribe very much the list of mortal wounds. On the other hand, we sometimes see fatal consequences originate from accidents apparently trifling. A puncture almost imperceptible, received in the most remote part of an extremity, at a distance from any vital organ, will sometimes be followed by tetanus with all its horrors, and195 WOUNDS. ■will terminate in death. In allusion to wounds ol the most limited extent, which are sometimes received in the prosecu- tion of anatomical research, a recent writer observes, “ that ^scarcely a winter passes over without some sacrifice of life to .the perilous cause which we espouse.” With a view to legal investigations, various arrangements of wounds have been adopted, having reference to the phenomena which they present, the consequences which naturally follow them, or the morbid appearances which they leave behind ; and Uupon these principles Chaussier has constructed a “ Table sy- noptique des Blessures,” embracing many important circum- stances. Of the artificial arrangements of wounds usually found in books of surgery, lawyers have sometimes taken advantage, and have contended, that wherever a person died of a wound not ^belonging to the mortal class, it must have been from misconduct, or ex malo regimine ; but legal investigations have, at the same .time, afforded the-best possible proof of the insufficiency of all such arrangements. Thus, in a case alluded to by Baron iHume, we find three physicians and two surgeons swearing, ■ that by “ the rules of their prognostics,” the wounds received by a person named Houston were mortal; whereas Houston was alive, and was prosecutor in the very case in which these gen- tlemen deponed to this effect. As military surgeons, however, our chief interest in ascertaining the mortality of wounds, is to prevent us, on the one hand, abandoning our wounded com- rades, where our efforts might be useful to them ; and, on the other, to prevent our wasting time in unavailing efforts to benefit those whose injuries are beyond the reach of human aid. All must admire the correct view which the gallant Lord Nelson took of this subject in his dying moments; sen- sible that he had received a mortal wound, he insisted on his surgeon foregoing his attention to him, and offering his assist- ance to those to whom such assistance might be useful. From the depth to which wounds extend, they are denomi-196 MILITARY SURGERY. natecl superficial, muscular, and penetrating wounds, in pro- portion as they affect the integuments, the muscular parts, or penetrate the great cavities. From the nature of the offend- ing weapon, wounds are characterised as incised, punctured, la- - cerated, and contused; those more particularly incident to the soldier, are sabre, bayonet, and gunshot wounds; or, to adopt the language of William Clowes, “ woundes made with gun- shot, sworde, halberde, pike, launce, or such other.” Wounds arc again subdivided by systematic authors, according to their site, into wounds of the head, face, neck, thorax, abdomen, and extremities; and again, into those of the different organs contained in these cavities, which we shall hereafter have oc- casion to consider in detail, at least as they affect the princi- pal viscera. The phenomena usually presented by a recent wound, of any considerable extent, are haemorrhage, pain, and retrac- tion of the lips of the wound; the haemorrhage, proceeding g chiefly from the arterial vessels supplying the wounded part, v depends much, of course, upon the size and activity of these 1 vessels. It is worthy of remark, however, that in simple incised wounds, the haemorrhage is generally more profuse - than from lacerated or contused wounds of the same extent. The pain attendant upon wounds depends upon the na- tural sensibility of the part, and is the direct consequence of the injury done to its nerves. Thus, in wounds of the skin generally, and in some parts of it particularly, where the nerves are minutely subdivided, and exquisitely sensible, the pain is acute, although less so in simple incised, than in laegrated and contused wounds. The degree of retraction of the lips of a wound varies according to its situation and | extent. In wounds which merely penetrate the skin, or the skin and cellular membrane, the retraction is not in general very considerable. In muscular wounds, the extent of the retraction is also inconsiderable, if the wound follows the di-WOUNDS. 197 -rectioii of the muscular fibres. If these fibres are penetrated .'obliquely, the retraction is greater ; and if the fibres are , ^divided transversely, the separation of the lips of the wound i is still farther increased. The prognosis, in cases of incised .'wounds, although, as a general rule, it may be considered rmore favourable than in any other description of wounds of :the same extent, is yet modified by many contingent circum- ' stances. Deep wounds are more dangerous and difficult of cure than superficial wounds of even a greater extent; and the danger of wounds is greatly increased by various compli- cations, such as the division of large blood-vessels, giving rise to profuse hemorrhage ; the lesion of nerves, tendons, and aponeuroses, giving rise to spasms and convulsions; the di- vision of excretory ducts, and nutritious canals leading to the , effusion of various fluids ; and the opening of the great ca- wities, making room for the protrusion of the different vis- eeera. Although the gigantic blows, by which bodies are dismem- i.bercd, and limbs severed from the trunk, are but a rare oc- ccurrence in modern warfare, yet very severe and dangerous I\ wounds are often inflicted by the sabre ; and it is about the \ Ihead, the neck, the shoulders, and upper part of the trunk, t that these wounds are chiefly to be met with. By such wounds, extensive portions of the cranium are occasionally detached along with the scalp, and in such cases reunion - sometimes takes place in a manner that could scarcely be ex- ] pected; indeed it is not by the injury of bones that sabre i wounds are most destructive ; but by means of the sabre, joints are occasionally laid open, their appendages destroyed, the tendons divided, and such extensive mischief occasioned, as to endanger the loss of a limb, and, very frequently, to bring the patient’s life into hazard. From our being able in general to ascertain at once the extent of the injury, our I ] prognosis in sabre. wounds becomes less doubtful, and theMILITARY SURGERY. 198 indications of cure less complicated. These indications re- solve themselves into three, the staying of the haemorrhage, the removal of foreign bodies, and the approximation of the edges of the wound. This last indication, applicable both to limited and extensive wounds, is followed with a view to promote the process of adhesion, or, what has been term- ed by surgeons, union by the first intention. This pro- cess has already been cursorily adverted to, under the term of adhesive inflammation. It was observed, that the know- ledge of adhesion, and of the means of promoting it, is the most essential step which has ever been made in the treat- ment of wounds; and it is not a little wonderful that the world should have required, as it were, to be cheated into this safe and easy method of cure. Such, however, is the fact; for the practice of adhesion was introduced into surgery in conjunc- tion with sympathetic powders, salves, and washes; in some instances, with loathsome and disgusting practices; and, in others, with charms and incantations, certainly the most harm- less of all its accompaniments, and the least likely to interfere with its salutary effects. In the splendid work of Mr. John Bell on the Principles of Surgery, we have a most interesting and humorous ac- count of the early practice of adhesion in the treatment of wounds ; and from him we learn, that it is little more than sixty years since surgeons began to entertain any settled or rational opinions on the subject of adhesion, or to see the extent to which it might be applied in the treatment of wounds. Previously to this period, they had no motive for sparing the integuments in operation ; nor did they know how advantageously these might be used in expediting the cure. If they extirpated a tumor, they cut away along with it all the surrounding skin. If they had occasion to trepan the skull, they uniformly preceded it by the savage operation of scalping. In performing their amputations, they cut by oneWOUNDS. 199 -stroke down to the bone; and even after the flap operation vwas introduced, the flaps, instead ot being brought into con- ttact, were dressed as separate sores. Under such treatment, eexfoliation of the bone was a common, almost an invari- able occurrence; and much art was employed to promote it. 'Whenever a bone was laid bare, they believed that it must i of necessity exfoliate; and until this exfoliation took place, tthey would not permit the stump to heal. “ And so, says ’Mr. Bell, “ they made good their opinions by their practice.” The reported cures by adhesion within a few days, were at t first treated as fabulous. The celebrated Irish surgeon, (O’Halloran, who wrote in 1795, observes, that “ these tales of adhesion are told with more confidence than veracity. 1 Healing by inosculation, by the first intention, by immediate c coalescence, without suppuration, is merely chimerical, and op- posite to the rules of nature.” “ I would ask,” says he, “ the rniost ignorant tyro in our profession, whether he ever saw or heard even of a wound, though no more than one inch long, ;i united in so short a time.” And yet did this very surgeon ] live to see the doctrine of adhesion followed up in amputa- ’ I tions, by a practice calculated to promote it, and perfect ad- I hesions occasionally taking place in a few days time. By a moderate and rational application of this practice, • surgery has, within the last half century, reaped incalcu- 1 lable advantages, particularly in the treatment of wounds. The well known practice of transplanting teeth, the experi- ment of Mr. Hunter, in which he transferred the spur of a cock from its leg to its comb, and various other well authen- ticated cases, convince us of the occasional success of attempts to promote union, in circumstances the most extraordinary, and ought to render us less sceptical as to many stories upon record, from those of Talicotius and Garengeot, down to those of a more recent date ; of which several are detailed in an essay by Baron Percy, in the “ Journal de Medicine ctMILITARY SURGERY. 200 Chirurgie Militaire,” &c., on the following question :—“ Une partie vivante, ayant ete entierement separee du systeme ani- mal est elle susceptible de s’y reunir ?” The very frequent success which attends the endeavour to unite a part which retains only a slight connexion with the living system, has led to several recent and successful opera- tions for restoring deficiencies in the nose, the lips, the palate, and urethra ; and of this disposition of living cut surfaces to grow together, surgeons have naturally availed themselves in the treatment of wounds. It is wonderful with what celerity union by the first intention is sometimes accom- plished under favourable circumstances. The large wound made in the operation of amputation is not unfrequently heal- ed in the course of three days, excepting at those points where the ligatures are situated. When the two sides of a wound have been brought together before the oozing of blood has completely ceased, Mr. Hunter conceived that the blood itself became the first bond of union. All practical surgeons, however, now admit, that the presence of any considerable quantity of blood on the surface of a wound is more likely to prevent than to promote reunion,—a process which is accomplished by the effusion ofcoagulable lymph, and the subsequent restoration of a vascular and nervous intercourse between the opposite surfaces of the wound in a manner which we cannot very distinctly perceive. Whether this coagulating lymph issues from the half-closed mouths of the blood-vessels, or from the opened cells of the cellular membrane, Mr. Hun- ter found it difficult to determine ; and as this is a point which, if determined, could leaxhto no practical change in the treatment of wounds, it seems to me unnecessary to enlarge upon the subject. Many of the minute and successive steps of the process are imperceptible to our senses, and consequent- ly arc, in some degree, matter of conjecture. But, whatever shades of difference in opinion may exist amongst writers up-201 INCISED WOUNDS. on the subject of adhesion or union by the first intention* t there is no important difference amongst practical surgeons as tto the most effectual means of promoting it; and there is no i difference amongst the surgeons of this country as to the pro- priety of attempting the cure of almost all wounds by approx- iimating their lips, and thereby promoting adhesion. This pro- perty in living parts of inosculating and uniting again, is in- pdeed so perfect, that in certain cases we may depend upon it ’ with confidence ; and it is thus that in wounds we save i much pain, prevent a large suppuration, a great waste of ] parts, and limit the scar to a narrow and almost invisible line, — these “ will be allowed to be improvements while human : nature shall remain sensible of pain, while scars shall be thought deformities, or confinement be deemed irksome.” In those incised wounds to which the soldier and sailor are more particularly exposed, the sabre or cutlass inflicting the wound is withdrawn by the hand which guided it; and our only object, after staying the haunorrhage, is to bring the re- cently divided surfaces into accurate contact, and to retain them in this position so as to favour reunion. Even when a perfect approximation of the opposite surfaces cannot be ef- fected, it still becomes an object to bring them as nearly in contact as circumstances will admit. This diminishes the extent of the effort which nature is called upon to make for the repair of the injury, and proportionally lessens the consti- tutional irritation ; it makes a more seemly, a less extensive, and, above all, a firmer cicatrix; it greatly accelerates the cure, and, of course, diminishes the time during which the patient is confined to hospital. This is a consideration of the very utmost importance, particularly after ev.ery great action, when the hospitals are necessarily crowded with wounded,— when hospital gangrene is liable to occur,—when the consti- tution of every individual must suffer more or less by confine- ment, his convalescence be rendered proportionally more tc-202 MILITARY SURGERY. dious, and the army be deprived for a longer time of his services. Many of the Continental surgeons are of opinion, that this practice of attempting the cure of wounds by the first intention, so general amongst the English surgeons, is in many cases less advantageous than the mode of cure by gra- nulation and cicatrization, adopted by the French. But, even allowing that the doctrine of the French writers upon this subject were applicable, in its fullest extent, to the prac- tice of civil life, yet the considerations above stated—humani- ty to the wounded, and a due regard to the interests of the public service—would sometimes compel the military surgeon to act upon different views. To place the parts in a state the most favourable for imme- diate reunion, our attention is to be directed to the position of the wounded part, which should always be such as to enable us to keep the edges of the wound in contact with the least possible coercion. This, according to circumstances, may ei- ther be accomplished by the relaxation or extension of the muscles as the direction of the wound crosses or runs parallel to the muscular fibres. In wounds of the scalp we can effect little or nothing by any change of position in the head; but here, fortunately, in simple incised wounds, the parts, when once replaced, are not difficult to retain in their proper posi- tion. In transverse wounds of the neck, in wounds of the trunk of the body, and in transverse wounds of the extremi- ties, much may be effected by relaxing the muscles connected with the wound ; and our attention to the. position of the limb is more especially necessary in the treatment of transverse wounds, because we have not in them the same assistance from bandaging as we have in the treatment of wounds ex- tending longitudinally in the course of the limb. In study- ing the best position for a wounded limb, the general rule is, to place it in that situation in which it would be placed by the contraction of the wounded muscle. Thus it is obvious,203 INCISED WOUNDS. i that in deep transverse wounds on the fore part of the upper, ; and back part of the lower extremity, we can most readily ap- proximate the divided surfaces by bending the limb ; and vice versa in transverse wounds on the back part of the upper, and fore part of the lower extremity, the parts are most readily approximated by extending the limb. Having gained every thing possible by a due attention to the position of the limb, our next consideration is, the most ' eligible means of retaining the edges of the wound in imme- i diate proximity. This, in a large majority of cases, will be ! best accomplished by straps of adhesive plaster, from three- i quarters of an inch to an inch in breadth, and of such a length as to enable them to retain a sufficient hold of the surround- ing surface ; the length being proportioned to the depth i of the wound, and to the tendency which its edges may have to retraction. It is to be observed, that, in vascular parts, when much oozing is to be expected from the divided vessels, this oozing is apt to accumulate between the lips of the wound, and the straps are liable to be detached by it. This has led to a practice, lately followed here with advantage, of simply bringing the edges of the wound together, in the first instance by i one or more stitches, and delaying the accurate and complete i closure of the wound by straps for some hours, until the oozing has ceased, and the risk of secondary haemorrhage is in some measure over. In longitudinal cuts on the extremities, it is not advisable to surround the entire circumference of the limb with adhesive straps, as is often done with advantage in the case of ulcers; in the former case, the sudden infliction of the injury, and the vigour of the constitution sustaining it, often lead to a degree of inflammation, and swelling, which would be greatly aggravated by the complete enclosure of the limb in adhesive straps ; while in ulcers of long standing, on the contrary, when a deficiency of action exists, the support afford- ed and the excitement produced by the adhesive strap areMILITARY SURGERY. 201 highly conducive to the cure. For all wounds of considerable extent the straps in common use are those composed of the em- plastrum adhaesivum of the pharmacopoeias, spread upon linen; and my own experience does not lead me to offer any import- ant objection to its use, although I have sometimes been in- clined to think that the irritation of the resinous matter which enters into its composition, and the complete obstruction of the pores of the skin by the plaster, have a tendency to excite cutaneous or erysipelatous inflammation. As a substitute for the common adhesive strap, slips of ribbon, or of linen, dipped in a strong alcoholic solution of isinglass, have of late been extensively and successfully used by Mr. Liston in the Royal Infirmary here. The next means employed for retaining the surfaces of in- cised wounds in contact is the use of sutures ; this practice amongst the older surgeons was executed in a variety of fan- ciful ways ; hence the twisted—the interrupted—the quilled— the glover’s—the herring bone,—and many different species of sutures ; some of them, however, while they were well adapt- ed to the purposes of the glover, the shoemaker, the saddler, or other artists, operating upon dead animal matter, were but ill calculated to be transferred to the living system ; here the reunion of parts depends upon a regulated degree of inflam- mation, and there can be no doubt that the abuse of sutures, in former days, was one of the principal means which frus- trated the purposes they were intended to serve, by exciting such a degree of inflammation as necessarily terminated in suppuration. One of the first surgeons whose eyes were open- ed to this mischievous effect of sutures, was M. Pibrac, a mem- ber of the French academy of surgery ; in the memoirs of which body will be found a paper by this gentleman, con- demning very generally the use of sutures, and instancing particularly wounds of the lower belly, of the tongue, of the throat, of the tendons, cases of hare-lip, and various205 INCISED WOUNDS. other wounds, in which cures were effected by the use of appropriate bandages without the aid of sutures: M. Pi- brac concludes his observations on this subject by asking the following queries—“ What practice would the advocates for sutures adopt, were they necessitated, as they often are, to cut the ligatures and remove them ? or were they to find, as is often the case, that the ligatures had made their way through the lips of the wound, so as to leave them gaping ?”—“ they would never,” says he, “ think of introducing new sutures, but would have recourse to a bandage in order to unite the wound.” fc> Undoubtedly they would in general do so; but this mode of ar- guing against a practice from its abuse, or from its being em- ployed under unfavourable circumstances, which is by far too common in medicine, is no sufficient proof of its inutility. Although M. Pibrae and M. Louis, another eminent French surgeon, who also reprobated the use of sutures, have given us many instances of cures effected without them, it would be no difficult matter to produce an equal, or a greater num- ber of cases of wounds, in which, in the opinion of judges as competent as these eminent Frenchmen, sutures have been esteemed of the utmost importance. Much depends upon the irritability of the wounded part, much upon the natural habit of the patient, and much upon his time of life. It will readily be understood, that in parts endowed with acute sensibility, and in vigorous and inflammatory habits, it will be prudent to guard against the additional excitement which numerous stitches must necessarily occasion, and to trust the reunion of the wound to the effects of position, plaster, and bandage ; while, on the other hand, in parts naturally lax, in less irri- table habits, and in advanced life, the additional excitement occasioned by the introduction of sutures is rather conducive to the cure, by promoting the necessary adhesive inflamma- tion ; and as far as my own experience enables me to offer an opinion upon this point, I am rather disposed to extend than to206 MILITARY SURGERY. diminish the number of cases in which sutures are considered to be admissible. Of all the varied forms of sutures, upon the description of which our predecessors dwelt with so much complacency, and of which formal representations are to be seen in the plates of Heister, Benjamin, and John Bell, and various other writers, two only are now in common use ; these are the twisted and the interrupted suture : the former is accomplished by passing a straight needle, or a silver pin, transversely through the lips of the wound; and then twisting a thread round it, so as to re- tain the lips of the wound in very accurate apposition. This is a form of suture more extensively applicable than what is generally thought; its application indeed in wounds extend- ing transversely either across the trunk or extremities is dif- ficult, but in many longitudinal wounds of the same parts it may with great propriety be employed. It has the advantage of preventing the lips of the wound from moving longitudinally upon each other ; the points of the wound being once brought into contact must necessarily remain in the most accurate appo- sition ; and no slipping or gliding of the edges past each other can here take place. This is a suture with which military sur- geons particularly should make themselves familiar, from the ease with which it can in most cases be put in practice ; a com- mon sewing needle, or even a well tinned pin, and a thread are to be found in almost every situation; and with these the twisted suture may be always effected. It is every day executed, with a pin and a few horse hairs, for securing the wound made by tbe phlegm in the necks of horses, for the pur- pose of blood-letting. This suture is found particularly useful in all wounds of the lips, whether accidental or intentional, as in the operation for hare-lip, and has been so commonly employ- ed in the latter as to acquire the name of the hare-lip suture. The interrupted suture is more applicable to transverse wounds than the twisted suture ; it is also applicable to207 INCISED WOUNDS. i wounds of a greater depth ; and is accomplished by passing a ccurved needle armed with a ligature through the lips of the vwound, and tying the ligature over the line of the incision. The irule laid down by some systematic writers is, in entering tho i needle, to keep as far distant from the edge as the wound is iin depth ; to place the stitches at about an inch distant from teach other, and to secure the intermediate spaces with straps iof adhesive plaster. Some of these directions, drawn per- ! haps from the practice of surgery in civil life, are but little adapted to the formidable wounds which come under the |( care of the military surgeon; and his object should be to study I] how he can best attain his purpose, without being fettered by a reference to the number of lines or inches between his sutures, or their distance from the edges of the wound. The only remaining means of expediting the reunion of incised wounds which remains to be considered, is the use of bandages. In the form and application of these, surgeons have, at different times, exercised as much fancy as in the form of sutures. In justification of this, however, it is to be observed, that the purposes which bandages are calculated to effect, are more numerous than those to which sutures are adapted. In ancient times, we find surgeons talk- ing of an expelling, a propelling, a defensive, and various other bandages ; and, in the preface to the treatise of Galen upon this subject, we find the following methodical enumera- tion of the properties of the roller, “ efficit enim ut quae ab- scesserunt propellantur, hiantia conjungantur, perversia diri- gantur, atquc omnia contraria prestantur.” Although all these things are to be effected by a careful and skilful applica- tion of the roller, yet it is only with that property by which “ hiantia conjungantur,” only with its property as a unit- ing, or what was formerly termed, an incarning bandage, that we are at present concerned ; for this purpose it is often employed in the form of a double-headed roller, having a slit 8208 MILITARY SURGERY. in the centre, which slit being placed over the wound, one of the heads is passed through it, and both ends of the roller be- ing pulled tight, the edges of the wound are approximated and retained in this situation. It is obvious that wherever this bandage can be applied with effect, it must have a very power- ful influence in fulfilling the intention with which it is em- ployed ; it is equally obvious, however, that its application is very much limited to the case of wrounds, extending longitu- dinally in the course of the trunk or limbs, and in such cases the edges of the wound having little tendency to retract, there can be no necessity for having recourse to a contrivance in any degree complicated for retaining them in contact. This form of roller has therefore, in this country at least, gradually given place to the common single-headed roller, or the eighteen-tailed bandage, either of which are capable of effect- ing all that bandaging can effect in the cure of recent wounds. In dressing wounds of the head,and those extending transverse- ly across the trunk or extremities, bandages are employed chief- ly with a view of retaining the dressings ; and here it is obvious that the form and size of the bandage must vary according to the direction, the extent, and nature of the wound. The due application of the bandages can only be learned from experi- ence ; and although there are many cases in surgery, particu- larly cases of sinuous ulcers, in which a bandage artfully ap- plied is of essential service in promoting the cure, recent wounds can scarcely be considered as cases which are to be greatly benefited by this means. In longitudinal wounds of the limbs, the only ones perhaps in which we could employ ban- dages with a powerful effect, there is comparatively little ten- dency to retraction, and here therefore they are comparatively less necessary. Nothing indeed can be more preposterous than applying bandages to such wounds with immoderate tightness, for if the bandage be tight on its first application, a danger-209 WOUNDS. ©us constriction of the limb must follow, when the swelling arising from the wound has come on. These are the chief objects of attention in the first dressing of wounds, and some of the steps to which I have now ad- verted,—the securing of blood-vessels, and the stitching of wounds,—fall to be performed once for all ; others, the applica- tion of plasters and bandages, are to be renewed from time to time, more or less frequently, according to the profusion of the discharge, the heat of the atmosphere, the feelings of the pa- tient, or other accidental circumstances. When no untoward occurrence takes place, the first dressings need seldom be dis- turbed in a shorter period than from three to five days, and where the feelings of the patient, the swelling and tension of the parts contiguous to a wound, or the occurrence of an of- fensive discharge from it, do not call upon us to interfere, the dressings may be left undisturbed until the wound be com- pletely healed. Every surgeon must have seen the advan- tage of such a practice, in clean cuts about the fingers, from the common accidents of civil life ; and for the extension of this practice we have very ample authority, both of old and re- cent date, from the time of Magatus down to our own day ; in which we have instances recorded by Sir Astley Cooper, of those formidable wounds which occur in compound luxations of the ankle joint healed by simply covering them with pledgets ol lint soaked in blood, and leaving them undisturbed. In proceeding to the dressing of wounds, the first point upon which it is necessary to caution the young surgeon, is the idle and injurious practice of probing wounds without any defi- nite object in view, and thereby adding to the sufferings of his patient, without increasing his own information. “ We ought never to probe a wound where probing can be of no use, and should be contented to remain ignorant of those things which, if known, could only gratify an idle curio- 1*210 MILITARY SURGERY. sity.” In cases where much time is likely to be occupied in dressing a wound, it is an object worthy of attention to study in what position the patient may be most advan- tageously placed, in which every necessary examination of the wound may be most easily effected, and in which the old dressings may be removed, and the new ones applied with the least pain to the patient, and the least inconvenience to the surgeon. As a preliminary step to the removal of the dress- ings, it is often necessary to soften them by the repeated, or continued application of warm water; and this becomes particularly necessary, when, in consequence of the discharge of blood, or other matter from the wound, the dressings are stiffened and glued together, or adherent to the subjacent skin, so as, if abruptly removed, to occasion unnecessary pain, and to endanger the premature removal of the ligatures. The propriety of raising both extremities of the adhesive strap at once, and pulling towards the centre, so that the part covering the line of the wound may be the part last dis- engaged, is admitted by all who have bestowed attention upon this subject. By a contrary procedure, or by raising the strap successively from one end to the other, we should inevitably disturb the process of reunion, and lacerate the tender adhesions already formed. With a view to obviate this as much as possible, it should also be a rule, in dress- ing wounds of large extent, that no more than one, or at most two, of the stripes of adhesive plaster should be off the wound at the same time ; the new ones being applied in succession as the old are removed. In dressing wounds, we should make a point of having every thing in readiness, so that no delay may occur, by which the wound may be unne- cessarily exposed. The patient should be as soon as possible restored to that state of tranquillity and repose, which are so conducive, indeed so necessary, to his cure.TUNCTURED WOUNDS. 211 The foregoing remarks are chiefly applicable to wounds when treated with the hope of procuring adhesion ; when we are likely to fail in this, and are threatened with an excess of i inflammation in the treatment of wounds, the practice of co- vering the wound with pledgets, or compresses soaked in cold ' water, is peculiarly applicable in military life, and is, in gene- ral, preferable to the common practice of enveloping wounds 1 in a poultice; the latter is only applicable when the hope of 2 a cure by adhesion is given up, when the extent of inflam- mation is such as to render a different termination inevitable, when, in short, the only alternative is between suppura- tion and gangrene. Having considered the phenomena more particularly observ- able in simple incised wounds, and noticed the means to be ladopted in their treatment, it is unnecessary, in considering the other descriptions of wounds, to enlarge upon those circum- stances in which they agree with incised wounds ; and instead of recapitulating what has already been said, it will perhaps lead to a more accurate and satisfactory knowledge of the sub- ject, to treat it, as it were, by contrast, and to notice chiefly -ithosc points in which punctured, lacerated, and contused •wounds differ from those inflicted by incision. Punctured wounds are so called from the pointed figure of the weapons with which they are inflicted, and from their penetrating to a depth disproportioned to the extent of the external opening. Those to which soldiers and seamen are more particularly exposed, are inflicted with the lance, the small sword, the bayonet, or the boarding-pike. Wounds nflicted by the former of these instruments, partake in some degree of the nature of incised wounds, and while they may, n the first instance, be more dangerous from being attended vith greater hemorrhage, they are less liable to be followed >y that extensive and diffuse inflammation, and that subse- [uent formation and lodgment of matter, which constitute so212 MILITARY SURGERY. much of the peculiarity of punctured wounds, and to which so much of the difficulty of treatment and the danger of bay- onet and pike wounds are to be ascribed. It is the pe- culiar liability to excite inflammation in the continuous textures, the formation and confinement of matter under fasciae, the chance of haemorrhage from injuries of deep- seated vessels, and the risk of tetanus, which constitute the distinctive character of punctured wounds. As much mis- chief is to be apprehended from the inflammation of the fascia, we accordingly perceive, that wherever this is strong, fibrous, and tense, the constitutional and local symptoms accompany- ing punctured wounds are proportionally aggravated, partly from the inflammation of the aponeurosis itself, and partly from the unyielding texture of this substance preventing the swelling of the muscles beneath it. These consequences are occasionally seen in injuries from bleeding at the bend of the arm, and in punctures of the palmar or plantar aponeu- roses, where the violence of the pain and other symptoms are often greatly disproportioned to the trifling appearance of the external wound. The constitutional symptoms in such cases often run so high as to endanger the life of a patient; and hence our prognosis ought always to be guarded. In punc- tured wounds passing close to important arterial, trunks, we sometimes see these vessels escape in a miraculous man- ner ; and, on other occasions, we find that an important arte- rial trunk has been wounded, although from its being impos- sible to see the bottom of tbc wound, and from the flow of blood externally being easily suppressed, such an accident may not at first have been suspected. In the treatment "of punctured wounds, it was long a fa- vourite, and certainly a plausible doctrine, that as many of the untoward occurrences in their treatment were occasioned by a deviation from the nature of incised wounds, the most obvious and most effectual means of removing the obsta- 8PUNCTURED WOUNDS. 213 teles to their cure, was to convert them by dilatation into I‘simple incised wounds. Of all modes of dilating recent ’ wounds, the use of the knife is certainly the least 'exeep- itionable ; and it is painful to think how much mischief must I have been produced in former times by the forcible dila- itation of such wounds, through the medium of tents, canulas, and similar instruments. Were the fact established, that a , ] punctured wound, penetrating through various textures, could be converted by the dilatation of its orifice into the state of a simple incised wound, the practice would be highly commend- able. But the violence with which stabs and penetrating wounds hare often inflicted, produce injury to a depth to which we are unable to follow with safety in dilating them, in conse- quence of the neighbourhood of important organs. In fact, the limited and circumscribed nature of a wound often proves a patient’s safety ; and as the mere enlargement of the exter- nal orifice in such cases could not obviate the injury done to the deep-seated parts, the indiscriminate practice of dilating the orifices of punctured wounds was not founded in reason, and is now very generally abandoned in practice. The necessity of affording an outlet to matter was a more plausi- ble pretext for dilating wounds amongst the older sur- geons than we can possibly admit it to be now. Under the old treatment, every wound of this kind necessarily suppur- ated ; but the doctrine of adhesion being now more complete- ly established, and the mode of promoting it better under- stood, we have sometimes the satisfaction of seeing punctured wounds uniting throughout their whole extent, or at least healing without suppuration. This indeed we must admit to be but a rare occurrence in severe punctured wounds ; but still we are to proceed in the first instance, as if we wished and ex- pected that such a termination should take place. The most formidable obstacles with which we have to con- tend in cases of punctured wounds, are, as may be infer-214 MILITARY SURGERY. red from the preceding observations, the excess of inflamma- tion with which they are apt to be followed, the liability of this inflammation to extend along the contiguous textures, and to proceed till it terminates in suppuration ; thus giving rise to extensive collections of matter, which not finding a ready exit, from the contracted nature of the wound, insinuates it- self under the fascia, and in the interstices of the contiguous muscles, leading to the formation of sinuses and fistulous openings; the cure of which, every surgeon knows to be te- dious, difficult, and uncertain. So much indeed has a punc- tured wound been allied in its nature to a sinus, that some writers have represented all such wounds as exactly requiring that mode of treatment adapted to the cure of sinuses, and for this purpose they have recommended the introduction of a seton along the course of the wound ; a practice which, however ap- plicable to an old, callous, and indolent sinus, where a defect of inflammatory action is the chief obstacle to the cure, would be little fitted to allay the irritation, to mitigate the pain, and to subdue the inflammation, which in punctured wounds are so apt to baffle even the best concerted plans of cure. Although some French authors have given us accounts of their having drawn their setons across patients’ chests, in cases of stabs, they would find it very difficult, in these days, to convince us that such practices were devoid of harm, much less productive of good. The indiscriminate use of setons, like the preposterous and unmeaning dilatation of the orifices of punctured wounds, is now, happily for the comfort of the patient, and the credit of surgery, entirely laid aside ; it was, as Mr. John Bell has justly observed, only fit for that period of our art “ when every flap of skin, instead of being re- united, was cut away, when every open wound was dressed as a sore, and every deep one plugged up with a tent lest it should heal.—When M. Guerin continued for thirty days drawing a coarse seton through the breast every morning, andPUNCTURED WOUNDS. E?15 bleeding for the cough every night; what did he do but raise inflammation with his left hand, to shew how well he could subdue it with his right ? 1 Instead of adopting a practice calculated to aggravate in- flammation,our chief care ought to be, to adopt measures calcu- lated to keep it under ; to prevent, if possible, its termination in suppuration ; and, if this cannot be accomplished, to ensure an early discharge to the matter. If the wound is slight, the ap- plication of a piece of adhesive plaster on the orifice is often all that is requisite, particularly if the wound is situat- ed in a part of the body where no fascia or membranous expansion has been penetrated ; but when the injury is more considerable, when the patient is young and vigorous, and when the wound may have penetrated any of the great cavities, we must be assiduous in the use of every means calculated to pre- vent and to allay excessive inflammation. With this view, blood- letting, saline purgatives, nauseating doses of the antimonial so- lution, and the most abstemious diet, are often necessary. The blood-letting may be practised both generally and locally ; for the latter purpose, the application of leeches round the orifice of the wound, when they can be procured, is highly advantage- ous, but when not, the general bleeding must be pushed far- ther, and the local treatment may be trusted, in the first in- stance, to cooling saturnine lotions applied to the wounded part. Should the pain and tension increase under the use of these means, they may in general be advantageously withdrawn, and wann anodyne fomentations substituted for them during the day, with emollient cataplasms during the night. In all cases of recent punctured wounds, any bandages requisite to retain the dressings should be applied with very moderate tightness, so as not to prove an obstacle to the swelling of the wounded limb, which in general speedily takes place. When the pain is severe, in punc- tured wounds, and when much constitutional irritability ex-216 ■MILITARY SURGERY. ists, the use of opium anil the warm bath are often very bene- ficial. When in spite of all our efforts to mitigate the in- flammation, matter is nevertheless formed, we must endeavour to procure for it a free and speedy discharge, either by enlarging the wound, or making a counter opening. The practice of dilating wounds, formerly reprobated, comes now to have a meaning; an important object is to be attained; an object which can often be attained in no other way—even the use of setons comes now to be sometimes a useful practice,—and al- though, amongst young, and otherwise healthy soldiers, few cases occur of a defect of inflammatory action in the treatment of wounds, yet it is possible, that, when from the exfoliation of bones or the sloughing of tendons—processes always tedi- ous,—the patient’s constitution may be impaired, and his energies diminished, cases will occur in which the intro- duction of a seton may very much expedite the cure. There is one particular description of punctured wounds which- requires peculiar attention, namely, those inflicted by the bites of rabid animals, and venomous serpents. These form frequent objects of attention to military surgeons when serving on foreign stations ; and it is much to be regretted that so little practical information of a satisfactory kind is to be met with on this'subject. This naturally happens from the little inclination which a professional man feels to write upon a class of accidents where both the curative and the preventative means, usually recommended, are so little to be depended upon. When the peculiar symptoms resulting from poisoned wounds have once supervened, the recoveries are extremely few ; and when these symptoms are supposed to have been prevented, we are always left in doubt whether this has been the conse- quence of our measures or not. It has been my fortune, whether good or bad, to sec a greater number of deaths from the bites of rabid animals than most ol my standing in the profession. I have seen not less than217 TOISONED WOUNDS. • six cases of hydrophobia, each of them exhibiting a most (distressing combination of mental agony with bodily tor- . ment, and each of them pursuing an uncontrollable course to a fatal termination. The prominent symptom characterising t the disease,—the dread of water,—with spasms and convul- > sions, was present in all of them ; and the means of treatment (employed were opium, ardent spirits, copious bleeding, and ' warm bathing. Besides the six fatal cases referred to, I recol- ! lect three others; in one of which the occurrence of hydro- ] phobia was supposed to be prevented by producing suppura- t tion in the wound, and salivating the patient. In the other jl two cases, I am induced to believe that hydrophobia was obvi- ii ated by an early excision of the bitten part. While stationed at Hyderabad, in the year 1010, four soldiers were brought to me early one morning, all of whom had been bitten by the same dog, in the course of the preceding night; two of them in the early part of the night, and the others towards morning. The bitten parts were, in all of them, immediately excised, and the wounds dressed with stimulat- ing ointment, so as to induce suppuration. The result was very remarkable ; the two who had been bitten in the early part of the night died hydrophobic ; while the two others who had been bitten in the morning, and in whom the virus could not possibly have lodged more than an hour or two, never had any symptom of hydrophobia. Of the fatal effects of the bite of the Cobra de Capcllo, I have seen several instances in India. One I particularly re- collect, of a native girl who was bitten in camp, and who died in a quarter of an hour, notwithstanding the exhibition of large quantities of ammonia, and the excision of the bitten part. From the use of internal remedies in such cases, my hopes are by no means sanguine ; one of those most cele- brated in the East, is the Tanjore pill, the chief ingredients of which are arsenic and capsicum or Cayenne pepper. OfMILITARY SURGERY. 218 the employment of arsenic, a favourable report is given by Mr. Ireland, formerly surgeon of the 60th regiment, in the 2d volume of the Medieo-Chirurgical Transactions of London ; from which it appears, that he used it successfully, in large doses, in the cases of several soldiers bitten by the Coluber Carinatus in the island of St. Lucia. Besides arsenic, ammonia, opium, and brandy have been the remedies chiefly employed inter- nally, but certainly not with that success which wrould war- rant our placing much confidence in any of them. The practice of sucking the wound, or the immediate excision of the bitten part, seems to me more hopeful. With a view of suspending the absorption of poisonous matter from wounds, the employment of the cupping-glass has been recommended by Sir David Barry, in his experimental researches upon this subject, published some years ago. The observations contain- ed in his essay give great reason to expect benefit from this mode of treatment; and although its efficacy has been hitherto supported rather by theory and experiment than by practical success in treating the bites of rabid or venomous animals, yet it must be looked upon as a rational, scientific, and pro- mising practice. Next to excision, the early use of the actual cautery seems the most promising means of safety, and then the different species of potential cauteries. The Potassa was that preferred by Fontana. The Lunar caustic has been, perhaps, more generally used by British surgeons, and the Liquid Caustics, or concentrated mi- neral acids, by foreign practitioners. Bites and stings, parti- cularly those of scorpions, form a pretty extensive class of cases to be met with in Indian practice ; these are very painful, and sometimes alarming in their effects. The most popular remedies in India, and perhaps the most effectual, are suction, smearing the bitten part with oil, tying a ligature between it and the heart, and administering repeated doses of opium, ammonia, or brandy.219 LACERATED AND CONTUSED WOUNDS. A wound is said to be Lacerated when the parts, instead of , (being divided by a sharp cutting instrument, are forcibly torn ; asunder, and the edges of the wound present a ragged, uneven ‘ appearance. When a wound is inflicted by a blunt obtuse , I body, which destroys, in some degree, the vitality and organi- ; zation of the contiguous textures, at the same time that it ] penetrates the skin, the wound is said to be Contused. The ' wounds of this class to which soldiers and seamen are more j peculiarly exposed, occur from the bursting of muskets, the u explosion of shells, the kicks of horses, the detachment of | s splinters from gun-carriages, and the fall of blocks, &c. from jt the rigging on shipboard. In many cases, injuries present at 11 the same time, both the phenomena of lacerated and contused wounds ; one of the most remarkable of which is the frequent !; absence of that haemorrhage, which, in simple incised wounds ! i of the same parts, often proves alarming to the byestanders, U embarrassing to the surgeon, and, not unfrcquently, fatal to 11 the patient. The swelling and ecchymosis which speedily take place in the lips of a lacerated or contused wound, are i i circumstances in which they differ from incised wounds ; and i i the destruction of the vitality of the surrounding parts leads to ; a difference in the manner in which lacerated and contused -wounds generally heal, and to the adoption of a mode of j i treatment in some measure different from that recommcnd- i ed in incised wounds. While we find the latter descrip- tion of wounds prone to reunite, and to require for this pur- pose nothing more than that their lips should be brought into contact, and retained in accurate apposition, contused and lacerated wounds seldom heal without suppuration, and often not without extensive sloughing, proportioned to the injury which the contiguous parts may have sustained. As the ex- tent, however, to which this sloughing, or destruction of the surrounding parts may proceed, is not to be exactly known a priori; and as we shall diminish the sufferings of the patient.220 MILITARY SURGERY. and expedite the cure, in proportion to the extent of reunion by the adhesive inflammation which we can obtain, it is pro- per, in the first instance, after the removal of foreign bodies which frequently lodge in lacerated and contused wounds, to bring the edges of the wound as nearly into contact as may be done without force, and to retain them so by slips of ad- hesive plaster, or by the application of a roller moderately tight; and there are some few cases in which sutures are ap- plicable to this purpose. It is obvious, that a laceration of the integuments may take place without almost any degree of contusion. We may again have a considerable degree of contusion, without its going so far as to destroy the vitality of the lips of the wound ; or the contusion accompanying a wound may be such as entirely to destroy the contiguous texture. In the first two cases, the wound may be united wholly or partly by the adhesive inflammation, while in the last, suppuration or spha- celation to a certain extent must occur; and it is possible, indeed it is by no means unfrequent, in extensive wounds, that all these three states may be co-existent, and that one por- tion of a wound may be united by the first intention, while another part of it may fall into a state of suppuration, and a third sphacelate. It will be easily understood, that while sup- puration may take place in the external portion of a wound, the bottom of it may become agglutinated or reunited by ad- hesion, in consequence of the flesh being less injured in this situation, the force of the impinging body which inflicted the wound having in some degree spent itself upon the parts with which it first came into contact. In wounds penetrating so deeply as to expose the surface of a subjacent bone, it is de- sirable to reunite as speedily as possible the bottom or interior part of the wound, with a view of preventing an exfoliation of the bone. But it must be remarked, that when the wound is inflicted with a blunt instrument, and in consequence par-GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 221 ttakes of the nature of a contused wound, this contusion is not i necessarily diminished as it approaches the bone, but, on the (contrary, the bone affording a point of resistance, the paits Hying between it and the edge of the instrument are bruised i in succession as the weapon penetrates inwards. The leading principles to be followed in the treatment of lacerated and contused wounds, are the removal of foreign bodies, the securing of blood-vessels, the approximation of the edges of the wound, so far as this can be accomplished by the gentlest means, and the adoption of the most strict antiphlogistic regimen ; in severe and extensive wounds of this nature, par- ticularly in young and vigorous soldiers who have not been previously debilitated by scanty or irregular living, by the fatigues of a protracted campaign, or by the effects of an ungc- nial climate, general bleeding will often be highly expedient, indeed often imperiously requisite; and the local evacuation of blood from the neighbourhood of the wound by means of leeches is a most valuable means of obviating excessive in- flammation ; it is a measure well calculated to make up for the primary haemorrhage, and subsequent oozing of blood from the capillary vessels, which, in incised wounds, is so effectual in moderating inflammation, and is often highly beneficial. GUNSHOT WOUNDS. The wounds inflicted by balls and other missiles form so essential a feature in the injuries incident to modern war- fare, that they must necessarily be looked upon as constitut- ing an important part of the business of this course ; and in222 MILITARY SURGERY. entering upon the consideration of this subject, it is neces- sary to divest ourselves of much of the unsound doctrine and injurious practice of the earlier writers on gunshot wounds: it is necessary to lay aside opinions long prevalent as to the mysterious nature of wounds inflicted by musket balls, and the sovereign virtues of this or of that nostrum in their cure. We must permit the sound sense, the extended experi- ence, and the matured judgment of our modern army sur- geons, to overbalance the fanciful opinions and complicated practices to which the older surgeons resorted, at a time when the general principles of our art were less firmly established, and when the novelty of gunshot wounds induced them to seek their cure in applications equally novel. The various missiles employed by the ancients, and the powerful mechanical contrivances by which they were propel- led, it is now unnecessary to consider, the Catapult®, Balista?, and other warlike engines, having been entirely supersed- ed by the use of gunpowder, cannon, and musketry. As a matter of historical curiosity, I may however be permitted to remark, that the powders of these ancient pieces of artillery would seem, from the accounts handed down to us, to have been but little inferior to our modern instruments of destruc- tion. Atheneus speaks of a Catapulta which threw an arrow to the distance of half a mile, and we are told of others which could throw javelins from one side of the Danube to the other. Josephus has related some examples of the power of these machines. He speaks of Balist® which beat down the battlements and corners of towers, and overthrew7 many files of soldiers : they were also employed to throw great beams of wrood, lances tw’dve feet long, and stones of not less than three hundred and sixty pounds weight. Even after the invention and general employment of cannon, we find that stones, if not the only, constituted at least a prin- cipal part of the missiles projected by these engines. InGUNSHOT WOUNDS. 223 lRymers Fcedera there is an order from King Henry V. to the clerk of the ordnance, and John Bonnet, a mason at Maidstone, to cut seven thousand stone-shot in the quarries ilthere ; and we frequently read of cannon or bombards carrying .stone balls from two hundred to five hundred pounds weight. Froissart describes a very extraordinary bombard made by the people of Ghent, under the direction of D’Arteville, and iiused at the seige of Oudenarde. “ Therefore,” says he, “ to [terrify the garrison, he caused to be made a marvellous great bombard, which was fifty feet long, and threw great heavy stones of a wonderful bigness. When this bombard was dis- charged, it might be heard five leagues by day, and ten at ■night.” Of this description of artillery, we have a good 'Specimen in the castle of Edinburgh, in the well-known gun . called Mons Meg, which is now to be seen on one of the batte- rries, with some stone-shot adapted to its calibre. When Mahomet II. besieged Constantinople, in the year 11453, he battered the walls with stone bullets, and his pieces were some of them of the calibre of 1200 pounds ; but then they could not be fired more than four times a-day. It '.would appear that the Turks still retain a partiality for these enormous pieces of artillery, two stone-shot of 160 [ pounds weight having been found on board the Genoa, after the late action at Navarino. Other shot are mentioned as of 800 pounds weight, and one gun, stationed at the entrance of the 'Dardanelles, is said to carry a shot of 1100 pounds weight, lit must be observed, however, that the injuries inflicted by such masses are more akin to the accidents occurring in civil ilife from the explosions in quarries or in blasting rocks, than to those from gunshot. The wounding missiles with the effects of which we are chief- ly conversant in modern times, are the common pistol, musket, and cannon balls; shells, grape and canister-shot. Of the musket balls now in use, those furnished to the English army224 MILITARY SURGERY. weigh about an ounce ; the French balls are somewhat less; anil the Russian bullets weigh about an ounce and an half. Each of these makes of course a correspondent opening, a cir- cumstance which it may be of some moment to recollect when balls are lodged between bones, or imbedded in their sub- stance, and when it becomes necessary to effect their removal by instruments. Besides the common musket bullet composed of lead, the various other projectiles which I have just men- tioned are employed in modern European warfare ; and the injuries inflicted by them fall to be considered under the head of gunshot wounds. Shells are large hollow spheres of iron filled with gunpowder, which may act either in their entire form as solid balls, or subsequently, by their explosion and subdivision into numerous splinters, in which state their ra- vages are greatly extended ; and the wounds they occasion are of the most formidable kind. Cannon balls vary in size and weight, from one to thirty-two pounds; the latter being chiefly employed in batteries for the purpose of effecting breaches, and those of smaller dimensions in engagement in the open field. Grape-shot consist of small iron balls contained in canvass bags, to which a circular wooden bottom is attached, with a spindle passing up through the centre of the bag, and round this the balls are disposed, and secured by means of cord or wire, so as to have some distant resemblance to a bunch of grapes. Canister or case-shot consist of the same description of balls contained in cylindrical cases of tin, closed at either extremity with circular pieces of wood ; bpth the latter descrip- tion of missiles are so constructed as to fit the calibre of field pieces from which they arc discharged. Attempts have been made to calculate with precision the force and velocity of these different projectiles, and to specify the number of files through which each of them will penetrate. Thus, D’Antoni, director of the Military Academy at Turin, calculates, that a 32 pound shot will pierce a file of 70 men225 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 340 yards distance, and 44 men at G80 yards distance; and lie r recounts in succession the numbers likely to be wounded by f shot of different dimensions, until he comes down to an ounce i ball, which, according to his calculation, will pierce a file of 4 men, if discharged at close quarters, and with the usual degree of velocity ; this, for a cannon ball he estimates to be nearly two thousand feet in a second, and for a musket ball about seventeen hundred, at the moment of their quitting t the muzzle of the gun. Those who may be inclined to inquire more particularly into this subject, will find much assistance from a paper of Dr. Hutton’s on the initial velocity of cannon balls, and the force of fired gunpowder, in the 68th volume of the Philosophical Transactions. It is obvious, however, that these are subjects little susceptible of accurate calcu- lation ; and the velocity must vary according to the quan- tity and quality of the powder, the length of the bore, and ieven upon the state of the atmosphere through which a ball '.passes, the velocity being considerably greater in a dry state of the atmosphere than when it is loaded with vapour. But however much the artillerist and the engineer may be inter- ested in ascertaining these points with correctness, it must be confessed, as Dr. Hennen observes, “ that they lead to little improvement in surgery, except in as far as they show :the enormous violence with which the bones may be fractur- ed, and their fragments dispersed either into the medullary cavities, or into the surrounding soft parts.” After these observations on the velocity of balls, it will pro- bably surprise those unacquainted with the subject, to be told of the very trivial circumstances which are frequently found to alter their direction. In accounting for the very singular course which balls are frequently found to take, recourse is naturally had to those laws which regulate the direction of moving bodies, and to these it is now time to advert. Al- though in many cases a mathematical explanation of the course uMILITARY SURGERY. 220 of a ball cannot be given, this arises only from the want of sufficient data ; for the causes of many of the peculiarities at- tending gunshot wounds certainly depend upon the laws by which projectiles are governed, and hy which the mechanical effect of a hall is determined. The force, the momentum, and the direction of the shot that is received; the position, variety of structure, and powers of resistance in the part receiving it, must always he considered, in order to account for the effects it produces. As a general law, it may he observed, that a body in motion striking against any substance loses a part of its momentum, which is communicated to the substance against which it strikes. If a body in motion meets with a direct resistance equal to itsmomentum, the motion will be stop- ped ; if this resistance is less than the impetus, the motion will be continued at a diminished rate ; and should the resistance act laterally on a body in motion, it will alter its course, and the moving body will fly off’ from the point at which it meets the resistance, in a line forming an angle with the line of its original direction. This last proposition, which is important to our present purpose, may he more generally stated thus, as may he seen in various works upon mechanical philosophy i “ A body acted on at once by the impulse of two powers, will not move in the direction of either, but in the diagonal of a parallelogram, of which two sides are fonned by the direction given by each of these powers respectively ; and every change of impulse or resistance w ill cause the body to assume so many changes of direction, till at length its momentum is overcome, and it becomes quiescent.” The resistance from the soft parts may be considered as the continued application of a power, the uniform and equable oper- ation of which causes the motion of a hall to be curvilinear, and ultimately brings it to rest; as is explained by writers on pro- jectiles. And in illustration of these propositions a diagram is given in Chevalier’s Essay on Gunshot Wounds, and also i»GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 227 'Mr. Guthrie’s more recent work on the same subject. On Ithcse principles the direction of balls is illustrated at great •length by Vacher, an eminent French surgeon, in the 'Memoirs of the French Academy of Surgery. Regula- ted then by such laws, and acting upon substances so va- rious in texture, as the different organs of which our bodies .ire composed, balls are often found to have their direction •changed by circumstances apparently of a trivial nature ; many instances are upon record, where balls have been avert- ed from their course by striking against a button, a buckle, 1 breast-plate, a watch, or a piece of coin in the pocket, ■and to such an occurrence many a brave man has been ndebted for his life. The course of a ball, after having oenetrated the integuments, is often changed by impinging igainst a bone; and in consequence of the resistance offer- 'd by the bone to its further progress inwards, while the •lasticity and toughness of the common integuments pre- vent its recoil outwards, it is not unfrequcntly found to lave coursed in 4 circular direction nearly round the whole :ontour of the body or of a limb ; and has at last made ts exit or been found to have lodged very near to the dace of entrance, the tract being marked by a weal or dis- colouration of the skin. For various examples of the sin- gular courses of balls, I may refer to the paper of Vacher al- cady quoted, and to the practical work of Dr. Hennen. It has been long known that balls may pass round al- most any part of the body immediately under the integu- aents, without entering any of the three great cavities. Of his I have seen several cases on the head and chest, where alls impinging against the cranium, or against a rib, their arther progress inwards had been prevented, and they cad taken a circular course round a portion of the head r trunk. Some cases of this kind are mentioned in Mr. Hunter’s work, and some in Vachcr’s Memoir; but a factMILITARY SURGERY. 228 still more remarkable, aiul perhaps less easily explained, is, that halls, after penetrating the thorax or abdomen, sometimes take the internal contour of these cavities, and pass round from one point to another, grazing the pleura or peritonaeum, without injuring the contained viscera. This fact, so far as I know, was first noticed by Fondacq, who reports a case in which a ball coursed round the interior of the thorax, but without wounding the lungs ; it is a circumstance which I cannot vouch for from personal experience, but it is amply confirmed by the observations of Dr. Hennen, who refers to six fatal cases which he had carefully examined. In two of these cases, balls had entered on the right of the sternum, coursed round between the pleura and lungs, and passed out near the spine; in two others, balls had entered close to the umbilicus, and passed out exactly opposite, beside the spine, without wounding any important organ; in the other two cases, balls had entered over the region of the spleen, and after having passed round a considerable portion of the cavity, without wounding its contents, were found lodged in a distant part of the abdomen. A remarkable case of this kind was recently stated to me by Mr. Gulliver of the 71st Regiment, in which a musket ball was found lodged in the posterior surface of the sternum, without having passed through the bone, but having entered at a dis- tant part of the thorax. The fact of balls coursing along the interior or concave sur- face of the limbs in a state of flexion, has been long known to military surgeons; and all the practical writers abound writh instances in which balls have been lodged in parts of the ex- tremities far from their entrance. In such cases, the course of the missile is often regulated by the particular position of the limb at the time of receiving the shot, and hence the practi- cal rule in searching for lodged balls, to place the body or limb as much as possible in the position in which it is supposed to have been injured.229 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. There is no end to the examples on record of the singular , directions which balls are found to take in their course through i different parts of the body; nor is it possible from seeing the entrance and exit of a ball to judge what the parts ; are which it has injured in its passage, or what parts may I have escaped. While daily instances occur of musket or (carbine halls, buttons, pieces of coin, or other articles being c carried into or lodged in parts of the body distant from their l entrance, we have examples of masses of a very extraordinary iand almost incredible size being lodged in a limb. The im- mense rapidity with which these bodies are propelled, not only forces them into the soft parts, but compacts these parts to- gether, while the space they originally occupied is filled by the projected body. The elasticity also of the parts allows of 'Substances of a very large size to pass in without the external i orifice in any degree corresponding to the size of the body ; rmusket balls often leaving an orifice which, without stretching, •would not admit more than a common bougie. It is to be observed, however, that this remark applies only to the soft [parts of the body, or to the spongy extremities of the long bones; for in passing through the flat bones, as for in- stance, the upper parts of the cranium, the scapula, or the ilium, the aperture made by a ball is often larger in diameter than the ball itself. From want of due atten- tion to this point, we have a curious instance of an er- roneous judgment formed by one of the tribunals in France, before which a prisoner was tried for murder, and was ac- quitted, because the hole made by a ball in passing through the ilium was found to be eight lines, while the diameter of the prisoner’s musket was only six and a half. As if a case bad 'been wanted to shew the absurdity of this verdict, an instance occurred immediately afterwards of the suicide of an officer of the Gendarmerie ; and here the hole made in the parietal bone >by the discharge of a cavalry pistol was found not only to (x-MILITARY SURGERY. 230 ceed the diameter of the ball, but to admit with case the bar- rel of the pistol itself. Before proceeding to consider more minutely the appear- ances exhibited by a gunshot wound, I shall take the present opportunity of briefly adverting to those accidents suppos- ed to proceed from what has been termed the “ wind of a ball,” accidents which are yet perhaps but imperfectly explain- ed. One remarkable case of this kind fell within my own ob- servation, in which a gentleman’s knee-pan was dislocated, as he firmly believed, by the wind of a shot during an action on shipboard. Several accidents of this kind are noticed in Sir Gilbert Blane’s diseases of seamen ; and amongst others, those of two men who were killed in Lord Rodney’s action in the West Indies, by balls passing across the pit of the sto- mach. In the Edinburgh Medical Journal, for the years 1812—13, a series of papers on this subject are to be found, one by Mr. Forbes, a clergyman, who conceives that the sudden deaths, and other accidents attributed to the wind of a ball, are owing to the vacuum produced by the rapid motion of the ball through the air. “ When a ball,” says he, tc passes close to the stomach, there is, in the first place, a great addition to the pressure on that viscus from the condensation of the air: as soon as the ball has passed, this pressure, with a great part of that of the atmosphere, is taken off, the consequence of which is a sud- den expansion of all the fluids in the stomach and the blood in its vessels, and the consequent rupture of both.” Mr. Spence, a naval surgeon, attributes these accidents, particularly on shipboard, to the detachment of light substances from the rigging, such as pieces of canvass, rope-yarn, &c.; or part of the wadding, he conceives, may be carried along with the ball, and impinging against the body, produce similar effects. Mr. Ellis, in a third paper in the same journal, ascribes these injuries to electricity, generated by the passage of balls through the air. This hypothesis has attracted more attention thanGUNSHOT WOUNDS. 231 ,either of the former; but like the others, it wants the sup- port of positive evidence, while much negative evidence may be brought against it.” Circumstances are constantly occurring, such as the removal dof portions of the soldier’s dress or accoutrements by balls, with- ,out any injury to his person, which militate against all the (explanations given of the wind ol a ball, burgeons seem now lgenerally agreed, that the accidents ascribed to this cause ccannot happen without the actual contact ol the ball. And this is no new observation, lor it is stated by Johnson, that “ when another Dutch war broke out in 16/2, Sheffield ivent again a volunteer in the ship which the celebrated Loid Ossory commanded, and there made, as he relates, two curious remarks —“ I have observed two things which I dare affirm, : though not generally believed. One was, that the wind ol a can- mon bullet, though flying never so near, is incapable of doing i the least harm ; and, indeed, were it otherwise, no man above (deck would escape.” It is not difficult to conceive that, 'where the injury is fatal from an internal lesion, death may t take place so suddenly as to afford no time for the develop- 1 ment of any external mark of the accident; and we are assured by Karon Larrey, that in all such cases he has found so much (disorder and disorganization internally, as leave him no room i to doubt of the mechanical contact of the ball. The following is I the Baron’s explanation of the phenomenon; an explanation, so I far as I can judge, quite analogous to that suggested in Sir Gil- 1 bert Blanc’s work ; and in which, also, Mr. Guthrie, the first authority in this country, seems disposed to concur. He says, “ a cannon ball is propelled at first with a rectilinear move- ment ; and if during this part of its course it strikes against any part of the human body, it carries it away; but the ball, after having traversed a certain distance, undergoes some change of motion in consequence of the resistance of the at- mosphere and the attraction of the earth, and turns on itsMILITARY SURGERY. 232 own axis, in addition to the direct impulse received from the explosion of the powder. If it should strike any part of the body when the velocity with which the ball is passing is great- ly diminished, it does not cany it away, as in the preceding ease, but, in consequence of its curvilinear or rolling motion, it turns round the part in the same manner as a wheel passes over a limb, instead of forcing a passage through it. The soft elastic parts, such as the skin and cellular membrane, yield, while the bones, muscles, tendons, arteries, &c., offering a greater degree of resistance, are either bruised or ruptured; if the ball should strike one of the cavities of the body,-the viscera suffer in like manner.1’ But, to advert to the more obvious and more frequent con- sequences of gunshot wounds.—These injuries are so various in degree, and so different in texture and in function are the parts upon which they happen to be inflicted, that no train of symptoms can be enumerated as applicable to all cases of gun- shot wounds. The simple passage of a musket bullet through the arm or thigh of a healthy subject, when it docs not injure the bone or wound any important arterial, venous, or nervous trunk, is not in general attended with any urgent or alarm- ing symptoms ; the pain attending it is frequently found to attract little of the patient’s attention ; and he is only induced to notice it in consequence of more or less impediment to the motion of the limb, with a sense of numbness rather than of pain, and some degree of tremor. No haemorrhage of any con- sequence occurs from such a wound, and on the part being more particularly examined, we observe a circular hole, with its edges somewhat inverted and generally blackened,. mark- in cr the entrance of the ball; and when the ball has passed out, we find an opening more irregular in shape, larger, free from blackness or discolouration, and with its edges rather everted. If the ball in its passage has cut across or lacerated an important arterial trunk, there is haemorrhage superadded;233 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. or if a large nerve has been injured, the sense of numbness -s superseded by a distinct, sometimes even an acute feeling :>f pain, with loss of motion in the member. If, in addition to his, the bone should be broken or extensively shattered, the oatient loses the command of the distal part of the limb, or ■becomes unable to support himself upon it. In severe and complicated injuries of this kind, more particularly those from .large shot, we often see the whole nervous system implicated n the accident, so as to produce a complete constitutional •.hock. This however varies exceedingly according to the pa- rent's natural temperament, or his peculiar state of suscepti- bility at the time of receiving the wound. Some men, upon he receipt of even a moderate injury, are instantly seized with i deadly paleness ; profuse perspiration breaks out, vomiting •occurs, and an irresistible tremor affects the limbs ; in short a ■omplete shock, the “ ebranlcment” of the French writers, akes place: other men will receive a much more severe in- ■iury, amounting to the complete comminution, shattering, or emoval of a limb, without betraying any symptom of mental r bodily agitation; and even reason coolly about the conse- quences of the accident, or vent their rage upon the source iff it. 1 lus constitutional shock, this ebranlement above described, anes as much in duration as in severity, in different cases j ome lndnuluals regain almost immediately their coolness nd self-possession, become speedily reconciled to the injury uustained, and prepared, if necessary, to submit to any opera- tion. Others continue for hours under a degree of nervous gitation and tremor which nothing can abate, which no as- urance of their ultimate safety can calm, which renders them otally unfit to undergo an operation should this be thought lecessary, and which indeed often subsides but with life. A icrson labouring under this nervous tremor and agitation has •o much the appearance of being panic-struck, so much docs234 MILITARY SURGERY. it look like the effects of fear, that some of the French writers have thought it necessary to defend their countrymen against any imputation of this sort. Ravaton and La Motte contend that “ this confusion cannot be the effect of fear, in a nation noble-minded and courageous to excess, and who, after lying mortally wounded upon the field of battle, are heard en- couraging their companions to fight bravely for their king and country.” Le Dran, again, without fearing any imputation on the courage of his countrymen, observes, that “ from a princi- ple which nature has established in the human mind, it is, that as soon as one feels himself wounded by firearms, he is struck with a panic, and oppression too violent to be conceal- ed. In that first moment of alarm his reason gazes on no- thing but danger, and there often follows a deprivation of al- most every sense.” This temporary suspension or derange- ment of the powTers of the system, becomes, in connexion with gunshot wounds of the extremities, a matter of great importance in reference to the propriety of an immediate oper- ation for the removal of the limb, and will fall to be consider- ed more particularly hereafter. At present I may observe, that the alarming symptoms above described are not less conspicuous in wounds affecting the trunk of the body, par- ticularly the great cavities ; but here we have often super- added peculiar symptoms, from the nature and functions of the wounded viscus, and to these I shall advert particularly when I come to speak of the wounds of particular organs. In proceeding to consider the dressing and mode of treatment in gunshot wounds, it is now unnecessary to advert to the opinions formerly entertained of the poisonous nature of such. wounds, “ about which,” says Wiseman, “ great hath been the contention amongst the learned ;” but in order to under- stand the manner in which these wounds are healed, it is ne- cessary to observe, that they possess much of the character of contused wounds, the contusion however in this instance ra- 8235 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. Hating as it were from a centre outwards, instead of proceeding ns in the common contused wounds of civil life, from the sur- face towards the deep-seated parts. With reference to the oassage of a musket ball or small sized shot through any of hhe soft parts of the body, it may be remarked, that the tract ifjf the ball from its entrance to its exit gradually loses the Character of a contused, and takes on more of the character of i. lacerated wound. The injury done to the contiguous soft parts ..ias been well illustrated by Sir Charles Bell, by means of a series of concentric circles. The innermost of these circles may oe supposed to represent a portion of animal substance, foriYi- ng the parietes of the tubular wound, in which the vitality has jeen so completely destroyed as to induce sloughing. Between •his interior circle and the next, the injury to the soft ioarts may be such as to induce suppuration; between the second and third circles, again the injury may be such as 1,0 induce a slighter degree of inflammation to terminate ;n resolution, without either suppuration or sloughing ; and tt will be easily understood, that in the course of the wound ;hese concentric circles will gradually change their dimensions, or, in other words, will progressively shorten their respective diameters as the wound loses the characters of contusion, and takes on those of laceration or incision. This enables us to understand the usual process of healing in gunshot wounds by suppuration and sloughing, these, of course, more or less extensive according to the degree of con- tusion. It enables us also to understand an occurrence—cer- :ainly a very rare one—the healing or uniting of the whole :tract of a musket ball almost without a vestige of suppuration, or, to speak more technically, by the first intention. Of this !I once met with a remarkable instance in the case of a musket v shot passing through the region of the biceps, or upper part of the arm. The patient was a man of colour, a native of India, living on the most mild and unirritating food, and236 MILITARY SURGERY. in every respect a favourable subject for such a cure. A case quite analogous to this, was furnished to me by Dr. M‘Whirter, the present president of our College of Physi- cians ; it was that of Colonel P n of the Bengal army, who was wounded by a musket shot, which entered the outside of the biceps muscle of his arm, and lodged in the opposite side of the arm, near the surface. He cut out the ball, and as Colonel P., although a stout plethoric man, was very abstemious in his diet at all times, it oc- curred to him that, by applying adhesive plaster to the ex- ternal wounds and keeping the tract of the internal wound to- gether by compresses, it might promote adhesion. This plan he pursued, and succeeded beyond his expectation ; the arm was sound in a fortnight without any suppuration. These cases, however, form the exception and not the rule. Although I have no means of knowing what was the ap- pearance of the ball in either of the above cases, yet such cures are, I think, most likely to happen when the wound is inflicted by a rifle shot, or by a ball which has been, by some accident, deprived of its naturally globular form, and perhaps acquired an angular or projecting edge, so as to pene- trate the integuments with less contusion. Although in the days of Celsus, gunpowder, and its irresisti- ble effects, were equally unknown, yet the peculiar nature of wounds occasioned by the forcible intrusion of leaden bullets into the living solid, did not escape the notice of this elegant writer, as we find from the following passage in his seventh book. When speaking of the extraction of foreign bodies from wounds, he observes, “ A third kind of weapon which re- quires sometimes to be pulled out, is a leaden bullet, or a stone, or some such thing, which having broke through the skin is entirely lodged within. In all these cases the wound must be enlarged, and what is within must be extracted by a forceps the way it entered.” Celsus then goes on to give par-237 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. ; ticular directions for the extraction of foreign bodies when im- hbedded between, or in the substance of bones. And while wc ! have in this author, so far as I know, the first mention of lleaden halls as wounding bodies, we have also, perhaps, to at- tribute to him the foundation of the practice of scarifying and dilating gunshot wounds, which many subsequent writers have tenforced with so much energy, and which, without due con- Ifidence in the resources of nature, have been often practised '"with painful and injurious effects. 'I he indications in the treatment of gunshot wounds vary considerably according to the extent of the injury. The prin- cipal objects are, to remove the ball if it has lodged, or any extraneous substance which may have been carried in with it, —to remove also any fragments of bone which have become so j completely detached as to afford no hope of reunion, and which are of course, to all intents and purposes, acting as fo- reign bodies,—to secure any important blood-vessels which 'may have been wounded,—to circumscribe the inflammation by ‘the adoption of the most vigorous antiphlogistic practice, and, co* course, to limit the suppuration, without a considerable ex- ttent of which a gunshot wound seldom heals. If a musket ball passes through the fleshy part of a limb, our practice is 'simply to sponge the orifices clean, and to cover them with a little scraped lint, securing it with two cross slips of adhesive plaster, and keeping the limb as much as possible at rest. If (the ball has passed through the parietes of the chest or abdo- imen, and if no hemorrhage ensues, we are, in addition to the above simple mode of dressing both orifices of the wound, to have recourse to the abstraction of blood, say from twelve to 11 twenty ounces, according to the age, size, and state of health of the patient; and this precaution of bleeding is equally ne- ' ecssary where balls or splinters of shells may have produced much contusion of the head, trunk, or great joints, even when hno wound or solution of continuity occurs.MILITARY SURGERY. 238 A ball will sometimes, without penetrating through a limb, be retained simply by the cohesion arid elasticity of the common integuments, and is distinctly to be felt projecting on the op- posite side of the limb. In this case, our business is instantly to make an incision over the ball, and to remove it; thus ren- dering the wound similar to the one first described, and falling to be dressed precisely in the same way. The immediate re- moval also of every extraneous substance which may have been carried in with the ball, and still more of every detached and angular piece of bone, is an object of the greatest importance, provided it can be accomplished with facility and without loss of time. If the ball, in its passage, has wounded an im- portant arterial trunk, and if in consequence of this a ha’- morrhage occurs, it then becomes necessary to dilate the wound in the course of the injured artery, so as to secure it by ligatures both above and below the orifice; and to no measure short of this can we trust. The incisions necessary to attain this object must often be extensive ; but the purpose is so important, so absolutely essential to the patient’s safety, that no apology can be admitted for neglecting it. On this point, Mr. John Bell has expressed himself most distinctly, and here he has given an intelligible reason for dilating a gunshot wound, a practice, however, which the general tenor of his writings tends to inculcate on other occasions where it is not necessary. Where such a motive exists for the dila- tation of a wound, no surgeon will hesitate : but the indiscri- minate dilatation of all gunshot wounds, without a distinct and specific object in view, is now very justly abandoned, at least by the English surgeons. It seems, indeed, extremely ab- surd to have made the practice of dilatation so uniform, that « a man should of necessity be cut because he bad the mis- fortune to be shot.” These arc the chief points demanding our attention imme- diately on the infliction of a musket wound, and perhaps allGUNSHOT WOUNDS. 239 that can be done on the field of battle. Here cases demanding tithe surgeon’s attention are so numerous and so urgent that no protracted search for balls,extraneous bodiesor splinters of bones, nnotbing, in short, which is not absolutely essential to the pa- ttient’s safety can be allowed. In speaking of operations which are with propriety undertaken before quitting the field, I in- tclude amputation of the limb when this is obviously necessary ; Shut as I shall have occasion to advert more particularly to r this in a subsequent part of the course, I barely notice it at present as one of those operations which, when its necessity is determined on, is always best done so soon as our patient has recovered from that collapse of the vital powers which has .already been described, which is so apt to overpower even :the most cool and determined individual on the receipt of a severe wound, and which, however alarming in its ap- pearance, is often speedily removed by the administration of a cordial glass of wine or spirits, and the soothing attention rand consolatory language of an experienced surgeon. When- ever a soldier has by this means recovered from the immedi- ate stupefaction consequent upon the receipt of the blow, and has regained his sell-possession, he will in general be found anxious immediately to undergo any operation deem- ed necessary to his case ; and it is obviously our duty to in- idulge him in this respect as far as circumstances render it judicious, and as far as a due attention to the numerous and urgent claims upon our humanity will give us time to accom- plish it. No opportunity so favourable will again present itself for the execution of many of those operations which are re- quired after the infliction of gun-shot wounds; and the su- perior success of primary compared with consecutive am- putation, to which I shall again have occasion to advert, renders it imperative upon the military surgeon to give a Jdecided preference to the former. In making the first exa- mination of gun-shot wounds, it may be necessary to warn youngMILITARY SURGEftY. 240 surgeons against wasting, in endeavours to satisfy an idle or unprofitable curiosity, that time which may, in these trying circumstances, be employed to so much better purpose. In wounds. of the limbs, attended with lacerated vessels and broken bones, it is our business to examine the state of the wound accurately, for the purpose of removing splinters; and the necessary use of the finger and of the probe for this pur- pose is never so well borne at any subsequent period. In wounds of the belly, or of the breast, when a ball has penetrated deeply into or passed through these cavities, it is our duty to rest satisfied without the knowledge of those circumstances, which, if ever so well known to us, could in no way alter our prac- tice. In the treatment of gun-shot wounds, a material improve- ment has of late been introduced by the substitution of cloths wrung out of cold water for the poultices almost uni- versally used in former times. The practice, previous to the peninsular war, was, in almost every case, to apply a poultice in order to hasten the separation of the slough, which was looked upon as an inevitable consequence of every gun-shot wound. Mr. Hunter’s writings tended much to inculcate this principle, and to confirm the practice growing out of it; but it was soon found to be absolutely impracticable on the large scale of warfare, and even if practicable, to be neither expedi- ent nor beneficial to the patient. The history of the appli- cation of cold water as a dressing to wounds is exceedingly interesting; it was, soon after the invention of gunpowder, employed by the Italians, who did not consider it to possess any virtue until it had undergone certain mysterious and magical ceremonies. Blondus published an essay on its effi- cacy at Venice in 1542, under the title, “ Dc Medicamcnto aqiuenuper invento, et dc partibus ictu sclopeti sectis.” Other writers followed on the same subject; but, notwithstanding this, the remedy continued long in the hands of quacks, andfiUNSHOT WOUNDS. 241 • * medical conjurors; “for although the regular practitioners could not deny that wounds were healed under the employment of water solely, yet many of them affected to attribute this con- ssequence to magical and unchristian arts, and it is doubtful whether in those days patients having any pretensions*to ’piety would have submitted to the employment of the simple'ele- iment, labouring as it did, under the anathema of the church.” Compresses dipt in cold water have lately been recom- nmended by Kern and Assalini, as well as by our countryman 'Air. Guthrie, who has taken some pains to show, that the •sloughing consequent upon musket wounds does not necessa- rily take place to the extent formerly supposed, and that the extent of this sloughing and suppuration may still far- ther be diminished, and the cure promoted by the judicious '.application of compresses soaked in cold water : by this means inflammation is in some instances prevented, in others mo- derated, and in almost all, much circumscribed. When this plan is adopted, oil skins should be employed to prevent the beds getting saturated with the liquid, by which severe pul- monary and rheumatic attacks are sometimes induced ; and with these precautions, the surgeon can be at no loss for a remedy, which is seldom injurious, and rarely, if ever inter- feres with the efforts of nature. There are, however, particu- lar habits with which cold applications do not agree; and I be- lieve it may be asserted, as a general principle, “that cold docs ,'n0 g00tl any stage of inflammation when it does not prove agreeable to the feelings of the patient,” when, in short, it does not give relief. In such cases warm fomentations, or cata- plasms, are advantageously substituted; and leeches applied in the neighbourhood of the wound, or the abstraction of blood from the system at large, are in some cases requisite. d he foregoing observations are chiefly applicable to musket wounds ; those from cannon shot are, for the most part, suffi- cient causes for the amputation of a limb, and will fall to RMILITARY SUROERY. 24-2 be considered hereafter. Of late we have got rid of much of the mystery formerly attached to the nature of gunshot wounds; and have acquired more useful lessons, in learning to dispense with idle, inefficient, or injurious practices, than in the employment of any remedy of a specific nature, exclu- sively applicable to these injuries. Neither soldiers nor sur- geons are now apprehensive of any thing poisonous in a leaden ball; nobody now believes in the mysterious efficacy of silk vestments, which were at one time thought to be impenetra- ble by balls ; nor are we now so credulous with regard to the “ wind of a shot.” In the treatment of gunshot wounds our views are now for the most part bounded by the following simple indications,—the removal of the ball itself, and of any portions of the clothing or accoutrements which may have been carried in with it,—the removal also of detached por- tions of bone,—the securing of wounded blood-vessels,—the moderating the violence, and circumscribing the extent of the consequent inflammation by means of cold applications, leeching, or general bloodletting. WOUNDS OF THE ARTERIES AND ANEURISM. In treating of the different kinds of wounds we have had repeated occasion to advert to the occurrence of haemor- rhage from the division of blood-vessels ; and before proceeding to consider the wounds of particular regions and organs, it is necessary to offer a few remarks on the wounds and diseases of the arterial and nervous systems which are universally distri- buted throughout the body, and the wounds of which are a sub- ject of infinite importance in the practice of military surgery. The loss of life is so natural a consequence of uncon-243 WOUNDS OF THE ARTERIES. i trolled bleeding from a large vessel, that surgeons have, in all : ages, looked with anxiety to an efficacious means of restraining I haemorrhage; and the reflection that three-fourths of those kill- (ed in battle are supposed to die from the escape or extravasa- tion of blood, is a circumstance noways calculated to diminish i this anxiety. The various expedients resorted to for arresting ta flow of blood may be looked upon as either of a temporary (or permanent nature; and as operating either indirectly on tthe trunks conveying the fluid to the bleeding point, or di- i rectly on the orifices of the bleeding vessels: As a temporary expedient for the suspension of hemorrhage in wounds and K operations, the tourniquet is an instrument with which every surgeon of the present day is familiar: for the invention of ilthis instrument, as well as for the greatest improvement which i it has ever undergone, we are indebted to two eminent French -surgeons, Morel and Petit. The former was the first to em- ]ploy the tourniquet in a very simple form at the siege of Be- ■ san^on in 1G74. A ligature or broad tape being passed round the limb, a wooden pin was employed to tighten it, in the same way that carters employ what, in Scotland, is termed a rack-stick to tighten the ropes which retain the loads upon j: their waggons. A particular description of this mode of restraining hsemor- i rhage is given by Mr. Young in the Currus Triumphalis, pub- lished in 1768 : “ I hope,” says he, “it will not be altogether d impertinent if I here take occasion to recommend to the young 1 practitioner one way of ligature very useful in amputations, especially above the knee, that is to say, a wadd of hard linen (cloth, or the like, inside the thigh, a little below the inguen ; ■ then passing a towel round the member, knit the ends of it together, and with a baton, a bed-staff or the like, twist it till it compress the wadd or bolster so very strait on the crural vessels, that (the circulation being stopped in them) their bleeding, when divided by the excision, shall be scarce largeMILITARY SURGERY. 244 cno.ugh to let him see where to apply his restrictives, nor shall the pain of that operation be comparable to what it would be were not the member numbed by the compress.” If a tourniquet constructed on this principle possesses any ad- vantages in military practice, it is the ease and expedition with which it can always be procured; a handkerchief, a sash, a garter, or brace, twisted by means of a drumstick, a fife, a pistol ramrod, or some such instrument, will answer every purpose to which this mode of compression is adapted ; its dis- advantages, on the other hand, are its comparative bulk and unwieldiness, the difficulty of adjusting the compression with sufficient accuracy, and above all, its requiring a continued attention to prevent the recoil of the stick, and the consequent removal of the pressure. The improvement in the construc- tion of the tourniquet, which was introduced by Petit, con- sisted in the adaptation of a pad to be placed over the course of the artery, and the tightening of the strap by means of a screw so adjusted as to separate gradually the two plates of the instrument through which the strap is passed. This forms an instrument very superior to the other in point of neatness and accuracy of application. With either of them a sufficient power may be employed to put a complete stop to the effusion of blood in all wounds and operations upon the extremities, so as to enable the surgeon to execute the different steps of an operation with safety to the patient and case to himself; but as the tourniquet is capable of putting a complete stop to the circulation of a limb, so must its application be regulated with prudence, and its employment limited in point of time. With a view of extending as far as possible the security derived from the tourniquet to those wounded in battle, it has been proposed to point out to the musicians of a regiment the course of the principal arteries, and to instruct them in the application of the tourniquet; the difficulty, however, of mak- ing the subject intelligible to uneducated men, the risk of215 WOUNDS OF 1HE ARTERIES. Mistakes, the danger of trusting a matter of this importance to inexperienced youths, and of delegating the proper duty and responsibility of the surgeon to non-professional assist- ants, have prevented this recommendation from being acted ■on to any great extent. Previously to the invention of the tourniquet, its place was •supplied by the powerful gripe of an assistant, and we find some of the older surgeons complimenting each other on the . effectual manner in which they suppressed the haemorrhage in cases of amputation by grasping the upper part of the limb. In very recent times the practice of compression by the hand of an assistant has again been revived, and it becomes mili- tary men above all others to make themselves familiar with this practice, and thereby to render themselves as far as possible independent of complex instruments or extraneous re- sources. The error of supposing it impossible to make an ef- fectual compression on the main artery of a limb, so as to re- strain its bleeding, has of late been abundantly exposed by 'Mr. Guthrie; and wherever the pressure does not require to be protracted, there can be no better method of making it than by the hand of the surgeon or his assistant. But a plan of permanently suppressing haemorrhage, confined exclusively in its operation to the opened vessels, and equally applicable to all parts of the system, has always been a desideratum to the practical surgeon. Of the means employed at different times for this purpose, II shall immediately proceed to give a summary account, but in the first place it is necessary to state that, although punc- tures or very limited wounds in the arteries, may possibly heal without obstructing the calibre of the vessel, this is an event which we are not to look for in practice, and for the accom- plishment of which, no means have been proposed since the attempts made many years ago, by Mr. Lambert of New- castle, to close the wounds of arteries by means of the twistedMILITARY SURGERY. 246 suture. The process followed by nature in the spontaneous suppression of haemorrhage, or in closing the mouth of a divided artery, was first investigated by Petit in ] 731, and this investi- gation was subsequently prosecuted by Morand and Pouteau, as well /is by our countrymen Sharpe, Gooch, Aitkin, Kirkland, and John Bell. About the beginning of the present century the farther investigation of this matter was undertaken by Dr. Jones while prosecuting his studies at this university, and his observations were given to the public in a work on haemorrhage, published in London in 1805. In this essay, Dr. Jones takes a much more comprehensive view of the subject than any of his predecessors, and in his explanation of the natural process for closing the orifice of a divided artery, notices the changes which take place—in the tunics of the wounded artery itself—in the cellular sheath embracing it,—in the blood circulating through it—and in the soft parts contiguous to it. His experiments show, that the blood, the action and the structure of arteries, their sheath, and even the cellular substance connecting them with it, in short, that all the parts concerned in, or affected by haemorrhage contribute to arrest its fatal progress. “ An impetuous flow of blood, a sudden and forcible retraction of the artery within its sheath, and a slight contraction of its ex- tremity, are the immediate, and almost simultaneous effects of its division.” This again, as the impetus of the circulation diminishes from the loss of blood, is followed by the forma- tion of a plug or coagulum within the sheath of the vessel, termed the external coagulum, and forming the “ first com- plete barrier to the effusion of blood.11 “ The mouth of the artery being no longer pervious, nor a collateral branch very near it, the blood just within it is at ' rest, coagulates, and forms in general a slender conical coagu- lum, which neither fills up the canal of the artery, nor ad- heres to its sides, except by a small portion of the circumfer- ence of its base, which lies near the extremity of the vessel24-7 WOUNDS OF THE ARTERIES. This coagulum is distinct from the former, and 1 have called it the internal coagulum. In the mean time, the cut ex- tremity of the artery inflames, and the vasa vasorum pour out lymph, which is prevented from escaping by the external coagulum. This lymph fills up the extremity of the artery, is situated between the internal and external coagula of blood, is somewhat intermingled with them or adheres to them, and is firmly united all round to the internal coat of the artery. The permanent suppression of the haemorrhage i chiefly depends on this coagulum of lymph ; but while it is I forming within, the extremity of the artery is further secured by a gradual contraction which it undergoes, and by an effu- sion ol lymph between its tunics, and into the cellular mem- brane surrounding it, in consequence of which these parts become thickened, and so completely incorporated with each other, that it is impossible to distinguish one from the other. 1 hus, not only is the canal of the artery obliterated, but its textremity also is completely effaced, and blended with the sur- rounding parts.” Although Dr. Jones’ views regarding the suppression of hae- morrhage, were chiefly founded on experiments made on the in- ferior animals, they were received as satisfactory, and have very generally been adopted by the systematic writers on sur- >’gery. Mr. Guthrie, however, in his lectures on the diseases and injuries of arteries, delivered before the Royal College of ''Surgeons of London in 1829, has made some important ad- ditions to our knowledge of this subject; the more valuable for my present purpose, inasmuch as his conclusions are the re- sult of long continued and extensive experience on the ar- teries of the human body, opened or otherwise injured by 'wounds received in battle. Of the many interesting observa- tions which Mr. Guthrie has brought forward in his recent publication, the following appear to me particularly important, is bearing directly upon points of practice.248 MILITARY SURGERY. 1. The bleeding from an artery cut fairly across is much more easily controlled than has been generally supposed. “ All that is required to suppress the torrent, is to place the end of the fore-finger directly against the orifice of the artery, and with the least possible degree of pressure consistent with keeping it steadily in one position, the haemorrhage is sup- pressed.1'1 2. It may be inferred from Mr. Guthrie’s observations, that the office assigned to the sheath of the artery, and the forma- tion of the external coagulum, as described by Jones and pre- viously by Petit, are less uniform and less important than those authors imagined, and that the contraction of the artery itself is on the other hand more complete and influential. Mr. Guthrie has frequently observed, particularly in cases of limbs carried away, or arteries torn across by shells or can- non shot, that a contraction of the divided end of the ar- tery takes place, and “ is confined in the first instance to its very extremity, so that the barrier opposing the flow of blood is formed by this part alone.” The tube of the vessel sub- sequently contracts to some extent upwards, in the shape of a French claret bottle, and a coagulum is formed within it, as described by Dr. Jones. 3. There is reason to think that the retraction and con- traction in the lower end of a di vided artery, are less complete and less permanent than in its upper end, and that the inter- nal coagulum is also less perfectly formed. “ It is a very curious and interesting fact, that the lower end of a divided artery is more prone to secondary haemorrhage than the upper, so much so indeed, that when it occurs after having been ar- rested for four hours, it takes place in all probability from the lower end.” How far these steps in the natural suppression of hemor- rhage are modified by the application of a ligature, we shall have immediate occasion to consider; meantime, I may re-249 WOUNDS OF THE ARTERIES. mark, that the foregoing observations, obviously lead to the rule inculcated by all practical writers, of securing both ends of a divided artery. Whenever this is practicable, it ought on no account to be omitted, but there are cases of dangerous haemorrhage from stumps, from ulcerating or sloughing sores on the limbs, or from deep-seated arteries, in the hands and feet, where a ligature cannot be placed, or will not hold upon the extremities of the bleeding vessel, and where the propriety of securing the artery in the upper part of the limb becomes a question. Of this troublesome and dangerous haemorrhage, examples are not uncommon in wounds of the lower part of the radial artery, where it dips between the metacarpal bone of the thumb and forefinger; in two such cases I have suc- cessfully had recourse to the ligature of the humeral artery; and I have known the same operation twice executed with success by others. This is a practice which some will think more honoured in the breach than the observance; and it has, I know, been said, that there is no haemorrhage from vessels in the hand or foot, which may not be restrained by pressure. This I believe to be true ; but, on the other hand, I believe it to be equally true, that in certain states of a wound or ulcer, the healing process will not go on, nor the closure of the ves- sel take place, under that degree of pressure which is necessary to suppress the bleeding; and it is by checking the flux of blood to the part, without irritating or inflaming the wound itself, that I believe the ligature of the artery above to operate favourably in such cases. Besides the difference which has already been remarked in the facility and rapidity with which the superior and inferior extremities of a divided artery are closed, it would appear that there are particular arteries in which the process of closure is slower and less perfect than in others ; in other words, there are some arteries peculiarly liable to secondary haemorrhage. 1 he following observations on this point are extracted from aMILITARY SURGERY. 250 Clinical lecture which I had occasion to deliver to the students of surgery in the Royal Infirmary here a few years ago; they refer to one of the cases in which the humeral artery was tied, after repeated failures to suppress a liaimorrhage from the ra- dial artery by other means. “ In speaking of this case I illustrated it by a reference to numerous others in the writings of Gooch, O’Halleran, White, Hodgson, Guthrie, and Turner. I observed that this case, however troublesome it had proved, was by no means singular, nor even very rare. I showed you, that in one case quoted by Gooch, a young man lost his life in consequence of a wound of this artery; and that in another case, related by O’Halleran, after repeated fmnorrhages for a month, the limb was amputated. I find also, that the frequency of secondary hemorrhage from this artery was a circumstance which did not elude the comprehensive grasp of John Hunter’s mighty mind. In a manuscript copy of notes from his lectures, in Dr. Knox’s possession, Mr. Hunter mentions the radial and ulnar arteries as those, of all others, most prone to secondary hemorrhage from ulceration of their coats ; and my colleague, Dr. Campbell, has called my attention to a peculiarity in the situation of these two arteries, which is well worth noticing in any attempt to account for this. You will recollect that these vessels run for a considerable space on the lower part of the fore-arm, covered only by the common integuments above, and supported beneath by parts almost purely tendinous ; the for- mer circumstance rendering them more liable to injury, and the latter perhaps leading to their more frequent ulceration, in consequence of a less intimate and vital connexion with the contiguous parts. But, to return to the fact, and to the par- ticulars of Sutherland’s case, you will recollect that I pointed out on one of Roscnmuller’s plates, the inosculations by which I conceived the repeated ha'morrhages in this instance to have been supplied, through the medium oi what my late distill-251 WOUNDS OF THE ARTERIES. guished master, Dr. Barclay, has termed the ancono-carpal arch ; formed by the anastomoses of the extreme branches of the interosseal with the radial and ulnar arteries on the back part of the carpus. “ This case forces strongly upon our minds the singular revolution which has taken place in the opinions of surgeons relative to the ligature of arteries within the last sixty years. They were formerly afraid to tie any considerable artery, for fear of mortification of the limb ; we are now apprehensive that the ligature of a main trunk may prove insufficient to suppress a haemorrhage from one of its minor branches : ‘ When the brachial or femoral artery is wounded, though the patient should not perish by the haemorrhage, the limb must soon die for want of nourishment.’ This was the language of Gooch in 1767? ‘ When circumstances tending to prevent the esta- blishment of a collateral circulation do not exist, we need not apprehend the death of any part in consequence of a deficient supply of blood after the ligature of its main artery.’ This was the language of Hodgson in 1815 ; and if you look into the accurate and instructive work of this author, you will find a case in which the ligature of the brachial was found insuf- ficient to suppress a haemorrhage from this same unlucky radial artery ; the wounds of which, I may safely assert, have given more trouble to surgeons, and proved more disastrous to pa- tients, than those of any other artery of a corresponding mag- nitude in the system. Surgeons have sometimes been made to pay in purse as well as in person for the mismanagement of such cases. Of this I recollect a remarkable instance which occurred in a provincial town in England not many years ago, where a surgeon was prosecuted and cast in damages at the suit of a cooper, who had lost the use of his arm, and was dis- abled from following his trade in consequence of the tight bandaging employed to restrain a haemorrhage from the radial artery. This case is strongly impressed upon my recollec-252 MILITARY SURGERY. tion by a very extraordinary coincidence ; for while reading a newspaper report of it in the mess-room at Nottingham, where I was then quartered with the 33d regiment, I was called to the assistance of a soldier who had accidentally wounded his radial artery in whetting his razor; and having the fear of tight bandages fully before my eyes, I of course proceeded to secure the wounded vessel with ligatures.'’ In a paper by my colleague, Professor Turner, which is to be found in the Transactions of the Medico-Chirurgical So- ciety of Edinburgh, there are some very interesting observa- tions on the sudden spontaneous obstruction of the canals of the larger arteries of the body, and on the process employed by nature to prevent or arrest haemorrhage from lacerated ar- teries. But without entering farther into the rationale of this process at present, I would advert to the artificial means which have, at different times, been employed for the suppression of haemorrhage ; these are compression, styptics, the actual cau- tery, the torsion, and ligature of arteries. Compressioji is a means of restraining hemorrhage, the success of which must greatly depend upon the possibility of effectually accomplishing it, and this again upon the parti- cular situation of the wound. When a subjacent bone affords a point of resistance, against which we may compress a bleeding vessel, almost any hemorrhage, however profuse, may be restrained in this way ; but here it must often hap- pen, that the degree of pressure necessary to prevent the effusion of blood, if continued for any considerable time, and applied over the surrounding parts, has a tendency to excite violent reaction, and to endanger the destruction of the part by gangrene. As an immediate application to the bleeding surfaces of wounds, with the view of applying superincumbent pressure, agaric, sponge, or charpie are the articles chiefly em- ployed ; the former was introduced by a French practitioner, Mons. Brossard, surgeon at Chatre, in Berry. Several membersWOUNDS OF THE ARTERIES. 253 of the Academy of Surgery were nominated by Martineau, 1 surgeon to the king of France, to examine into the merits U of Mons. Brossard’s proposal for the suppression of haemor- lrhage ; and after a formal report on the subject by these gen- Itlemen, dated at Paris, the 7th May 1751, a pension was :granted by the king to Brossard, although this remedy had been recommended by Felix Wurtzius 150 years before. The ■sponge was strongly recommended to the attention of the pro- t fession by the late Mr. White of the Manchester Infirmary, and is the medium of compression more generally employed by English surgeons. Into their respective merits I do not c consider it worth while to enter, and shall conclude by observ- ing, that the sponge, if properly applied, is capable of giving all the security which this mode of practice can give. The -sponge swells by the insinuation of the blood into its pores, ; and thereby exerts a gentle pressure in every direction ; while tthe peculiar texture of the sponge favours a coagulation of the 1 blood in the mouths of the vessels from which it flows. The sponge is not, however, to be trusted to when the orifice of the bleeding vessel can be distinctly seen, and may be in- ^ . J ^"5 1U‘V UC III- eluded in a ligature ; it is only applicable to those cases where an °osmg of blood takes place from many small vessels which ccannot be tied.. Some foreign surgeons are said to trust entire- ly to compression for restraining the haemorrhage from large vessels, even from the femoral artery, by placing the opposite ■ aps m contact after amputation of the thigh, and then ••securing them by a bandage. This is a practice, however, of which I have no personal experience ; nor do I know that it has been adopted by any British surgeon ; it seems a prac- tice to which there can be no occasion to resort, and in which there seems no great reason to confide. Of the Styptics used for the suppression of haemorrhage 'hose recommended in former times, were turpentine andMILITARY SURGERY. 251 alcohol ; solutions of the sulphates of iron, copper, and alum ; the diluted mineral acids; and the sulphate of copper in a solid form, or what was termed the vitriol button, con- sisting of a portion of this salt wrapped up in a piece of cloth ; in our own day, those of most note are “ Ruspini’s Styptic,” and the ct Liquide Haemostatique ” of MM. Hal- mick and Talmagrand, the merits of which will not, I think, he estimated very highly after the perusal of Mr. Hawkin’s paper on this subject, in the last volume of the Medico-Chi- rurgical Transactions of London. All these applications acting upon the principle of constringing the mouths of the bleeding vessels, or promoting the coagulation of the blood, are only applicable to superficial wounds, and here they are very generally unnecessary ; “ they are more advantageously applied in secondary haemorrhages, which arise from gangrene or ulceration, than in those which occur in fresh wounds, which it is generally an object to heal by the first inten- tion —an object which will be more or less frustrated in all cases where it may be thought necessary to have recourse to astringent applications. The Actual cautery was a means of suppressing haemor- rhage, extensively used by the ancient surgeons; but the dif- ficulty of regulating the heat, so as, on the one hand, to produce an effectual suppression of the haemorrhage, and on the other to obviate the too speedy separation of the eschar— a natural consequence of employing the iron too hot—were found to be powerful objections to the use of this remedy, even when it was most prevalent. As a means of suppressing haemorrhage from recent wounds, it is now laid aside, its use being chiefly confined to cases of haemorrhage within the mouth, and to the suppression of those bloody oosings, which some- times takes place from bony surfaces, particularly in cases where exostoses have been removed.255 WOUNDS OP THK ARTERIES. The Torsion or twisting the extremity of a bleeding artery, ‘ so as to reduce it to a state somewhat similar to that in 1 which we find arteries torn across, without haemorrhage, is i a practice which has been recently introduced, and which 1 have seen several times employed in small-sized arteries. It is a practice however of which I have no personal expe- rrience, nor am I likely to have much, while I see so few' i objections to the use ot the ligature, and so much reason to ! be satisfied with the security which it affords. The Ligature of arteries is a practice which, if it possesses a superiority over every other in the surgery of civil life, is ’’of still more importance in the treatment of those haemor- rhages which it often becomes the business of the military -surgeon to suppress. Here we have no time to lose in trying .'successively various expedients for effecting our purpose ; it is our duty to adopt at once the most speedy and secure; more .■especially as we are often destitute of intelligent professional assistants whom we might appoint to watch the wounded, and tto whom we might intrust the patient’s safety in the event of a renewal of the hemorrhage,—above all, we are often uncer- :tain how soon an exertion may be required on the part of the patient, totally incompatible with that tranquillity and repose •■so necessary to the success of all the other expedients for the suppression of haemorrhage. Nothing can here be made too secure ; we may be speedily compelled to move with our pa- tients, or to remove from them. In either case it will be well or us not to have trusted to a less certain mode of effecting >ur purpose, when a more infallible one was within our reach. The best mode of tying arteries, and the immediate effects of rhe ligature, have been subjects warmly discussed by modern urgeons. I rom a series of experiments instituted in this place »y the late Doctor Jones, he was led to infer that the first step f the process employed by nature in the permanent sup-256 MILITARY SURGERY. pression of ha;morrhage, was the effusion of a plug of coagu- lating lymph from the internal coat of the artery, and that this effusion was most certainly effected by the use of small round ligatures, the employment of which is followed by a division of the internal and middle coats of the vessel. So far Dr. Jones was right; and the almost universal adoption of such ligatures, in this country at least, proves that the practice is in general amply successful; but when Dr. Jones asserted that it was only by the division of these two coats that such effusion of lymph could be produced, and a permanent suppression of the haemorrhage accomplished, he evidently went a step too far. Various experiments and observations, amongst which those of the late Professor Scar- pa hold a distinguished place, tend to prove, in the most unequivocal manner, that several modes of compression, which do not go so far as to divide the internal coats of an artery, are yet sufficient to excite a sufficient degree of inflammation to lead to a permanent obstruction of its canal. We have instances of this from the use of broad ligatures, which were formerly employed with a view of obviating the very effect which Dr. Jones desired to produce ; and we have instances also of the adhesive inflammation occurring, and uniting the opposite sides of an artery when they had been pressed together, and retained in contact by the pressure of an adja- cent tumour. These considerations “ cannot allow us to hesi- tate a moment about the rejection of Dr. Jones’s assertion, that a ligature will never be followed by a sufficient degree of adhesive inflammation within a tied artery, unless the in- ner coats of the vessel be divided by the cord. Instead of this sweeping inference, Dr. Jones should merely have concluded, that such inflammation will generally take place after the ligature has had the effect described, and not that it cannot happen under other circumstances.”257 WOUNDS OE THE ARTERIES. As a matter of fact, we know, that since the dissemination of Dr. Jones's views, and since the adoption of small ligatures hy the generality of surgeons, cases of secondary haemorrhage, from wounds, amputations, and operations for aneurism have become much less frequent. This fact is worth a volume of reasoning on the subject, and with this fact we must rest con- tented, although Scarpa has, with much ingenuity, endea- ' voured to convince us, that the division of the internal coats !<of an artery is more likely to produce ulcerative than adhe- j-sive inflammation in the cavity of the artery, since the solu- tion of continuity caused by a small ligature rather re- 'Sembles a lacerated and contused wound, than an incision. He argues also with much plausibility, that the ligature after .cutting through the inner coats, does not retain the margins .or cut surfaces in reciprocal contact, but sinks between them, sand only constricts the unbroken sides of the external coat. The original mode of securing arteries was with a needle and Jigature, to which the foregoing observations do not apply ; and jt'for the employment of the needle, the following are the di- rections given by Pare : <{ If the artery continue to bleed, cut up the wound if it has been sewed, and pass a needle under the artery, enclosing along with it in the ligature, much or little flesh according to the circumstances of the case.” There are, lowever, very few cases in which this mode of proceeding is aow thought eligible. It is objectionable on account of the oam which it occasions, the great length of time which the igature takes to separate, and the danger of haemorrhage by he premature slackening of the ligature, from the wasting of he parts included in it. The needle has therefore been almost ntirely superseded by the use of the tenaculum or forceps ; r?ith cither of these instruments, the extremity of the vessel is o be drawn out, and a noosed ligature, which may be previously 'laced loosely on the tenaculum, is slipped over its point, and •ed upon the vessel by an assistant.MILITARY SURGERY. 25H Of the different materials employed as ligatures for tying arteries, none seem to answer better than common, or den- tist’s silk, one or two threads of these being sufficient in ordi- nary circumstances for the largest vessels. With a view to the practice generally employed in this country, of laying together the lips of a recent wound, in expectation of their uniting by adhesive inflammation, it is of much importance to diminish as far as possible the quantity of extraneous matter left in the wound ; and hence the diminution in the size of ligatures ge- nerally ; the separation of the extremities of the ligature, and their disposal along the face of a wound or stump, so as not to impede the adhesive process ; and above all, the removal of one half of the ligature close to the knot, are steps which have been successively introduced into practice. The last, and by far the most important of these improvements, the re- moval of one half of the ligature, has been attributed to Mr. Vcitch, formerly of the Naval Hospital at Plymouth, whose own account of this improvement is contained in a paper in- serted in the second volume of the Edinburgh Medical Jour- nal, under the title of the Inquirer, a paper equally satisfactory and unassuming. Towards the close of the late war, the practice of cutting off both extremities of the ligature close to the knot, was adopted by some of the army surgeons, and was warmly es- poused by Dr. Hennen, who expresses himself strongly in fa- vour of it. This practice, the origin of which appears to lie due to Mr. Haire, a surgeon at Southminster in Essex, or rather to a friend of his who had served with him in Haslar Hospital, has also been employed by Mr. Lawrence of St. Bar- tholomew’s, who seems favourable to the practice. 1 had for several years been in the habit of representing Professor Del- pech of Montpelier as an advocate for this practice, but from a conversation with that gentleman last winter, I learned that he did not approve of the practice of cutting short the liga-WOUNDS OF THE ARTERIES. 259 tures generally, but only adopted it on a particular oc- casion during the prevalence of hospital gangrene, when he | i considered it an object to heal all wounds, whether from opera- i tions or otherwise, as speedily as possible. Mr. Guthrie is • strongly opposed to the practice of cutting off both ends of the 1 ligature, and observes that he has in two or three instances seen i ill-looking abscesses formed by the small portion of ligature llelt in the wound, and apprehends that disagreeable conse- quences may occasionally ensue from this practice. When it two men of such consummate experience as Dr. Hennen and Mr. Guthrie are directly at issue, I do not consider myself entitled to speak wTith a tone of decision, particularly as my own experience of short cut ligatures has been mostly confined to cases in which an immediate cure by adhe- sion was either not attempted, or, owing to some untoward 'Occurrence, wras not obtained. Dut of the bad consequences jpointed at by Mr. Guthrie, I have lately seen a remarkable '"instance in the person of one of my professional brethren here, where the ends of the ligature employed to secure an artery which was accidentally wounded in the hand were cut off. and where the wound repeatedly festered, and did not ulti- mately heal until the ligature was discharged at the end of 'Several wreeks. Whatever may be the surgeon’s intention as to the disposal of the ends of the ligatures, it should be his study, n securing blood-vessels, to avoid including in the li- gature the nerves which accompany the arterial trunks; 'he fcying these is apt to occasion startings of the limb, or n irritable habits, even general convulsions. The secondary laaemorrhage, which occasionally occurs in gun-shot wounds of ■he extremities, we. shall have occasion to consider more parti- ularly hereafter ; in the mean time I may remark that its fre- piency has been much overrated, and I shall conclude these encral remarks on 1 Hemorrhage in the words of Mr. SamuelMILITARY SURGERY. 260 Cooper, “ who observes that no other plan of preventing bleeding from large arteries is so secure as the ligature, be- cause no other makes such direct pressure on them, nor acts with so little chance of being displaced.” For the good of mankind,” says Pare, “ and the improvement and honour of surgery, I was inspired by God with this good thoughtand appreciating fully as we now do, the utility of his invention, we cannot but look back with astonishment at the time when Pare was reduced by the idle and impertinent clamour of Gourmalin, president of the Parisian College of Physicians, to search the writings of Hippocrates, Galen, and Avicenna, for traces of the use of the ligature, as a justification of his practice. “ By this measure,” says Mr. Samuel Sharpe, “ he would have given away the glory due to his discovery ; but it was not in his power either to benefit his cause or to injure his reputation by such a proceeding.” ANEURISM. Having considered the process followed hy nature, and the means employed hy art for the suppression of haemorrhage, it becomes necessary to advert to the disease termed aneurism, a disease originating in some of its forms without external violence, but in others a direct consequence of w ounds or lesions of the arterial system. The term aneurism is employed to denote a tumour more or less circumscribed, occurring in the course of an artery, and has generally been defined as a soft pulsating tumour. This is a character which, in its earlierANEURISM. 261 stages, it must always possess ; but in proportion as the tu- i mour increases in bulk, and the surrounding parts become in- ’ volved, this pulsation often becomes obscure, and sometimes it j i is altogether lost. Previously to the discovery of the circulation, ; and the minute investigations of morbid structure, which dis- ttinguish the recent annals of our profession, the pathology of aneurism was very imperfectly understood, and the practice j proportionally inefficient. In recent times, again, the consi- deration of this subject has perhaps been' rather obscured than elucidated by refined and exclusive views as to the structure of aneurismal tumours, by dwelling upon shades of difference not distinguishable during life, and of no moment in practice, and by the introduction of terms which, from being variously used by different writers, have led to discrepancies of opinion more apparent than real. It will, I think, afford a view of this subject sufficiently comprehensive to embrace all the principal varieties, and at the same time sufficiently minute for every practical purpose, if we look upon all aneurismal tumours as formed in one or other ' of the following ways either by a preternatural dilatation of the coats of an artery,—by a breach in one or all of these coats proceeding from within outwards,—or by a wound penetrating the coats from without inwards, and giving room for the im- mediate escape of blood into the contiguous cellular mem- brane. 1 he Hist comprehends partial dilatations, which have occa- sionally been observed in some of the larger arteries, and also that singular form of disease to which I wish to see the term varicose aneurism restricted, in contradistinction to aneu- rismal varix. That morbid dilatations in the course of the large arterial trunks, without any obvious change of struc- tuic in their coats, do occasionally occur, is admitted by all writers on this subject; and while some authors give the name ol aneurism to such dilatation, others contend, that alien-MILITARY SURGERY. 262 rism is in all cases necessarily preceded by a breach in the internal and middle coats of an artery. This is the opinion of the distinguished Professor Scarpa, who acknowledges a state of preternatural dilatation in the whole circumference of an artery, and mentions the frequency of its occurrence in the ascending aorta ; but at the same time considers this as differing from aneurism, although he admits that the two diseases frequently exist in the same vessel. Of this circum- scribed dilatation, or aneurismal swelling in the course of an artery, examples are occasionally met with on dissection in the course of the thoracic aorta, and I have seen two exam- ples, in the living body, of what I believe to be similar swell- ings at the root of the common carotid ; both of these cases, one of them in the person of a medical man, have remained nearly stationary for years, and do not easily admit of, nor seem to demand, any remedial treatment. The disease termed varicose aneurism, consists in a preternatural dilatation of the branches of an artery, only observable in vessels lying super- ficially, and giving them a resemblance to the disease of the venous system tenned varix. Of this interesting examples arc recorded by Pelletan, Wardrop, Syme, MacLachlan, and others ; but as the varicose aneurism, as well as the aneurism by anastomosis, is always, I believe, congenital, and of course ought to be a reason for excluding any individual affected with it from military service, it is foreign to my purpose to en- large on its nature or treatment. The second description of aneurism is formed by a breach in the coats of an artery, originating in the interior coat, and proceeding outwards. It comprehends the greater number of spontaneous aneurisms, and is described by Scarpa, Hodgson, and others as the true aneurism. Its principal varieties are the circumscribed and diffused ; circumscribed, so long as the external coat remains entire, forming the sac of the tu- mour, and diffused when in the progress of the disease thisANEURISM. 2G3 coat lias given way, anil when the contiguous parts become the boundaries of the swelling. It appears, that when the internal and middle coats are destroyed, the sac is in the first instance formed by an expansion of the external coat of an artery. As the distension advances, this coat gradually gives way; the sheath of the vessel then restrains the effu- sion ; and this yielding in its turn, the surrounding parts, whatever may be their texture, form the boundaries of the extravasation. The inflammation excited in the coats of an artery by the primary disease, and subsequently in the surrounding parts by their distension, produces amongst them an effusion of lymph which glues them together, and prevents the extensive effusion of blood into the cells of the adipose membrane. Thus is the sac formed, and the inflammation which exists within it produces an effusion of lymph with which its internal surface is lined. In the early stage of the disease, either the whole cylinder of the vessel, or only a part of its circumference may be dilated ; but this period is gene- rally of short duration, and at length, in consequence of increasing distension, some of the coats of the artery pos- sessing the least elasticity give way, and these are found to be the internal and middle coats, while the external one still makes resistance, and continues to be more dilated by the lateral impulse of the blood. In the advanced stages of external aneurisms, the skin be- comes extremely thin, and incorporated, as it were, with the aneurismal sac. The cavities of the cellular substance contigu- ous to the disease, are either filled with serum, or totally obli- terated by adhesion. The adjacent muscles, whether lying di- rectly over the aneurism or on its sides, become displaced, stretched, wasted, and confounded with the other parts. The nervous cords passing over the circumference of the tumour, are in the same way pushed out of their natural posit ion ; and are sometimes found adhering to the outside of the sac,MILITARY SURGERY. 264 so altered as scarcely to be recognised. Finally, the carti- lages and the bones themselves become involved in the mis- chief which the aneurismal swelling produces ; they are gradu- ally destroyed, and at length no trace of their substance re- mains. It is worthy of remark, however, that the pressure of an aneurismal tumour more quickly produces an absorption of bone than of cartilage. Such is the usual progress of internal aneurisms, or of those originating in the limbs without any obvious injury. The internal and middle coats of an artery, may be destroyed by absorption, ulceration, or rupture ; but neither of these are, I believe, liable to occur in arteries whose coats have not undergone some previous morbid alteration. They frequently take place in arteries, the coats of which con- tain atheromatous or calcareous depositions. The internal coat first gives way, the destruction of the middle follows, and is accelerated by the infiltration of the blood amongst it fibres. The external coat becomes incapable of resisting the force of the circulation, and yields so as to form the sac of the aneurism. I may here mention a singular opinion of Baron Larrey, as to the cause of some aneurisms, which he distinctly ascribes to a syphilitic virus giving rise to ulceration of the internal coat of the artery; and he narrates some cases in which the exhibi- tion of mercury is said to have been followed by a diminution of the dilatation of the artery. Larrey’s observations coincide with those of Scarpa and Sabattier, as to the formation of the tumour, and his experience, I find, coincides with my own, as to the infrequency of aneurism, in what may be termed its spontaneous or idiopathic form amongst soldiers. Such is a general outline of the structure and progress of aneurismal tumours, formed by a breach of the interior coats of the artery ; but we find considerable variety in regard to the extent of the aperture in the coats, and the relation which it bears to the aneurism. In some instances, particularly of small aneurisms, the destruction of the internal and middleANEURISM. 265 coats is equal in extent to the base of the swelling which | ] projects from the side of the vessel in a semi-globular or semi- |< ovoid form ; in other cases, the blood insinuates itself between tthe external and internal coats of the artery, separating them from each other to a considerable extent, and leaving the com- lmunication with the canal of the artery small in proportion 11 to the exterior tumour projecting from it. This is what Mr. Guthrie has termed the dissecting aneurism, in which i the interior and middle coats may be looked upon as forming an incomplete partition, or septum, between the artery and the aneurism, nearly akin to that which is formed by the iris, between the anterior and posterior chambers of the eye. In some rare instances, two of which are described by Mr. She- 1 kleton of Dublin, it would appear that the blood, after having ' insinuated itself between the external and middle coats of the ■vessel, and separating them to a considerable extent, .had again found its way into the tube of the artery. But it seems . unnecessary for my purpose to enter farther into these varieties ; they are chiefly observed in aneurisms of the large arteries within the trunk of the body ; they cannot be known during life, and, consequently, can lead to no peculiar or efficacious practice. T he only remaining form of the three principal divisions of aneurisms which I have adopted, is that occasioned by an ex- ternal wound penetrating all the coats of an artery and giving vent to the blood. This is the only form of the disease fre- quent amongst soldiers or seamen ; it has been termed the spurious, false, or traumatic aneurism, and like the true aneu- rism, it is subdivided into circumscribed and diffused ; the for- mer implying a concentrated tumour encysted in condensed cel- lular membrane immediately contiguous to the wound ; the lat- ter a diffused swelling formed by extravasated blood escaping from the wound, and extending upwards and downwards along the course ol the limb. This tumour originates always fromMILITARY SURGERY. 26G the wound or puncture of an artery, and, in the circumscribed form, is often occasioned in the following manner. When pressure has been made in the first instance, so as to suppress the haunorrhage, but the bandage has afterwards been remov- ed too soon, before the artery has healed, the blood passes through the unclosed wound into the cellular substance. As this has now become agglutinated by the preceding pressure, the blood cannot diffuse itself into its cells, and, consequently, a mass of it collects in the vicinity of the aperture in the ar- tery, and distends the cellular substance into the form of a sac. Sometimes, though not often, this circumscribed false aneurism originates immediately after the opening is made in the artery. This chiefly happens when the aperture in the vessel is exceedingly small, and, consequently, when the hae- morrhage takes place so slowly, that the blood which is first effqsed coagulates, and prevents the entrance of that which follows into the cells of the cellular membrane, and of course its diffusion. Of this species of aneurism numerous examples occur from punctured wounds. The diffuse form of traumatic aneurism has, in those in- stances in which I have seen it, been accompanied with fracture of the bone and extensive injury to the limb ; has in fact been generally occasioned by a laceration or wound of the artery from some prominent point of bone, and followed by extensive disorganization of the soft parts. Besides the forms of cir- cumscribed and diffused, which the traumatic aneurism pos- sesses in common with others, it admits of two very remark- able varieties originating from the circumstance of the wound in the artery being in some cases inflicted through a superin- cumbent vein ; and one consequence of this, described by au- thors, is the formation of a circumscribed false aneurism, or encysted bloody tumour, in the cellular membrane lying be- tween the artery and vein, communicating by one aperture with the artery below, and by another with the vein above.ANEURISM. 267 • Of this variety, an interesting case of which is described and i figured by Dorsey, I have never myself met with any example, hut have seen numerous instances of what is the more common rresult of a wound transfixing a vein, and wounding the subja- ccent artery. In this case, the blood from the artery is forced vwith impetus into the vein ; the latter becomes distended and 'varicose ; a pulsatory motion is now communicated to it, and a sstridulous or ringing noise is to be heard on applying the ear or ^stethoscope to the site of the wound. This disease is most frequently caused by inexpert bleeding at the bend of the arm. 'It constitutes what, in my opinion, ought to be called aneu- rismal varix, in contradistinction to varicose aneurism. These : two terms have been in some measure promiscuously used by authors ; but nothing can, in my judgment, admit of a more .'natural or perfect distinction. The disease formerly mentioned, •should be termed aneurism, inasmuch as it is a swelling or 1 distension of the artery; the latter should be termed varix, M inasmuch as it is a swelling or distension of the vein. We are now, I think, prepared to understand what arc h usually considered as the diagnostics of aneurism. The occur- |> rence of a pulsating tumour near a large artery, is always a suf- i I ficient reason for suspecting the disease to be aneurism ; but J1 as other tumours or even abscesses in the vicinity of an import- ; ant artery sometimes have a throbbing motion communicated to them by the neighbouring vessel, no positive judgment should be formed until other circumstances of the case have been duly considered. An aneurism in an external situation, and com- mencing with a dilatation of all the coats of an artery, generally presents itself in the form of a small pulsating tumour, which subsides under pressure, and immediately reappears when the pressure is removed. It also subsides, or at least becomes more flaccid, when the portion of artery between it and the heart is compressed, hut immediately resumes its usual fulness when such compression is discontinued. This aneurism, in 3MILITARY SURGERY. 2G8 its commencement, is not painful, anti the integuments are ot their natural colour ; the pulsations are strong, particularly in the earlier stages of the disease, and when all the coats are yet entire; a circumstance readily accounted for by the ample and direct communication between the expanded part of the vessel and the direct channel of the blood. When the inner tunics are destroyed, and the external coat alone dilated, th<^_ communication between the canal of the artery and the cavity of the aneurism, though not so large as in the preceding form of aneurism, is more direct and capacious than in a false aneurism ; and therefore the pulsation of the tumour is general- ly stronger than in the latter case. The symptoms of a cir- cumscribed false aneurism, are not materially different from those above stated ; but it is to be observed, that a true aneu- rism generally yields to pressure, and recurs on its discontinu- ance, while a false one yields with difficulty, and the swelling returns very gradually. These circumstances are plainly referri- ble, first, to the diversity in the size of the direct communica- tion between the aneurismal swelling and the canal of the artery ; and secondly, to the circumstance of the blood being often more or less coagulated even in the early stages of the circumscribed false aneurism. With respect to the diffused false aneurism, it generally presents but a feeble and indistinct degree of pulsation, except close to the aperture in the artery; in consequence also of the extensive injection of the cellular membrane with blood, the case is at the same time attended with more discolouration than any other form of aneurism un- accompanied with inflammation. The history of the disease ; its cause; its sudden formation, &c., also tend to assist us in the diagnosis, and are to be carefully considered. These tumours, like abscesses, generally proceed towards the surface of the body ; but in this respect they are much influ- enced by the situation and by the site of the vessel from which they originate. When the sac points externally, it rarely orANEURISM. 269 rnever bursts by laceration; but the extreme distension causes [the integuments and investing parts to mortify ; and upon ithe separation of the slough, the blood in general issues (from the tumour. There are, however, cases in which, after tthe sloughing of the integuments, life has been for a time pre- served by the lamellated coagulum within the aneurismal sac cclosing the aperture, and preventing the escape of the blood ; i of this I saw a very remarkable case in Sir Patrick Dun’s hospital some years ago, the particulars of which were sub- sequently transmitted to me by Dr. Montgomery of Dublin. 'Some arteries are less liable to those diseases in their coats which predispose to the formation of aneurism than others. Hn the pulmonary artery this disease is extremely rare. The arteries of the arm are much less frequently diseased than [those of the trunk or lower extremities; and Mr. Hodgson i remarks, that he has never seen an aneurism which was not jproduced by accidental violence in any branch of the axillary artery. Aneurisms rarely arise from arteries of the fourth or- 1 der, as the radial, the ulnar, the tibials, the external carotid, :&c.,or from their ramifications, unless produced by accidental |' violence. Before proceeding to speak of the surgical treatment of aneurism, I may remark, that this formidable disease, in some rare cases, undergoes a spontaneous cure.; and this hap- pens in one of the following ways. 1. By sphacelation ; a sphacelation, however, which must not be confined to a portion of the sac, as in the above mentioned case; but a sphacelus wrhich, in consequence of a preceding attack of inflammation, embraces the whole sac and a portion of the surrounding parts. If the inflammation extends to a sufficient depth, a portion of the artery on either side of the aneurism becomes blocked up by the coagulating lymph, and thus the patient is saved from a fatal haemorrhage on the separation of the slough. Of this mode of cure, several in-MILITARY SURGERY. 270 stances have been noticed; but perhaps the most remarkable is one which occurred in the York Hospital, in the person of a soldier, and which is given in detail in Mr. Hodgson’s va- luable work. 2. By the progressive increase of the tumour, it comes in some degree to press upon and obstruct the portions of the ar- tery immediately contiguous to it, and has been supposed in this manner to prove its own cure. Of this I am not aware that there is any satisfactory example on record, but it does not seem impossible that some of the unexpected and unex- plained cures which have occasionally been observed, may have occurred in this manner. There are instances of the canal of an artery becoming obliterated in consequence of the pressure of a contiguous tumour, whether aneurismal or not, and there is a remarkable instance noticed by Mr. Liston, in which one aneurism proved in this way the cure of another. 3. The process however to which we are encouraged to look for the cure of aneurism, is by the deposition of coagulum within the sac, the extension of this into the contiguous portions of the artery, the consequent obstruction of its canal, and the pre- servation of the limb by the collateral circulation. In some rare cases of aneurism of the aorta, which have undergone a spontaneous cure, this has been effected by the deposition of a fibrous coagulum, occupying the whole cavity of the sac, but without extending itself into the canal of the artery. This coagulum has again been gradually absorbed, the sac contract- ed, and a cure accomplished, without any obstruction in the calibre of the vessel whence the aneurism originated ; but the more common manner in which aneurisms are spontaneously and often artificially cured is this, the cavity of the sac be- comes gradually filled with layers of coagulum, and the circu- lation through the artery is ultimately prevented by the ex- tension of this coagulum into the canal of the vessel. The blood being forced by this means into the collateral arteries,•ANEURIS5I. 271 ::hc coagulum is again gradually absorbed, and the artery and tithe sac contract until the one assumes the appearance of a Ligamentous cord, and the other that of a small fleshy tumour. Ifn all artificial attempts towards the cure of aneurism, we have iat in view to assist nature in accomplishing the cure by this Hast mentioned process, by the deposition of coagulum, not only in the sac but in the contiguous portions of the artery Leading to a permanent obstruction of its canal, and leaving tihe blood to find its way to the more distant parts of the limb by collateral channels, by the gradual enlargement of the contiguous small arteries, and their anastomoses with those in tithe more distant part of the extremity. The treatment of aneurism may be divided into medical and surgical ; the former consists essentially of bleeding, low diet, .land abstinence from all excitement of the vascular system by ex- ercise or otherwise, and is the only means we have in our power eof promoting the cure of internal aneurisms. The surgical treat- nnent of this disease, applicable to aneurisms of the extremities, ^consists of pressure; or of an operation by which the trunk of the artery is laid bare and tied, the flow of blood into the sac 1 moderated or obstructed, and an opportunity given for the formation of the coagulum, by which the cure is finally ac- complished. There are cases in which compression has effect- ed a cure, but it is to be observed, that it is in certain stages of aneurism only that it can be advantageously or even safely applied. If there be any inflammation of the aneurismal sac indicated by pain on pressure, it becomes dangerous to employ it; and when used, it is to be applied not only to the surface ^of the tumour, but to the whole member, by means of a roller. ; Prior to the year 17115, the operation practised for the cure of aneurism was pregnant with difficulty and danger, so much so that Mr. Pott, after forty years’ practice, declared, that until a better mode of treating the disease was discovered, amputation was the only resource in cases of popliteal aneurism. The ope-MILITARY SURGERY. 27 2 ration formerly consisted in cutting open the tumour, clearing it of its contents, and tying the artery at each extremity of the sac. This method was first adopted by Severinus and Trullus, about the year 164>6, in a case of aneurism in the thigh ; and subsequently to them by many surgeons in France, Germany, and Italy. The first operation of the kind performed in this country, was by Mr. Burchall, at the Manchester Infirmary in 1757, an account of wdiich is to be found in the third volume of the Medical Observations and Inquiries. The frequent failure of this operation caused it to fall into disuse, and amputation of the limb was substituted, until John Hunter’s improvement superseded the necessity of so desperate an expedient. The modern operation for aneurism was first performed in 1705, upon a coachman, a patient in St. George’s Hospital, labour- ing under popliteal aneurism. The main trunk of the artery was tied in the thigh ; the points gained by which were, the obliteration of the calibre of the vessel communicating with the aneurismal sac, so as to cut off the supply of blood to the tumour ; and thereby to allow the diseased mass to be removed by absorption. After the main artery of a limb has been se- cured by ligatures, the blood finds its way to the parts be- low the obliterated point by means of the anastomoses or communications which exist between the final ramifications of arteries, and which, in all aneurisms of the extremities, have been proved to be sufficient to carry on the circulation. The most eligible points for tying the different arteries, and the mode of executing the operation, may be shown on the dead body, and are wTell explained in various systematic works on surgery. Mr. Hunter’s operation, which was nearly anticipated by /Etius, is now every day practised with success in the common form of aneurism from ulceration or rupture of the interior coats of an artery, but it is much less applicable to the false aneurism occasioned by a wound of the artery. Here, although273 ANEURISM. the trunk of the artery may be tied above, the wound in it does nuot heal, and theaneurismal tumour frequently suppurates, ulcer- ates, or sloughs. Of this I have seen three remarkable instances, two of which occurred within a very recent period ; the ligature oof the artery in the region of the humerus failed in these twocases to cure the aneurism, and each of them was afterwards treated successfully by laying open the tumour, turning out its contents, and placing a ligature on the artery above and below the wound. 11 have therefore, latterly, upon all occasions, opposed Mr. 1 Hunter’s operation for this form of aneurism, and recommend- ed the old mode of operating. That variety of aneurism which occurs from an artery being wounded through a super- ncumbent vein, and where the tumour lies between the two, ;[ can only consider as a modification of the common false aneurism, and to be treated by tying the artery, and perhaps l:he vein also, above and below the tumour, as was done in i Dorsey’s case. In cases of aneurism situated so as to render it difficult or impossible to place a ligature on the artery between the aneur- ism and the heart, attempts were formerly made, and have re- cently been revived, to cure the aneurism by placing a liga- ure on the artery beyond the tumour. Of this practice I have 10 personal experience, nor do I place any confidence in it. The aneurismal varix, it will be recollected, is formed by he healing of the external wound in the skin, while the arterial Mood, in consequence of the proximity of the two vessels, in- stead of being effused into the cellular substance, passes di- ectly into the cavity of the vein, which becomes dilated in he form of a varix. This disease which was first accurately lescribed by Or. William Hunter, occurs not unfrequently rom bloodletting at the bend of the arm. It is a disease oc- casionally incident also to soldiers from punctured wounds, if which several remarkable instances are on record; and it las, I may say, been treated most successfully when least has T274 MILITARY SURGERY. been done in the way of operation. All that is required is to support the swollen vein, as in other cases of varix, with a rol- ler or elastic bandage ; and in several instances, I have seen pa- tients going about for years, and sometimes following labori- ous employments, without even this precaution. We know from cases recorded by Scarpa, Hunter, Benjamin Bell, Pott, and Garncii, that cases of aneurismal varix have re- mained stationary for twenty or thirty years; while in others, cures have been obtained by judicious compression. It is, therefore, chiefly with a view to prevent any hasty or ill- judged operation of tying the artery, that I am induced to notice particularly this form of aneurism ; and to recommend a careful comparison of some cases of this kind treated success- fully by Baron Larrey without ligature, with one recorded by Dr. Hennen, in which, in an evil hour, a ligature was placed upon the common femoral artery in a case of aneuris- mal varix in the thigh, and speedily followed by the death of the patient. But while any precipitate or uncalled for operation is to be deprecated in this form of the disease, I would earnest- ly urge the early performance of the operation in the more usual species of aneurism. Nature has made provision for a circulation sufficient to support the life of the member, even where the main artery of a limb has been tied. And the fol- lowing arc the practical inferences deduced by Mr. Hodgson from a very full consideration of this subject:—“ 1st, That the circulation will be as effectually carried on in a healthy limb when the main artery is suddenly tied in consequence of a wound, as when an aneurism has existed for a considerable time. 2dly, That the practice of permitting an aneurism to increase, that the collateral branches may become enlarged, is not only unnecessary but injurious, inasmuch as the in- crease of the tumour must be attended with a destruction of the surrounding parts, which will render the cure of the dis-WOUNDS OF THE NERVES. S’]5 ease more tedious and uncertain.” Concurring entirely in Mr. Hodgson’s views upon this point, and considering that the only other mode of treating aneurisms—by pressure—is a process at all times exceedingly tardy, wearisome, and uncer- tain, there appears to me no room for delay in the application of the ligature. And my advocating an early operation will not be matter of surprise, when it is stated, that while, in the whole course of my life, I have seen one, and only one, an- eurism cured by compression, I saw, within a period of two years, three cases terminate fatally in consequence of ulcera- tion of the sac after the artery had been tied ; an event which might, in my opinion, have been obviated, had an ear- lier opportunity been afforded to the surgeon of performing the operation. In a fourth case, contrary to my opinion, and to my urgent entreaty, and contrary to the opinion of the gentle- man whose duty it became to operate, the operation was, by the doubts and indecision of some of the gentlemen concerned, delayed for nearly three weeks, during which the tumour in the ham was observed growing day by day ; and the patient in consequence made a less perfect recovery than he otherwise might have done. WOUNDS OF THE NEHVES. TETANUS. Wounds of the nerves, although, in the first instance, less alarming, and less hazardous, than those of the arteries, are not less formidable in their after-consequences. Aneurism is an infinitely more manageable disease than tetanus, one of the most severe and one of the least remediable consequences of wounds. Nerves, like other parts of the system, are found capable ofMILITARY SURGERY. 27<> reuniting when divided by wounds; and even when a small portion of a nervous trunk is removed, its continuity may be restored, and its functions re-established. This is proved by the experiments of numerous authors, as well as by the frequent failure of tire operation for tic douloureux in the human subject, and of the operation termed' nerving in horses. The recent obser- vations of Haighton and Swan, of Larrey and Teidemann, embrace every thing that is valuable on this subject, and con- tain many minute and interesting details of the manner in which nerves are reunited or regenerated. But as these are processes entirely dependent upon the efforts of nature, and for the promotion of which no artificial means are adopted be- yond the general and accurate approximation of the lips of a wound, tire following remarks are confined to the consequences supervening upon injuries of the nerves, and not to any sur- gical expedient for restoring the continuity of a nervous trunk. The only case in which I have seen this attempted, was in a patient operated upon by Dr. Simson of this city. In this in- teresting case, the median nerve had been cut across by an ac- cidental wound above the wrist; the superior end of the divid- ed nerve was to be felt distinctly through the integuments im- mediately above the transverse cicatrix ; its extremity enlarged and bulbous, the motion of the correspondent thumb, fore, and middle fingers greatly impaired, and their sensation quite lost. Both extremities of the nerve were laid bare by a longitudinal incision; the knot or bulb, which exactly resembled that formed on the extremities of nerves after amputation, was , removed from tire upper end; the lower end was' disengaged from the cicatrix in which it was involved, and its extremity pared off. The two ends were then approximated as much as possible, but this was very imperfectly accomplished ; for on bending the wrist with this view, and throwing the muscles of the fore- arm into action, it was found that the superior portion of the nerve was drawn upwards along with them. The external277 WOUNDS OF THE NERVES. wound healed kindly, but the nerve did not re-unite, and a bulbous knot, similar to what existed before the operation, has again formed upon its upper extremity. Many anomalous and distressing symptoms arise from wounds involving the lesion of nerves. One of the most fre- quent results is the formidable disease named tetanus, an af- fection which consists in a more or less violent and extensive contraction of the muscles of voluntary motion, attended with tension and rigidity of the parts affected. When its effects are confined to the muscles of the jaw or throat, as is often the case, it is termed trismus or locked jaw ; when the whole body is affected and becomes rigid, but not bent or distorted, the case is more particularly denominated tetanus ; when the body is bent forwards, emprosthotonos, and when backwards opistho- Jonos. Other subdivisions marking the particular scat and extent of the disease have also been employed by authors ; but distinctions more to our present purpose are those into chronic and acute, and into idiopathic and traumatic tetanus. The idiopathic form of the disease is a very rare occurrence in temperate climates ; a warm and moist atmosphere are consi- dered as predisposing to it, and it arises more immediately from cold suddenly applied or long continued. Exposure to the night air during sleep, and sudden transitions from heat to cold, are occasionally found to produce it. In our West India settlements it is a common occurrence both in its idio- pathic and symptomatic forms ; but my own experience in the East Indies does not lead me to consider it so common an occurrence in that climate as some authors would induce us to believe. It appears however, that the frequency and severity of te- tanus, differs greatly even in similar latitudes and localities, horn circumstances not always easily explained. I have frequently had occasion to express my surprise and satisfac- tion at the results of the wounds received at the taking ofMILITARY SURGERY. 278 Java in 1811, and from a memorandum kept by Dr. Bade- nach, who was then assistant surgeon of the 59th regiment, I am enabled to state, that out of 150 Europeans wounded at the attack on Fort Cornelius near Batavia, only one tetanic case occurred ; while from the same gentleman I learn that in a small detachment which proceeded to Macassar, out of eight or ten men wounded, two died of tetanus ; and it ap- pears from an essay published in 1817 by Mr. Schaw, that he had occasion to witness a large proportion of tetanic cases amongst the wounded Europeans and sepoys employed in a successful attack upon Sambas, a piratical Malay town in the island of Borneo. In all tropical climates, wounded persons, particularly if exposed during the night, are liable to be at- tacked by tetanus ; it is said to be particularly apt to super- vene upon contused, lacerated, and punctured wounds about the fingers and toes or other tendinous parts, upon gunshot wounds in the course of the nerves, and upon injuries of the joints. Baron Larrey has observed the frequency of this disease in Egypt, where he says that “ this affection was more intense, and bore a greater resemblance to hydrophobia, than in the colder climate of Germany.” Exposure to the cold, moist, nocturnal air, he found particularly conducive to it, and that it was most prevalent in damp situations adjacent to the Nile or to the sea. In speaking of the traumatic tetanus, Baron Larrey remarks that when it originated from wounds injuring nerves on the fore part of the body, cmprostliotonos was occasioned; when the posterior nerves were hurt, opistholonos ; and that when the wound extended quite through a limb, so as to injure equally both descriptions of nerves, complete tetanus ensued. The Baron’s remarks upon this point have hitherto been so little supported by the experience of others, that I am parti- cularly desirous to turn the attention of future observers to his statements regarding the causes and comparative frequency ofWOUNDS OF THE NERVES. 27‘J the different forms of this disease ; and that there may be no risk of misrepresenting the Baron’s views, the following pas- sage is introduced from the first volume of his C linique Chi- rurgicale. “ Dans les blcssures qui causent le tetanos trau- matique, si ce sont les nerfs de la region anterieure du corps qui out etc leses, j’ai remarque qu’il en resulte l’emprostho- tonos ; que l’opisthotonos au coutraire a lieu lorsque ce sont les nerfs de la region postcrieure qui ont re^u la lesion, et qu’enfin si la cause vulnerante a traverse un mcmbre de ma- mcre a attaquer egalement les deux plans de nerfs, le teta- nos complet s’etablit, en jctant l’individu dans une rectitude totalc.” The attack of tetanus is for the most part sudden, and with- out any premonitory symptom ; it is sometimes, however, pie- ceded by lassitude and uneasiness, want of sleep, faintness, and dimness of sight,- frequently also by constipation oi the bowels. There is a peculiar dejection and anxiety of counte- nance from the commencement of the attack ; the patient complains of a sense of tightness about his jaws, the muscles moving the lower jaw become rigid and constantly contract- ed ; deglutition becomes difficult, and the spasms increasing and affecting the muscles of the tongue, it is sometimes forci- bly protruded between the teeth and not unfrequently bitten through. The spasmodic affection gradually reaches to the neck and back, and the whole body becomes affected with ri- gid spasm. A shooting pain is experienced from the ensiform cartilage towards the spine, and this is held to be a pathogno- mic symptom of the disease, almost cveiy writer on this sub- ject having mentioned it, from the time of Hippocrates down- wards. When patients labouring under tetanus have arrived at their worst stage, they very often have a great aversion to liquids, and if forced to swallow them, convulsions are almost immediately excited ; hence the analogy which has been fre- quently remarked between this disease and hydrophobia. ButMILITARY SURGERY. 280 in two points these diseases, as they have fallen under my ob- servation. exhibit a considerable difference. While in cases of hydrophobia, the mind appears agitated and acutely sensible to every external impression, it is, in many cases of tetanus, perfectly tranquil, firm, and undisturbed, even until death. In most cases of hydrophobia, the pulse is quickened, and other febrile symptoms present; whereas, in many instances of tetanus, the pulse, unless previously raised by the injury whence the tetanus originates, deviates little or nothing from a natural standard. Dr. Parry, who has published some cases of tetanus and rabies contagiosa, is of opinion that we may estimate the dan- ger in proportion to the quickness of the pulse, and observes, that “ If in an adult the pulse by the fourth or fifth day does not reach a hundred beats in a minute, I believe the pa- tient almost always recovers; if, on the other hand, the pulse on the first day is one hundred and twenty or more in a min- ute, few instances, I apprehend, will be found in which he will not die.” This, however, is not consonant to the observa- tion of others. Thus, Dr. Morrison of Newry, who prac- tised several years in Demerara, and saw numerous instances of the disease in that colony, says, “ I recollect the pulse, in tl'.e absence of spasm, at ninety-eight in a boy who fell a vic- tim to the disease on the third day ; but I cannot say that I have ever remarked it higher than this, either in cases which terminated fatally or in those which recovered.” Dr. M‘Lagan, Physician to the Forces, in an excellent essay upon tetanus, remarks, “As far as I have been able to learn, either from my own experience or that of others, there is no disease in which the pulse can less safely be taken as a guide, as to its probable event; in many cases of tetanus, indeed, the pulse, except during the violence of the paroxysm, or towards the fatal termination of the disease, is little affected.” This is so perfectly coincident with my own experience.TETANUS. 2H1 that 1 cannot but look upon the pulse as affording us very little assistance in forming a prognosis. The violence, ex- tent, and duration of the spasms,—the sudden accession of the disease,—and the rapidity ofits increase, are the circumstances which should lead us to an unfavourable prognosis; while, its more gradual approach,—the spasms being more circum- scribed and confined to fewer muscles,—the remissions more frequent and of longer continuance,—the patient enjoying sound sleep,—the cutaneous, the focal, and urinary secre- tions continuing natural, or obedient to the powers of medicine, are the circumstances which, in a few, a very few cases, forebode a favourable termination. Although tetanus has been considered as more peculiarly incident to punctured wounds in tendinous parts, yet it oc- casionally supervenes upon every variety of wound, from the most slight and simple, to the most severe and complicated ; in every kind ox texture, and in some cases even where the injury has been so slight as to pass unnoticed. Four re- maikablc cases, three of them fatal, have lately been men- tioned to me, by an experienced army surgeon ; in two of these tetanus supervened on superficial abrasions scarcely pene- trating beyond the cuticle, in a third, on a slight scratch from a razor in shaving, and in the fourth upon the wound made in tapping a hydrocele. There is unfortunately no- thing generally remarkable in the state and progress of wounds, which can lead the most attentive observer to anticipate the attack of the disease, and its invasion occurs also at periods very uncertain. In Rees’s Cyclopaedia a case is recorded, on the authority of the late Professor Robison of this University, in which a negro who had scratched his thumb with a broken china plate, died of tetanus in a quarter of an hour after this slight injury ; but the more usual period of its attack is from to the twentieth day. Sir J. M‘Grigor, in his paper upon the health of the Peninsular army, states, as the general resultMILITARY SURGERY. 2U2 of the experience of that army, “ that if tetanus does not oc- cur for twenty-two days from the date of the wound, the pa- tient is safe.” Instances have however occurred of its super- vening at a later date, and even the complete closure of the wound has not always proved a complete safeguard. The occurrence of tetanus in wounds, and of every degree of nervous disorder, from the most trivial local twitches, up to spasms of a whole limh, and general convulsions, were in for- mer times attributed almost exclusively to the partial division of nerves. This doctrine, however, practitioners have been in some measure compelled to relinquish, from having had many opportunities of witnessing the partial lesion of nerves and tendons without any corresponding degree of subsultus tendi- num or tetanus ; and also from having repeatedly failed in re- lieving such symptoms when they did occur, by the complete division of the nerves partially injured ; a practice to which surgeons were naturally led by the foregoing hypothesis. It is certain also, that the partial lesion of nerves has in many instances given rise to affections of a chronic and anomalous kind altogether different from tetanus ; and of such singular and anomalous affections, numerous instances are recorded in the writings of Dr. Hennen, Mr. Guthrie, and other military surgeons. The researches of pathologists have unfortunately thrown but little light upon the nature of tetanus, and one of them has expressed his apprehensions, that “ the extension of our investigations will he the abridgment of our hopes of cure.” 01' the few successful cases on record, perhaps not one half have been treated on the principles deduced from any pre- conceived pathological views, the method of cure having been taken up, on the purely empirical ground of experience and imitation. Tetanus is by all authors, I believe, allowed to be principally an affection of the nervous system, and some recent authorities, particularly Mr. Carmichael of Dublin, seem to be 4TETANUS. 283 of opinion, that the great sympathetic nerve is more immedi- ately the scat of the disease, those muscles being chiefly affected whose nerves communicate extensively with the sympathetic. Perhaps the opinion most generally entertained by modern pathologists refers this disease to an inflammatory affection of the spinal marrow, and in support of this opinion, Baron Lar- rey asserts, that in numerous dissections of soldiers, carried off by tetanus, particularly some of those who died from their wounds after the battle of Waterloo, he has constantly ob- served an inflammatory disposition of the spine. “ Nous ont constamment presente des traces bien evidentes d’inflamma- tion sur la moelle epiniere, avec epanchement plus ou moins sensible de serosite rougeatre dans le rachis.” Amongst the most strenuous supporters of the opinion that tetanus has its seat in the spinal marrow, is Dr. Robert Reid of Dublin, the author of an essay on tetanus and hydrophobia, whose views upon this subject have led him, and fortunately also led others, into a consideration of the comparative frequency of this disease amongst soldiers and amongst seamen. Dr. Reid first supposes, that tetanus is more incident and more fatal to soldiers than to sailors, and then adopts the following theory to account for this. “It is,” he observes, “ a remark- able circumstance that this dreadful malady is very seldom met with, even in its slightest stages, in the navy, while it is found generally fatal to military men ; and it may be useful to take notice of a circumstance which gives a predisposition in sol- diers to this disease, and to which sailors are not exposed. We observe that soldiers are unavoidably obliged to carry a certain portion of their luggage in their knapsacks on their backs and he adds, “ that circumstances analogous to this would seem to account for horses being more liable to this dis- ease than any other quadruped.” Upon this, the reviewers ironically remark, that some measures should be taken to un- load the spine and its vessels, by those official personages toMILITARY SUROERY. 284 whose province it peculiarly belongs to attend to those weighty concerns ; and they suggest the propriety of transferring the burdens to the bellies of the men and horses, which would di- minish the chances of tetanus, and obviate the calls to hun- ger, by pressure on the stomach, after the fashion of the In- dian warriors. Dr. Reid seems to have overlooked the fact, that military officers are not less liable to tetanus than their men, although they carry no loads upon their backs ; and he would have done well to have ascertained the truth of the supposed exemption of naval men from tetanus, before indulg- ing himself in such speculations. w e are informed by Sir Gilbert Blane, that the number of 'wounded in the action of April 1782, in the West Indies, was 810, of whom 20, or about 1 in 40 were attacked with tetanus, 17 of whom died. In the army in the Peninsula from December 1811 to June 1814, 20,886 wounded sol- diers were admitted into the regimental hospitals. Sir James M‘Grigor has not been able to state to us how many of them died of tetanus; but we find from his valuable paper to which I have so often had occasion to refer, that no more than 506 of these men died of their wounds. Now, if we suppose that every one of these individuals was carried off by tetanus, still it will not amount to the proportion ob- served in the navy, being little more than 1 in 41. Making every allowance for the West India climate on the one hand, and for the deaths which may have been unnoticed or unre- ported on the other, still we have no reason to suppose that soldiers are more peculiarly liable to the disease than sailors, or that it is slighter or less fatal in the one service than the other. Even admitting that the year 1782 was peculiarly productive of tetanus, and the years 1812-13-14 peculiarly the reverse, still we shall find that there are no grounds for Dr. Reid’s assertion, “ that tetanus is very seldom met with, even in its slightest stages, in the navy.” Although it appearsTETANUS. 285 from a paper by Dr. Dickson in the Medico-Chirurgical Transac- tions, that tetanus was much less common in the fleet in the West India islands of late years than formerly, yet we know, that after the action at Copenhagen in 1801, as large a pro- portion of tetanic cases occurred in the fleet as after any land- battle whatever. Our treatment of tetanus, it must be admitted, is, in gene- ral, as unsuccessful as our pathology is imperfect; but it is proper to state, that with a view of subduing this intractable malady, bloodletting, purgatives, cold and warm bathing, opium, mercury, camphor, musk, tobacco, digitalis, wine, ardent spirits, and many other remedies have been recom- mended. Nothing, however, can more clearly prove the want of an effecual remedy for the disease, than the enumeration of a list of articles, many of them so opposite in their effects. Were I to specify any one of the above articles, of which I think more highly than another, it would be opium; which may be exhibited in this disease, to an extent to which in other cases we would not think of pushing it. I have given it to the extent of two grains every hour, which is per- haps the smallest dose from which we can expect any bene- fit ; and if from a relaxation of the spasms, while at the same time no appearance of coma or delirium occurs, we are encouraged to persevere in the exhibition of opium, the dose may be greatly increased, taking care to obviate costiveness by the exhibition of powerful purgatives and glys- ters, amongst which the turpentine and tobacco injections are particularly recommended. As proofs of the extent to which opium may be given with safety in cases of tenanus, I may refer to a case stated by Dr. Mackie of Southampton, in the twentieth volume of the Medical Commentaries, where a pa- tient of fifteen years of age, suffering from tetanus, in con- sequence of a wound in the forearm, took three and a-half ounces of laudanum in the space of twenty-four hours ;MILITARY SURGERY. 28G and in a case detailed in the second volume of the Mcdico- Chirurgical Transactions, by Mr. Harkness of Ratcliffe, the patient continued to take for a period of twenty-six days, at the rate of one ounce of laudanum daily, besides a very li- beral supply of wine and porter. Indeed, as I conceive it right in every instance of tetanus to give a trial to opium, it seems to me equally right to push it at once with an unsparing hand to the fullest extent; the risk which a pa- tient may run from an overdose of the medicine can scarcely exceed the risk which he runs from the uncontrolled progress of the disease. One of the remedies which has lately been most confidently spoken of in the cure of tetanus, is an infu- sion of tobacco in the form of a bath ; and several very inter- esting cases in support of this practice are detailed by Dr. Anderson of Trinidad, in the first and second volumes of the Transactions of the Medico-Chirurgical Society of Edinburgh. Of the local applications to lacerated or punctured wounds complicated with tetanus, warm anodyne fomentations, and large emollient cataplasms, are perhaps the best; but besides these, blisters in the immediate neighbourhood of the wound, or the blistering ointment applied to the wound itself, have been employed for the purpose of re-establishing the purulent secretion, which, in cases of tetanus, has b&en observed to be altered, interrupted, or suppressed. Baron Larrey has, in conformity with his views of the disease, recommended the use of caustics, actual and potential, both in the neighbour- hood of the wound and along the course of the spine. When the foreefoinrr measures fail to make a favourable impression on the disease, it is not surprising that the di- vision of the principal nervous trunks supplying the wounded part, or the removal of the limb, should have been attempted. These are steps which, from the fullest consideration of the evidence both for and against the measure, we have no very great encouragement to undertake; at the same time, if prac-TETANUS. •287 tisccl in a very early stage of the disease, there is some reason to think that amputation might not unfrequently succeed in arresting its progress. In those cases where it has been adopt- ed, it has naturally been resorted to with reluctance, as a desperate remedy, when the disease has been allowed to gain head by the lapse of time consumed in the fruitless ex- hibition of internal remedies ; and w'hen, indeed, the veiy ex- hibition of these remedies,—the continued use of large opiates, of wine, and of porter,—has perhaps brought the system into a state little likely to benefit by the operation. In short, my own experience of the effect of amputation in tetanus arising from lacerated or punctured wounds, is not sufficient to enable me to speak with confidence of its effect; nor, in scrutinizing the writings of practical surgeons, have I seen any thing to convince me, that this operation has yet had a sufficient trial in that very early stage of the disease in w'hich alone I should expect it to be successful. The diminished number of tetanic- cases which have occurred amongst the wounded, since the practice of immediate amputation became generally establish- ed throughout the army and navy, is, I think, a strong argu- ment in favour of a farther trial of this remedy in the early and acute form of the disease. A partial success has induced Baron Larrey to advise this operation in the chronic form of tetanus ; but in this state of the disease, I believe all the English surgeons, and particu- larly Sir A. Cooper, have expressed their disapprobation of it. The uncertain efficacy of so severe a remedy, and the occa- sional possibility of curing this form of the disease by milder means, will for ever prove insuperable objections to this practice. The following statement of staff-surgeon Bontflovrer, with re- ference to the state of the wounded under his care after the bat- tle of Toulouse, gives too true a picture of the treatment and general result of cases of traumatic tetanus. “ Five cases of tetanus occurred ; in one, the cold bath was the principal reme-MILITARY SURGERY. 288 tly ; in a second, amputation was performed ; in the third, the warm bath and pulv. ipecac, comp, were used; in the fourth case, opium and aether in excessive quantities were exhibited ; and in the fifth, tinct. digitalis and bleeding were adopted ; the result in all was fatal.” Having never had the good fortune to witness the cure of a case of symptomatic tetanus, I cannot prolong my observations on this subject with any satisfaction to myself, nor, I apprehend, with any advantage to others; and have only to recommend that, in the present state of our knowledge of this disease, in which the mode of treatment must be entirely experimental, we should adopt that line of practice in which we may be disposed to confide, and pursue it without deviation, unmixed, as far as possible, with any other. By this means we are soonest likely to get rid of use- less remedies, and to come to the knowledge of those upon which any reliance can be placed. WOUNDS OF THE HEAD AND SPINE. From the vital importance of the brain, wounds of the sub- stance of this organ, and even those affecting it indirectly through the medium of the scalp and the cranium, have al- ways craved a large share of attention from those surgeons most distinguished in the civil department of the profession ; and the statement of a distinguished military writer, that “ one half of those wounded in the head are left dead in the field, or perish before assistance can be procured,” show's that the injuries of this kind indicted by the sabre, shot, and shells, must ever be held of paramount importance to the army surgeon.289 WOUNDS OF THE HEAD. In the treatment of simple incised and lacerated wounds of the scalp, when the cranium, the brain, and its membranes have not sustained any injury, the wound, however formidable it may appear from its length, does not bear any proportion- ate depth,—it is wholly within our view, is easily accessible to every necessary examination, and readily admits of the re- moval of foreign bodies, or whatever other steps may be ne- cessary, previous to our bringing its edges into apposition ; hence, such wounds are free from some of those difficulties which we experience in the treatment of wounds in other parts of the body. The saving of every portion of integuments which may be detached from the subjacent bone, in consequence of incised or lacerated wounds of the scalp, was one of those improvements in surgery, which was almost universally adopted, so soon as it was proposed ; and it is only sur- prising that an improvement so obvious,—an improvement more and more recommended by every succeeding author,— should have been left to be brought into notice by so recent a writer as Mr. Pott; for although some insulated cases, in fa- vour of this practice, may be picked out from preceding writers, it was the good sense and authoritative character of Mr. Pott, which led to the general practice of saving and re- placing portions of the scalp detached by accidental wounds. It is singular, however, that Mr. Pott, who saw so distinct- ly, and inculcated so forcibly the propriety of laying down the scalp in such cases, and promoting its adhesion, should have failed to extend his principles to those cases in which the scalp is artificially and purposely raised to admit of a more per- fect examination of the bone, or to make room for the applicr- tion of the trepan. We are now so well aware of the use of the scalp in affording protection and nourishment to the subjacent parts, as well as in accelerating the cure, that we have no hesi- tation in extending to all wounds of this region, whether inter.- u t290 MILITARY SURGERY. tional or accidental, the maxim which Mr. Pott knew so well how to express but failed to extend. “ Save and replace every detached portion of scalp which is not so obviously destroyed by contusion, as to render its reunion a matter of impossibility.” As it must frequently remain doubtful how far the vitality of a part is destroyed, the attempt to procure reunion will in almost every case be proper, and wc learn from experience, that even when a sabre wound penetrates so deeply as to se- parate a portion of the cranium along with the integuments, the practice of replacing the detached parts is occasionally followed by reunion. Of this, instances are noticed in Dr. Thomson’s report of the state of the wounded in Belgium, af- ter the battle of Waterloo; and there are several wounds of the cranium figured in the first edition of Hennen's Military Surgery, in which reunion has obviously taken place, after wTounds of this description. I may also refer to a case of very old date, which is quoted from Berengarius by Mr. John Bell, and which he brings forward, in order to found upon it a very unjust piece of criticism on Mr. Meinors, a surgeon at Birmingham, who was the first, in this country, to advo- cate the practice of laying down the scalp after the operation of trepan. There are some circumstances worthy of notice, which fa- vour reunion of the scalp, as for instance, when a flap of the integuments of the cranium is raised from above downwards, or from the coronal towards the basilar aspect of the skull, so as to leave the principal nutritient vessels undivided, it lives and reunites more readily, than when detached in an opposite direction ; and it will readily be understood that re- union is more or less easily accomplished, in proportion as the base of a raised portion of the scalp is more or less extend- ed. When a wound is very extensive or irregular in shape, it is sometimes necessary to have recourse to stitches, for theWOUNDS OF THE HEAD. 291 purpose of retaining the divided parts in accurate apposition ; but in a large proportion of sabre wounds, slips of adhesive plas- ter will be found sufficient, and this remark is also to be extend- ed to many cases of lacerated wounds of the scalp. Although unable to confirm the fact from personal observation, yet it is proper to mention, as an encouragement to the practice of at- tempting reunion in wounds, detaching portions of the crani- um along with the scalp, that such attempts are reported by the German surgeon Klein, to have been more successful when both tables of the skull were implicated, than when the external table only was injured. Wounds which lay bare any portion of the cranium, or in any degree involve its structure, whether inflicted by the sabre, or by a more obtuse instrument, are always to be considered of a hazardous description. But it would appear that the inhabitants of some foreign countries, particularly the natives of New South Wales, recover again and again from wounds of this description, which to a European would inevitably prove fatal. I have in my possession, a cast from the skull of a well-known cha- racter, chief of a considerable tribe to the northward of Syd- ney, in which the whole upper part of the skull, particularly the frontal and parietal bones, are disfigured by deep and extensive exfoliations, the result of blows received from the waddies, or heavy wooden bludgeons, with which the natives of that country fight. These various inequalities appear, at first sight, to bear very much the character of having been produced by some specific disease, and some of my professional brethren are a little sceptical as to the origin assigned to them; but I am induced to believe it to be the true one, from ob- serving that the inequalities are confined exclusively to those portions, of the skull naturally exposed in their mode of fight- mg, that the lamellated and spongy bones of the nose, the al- veolar processes, and other parts usually attacked by syphi- litic disease, were in this instance sound; and also from thcMILITARY SURGERY.- 292 statement of Mr. Drummond, surgeon In the navy, by whose kindness I was favoured with this interesting cast, and who assures me, that “ the gentleman who gave him the head knew almost each occasion on which the various injuries were received.” Mr. Drummond’s letter to me contains some very interesting statements, as to the facility with which the natives of that country recover from injuries of the crani- um, and the habitual indifference with which fractures of the bones in general, are treated by them ; in proof of which, he mentions that “ both their sable majesties of the Sydney blacks are found to have artificial joints in the forearm.” Punctured wounds, from the bayonet or pike, are much less frequent in the head than in the trunk of the body ; and unless inflicted through the orbits, through the face, or towards the base of the skull, they do not in general penetrate deeply ; wounds inflicted by a bayonet, however, on the upper globu- lar part of the head, frequently penetrate obliquely between the integuments and bone, the point of the instrument being turned aside by the latter. In such cases, a puffy erysipelatous swelling of the integuments, with great tension and tenderness of the scalp, are exceedingly liable to occur; and where this is threatened, much may be done to obviate it by judicious incisions or scarifications. By sueh incisions we procure a dis- charge of blood,—we anticipate the effects of that tumefaction and tension which so generally occur in such wounds,—we prevent perhaps the formation, and at any rate the lodg- ment, of matter over the bone. The supervention of erysipelatous inflammation on wounds of the scalp, is an occurrence extremely common, and liable to frustrate our views of reunion. This has been attributed to the peculiarly dense texture of the scalp, or to the tendinous expan- sion of the occipito-frontalis muscle being implicated in the wound. The employment of stitches has been spoken of by some, and the use of adhesive straps by others, as if theyWOUNDS OF THE HEAD. 293 alone were the cause of erysipelatous inflammation superven- ing upon the wounds of the scalp ; but the numerous in- stances which we see of erysipelas supervening on punctured wounds of the head, where neither stitches nor straps are em- ployed, seem to me a sufficient refutation of this opinion. But it is enough for our present purpose, to notice the fact, .and to state, that the most effectual means of sub- duing it, arc the free discharge of blood from the wound, or from its immediate neighbourhood ; the employment of mer- curial and saline purgatives ; antimonials in nauseating doses ; cold saturnine lotions to the head ^ the most abstemious diet; and rigid abstinence from wine or spirituous liquors. In gunshot wounds of the head, the injury is seldom con- fined to the scalp, but is found to implicate the bone or the brain itself, and to give rise to the symptoms familiarly known to surgeons as those of Concussion or Compression of the brain. It will therefore be necessary to advert briefly to these before proceeding to the consideration of fractures of the skull, and the lodgment of foreign bodies within the cra- nium. Co7icussion is sometimes the result of a severe blow on the head, in consequence of a solid body impinging against it: in consequence however of the flexibility of the neck, the head yields in some degree to the impetus of a projectile, and hence concussion is less frequently the consequence of wounds than of falls from a height. In the latter case it is possible, and indeed it is not uncommon, that concussion of the brain may take place, although the head itself should not have come in contact with the ground, or with any solid body. The most prominent symptoms are an immediate abolition of sense and motion; the pulse weak, slow, and intermitting, the respira-* tion languid, sometimes scarcely perceptible ; the iris is insen- sible to the stimulus of light; and the extremities cold and lclaxcd. These symptoms are sometimes transient, and inMILITARY SURGERY. 294 slight cases disappear without any surgical aid. There arc some extreme cases in which the use of stimulants, wine, or brandy and water, administered in small quantities, may be necessary to renovate the sinking powers; these, however, are to be used with a sparing hand, and to be withheld the mo- ment that the immediate danger from collapse is over, and symptoms of reaction commence. In proportion as the im- mediate stupefaction consequent upon the injury subsides, the pulse rises, the respiration becomes more perceptible, some- times laborious, the heat of the limbs returns, the pupils con- tract, the patient evinces an unusual degree of impatience of temper, is averse to answer questions, or answers them in a hurried manner; he becomes restless, is deprived of sleep, and complete delirium often supervenes, denoting an inflammatory state of the brain, or its membranes. This is what every concussion, not immediately fatal, is liable to terminate in ; this is what should induce us to be very guarded in the use of stimulants in the first instance, from a fear of aggravating the subsequent inflammation, and this it is which calls for the abstraction of blood,—the exhibition of purgatives,—of anti- monial sudorifics,—the exclusion of light from the patient’s chamber,—perfect rest and the most rigid abstinence. The employment of bloodletting in concussion of the brain, requires much discrimination. In cases where the concussion is so severe as to produce any organic lesion of the brain, or (to lacerate any of its tender vessels, bleeding may in the first instance obviate internal hemorrhage, and subsequently pre- vents the excess of inflammatory action ; on the other hand, if too early employed, as is sometimes the case, it may con. vert a temporary into a fatal collapse, and if unduly persevered in, it may suspend the salutary action of the capillary vessels upon which the repair of the injury depends. In young and vigorous subjects, it will readily be understood, that bleeding, p all points of view, is more admissible than in old soldiersWOUNDS OF THE HEAD. 295 subject to any chronic infirmity, or in habitual drunkards liable to delirium tremens. The use of antimonials in cases of concussion was much insisted on by some of the French writers, and is now become a very common practice. Desault remarks, that whether the medicine acted as an emetic, produced a copious perspiratiou, or operated by stool, its effects were found to be equally bene- ficial, and much of its salutary operation was ascribed not merely to_ the evacuations procured, but to its producing a counter-irritation and excitement in parts distant from the head. Upon this principle of exciting counter-irritation, the applica- tion of blisters to the scalp is not unfrequently employed by surgeons in the inflammatory stage of concussion, but it has always appeared to me, that the vessels on the outside of the skull which we wish to excite, and those on the inside of it, the action of which we wish to allay, are too nearly contiguous, and too intimately connected by anastomosis, particularly in young subjects, to enable us to produce upon them effects directly opposite. Are not the beneficial effects of cold lotions, and ice bladders to the head, so commonly resorted to in cases of phrenitis, directly at variance with the principles upon which blisters are recommended ? Do not the cold applica- tions which I have mentioned operate by repressing the inor- dinate action of the vessels, both without and within the skull ? And is it not upon this principle, the speedy evaporation and consequent cold, that the application of ether to the fore- head and temples is found sometimes to relieve a headach ? The injury to the brain, which is strictly termed concus- sion, when not fatal, is always of a temporary and transient na- ture ; and it is the inflammatory disposition succeeding to it, or what, according to some writers, constitutes the second stage of concussion, which ought to be the chief object of anxiety and interest to the surgeon. Compression of the brain again is of a more permanent cha-296 MILITARY SURGERY. racter, and although proceeding from different sources, its na- ture and symptoms are essentially the same; differing, how- ever, greatly in their severity, and in the period of their acces- sion. They may either supervene immediately after the accident, or come on at a more remote period, according as the pressure is induced by the immediate depression of the bone, or by tbe gradual effusion and accumulation of fluids within the skull ; and this will again be more or less rapid as it proceeds from a ruptured vessel of greater or less calibre, or as it results from an accumulation of matter in consequence of suppuration. The symptoms of compression are in a great measure the same as those which have already been enumerated as indicat- ing the first stage of concussion, and they are nearly allied to those enumerated by medical writers, as characteristic of apo- plexy. In severe cases, every circumstance concurs to denote insensibility,—the patient lies in a state of stupor,—his limbs relaxed as if recently dead,—he evinces no feeling of pain, nor is it possible to rouse him, or induce him to answer questions,— the pulse is slow and oppressed,—the pupils of the eyes dilated ; and the iris insensible to the stimulus even of a strong light,— the breathing is laborious, slow, and stertorous,—the faces and urine often escape involuntarily, and the patient is some- times paralytic in one or more members, the paralysis existing on the side opposite to that on which the injury has been sustain- ed. From this it will be seen that no very marked criterion ex- ists between the symptoms of concussion of the brain and those of compression, and the diagnosis is to be drawn, not so much from any intrinsic difference in these symptoms as from acci- dental circumstances. It may be remarked in general, that concussion supervenes more immediately after the accident, and is more transitory in its nature, while compression in many cases supervenes later, and is more permanent. In military practice, the causes of concussion are comparatively less frequent, while the causes ol207 WOUNDS OF THE HEAD. 7 compression are often more obvious than in civil life ; and it is so far fortunate for the army surgeon, that a large proportion of those cases of injuries of the brain which come under his no- tice, are accompanied with wounds of the integuments of the head, admitting an examination of the bone, and enabling him to ascertain immediately whether the symptoms depend upon depression ; for if such depression docs occur, it must he immediately under, or contiguous to the part struck. Although what are called counter-fractures, or fractures which occur in a part of the cranium distant from that which received the blow, are capable of producing pressure on the brain, in consequence of the laceration of vessels or the subse- quent formation of matter, yet such counter-fractures arc never in the first instance attended with depression, and do not re- quire immediate operation. In a very large proportion of such cases, the mischief is situated towards the basis of the cranium, totally beyond the reach of the trepan, and almost necessarily fatal. Indeed it has been stated by Mr. Earle, and in part confirmed by the experience of Mr. Brodic, that the fracture in cases of contre-coup, generally passes through the occipital hone, and only happens where the blow seems to have operated in such a manner as to impel the oc- ciput forcibly against the atlas. Cases, however, do occur in military practice, and much more frequently in civil life, where without any severe or very conspicuous appearance of mjury externally, symptoms of oppressed brain supervene, the patient never recovering from the first effects of the blow. Here concussion and extravasation arc simultaneous, or at least the effects of the one supervene before those of the other have subsided ; and when we have no distinct mark to indicate the precise seat of the injury, the case becomes ex- tremely perplexing. If a patient recovers bis senses and powers of motion after the infliction of a blow on the head, and within a few hours afterwards becomes again affected298 MILITARY SURGERY. with stupor and drowsiness, these symptoms gradually in- creasing, accompanied with insensibility, and assuming alto- gether an apoplectic character, there is every reason to pre- sume that the patient is suffering from extravasation of blood within the skull; and in every urgent case of this kind, the surgeon is, I think, warranted in perforating the cranium, making the part struck the centre of the perforation. This is a practice which some may hardly think justifiable, but in a case of this nature where matters are hurrying on from bad to worse, it appears to me, incumbent on the surgeon to have immediate recourse to an operation, which, from the insensibi- lity of the patient, adds little to his sufferings, and by which we may have the gratification of rescuing him from otherwise inevitable death. These immediate extravasations of blood are naturally most liable to occur from injuries in the course of the meningeal artery, or contiguous to the sutures where the blood-vessels are most numerous; and the symptoms are produced by the immediate effusion of blood making pressure on the brain and origin of the nerves so as to impair or abo- lish sense and voluntary motion. Another set of symptoms are caused by an inflamed or sloughy state of the membranes of the brain, and seldom af- fect the organs of sense until a late period of the disease, or until a considerable quantity of matter is formed, which makes pressure like any other fluid. These latter symptoms attend- ing an inflamed or sloughy state of the membranes of the brain are all of a febrile character, and do not in the first in- stance denote unnatural pressure. The most usual and pro- minent are pain in the head, often described as a firm corded feeling round the forehead, restlessness, want of sleep, frequent and hard pulse, hot and parched skin, flushed countenance, inflamed eyes, intolerance of light, nausea, vomiting, rigors, delirium, and sometimes convulsions. Smart and severe blows on the middle part of the bones, at a distance from the sutures,"WOUNDS OF THK HEAD. 299 are most frequently followed by this kind of mischief, which goes on to the formation of matter within the skull. The obvious indications in the early stages of such cases are, the employment of blood-letting and other antiphlogistic measures, with a view to repress the inflammation and obviate suppura- tion. When this suppuration is limited in quantity, and concentrated round the seat of the injury, relief is occasionally given by the use of the trepan, but it much more frequently happens that the matter formed by this secondary inflamma- tion, is diffused extensively over the surface of the brain or its membranes, and is not to be evacuated by a perforation. Others have no doubt been more fortunate, but it so happens that I have never seen a drop of matter evacuated, nor the smallest relief given by the use of the trepan in such cases. The three kinds of compression which I have now specified from depressed bone, from blood, and from matter, comprise all those commonly arising from the accidents which occur in civil life, and may all take place without any wound in the scalp; but in addition to this, we have to consider, with reference to military practice, the consequences of wounds penetrating the brain, and of foreign bodies lodging within the cranium. Wounds penetrating the brain or its membranes, although not necessarily fatal, must ever be looked upon as cases of the most hazardous description. The symptoms of such wounds, although various, anomalous, and sometimes inexplicable, are to be considered chiefly as of an inflammatory character, and have been already specified. With regard to the treatment, in addition to what has already been said, I would more par- ticularly urge the necessity of being constantly alive to every occasional or periodical aggravation of the symptoms, and the propriety of meeting this by repeated local depletion, by bleed- ing from the temples, or the application of leeches contiguous to the wound. The utility of cold applications in idiopathic inflammations of the brain and its membranes, is establishedMILITARY SURGERY. .100 by long experience, and there is no remedy more appropriate to wounds of this kind, nor of the efficacy of w hich we have better evidence. The eminent Prussian surgeon Schmucker, perhaps the most experienced surgeon who ever w rote on gunshot wounds of the head, places his chief dependance on Cold Lotions, occasion- ally combined with bleeding and stimulant clysters; and the following interesting statement by the late Mr. Rose of the Coldstream Guards, in reference to this point, is highly satis- factory :—“ In the battle of Talavera de la Reyna, which was fought on the 27th and 28th of July 1809, the brigade of guards lost about 600 men in killed and wounded. Amongst the latter were a considerable number of cases of wounds in the head. There were a great many cases of fracture of the bones of the cranium with and without depression, and from the cause which produced them, these were, of course, in every instance complicated with wounds of the scalp. “ On the 3d of August, in consequence of some military movements, the town of Talavera, in which the hospital had been formed, became exposed, and an order was given for all the wounded who could march, to leave it. This was so speedily obeyed that no time was afforded to make any selec- tion. The worst cases necessarily remained, but among those who undertook the march there were twelve or fourteen with wounds in the head, accompanied with injuries of the bone, at least four or five of whom had both tables of the skull fractured, and two of them, along with fracture of the os fron- tis, had each the globe of one eye totally destroyed. In none of them had the trephine been applied, nor had any attempt been made to remove splinters of bone. After leaving Tala- vera, they were exposed to a burning sun, and to very severe latigue. Every evening, after the day’s march, Mr. Rose col- lected the wounded round him, examined and washed their wounds, dressing with care those that particularly required it.301 WOUND'S OF THE HEAD. Cold water was the principal application employed. The re- treat occupied sixteen days, in spite of which, and with no other treatment than that which has been described, every one of those who were wounded in the head recovered.11 It is here distinctly stated by Mr. Rose that a great propor- tion of his cases were, as generally happens in like circum- stances, cases of what may be termed compound fractures of the skull. The distinction and difference in point of danger between simple and compound fracture, which is so well understood in other parts of the system, is not less applicable to injuries of the head, and it is peculiarly important with reference to the prac- tice to be followed in cases where portions of the bone are de- pressed or driven in upon the brain. In such cases, when the fracture is simple, the general rule is not to perform an opera- tion for elevating the bone unless the presence of urgent symp- toms demands it. In cases of compound fracture, on the con- trary, with any considerable depression, it is advisable to ele- vate the bone immediately, as a likely means of relieving the brain, and obviating not only present evil, but future bad con- sequences. This is the rule which appears to me most con- sonant to the dictates of common sense, it is the practical rule inculcated by Sir Astley Cooper’s extended experience, and it is the conclusion come to by Mr. Brodie, contrary to his ori- ginal prepossessions, and after comparing deliberately a great number of cases bearing upon this point. We have now to advert to those cases where we find balls or other foreign bodies altogether within the skull, or lodged in its substance. In this last position, leaden balls have often been found flattened, or partially split, sometimes one portion of the same ball without and another within the skull, or a ball has been completely split, one portion flying off, and an- other lodging. When such objects are easily accessible, it is our obvious duty to remove them immediately, even on the field ; but whether in the event of balls lodged wholly withinMILITARY SURGERY. 3 02 the cranium, it be in all cases advisable to institute a pro- tracted search for them, requires some consideration. Every surgeon will, I am persuaded, be disposed to make the at- tempt ; but before commencing an unguided search after them, it becomes us seriously to weigh the additional injury which we may inflict. On the one hand, we have numerous cases recorded in the writings of Quesnay, of Larrey, of Hen- lien, and of other military surgeons, in which balls and other metallic bodies have been extracted from the cranium with suc- cess ; on the other hand, there are numerous instances both of pointed bodies and of musket balls remaining imbedded in the brain, even for months or years ; and in some such cases, the extraction of the foreign body has been immediately fol- lowed by alarming symptoms which did not previously exist, and even by fatal consequences. In favour of immediate extraction, amongst other interest- ing cases, a very remarkable one is recorded by Baron Larrey, in which he traced a musket ball by means of an elastic bou- gie, from its entrance at the frontal sinus to its lodgment un- der the lambdoidal suture, and by a corresponding measure- ment externally, he was enabled to apply the trepan over its site, to extract it with facility, and to relieve his patient from the symptoms of compression under which he laboured. This may be compared with another case referred to by the same writer, in which a portion of the blade of a javelin lodged in the brain for fourteen years, and was successfully extracted at the end of that period. This case may again be contrasted with one recorded in Turnbull’s Naval Surgeon, in which a portion of an iron spindle, three inches long, remained sunk for a period of eight years, in the orbit and brain of a child, and where febrile symptoms ending fatally supervened upon its extraction. So various indeed are the results of cases in which foreign bodies have been lodged within the cranium, and so little hasWOUNDS OF THE HEAD. 303 hitherto been clone to systematize this subject, that I consider the profession deeply indebted to Mr. Brodie for the interest- ing analysis which he has recently given of the cases of v wounded brain, and of musket balls lodged within the cra- nium. I regret, however, to think, that I cannot altogether concur in the conclusions which Mr. Brodie has drawn from t these cases in favour of non-interference. “ Ought we not,” he says, <c to regard it as the general rule, that the extraction iof a ball should not be attempted; an exception to the rule being made only in those cases in which, from its mere super- Ificial situation, and other circumstances, the extraction can be •easily accomplished without the employment of force, and ^without adding in any degree to the mischief already done.” 'Now, I see so many sources of danger, and so little chance of ^ultimate safety for a patient with a ball lodged in his brain, that nothing will ever induce me to leave it there, except the ^impossibility of finding it. I do not, of course, mean to ad- vocate a random search with the probe through an organ like the brain, in which, if it does not find an opening, it will readily make one. But whenever we have a distinct view of the course of a ball, and when its site can be ascertained with facility and precision, I am of opinion that it ought to be ex- tracted even at the risk of some additional injury ; in short, the prohibition of violence ought rather to apply to the search after balls, than to the operation of extracting them. We see many instances of soldiers and others who have heen wounded in the head, remaining ever afterwards liable, upon the least excitement, to dangerous inflammatory and maniacal attacks, particularly in those cases where portions of •hone are forced in upon the brain, or other mechanical injury done to it; and although it appears from Mr. Brodie’s state- ipent, that of ten cases of balls lodged in the brain, six re- covered without extraction, yet this, as lie justly observes, “.affords no information as to the actual rate of mortality inMILITARY SURGERY. 304 cases of this description, the fatal cases being for the most part regarded as too much a matter of course to be worthy of pub- lication, while a very different opinion is entertained respecting the cases of recovery.” Itwill readilybe understood, that in the removal of foreign bo- dies lodged within the cranium, the use of the trepan frequently becomes necessary; and although I do not now enter into any details of the operation, but leave the steps of it to be shewn upon the dead body in presence of the class, yet I may re- mark, that the practice of military surgery has, in some de- gree, extended the use of this instrument, and shown its ap- plication to parts of the skull formerly considered dangerous or inaccessible. This must not, however, lead us to recur to that unmeaning perforation of the skull by means of the trepan, which, in former times, was practised with unrelenting perseverance, as if to shew, howT much additional injury the cranium and its contents could sustain ; and to prove, that the means adopted to protect the brain from external injury are altogether superfluous. When wre read the case narrated by Gooch, in which he perforated the cranium no less than thirteen times, and when wtc read another case narrated by Godifredus, in which no fewer than twenty-seven perforations were made, we are almost tempted to believe, that Philip Count of Nassau, who survived this riddling of his skull, was more beholden to a good constitution than to the skill of his surgeon ; that he recovered, in short, in spite of these multi- plied perforations, and not in consequence of them. It ap- pears, however, that Henry Chadborn, who performed this noted operation, was fully sensible of the honour it did him, and in order to secure his claim, obtained the following certi- ficate from the patient:—“ Ego infrascriptus attestor me ab Henrico Chadborn Chirurgo Neoinagncsi postquam vigesies septies mihi caput perforasset recto sanatum fuisse.” It will readily be understood, that I allude to those cases not for iini-WOUNDS OP THE HEAD. 305 tfttion, but in illustration, and in justification of the term by which I have characterised the practice,—an unmeaning per- foration of the skull. Many other cases might be adduced to shew the little inconvenience which patients occasionally sustain from perforating the cranium ; amongst them is one mentioned by Schmucker, where the trepan wras applied eleven times in less than a month, and so little was the patient inconvenienced by this operation, that he hardly ever w'Cnt to bed after it, and upon one occasion actually went to mar- ket within an hour after its performance. While I cannot look upon the operation of trepan as ad- ding, in almost any degree, to the danger of those hazardous cases in which it ought to be employed, while it is an opera- tion neither painful to the patient, nor difficult to the surgeon, we must not be hurried by this into an undue partiality for its performance, hut must always bear in mind the sentiments of the Danish surgeon, Callisen, as expressed in his Systema Ohirurgiae Hodiernae, “ Gravis tamen satis est operatic, cl nunquam, nisi indications sufficients ad sin t, institui debet It should never be forgotten, that apertures made in the cranium, whether by the trepan or otherwise, occasionally give room for the protrusion of those troublesome fungi, termed herniae cerebri, which, although somewhat lightly spoken of by a most distinguished surgeon of the present day, niy ow n experience leads me to look upon as occurrences of a most formidable and hazardous description. It should also be remembered, that there is, generally speaking, but one affection, namely, compression of the brain, which can be removed by the trepan, and perhaps I cannot better conclude my observations on this subject, than by the following remarks from a clinical lecture delivered in the Royal Infirmary some years ago. “As young men, who have necessarily much to read and much to learn, it may be well to caution you here against the extremes into which surgeons have run in esti-MILITARY SURGERY. 306 mating the advantages of artificial interference in injuries of the head. ‘ Look,’ says Mr. John Bell, ‘ into the books of the ancients, and you would believe that every capillary fissure was attended with peculiar danger, and that without the most adventurous operations the patient could not live. Name me,1 says he, c one absurd or cruel measure—the am- putation of large pieces of the scalp—the widening of fissures, —the perforating the cranium with many trepans,—and open- ing the dura mater for every idle suspicion or imaginary pur- pose—name me, any extravagance for which their works do not afford us a precedent.1 ‘ Turn, again,’ says Mr. Bell, 4 to the works of more modern authors, and you would be persuaded that the more violent the fracture the less the danger; that your patient, though he lie in a deadly stupor with fractures of the skull, or deep wounds of the brain, needs but to lie undisturbed or unassisted to insure his perfect re- covery.1 “ Even in very recent times, we find the most distinguished surgeons of the day inculcating practices almost diametrically opposite ; Mr. Pott in England, encouraging a use of the trepan almost unlimited, and Desault in France, latterly renouncing it in toto,—his practice apparently becoming enfeebled as his experience increased. Nothing can possibly be more perplexing to students of surgery, than such differ- ence of sentiment between authors whose practical habits and extensive experience render it difficult to say which of the two is most worthy of your confidence. Nothing ap- pears to me so injurious to the profession as sweeping and indiscriminate conclusions of this kind. When patients are represented as generally or uniformly doing well under op- posite modes of treatment, the public will be apt to conclude, that they would do equally well without either.” Wounds and injuries of the spine, are in many respects allied to those of the cranium ; they sometimes occasionWOUNDS OF THE SPINE. 307 transitory concussion, liable to end, like that of the brain, in inflammatory action, and they also very frequently occa- sion paralysis of the inferior parts of the trunk and of the limbs from compression of the spinal marrow; which may, as in the head, be caused either by depression or displacement of the bone, by the accumulation of fluids within the sheath of the spinal cord, or by the intrusion and lodgment of fo- reign bodies. In those cases of injury of the spine, from cannon and musket shot, incident to soldiers and seamen, and in those accidents which happen more particularly to the latter, by falls from the rigging, the seat of the injury is for the most part conspicuous, and it will readily be un- derstood, that the symptoms vary considerably, as the in- jury is more or less distant from the occiput. In every severe injury of the spine, besides the pain and inflammatory swelling, with its usual concomitant fever, we have paralysis more or less complete of the parts which derive their nerves from the inferior portions of the spinal marrow ; if the injury be above the origin of the nerves, supplying the thoracic muscles, the respiration is impeded ; or if lower down, the respiration may go on freely, while the alvine and urinary evacuations are suspended or impeded. In all parts of the spine, diastases or subluxations are liable to occur, for the most part, followed by inflammatory action, which, in the early and acute stages, often demands blood-letting both general and local, with other antiphlogistic measures. But when the in- flammation appears in a chronic or subacute form, it is best treated by repeated local bleeding, the actual cautery, caustic and blister issues. In the region of the neck, we have occasionally luxations of the vertebra5, ending for the most part fatally. A remark- able example of complete luxation was transmitted to me some years ago, by Mr. Oldknow of Nottingham, in which the displacement took place between the fifth and sixth cervicalMILITARY SURGERY. 308 vertebra?. It was unattended “ with any apparent mechanical injury to the spinal marrow, or its membranes, except wbat nose from pressure; the patient died about the fourth day from suffocation, produced by accumulation of mucus in the aerial passages, which he was unable to expectorate.” In the dorsal and lumbar regions of the spine, dislocations of the vertebra? without fracture are exceedingly rare, although not perhaps, as some have supposed, impossible occurrences. Indeed, we have a remarkable case noticed in Baron Larrey’s works, of a dislocation which occurred between the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebra, in which the patient’s leg was at the same time fractured, but the paralysis was so complete that the fracture was not felt. The lodgment of foreign bodies in the spine, and fractures of the vertebra?, with permanent compression of the spinal marrow, have led to the operation of trepanning the spine, with a view to the relief of such cases ; a practice which has, on the one hand, been advocated by Sir Astley Cooper, and on the other, condemned by Sir Charles Bell in the most unqualified terms. It is quite possible to conceive a case of compound fracture, with depression of the posterior or dorsal arc of a vertebra, in which it would become the sur- geon’s duty to elevate the depressed bone, by the use of the trepan, or of one of Hey’s saws. And I am not prepared to say, that a case might not occur in a very thin or emaciated subject, in which, even although the fracture should be a simple one, the nature of the depression might be so obvious, as to justify the surgeon in cutting down upon it, and taking the necessary means for its elevation. Certain it is, however, that in the common run of practice, either in civil or in mili- tary life, very few cases occur in which the operation of trepan- ning the spine ought to be performed. Such accidents, if not speedily fatal, are for the most part so obscure from the thick- ness of the superincumbent parts, and the adventitious swell-309 WOUNDS OF THE FACE AND NECK. ing from the injury, that we are not warranted in cutting down upon the bone, and converting a simple fracture into a compound one, when, after all, the depression might be found to exist in the anterior or sternal arc of the vertebra ; and when we might have the mortification to find the whole substance of the spinal cord between us and the depression. Sir Charles Bell has well represented the possibility of such an occur- rence ; and a due consideration of it will make us hesitate to subject our patient to a positive evil, without a great probability of doing him good ; the more so, when we are aware that, not- withstanding the very hazardous nature of wounds of the spine, its complete division by the displacement of the vertebra*, has not always proved fatal, of which a very remarkable ex- ample is given by the same distinguished surgeon. WOUNDS OF THE FACE AND NECK. Every surgeon must have observed, that the vascularity of parts in the region of the face, causes them to reunite readily after incised wounds; and this should not only en- courage him to attempt a cure by the first intention, but renders it incumbent upon him, in almost every instance, to do so. Wounds implicating the bones of the face, and those accidents which involve the loosening or complete detachment of the teeth, are often treated successfully by a careful and ac- curate replacement of the parts, and they sometimes heal rapidly without any deformity. The lesion of different nerves, however, sometimes gives occasion to singular paralytic affections or distortions, either temporary or permanent, but these we have no means of obviating. Wounds of the eye, and those in the310 MILITARY SURGERY. neighbourhood of the orbit, or base of the cranium, independ- ently of other peculiarities, are always more or less dangerous, hom their contiguity to the brain, and this circumstance must always be borne in mind in their treatment. W ounds of the cheek which cross the course of the parotid duct, are often followed by salivary fistulas, from the opening of this canal, and it will readily be understood, that this is moic ready to happen when the wound does not penetrate through the cheek ; in fact, one of the most effectual means of obviating this occurrence, is by carrying the incision com- pletely through the check, and thus affording facility for the formation of an internal instead of an external fistula ; or the saliva may be artificially conducted into the mouth by means of a seton. Desault proposed the cure of salivary fistula’, by compressing the parotid gland of the affected side to such a degree as to destroy its function, and to stop the secretion of saliva from it. It seems to me, however, extremely question- able whether patients in general could bear the necessary pressure for this purpose, or whether it could be effectually ap- plied. The numerous operations which have of late years been undertaken for the removal of morbid growths, originating in the antrum, afford very remarkable proofs of the liberties which may be taken both with the soft parts and with the bones of the face. I have never seen, nor do I ever expect to see, such wounds inflicted by accident, as those which I have purposely inflicted and seen others inflict, for the removal of polypous tumours, originating in the cavities of the upper jaw ; and although the result of these cases, of which not less than twelve or fourteen have now fallen under my own obser- vation, is very unsatisfactory, as regards the complete eradica- tion or final cure of the disease, yet the little constitutional disturbance which has often attended these severe and pro- tracted operations, and the rapid and complete closure of the311 WOUNDS OF THE FACE AND NECK. •external wound, have surprised me more than most things which I have had occasion to witness in the practice of my profession. The numerous parts of importance which lie on the fore or sternal aspect of the neck, the large blood-vessels and nerves, the respiratory and alimentary tubes which occupy this re- gion, render its wounds extremely hazardous. In adverting to the relative situation of the trachea and of the carotid ar- teries which are here so much exposed to injury, we may re- mark that the large blood-vessels gradually recede backwards as they advance upwards, or rather that the prominence of the larynx or pomum adami, exposes it more immediately to wounds in the upper part of the neck, and in some degree protects the arteries from injury. Hence the frequent escape of these vessels in attempts at suicide, in consequence of the incisions being made too high. Wounds of the larynx and trachea, although difficult to heal, and liable to give rise to inflammation which may ex- tend downwards into the bronchial, are not in the first instance peculiarly dangerous. In simple incised wounds of this kind, attempts to heal them by the first intention are sometimes successful, and should always be made; but it often happens that after having brought the edges of the wound into accu- rate approximation by plasters or stitches, we are again, in consequence of the irritation, or of emphysema in the neigh- bourhood of the wound, compelled to throw it open, and to permit the patient to breathe through the aperture. We have examples of both the trachea and oesophagus being opened at once by the same wound, and in some rare cases, one of which I had an opportunity of seeing, both these tubes were completely divided by an incised wound. The wound in each of the canals became fistulous, the patient breathed through a silver tube which he wore in the trachea, and which at the time of his meals was withdrawn to make room for the introduction of anMILITARY SURGERY. 312 elastic gum tube into the oesophagus, for the purpose of con- veying into his stomach strong soup or beef-tea, on which he was fed for years. When apertures in the trachea have re- mained long in a fistulous state, the portion of the tube above the wound contracts greatly in diameter, so as to prevent the possibility of closing the wound until the canal is again re- stored by dilatation to its proper dimensions. With this view a series of bougies or plugs progressively increasing in diameter, have in some instances been successfully employed here by Mr. Liston, evincing in a very remarkable manner thejiberty w-hich we can take with these parts in the way of operation; and demonstrating a fact which has often been ob- served, that in examining and dressing wounds about the fau- ces or throat, the tickling sensation produced by treating the parts with extreme delicacy, is less easily borne than more rough handling. Wounds of the primitive carotids, are so generally fatal that it wrere idle to enlarge upon them. We have indeed an instance recorded by Baron Larrey, of an officer wound- ed at the siege of Acre, by a musket shot, said to have opened the common carotid, and in which the patient was saved by one of the artillerymen plugging up the orifice with his fingers until the Baron came to his assistance; but the case is given with so imperfect a detail as to render it but little instructive. In the event of balls or small shot lodging in the region of the neck, we are much hampered in our efforts to remove them by the contiguity of the large vessels and nerves, but, in some cases of this kind, one of which is related by Baron Percy, nature has found a chan- nel for the exit of the ball by its perforating the oesophagus, passing into the stomach, and being ultimately discharged by stool. Wounds on the back part of the neck require no pecu- liarity of treatment; they are not dangerous nor attended with any peculiar symptoms unless they penetrate so deeply as to313 WOUNDS OF THE THORAX. wound the great nerves going down to the axillary plexus, or involve the spinal marrow and its membranes. WOUNDS OF THE THORAX. The expanded surface of the thorax renders wounds of this region very frequent in battle, while the vital importance of the organs lodged within it render them also peculiarly dan- gerous. It has already been observed that the head and up- per part of the trunk are particularly exposed to sabre wounds in rencontres amongst the cavalry ; while the common error, particularly of young soldiers, in levelling too high, may be considered as a circumstance more particularly exposing this cavity to wounds from fire-arms. Superficial wounds of the thoracic region offer nothing very peculiar in their character, nor do they require any particular mode of treatment, if we except the great caution requisite to prevent the inflammation extending to the pleura, the heart, or the lungs. From the contiguity of these important parts, wounds of the thorax, even although not of a very alarming appearance, have occasionally, particularly in those predisposed to pulmonary complaints, terminated fatally, and these fatal terminations are liable to become more frequent in conse- quence of the wounded soldier lying exposed, as he often must do, to the inclemencies of the weather. As an encouraging example, however, to show the very desperate wounds of the thoracic region from which patients occasionally recover, even under the disadvantages of season and external circumstances, I may refer to that of a private of the Royal Artillery, who was wounded by a twenty-four pound shot, while employed in theMILITARY SURGERY. 314 batteries before Antwerp in February 1814. In this case the great pectoral muscle was completely separated from the ribs, the left clavicle, first rib, head of the humerus, and scapula shattered. C£ I removed,” says Sir Andrew Halliday, by whom the case is recorded in the eleventh volume of the Ed- inburgh Medical Journal, “ the broken fragments of the cla- vicle, the whole of the first rib, and the greater part of the head of the humerus. It was my intention to have cut down upon the bone, and to have removed the whole of the fractured part of the humerus, but as this seemed hopeless, and the pa- tient appeared sinking, I contented myself with removing the loose pieces of the scapula that were found in the wound ; and after removing the extravasated blood from the surface of the lungs and pericardium, the fleshy parts were brought together and kept in their position by means of stitches. The patient was carried from the operation-room to a low ward, where be- ing covered over with a blanket and a quantity of hay, he be- gan in a short time to revive considerably. When I visited the General Hospital at Williamstadt in the end of March, I found him in a forward state of convalescence. In August last, I saw this patient at Antwerp, perfectly recovered, and believe he has now {rone to England as an invalid.” Wounds which penetrate the thorax without more or less affecting the contained organs, are comparatively rare, for it is difficult to conceive the impulse of a wounding body, whether it be the edge of a sabre, the point of a lance, a mus- ket bullet, or a splinter of shell, so nicely regulated as to pass through the ribs or intercostal muscles, and not to wound the lungs within. It has indeed occasionally happened that ob- tuse bodies passing apparently through the chest, have, upon more accurate examination, been found not to have opened the sac of the pleura, but to have detached this membrane from the parietes. Of this a very interesting example occurred a few years ago in the neighbourhood of London, in which aWOUNDS OF THE THORAX. 315 gig shaft entered the patient’s left side, traversed the posterior surface of the sternum, and passed out on the opposite side, detaching the pleura from the interior of the ribs, but without perforating this membrane or injuring the lung. To discover whether a wound of this kind had injured the lungs or not, was a point which, in former times, gave occa- sion for the exercise of much ingenuity, and led, as Dr. Hen- nen observes, to the “ waste of time and wax-tapers, in ascer- taining the exit of air through the passage.” But no prac- tical surgeon of the present day will, I presume, be disposed to trust to such a criterion, nor to spend much time in ascer- taining the existence of an occurrence which art can so little obviate. When air issues from a wound in expiration, there is ground for suspecting that the lungs are wounded. But this is not to be considered as an infallible proof of such an injury ; for when there is simply an opening in the chest, without any injury of the lungs whatever, the same symptom may occur, the air which is discharged through the wound during expiration may have previously entered through the same wound in inspiration. Symptoms less equivocal, are,—bloody expectoration,—severe, urgent, and increasing dyspnoea,—in- supportable anxiety and faintness, immediately succeeding the accident. These are the most prominent symptoms of a wounded lung, they are indicative of internal bleeding, which is the great primary danger in such cases. Considering the very vascular texture of the lungs, and the large quantity of blood passing through them, the pro- fuse internal hemorrhage, the extreme faintness and rapid sinking of the patient, are very readily explained. But there arc other circumstances connected with these wounds less easily understood, and there are perhaps few subjects in surgery on which more erroneous opinions have been en- tertained, and more false views promulgated, than on the subject of wounded lungs. Some writers would lead us toMILITARY SURGERY. 31G believe, that in all wounds penetrating the thorax, the whole lung of the wounded side must immediately and inevitably collapse. Others again have stated, as an antithesis to this, that in many such cases, a portion of the lung protrudes from the wound, forming a species of hernia. Both these occur- rences do occasionally take place, but of the particular circum- stances which lead to the one or to the other, I am unable to speak with precision ; and nothing can be more erroneous than to represent either of them as a uniform or necessary conse- quence of such wounds. Other writers, affecting a degree of precision which nature does not always choose to follow, have asserted, that when openings are made into both sides of the thorax, exceeding in diameter the area of the glottis, and thus admitting of the entrance of more air by the wounds than by the trachea, that both lungs must inevitably collapse, that breathing must cease, and the patient die. This view of the matter, which has been advanced with confidence, and thought to afford a ready solution of the different results of wounds penetrat- ing the thorax, will not be easily admitted by those who are acquainted with the singular recoveries which the records of surgery contain, from cases of punctures with the small sword or bayonet, to those where the cavities of the chest have been opened by musket balls passing through the thorax. That wounds even of this desperate kind are not, as has been supposed, instantly fatal, we have recent and interesting proofs in Meniere’s “L’Hotel Dieu de Paris en Juillet et Aout 1830."’ I have already observed, that the immediate danger of penetrating wounds of the thorax is from internal haemorrhage, marked by an extreme sense of oppression and faintness, an increasing difficulty of breathing, a tickling cough, and very frequently bloody expectoration. This last symptom has been generally enumerated as one of those most characteristic of wounds of the lungs* Wherever these organs are penetratedWOUNDS OF THE THORAX. 317 deeply, haemoptysis must occur from the blood finding its way into the larger branches of the bronchia?; but in superficial wounds of the lungs, blood may be effused to a considerable extent without any being expectorated, of which I have seen one remarkable instance. Besides the branches of the pulmo- nary artery within the lungs, another source of haemorrhage in wounds of the thorax, is the intercostal and internal mam- mary arteries. Haemorrhage, from the last mentioned vessel, is exceedingly difficult to detect or to control, and I have seen two instances of fatal bleeding from this source. In wounds of the intercostals, accompanied with fractures of the ribs, the source of the haemorrhage is often obvious, and various expedients have been suggested for its suppression; the passage of a curved needle, armed with a ligature com- pletely round the rib, and compressing the wounded artery by means of a pledget placed over its orifice, and included in the ligature, was an expedient practised by Blench, and by Theden, the Prussian Surgeon-General. The employment of agaric or sponge, with continued compression by the hands of successive assistants, or the compressive purse of Desault, is the plan which has been most generally employed in sup- pressing haemorrhage from the intercostals; but wherever it is possible to secure the bleeding vessel with a ligature by means of the tenaculum or dissecting forceps, it should at once be employed. The tying of a wounded intercostal must neces- sarily be considered as an operation of difficulty, but the de- terminate position of the vessel, running along the inferior margin of the rib, offers some facility in its execution, and when the wound is originally large, or when it has been enlarged for the express purpose, and where the patient is not very corpulent, it may be attempted with considerable chance of success. The accumulation of blood within the thorax from one or other of the sources which I have mentioned, is one of the firstMILITARY .SURGERY. 318 and most immediate dangers resulting from wounds of the chest When the hemorrhage arises from the lungs themselves, wc have no efficient means of commanding it, and can only obviate it by general depletion, and thus diminishing the quantity of blood passing through the lungs;—by substituting, in short, an open haemorrhage from one of the brachial veins, for a con- cealed one within the thorax. And this being the only arti- ficial means to which we can trust, it must be boldly pushed to the utmost limit. Of the extent to which this depletion may be carried with safety and with success, we have some very remarkable cases on record ; besides those mentioned by Le Dran and Schmucker, in the first of which the patient was bled fifteen times, and in the other he was bled four times a-day for eight days successively. In the report on the military hospitals in Belgium, by my predecessor Dr. Thomson, a case is mentioned in which 250 ounces of blood were drawn oft’ by the lancet in eighteen days, exclusive of the quantity abstract- ed by leeches ;—in this case repeated haemorrhages of arterial blood took place by the mouth, which were checked by re- peated venesection. In such cases we should bear in mind the following remarks of Mr. John Bell, who inculcates in his usual energetic manner the practice which every sensible writer on this subject has taught, which every experienced practi- tioner has adopted, and to which alone we can attribute the favourable issue of many formidable cases. “ One thing is very clear, that if you bleed only when the cough and bleed- ing from the lungs return, you never can do wrong; for this is the plain matter : The patient lying struggling be- fore you, is to lose a given quantity of blood ; if it be al- lowed to flow out into the lungs, he may be suffocated; if you draw it from the arm, this suffocation is prevented; if you keep him low enough by bleeding, there will be no blood to spare for this extravasation into the lungs ; if you bleed only when the bloody extravasation returns, you are taking noWOUNDS OP THE THORAX. 319 blooil away but that which you cannot save ; and thus you see, that it is only the most profuse bleeding that can keep your patient from suffocation; and that will be established in your mind as a rule of sound practice, which seemed shocking and dangerous when mentioned in explaining only the general nature of wounds ; you will feel, by such cases, that the French surgeons, (with all their partiality for bleeding,) could hardly, in such a case, go too far.” On the subject of emphysema as a consequence of wounds of the thorax, notwithstanding all that has been written, much obscurity still exists,—an obscurity which is in no degree diminished by the indiscriminate application of this term to two very different affections. Practical writers, however, have abundantly proved, that the virulent controversies and plausible speculations formerly existing on the subject of em- physema, as well as the ingenious devices of air-pumps, sy- ringes, and cupping glasses, recommended for extracting the air, may be disregarded by those engaged in the actual treatment of wounds in the thorax. Speculative men have written upon this subject, as if emphysema was an inevitable consequence of wounds penetrating the thorax, while the fol- lowing declaration is dictated by experience. “ When I first entered,” says Dr. Hennen, “ on the practice of military surgery, the fear of emphysema actually haunted my hours of repose. This fear I have often since witnessed in young men fresh from their studies, and in their search after and treatment of this accident, they have been embarrassed be- yond measure. The plain fact is, that it does not occur per- haps in one case of fifty, and that in a great proportion of the cases where it does occur, under judicious management it is trifling.” This statement will perhaps diminish, in some degree,' the apprehensions which many have been ac- customed to entertain from the occurrence of emphysema; at least this I know, that my own apprehensions from this320 military surgery. cause were much akin to those entertained by Dr. Henncii on his first entering the service, and my own experience in the treatment of wounds of the lungs has led me to the same conclusions which he has drawn. It may however be very naturally and very justly ob- served, that if emphysema occurs but in one case of fifty, we must in such case be prepared to meet it. When in consequence of wounds in the lungs, the air escaping from these organs does not find a ready exit by the external wound, it either accumulates within the sac of the pleura, compresses the corresponding lung, impedes the respiration, and constitutes the disease properly termed pneumothorax; or, finding its way into the cellular membrane, it becomes gradually diffused in the neighbourhood of the wound, con- stituting what is more strictly termed emphysema. This sometimes extends over the whole body, being naturally most liable to accumulate in those parts where the cellular mem- brane is most lax, permeable, and destitute of fat. Hence we find the eyelids, the throat, and scrotum distended to an enormous size, while other parts of the body, particularly the palms of the hands, and soles of the feet, where the air is un- able to overcome the more firm connexion between the skin and subjacent parts, scarcely at all affected; and this partial exemption from swelling, instead of tending to preserve any degree of symmetry in the general appearance, only renders the deformity of face and of figure so much the more remark- able. In extreme cases of general emphysema, the natural contour is altogether lost, and the patient resembles anything but a human being; by tbe great distension of the skin, the body is rendered almost quite rigid and immoveable, and the pressure of the accumulated air on the organs of respira- tion, brings on a sense of suffocation almost insupportable. Of the severity of this suffering some estimate may be formed from the cases mentioned by Sauvage and by Littre. In one ofWOUNDS OF THE THORAX. 321 those, an unfortunate soldier had his body wantonly blown up by some butchers to such a pitch, that he could scarcely move his limbs from the extreme tension of the skin, and his breath- ing was so much oppressed and impeded, that he was obliged to seek relief by making deep incisions with a penknife about the region of the throat. Littre’s case gives a still more ac- curate idea of the extent to which this distension in emphy- sema may be carried. Here the swelling was six inches deep about the neck, eleven inches over the thorax, nine about the abdomen, and four over all the other parts of the body, the scalp, the palms of the hands, and the soles of the feet except- ed. In Larrey’s Clinique Chirurgicale, a plate is given which will perhaps convey a better idea of the appearance of a patient affected with emphysema than any verbal description. Both the affections now described under the terms pneumo- thorax and emphysema, may be coexistent, but it is not so much the extent of the outward swelling as the accumulation of air within the thorax, compressing first the wounded lung, and subsequently the mediastium the diaphragm and the oppo- site lung, which renders these cases so urgent and alarming. In cases where the air contained within the pleura has not escaped from a wound in the lungs, but has entered by the external orifice, we have it in our power to cut off any further supply, by closing the external wound, a practice which should generally be followed in all wounds of this re- gion. I he air will then by the expansion of the lung have a tendency to escape from the cavity of the pleura, and to dif- fuse itself in the cellular membrane adjoining the wound ; a circumstance attended with no danger, and contributing great- ly to relieve the oppressed breathing, inasmuch as the air, instead of being impacted within the parietes of the thorax and pressing wholly upon the lungs, becomes diffused over an extensive surface exterior to the chest ; and from this situa- tion it may always be evacuated if necessary, by scarificationsMILITARY SURGERY. 322 or punctures through the skin. In some cases, it is difficult to determine whether the lungs, from being superficially wounded, do not furnish a part of the air, and hence the pro- priety of closing the external orifice has been questioned. This point may, however, in general, be speedily determined, for if, upon the external wound being closed, emphysema ex- tends into the cellular membrane, while at the same time the difficulty of breathing continues progressively to increase, it is then almost certain that the air is escaping from a wounded lung ; and the rational practice is to remove the dressing, and permit the direct ingress and egress of the air through the wound, until time has been afforded for the wounded air-cells to be closed by the effusion of coagulating lymph, and the supervention of the adhesive inflammation ; an event which will, under favourable circumstances, generally be effected in forty-eight hours. Whenever the closure of the breach in the lung is fairly accomplished, the case then becomes similar to the one already described where the air is wholly admitted by the external wound. If from the oblique or indirect course of a wound through the parictes of the chest, air does not readily escape, but continues to accumulate within the pleura, so as to endanger suffocation, the opening must either be ren- dered more direct, or a new one formed. The practice recom- mended by theoretical writers, of employing exhausting sy- ringes for the removal of air extravasated within the thorax, is now considered superfluous by all practical men, and the possibility of immediately and suddenly expanding a collapsed lung by such contrivances, is disbelieved by the ablest sur- geons. In cases of fractured ribs, instances both of emphysema and of pneumothorax occasionally arise from the lung being wounded by spiculae of bone, and in such cases, a bandage is applied round the thorax, with a view of restraining as much as possible the action of the ribs, and preventing the extension.323 WOUNDS OF THE THORAX. )Ior promoting the closure of the breach in the lung. Of late, we have had several interesting examples of pneumo- thorax, arising from openings in the lung formed by ulcer- ation, and of the immediate relief given in such cases by making an opening in the pleura for the escape of the air. \A remarkable case which occurred in the military hospital at Chatham, in May 1823, is recorded by Dr. Davy, in the [Philosophical Transactions; and another which I accident- ally had an opportunity of witnessing, and which was operated on by Mr. Guthrie, will be found detailed in the London 'Medical Gazette, and in Johnson’s Medico-Chirurgical Re- view, for 1829. That case was peculiarly interesting, from ■its occurring in the person of a medical man, fully aware ox : the nature of his case, alive to its dangers, and urgently seek- ing relief from an operation. I have hitherto, in treating of this subject, considered it exclusively in reference to a perfectly sound state of the tho- racic viscera, where no adhesions have previously existed be- tween the pleura pulmonalis and pleura costalis; but it is well known that such adhesions are an every-day occurrence, and when a wound penetrates the thorax, over the site of an adhesion, the patient is fortunately exempted from the con- ' sequences of an accumulation of air within the sac of the pleura. The diffusion of air under the skin, in the form of emphysema is not in this case less likely to take place, but I have never considered the superficial swelling under the 1$ skin as a matter of very serious moment, anti its extension may generally be obviated by judicious punctures or incisions. In some instances, extensive incised wounds of the thorax, instead of being troublesome from the ingress and accumula- tion of air, have been attended with a herniary protrusion of the lung through the opening. Protrusions of this kind have in some instances been treated successfully by excision, a ligature having been previously placed round the base of theMILITARY SURGERY. 324 tumour. It is desirable, however, in all cases where the pro- trusion is recent and the lung sound, to return the protruded part into the cavity of the thorax. When this has not been accomplished in the first instance, and when, in consequence of the neck of the tumour being strangulated in the wound, mortification has already taken place, there is no urgent ne- cessity for any operation ; the mortified part will in due time be thrown off. Most of the preceding observations have reference more particularly to incised or punctured wounds of the chest, and we have now to consider the consequences of gunshot wounds, and of foreign bodies lodging in the cavity' of the thorax. The irritation necessarily kept up by the lodgment of an ex- traneous body within this cavity', leads for the most part to purulent formations and hectic fever. But even after these have been far advanced, patients have been saved by extracting the foreign body. One of the most remarkable examples of this, is a case recorded by Baron Larrey, in which a soldier re- ceived a ball between the eighth and ninth ribs of the right side, and after lingering in several hospitals, for a period of four years, the ball, a Russian one, was with much diffi- culty extracted, after cutting away a great part of the rib next below the wound ; this rib was indeed so much weaken- ed as to be broken by an effort at stool, and the intercostal artery wounded, notwithstanding which this patient ultimately recovered. Another interesting example of the successful ex- traction of a foreign body, the blade of a file, which had be- come buried in the chest, is recorded by Dr. Mayer of Peters- burg, and to which I particularly refer, in consequence of its having given occasion to one of the best works we possess on wounds of the chest, a dissertation by this author, “ De mi- nt rilms pectoris penetratilibus.” In son c cases, balls have become imbedded in the substance of the lung, and enveloped in an adventitious cyst or capsule-,325 WOUNDS OF THE THORAX.' as happens in other parts of the body ; three cases of this kind are mentioned by Percy, and one by Boyer, in which a ball was found in the lung, which was known to have been received twenty years before. The more common consequence, however, particularly of balls lying loose in the cavity of the thorax, of which examples are also given in Percy’s Man- ual, is the copious secretion of purulent matter, or empyema, a disease occurring also from inflammatory attacks in the chest without any mechanical violence. W hen the aperture made by a ball remains fistulous, it for the most part af- fords a sufficient opening for the escape of any purulent mat- ter which may be formed, although it may not afford sufficient space for the extraction of the ball. 1 or m cases of this kind, when the function of one lung has been long suspended, the intercostal spaces become diminished, the ribs become anchy- loscd, and the cavity on the affected side of the chest adapts itself to the diminished bulk of the collapsed lung. This change has been well explained by Baron Larrey, who has published in his Clinique Chirurgicalc, some figures illustra- tive of the altered shape of the thorax, in patients who have laboured under empyema. It is the diminution of the in- tercostal spaces m such cases, which renders the removal of a portion of one of the ribs necessary, as practised by the Barou in the case formerly referred to ; and I have been for years in the habit of showing upon the dead body, that such an opera- tion may be easily performed by applying the head of a trepan to the portion of rib we wish to remove. When it becomes necessary to make an opening for the re- lief of idiopathic cases of empyema, the point of election, as specified in all the systematic works in surgery, is between the fifth and sixth ribs, and midway between the spine and sternum. An opening in this situation will for the most part give sufficient facility for the escape of any fluid collected within the thorax, but in cases where a patient is greaty de-MILITARY, SURGERY. 323 bilitated, and unable to make any effort for the expulsion of the fluid, I know from experience, that it may be necessary to withdraw it by means of an exhausting syringe. I allude here to the case of a most promising young gentleman, a stu- dent of medicine, upon whom I performed this operation some years ago ; this case is detailed by my late colleague Dr. Duncan in the 28th volume of the Edinburgh Medical Jour- nal ; and I am induced to refer to it because I have discoun- tenanced the employment of any apparatus of this kind when speaking of collections of blood or air within the thorax. Wounds of the Heart have been in general too speedily fatal, and have too seldom become the subjects of surgical treatment, to enable me to enter into any extended detail of their symp- toms or their treatment. We have now, however, many proofs upon record, that bayonet and other punctured wounds of the heart are not, of necessity, immediately fatal; we have also examples of patients surviving for a considerable time musket wounds of the heart, of which an interesting case is recorded in the 14th volume of the Edinburgh Medical Journal, where a plate is given exhibiting the appearances of such a wound in the case of a soldier of the Queen’s regiment, who was wound- ed at Corunna, and who died after his arrival in England, fourteen days subsequent to the receipt of the injury. In the article Cas rarcs, in the “ Dictionnaire des Sciences Medi- cales,” we have an instance related by Fournier, and authen- ticated by M. Mausion, chief surgeon to the hospital at Or- leans, of a patient who not only survived a wound of the heart, but may be said to have made a perfect recovery from it, inas- much as he died at the distance of six years after the receipt of the injury from disease unconnected with it, and the ball was found imbedded in his heart. Wounds of the Aorta and Pulmonary Artery, are more im- mediately and more necessarily fatal than wounds of the heart itself. The dense structure of the coats of these vessels, and327 ■WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. their comparative thinness, renders it impossible to restiain in any degree the hemorrhage necessarily following their wounds, while the muscular structure of the heart, and the thick substance of its ventricles, enables it in some cases to af- ford an obstacle to the escape of the blood. Musket wounds of these vessels, I believe to be inevitably fatal, but patients arc known to have lived for some time after punctured wounds, even of the aorta. Whenever there is any room for practice in wounds of the heart or of the great vessels within the tho- rax, the surgeon's object must be to diminish, so far as is con- sistent with life, the quantity of the circulating fluid, and at the same time to obviate inflammation by repeated venesec- tions and abstemious diet. These indeed are the leading ob- jects in the treatment of all wounds of the thorax, every thing is here to be gained by depletionand if to this we add the removal of spicuhe of bone from fractured ribs press- ing or likely to press upon the lungs,—the securing of bleed- ing intercostals,—the removal of balls, pieces of cloth 01 other articles lodged in the thorax,—and the obtaining a pervious opening for the exit of blood, air, or matter, accu- mulated within the chest, every thing is effected which reason can dictate, sound judgment recommend, or which the ut- most efforts of surgery can accomplish. WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. The principal danger of wounds of the abdomen is to be re- ferred to the injury of large blood-vessels ; to the extravasation of the contents of the different viscera, and to inflammationMILITARY SUROERY. 32K of the peritoneum ; to which last occurrence, it has been stated, that nine-tenths of the deaths of those wounded in the belly is to be attributed, exclusively of those who perish from inter- nal haemorrhage. To account for this inflammation, the wound itself is now held to be sufficient, without having re- course to the action of the external air, which was formerly so much dreaded by surgeons, but which, in consequence of the complete occupation of the cavity by its natural contents, and in many cases the limited extent of the w'ound, is pre- cluded from entering in any considerable quantity. When wounds of the belly are not attended with the pro- trusion of any of the viscera, or the escape of any of the fluids or excrementitious matters contained in the abdomen, it is often a matter of doubt whether such wounds have actually laid open the cavity, and great anxiety is manifested by the patient or his friends to ascertain this fact; an anxiety, how- ever, which no prudent surgeon will attempt to gratify by much probing, or by the preposterous expedient of throwing in injections, which have been proposed as a means of ascer- taining this point. The most prominent symptoms of wounds of the abdominal viscera are, a weak and feeble pulse, great prostration of strength, tension of the abdomen, hiccup and vomiting ; all of which symptoms may indeed occur, in ir- ritable or nervous habits, even when a wound of the abdomen does not penetrate the cavity ; but when these symptoms continue for any length of time to harass the patient, there is too much reason to suppose that the abdomen has been opened, and this is often rendered, certain by the super- vention of a particular train of symptoms, marking not only the injury of the organs within, but marking also, by the na- ture of the discharges, the particular organ wounded. In wounds of the stomach, hiccup and bloody vomiting are for the most part prominent symptoms ; while discharges of blood with the farces or the urine, both of which are in general329 "WOUNDS OF THF. ABDOMEN. voided soon after the infliction of wounds of the abdomen, in- dicate lesions of the lower intestine, of the kidneys, or of the urinary bladder. When we consider the variety of organs contained in the abdomen, the great vascularity of some of them, as the liver and spleen, the acrid and irritating contents of others, as the gall and urinary bladders, the paramount importance of others, as the stomach, we see how readily patients arc cut off by hae- morrhage from the first, by effusion from the second, and by a suspension of the functions of the third. The extensive sympathy existing between the abdominal viscera and other parts of the system through the medium of the great sympa- thetic nerve, is a circumstance which accounts for many phe- nomena occurring in wounds of these viscera, and which often leads to the death of the patient, even sooner than he would sink from inanition, by a suspension of the functions of the stomach, or by the accession of inflammation of the peritoneum. To the peculiar liability of this membrane to inflame, I have already observed that much of the danger, and many of the fatal terminations of abdominal wounds are to be ascribed; but like other serous membranes, the form of inflammation which the peritoneum is most liable to assume is the adhesive; while the membrane lining the intestinal tube, like others of the mucous class, is most liable to the ulcerative inflammation. And here, as Mr. Travers has well observed, we have an irre- sistible evidence of the salutary provision of nature against the effects of disease. If the inflamed peritoneum had run directly into suppuration, ulceration of the containing parts would have been necessary for an outlet; and if the internal surface of the irritated bowel had tended to form adhesions, the canal would have been in frequent danger of obliteration. Before proceeding to consider more particularly wounds of the floating, or what may be termed the tubular viscera of the abdomen, 1 shall advert to wounds of the parietes of the belly,MILITARY SURGERY. 330 and of what may be termed the fixed or glandular viscera. I have already had occasion to observe that wounds of tendinous parts are frequently attended with troublesome and dangerous consequences ; and w hen we recollect the extensive tendinous expansions over the forepart of the belly, we cannot be sur- prised at seeing bayonet or other punctured wounds of this region, followed by much constitutional disturbance, extensive inflammation, and the formation of abscesses. Such inflam- mation is best obviated in its early stages by the usual anti- phlogistic measures, general and local blood-letting, low diet, gentle aperient medicines, warm bath, fomentations, or cold sedative applications, relaxation of the wounded parts, and perhaps enlargement of the puncture, a practice which is par- ticularly recommended by the Danish surgeon Callisen in su- perficial punctured wounds of the abdomen, and which is un- doubtedly more admissible and more advantageous here than in many cases in which early dilatations have been recom- mended. When suppuration occurs from wounds or contu- sions in this region, the matter does not readily point outwards, but extends under the fascia; of the abdominal muscles, and between the tendinous layers. Early incisions are therefore ad- visable whenever the existence of matter is ascertained. In wounds penetrating the parietes of the abdomen, where no lesion of any of the internal organs is indicated, and where no protrusion of the viscera takes place, the surgeon’s duty is plain and obvious. In slight cases of punctured wounds, the external opening may be covered with adhesive plaster ; ten- sion and swelling will be best treated by relaxation of the wounded muscles, and the application of leeches in the im- mediate neighbourhood of the wound, while inflammation of the peritoneum and internal parts is to be obviated by general bleeding, abstinence, and rest. The means of treat- ment I have just recommended, are also applicable to in- cised wounds of a limited extent; and in addition to these,WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 3.‘31 the employment of stitches becomes necessary in extensive incised or lacerated wounds. In sewing such wounds, the needle may be introduced from the interior of the wound, outwards, so as to avoid perforating any portion of the intes- tine, which sometimes insinuates itself between the edges of the wound without protruding externally. Of the utility of sutures in some wounds of the abdominal parietes, I am fully satisfied both from experience and from the observation of others, but it is proper to state that Baron Larrey has depre- cated in strong terms the employment of gastroraphy. He speaks of it as an operation which ought to be banished from surgery, and even goes so far as to attribute the bad results of the Cesarean operation to this piece of after-treatment. We all know how' strong and indelible early impressions are liable to become, and with all possible respect for the Baron’s opi- nion, I cannot avoid thinking that he has taken up a hasty prejudice, upon this point, from having witnessed the bad ef- fects of sutures in a case treated by his uncle, where a maniac had made an extensive wound into his own belly. It is, at the same time, but justice to Baron Larrey, to state, that he assigns reasons for objecting to the use of sutures in abdominal wounds, and particularly the difficulty of supporting the stitches by compress and bandage for want of a solid point of resistance in the subjacent parts ; this, however, may be held by others as well as by myself an additional reason for having recourse to sutures. In gunshot wounds of the abdomen, the orifices made by the entrance and exit of the ball, are, as in other cases, to be covered with light and simple dressings; in wounds made by musket balls, there is seldom or never any tend- ency to protrusion of the viscera, and of course no sur- gical expedient is necessary to obviate this occurrence. Wherever balls, pieces of wadding, cloth, or other extraneous substances are felt within reach of the external orifice, itMILITARY SURGERY. 332 is proper to remove them, but this should never be done at the expense of adding much to the patient’s present suffering, or of aggravating the subsequent inflammation: it should be recollected that numerous instances are on record, of balls, and also pointed weapons, having passed through the cavity of the abdomen, without apparently wounding any of the convolutions of the intestines. In other instances, balls, after having penetrated the parietes, have passed round the internal contour of the cavity, and have subsequently made their exit at a dis- tant point, or remained lodged within the belly, whence they have afterwards been discharged by abscess, or by the natural outlets. With the knowledge of these facts, no one will waste his own time, or aggravate his patient’s sufferings, by a protracted search after balls, but will be ready to adopt the sentiments of Botallus, who, after detailing a case in which a ball entered a little above the right groin, and remained in the abdomen during life, lays down the following excellent practical rule for our conduct in searching after balls ; Si in- vtneris educas, quod si non s ini to. In treating of wounds of the abdominal parietes, I avail my- self of this opportunity of noticing wounds of the Diaphragm. From the peculiar situation of this muscular partition, it can- not be wounded, without the wounding body passing through one or other of the two cavities of which the diaphragm forms the common boundary ; and when we consider the vital import- ance of the organs contiguous to the diaphragm, both above and below, the heart and lungs on the thoracic, with the liver and stomach on the abdominal side ; and when wounds of one or all of these organs are superadded to the injury of the diaphragm itself, it is matter of surprise that a recovery should ever take place. Of this, however, we have more than one instance upon record ; amongst others, an instructive case is to be found in the eighth volume of the Edinburgh Medical333 M’OtfftDS OP THE ABDOMEN. Journal, recorded hy Mr. Doyle, surgeon of the 62d Regi- ment. Here no alarming symptoms supervened until many months after the infliction of the injury, but the patient was eventually carried off by the accession of inflammation of the intestine, which had been forced upwards, through the wound of the diaphragm, and lodged in the cavity of the thorax. The symptoms which particularly indicate wounds of the diaphragm are acute pain, great anxiety, and oppres- sion about the prajeordia, with hiccup, and risus sardoniens. The treatment which naturally suggests itself is depletion, ab- stinence, and rest. AY ounds which penetrate deeply into the substance of the Liver, are for the most part speedily fatal, nor will this surprise us when we recollect how abundantly this organ is supplied with blood. The wounded ramifications of the hepatic ar- tery, the \ena porta, and hepatic veins, are all sources of profuse haemorrhage, a haemorrhage which we have no me- chanical means of effectually suppressing; and whether the blood finds an exit by the external wound, or accumulates in the cavity of the abdomen, a quantity is often lost sufficient to prove destructive to the life of the patient; but from slighter wounds of the liver, recoveries are not unknown. When the patient survives so long as to admit of an adhesion taking place between the surface of the liver and the lining contiguous to the wound, the matter which subsequently forms is precluded from access to the abdomina\ cavity, and the case is then assimilated to one of abscess of the liver, of which I have had an opportunity of seeing many. % Rnccess, however, in the treatment of these cases has not been such as to induce me to form, or to justify me in bold- ing out, any sanguine hopes of success in the management of vounds of the liver. The fixed situation of this viscus gives us considerable facility in detecting its wounds, and the symp- 7MILITARY SCRGERY. 334 toms which particularly characterise wounds of the liver, are a discharge from the wound of a bilious character, yellow and glutinous, and sometimes of the colour of bile, but of a thin serous consistence. To this is superadded derangement of the functions of the stomach and bowels, and in some cases a general and troublesome itching of the skin over the whole surface of the body, with a jaundiced state of the skin and urine. The medical treatment in wounds of this organ resolves itself into measures for obviating inflammatory symptoms, di- minishing the ingesta, and ensuring the regular evacuation of the bowels, chiefly by the use of the mildest purgatives and emollient glysters; the topical applications are leeches and fo- mentations. Wounds of the Spleen are rare, in so much that Baron Larrey has only seen three cases in the course of his extended experience. They are chiefly recognised by the site of the wound, and by the faintness, pallor, and coldness of the sur- face, denoting internal hannorrhage, which the peculiar texture of this organ readily affords. We are also guided in our diagnosis by the absence of those symptoms, indicating wounds of the contiguous viscera, the stomach, the kidney, and splenic flexure of the colon. Wounds of the spleen in situ arc to be treated by those means, to the use of which I have so often had occasion to limit my recommendations in the treatment of penetrating wounds of the great cavities, viz. bleeding and abstinence. The useless, not to say cruel expe- riment of removing the spleen, to which dogs have been so often subjected with unsatisfactory and contradictory results, has also, from necessity however, and not from choice, been performed on the human subject. Although incisions into the Kidney have been proposed, and wounds voluntarily inflicted upon this organ, for the purpose nf removing calculi; although indeed the operation of nc-335 WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. phrotomy has been spoken of by some speculative writers, as a matter of course, yet every military surgeon knows the highly dangerous nature of wounds of the kidney, and is reluctantly compelled to place them amongst the list of those which, for the most part, prove fatal. The situation indeed of the organ renders it impossible for wounds to be inflicted on it, without at the same time injuring other parts of im- portance. In wounds reaching the kidney anteriorly, by pene- trating through the abdomen, we have lesions of the intestine almost inevitably superadded to the danger from hannorrhage, and extravasation of urine into the cavity of the abdomen. In wounds again penetrating the kidney laterally, or a poste- riori, if the patient escapes the first danger from hannorrhage, he has still to run the risk of extensive and deep suppurations, from the infiltration of urine into the lax cellular membrane surrounding the kidney. To this succeeds fistulous sinuses, for the most part accompanied with hectic, and generally termin- ating in death. Wounds of the kidney arc marked by great pain in the lumbar region, bloody urine, retraction of the testicle, nausea and vomiting. Their treatment consists in bleeding both general and topical, mild regimen, and gentle laxatives, warm bath, and fomentations. In considering wounds of the glandular or more fixed viscera contained in the abdominal cavity, I have endeavoured to point out the circumstances by which lesions of these different organs are characterised, the more immediate sources of danger in each, and the most approved means of obviating such danger. Our anatomical knowledge of the natural site and form of such fixed viscera, gives us im- portant advantages in detecting and treating their wounds ; and I have endeavoured, upon this and every former occasion, to discountenance idle and useless probings, calculated to lead to no practical advantage. I am well aware, however, that it is not easy for either patient or surgeon to divest himself ofMILITARY SURGERY. 33G an anxiety to ascertain precisely the nature anil extent of tht? injury sustained ; nor is such anxiety to he altogether repro- bated. When the viscera are wounded without protruding, and when the wound in the abdominal parietes is sufficient to admit the point of the surgeon’s finger, this, of all others, forms the most manageable and most instructive instrument of research. But in lesions of the less fixed and floating, or tubular viscera, of which we come now to speak, such lesions arc not unfrequently accompanied with protrusion of the in- jured bowel, rendering the nature of the case obvious. Protrusions indeed often happen through wounds of the abdo- minal parietes without any mechanical injury to the protruded part; and of parts liable to such protrusion, the omentum, from its situation and extent, is the most so, and next to this the small intestines. It is worthy of remark, that in fat subjects portions of the adipose membrane sometimes become entangled in the lips of the wound, and are liable to be mistaken for omentum. When parts protrude through a narrow wound, they are liable to become strangulated, inflamed, and gangre- nous, as in cases of hernia ; and the natural practice in cases of protruded omentum, where the protrusion is recent, is to return it as speedily as possible to its natural situation within the abdomen, r.ot losing time in fomenting the protruded parts previous to their return, a practice advised by some authors, without recollecting, that no fomentation whatever can possi- bly be so beneficial as the natural warmth and moisture of the abdominal cavity. In facilitating the reduction of protruded parts, whether of omentum or intestine, we find the advantage of relaxing the abdominal muscles as completely as possible. When it becomes necessary to enlarge the opening in tire abdominal parietes for the reduction of protruded parts, this may be done with a director and curved bistoury, carrying the incision as far as possible parallel to the muscular fibres, anti in such a direction as to avoid crossing the course of the epi-WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. .‘337 gastric artery. When portions of omentum have been for some time protruded, they are occasionally found adhering to the lips of the wound, and may be removed by ligature or excision ; but whether this be done or not, the protruded part will ultimately slough and drop off, so as to prevent its be- coming an obstacle to the closure of the wound. Although wounds of the Stomach are not necessarily mortal, we can never look upon them as devoid of the utmost dan- ger, particularly if inflicted towards its pyloric extremity, or in the course of the great vessels running along its curva- tures. No organ in the whole animal economy seems to possess greater powers of adapting itself to circumstances than the stomach, both in man and in the inferior animals. The numerous instances of foreign bodies, such as stones, and even knives introduced into the human stomach ; the enormous balls of matted hair found in the stomachs of cattle, and the his- tory of the lamb mentioned in Captain Bligh’s voyage, which subsisted on animal food, prove to us that the stomach, an organ so essential to the existence of * the individual, is not easily deprived of its vitality, by the introduction of substances altogether foreign to its usual contents ; and the incisions purposely made for withdrawing such substances, as weir as the injuries inflicted by the usual accidents of war, prove also, that the stomach is capable of sustaining and re- Pairing the consequences of very formidable wounds. The interesting case detailed by Dr. Marcet, in the Medico- ’ Chirurgical Transactions, gives an example of a sailor who con- i tinued occasionally, for a succession of years, to entertain his ■ conn'ades by swallowing knives; and of the successful extraction ■ of knives from the human stomach, we have the well-known case of the Prussian peasant, operated on at Konigsberg upwards of two hundred years ago, as well as a more recent one mention- od by Baron Larrey, in which hi. Frizac successfully per- formed this operation at Toulouse. In these, operations the z338 MILIT.AKY SURGERY. opening was naturally made into the anterior part of the stomach, where it lies near the surface of the body, and it is chiefly when wounds occur in this situation that we are to look for a favourable result. Baron Percy, in estimating the fatality of wounds of the stomach, calculates, that four or five out of twenty have escaped, a proportion of success with which the Baron has certainly abundant reason to be satisfied; And which the success of others will hardly warrant us to ex- pect. Wounds of the stomach are detected by the clirection of the wounding body; by the depth to which it has pene- trated ; by the occurrence of nausea, retching, and bloody vomiting ; and not unfrequently by the discharge of food or drink through the wound. When the wound is of a limited extent, no attempt to close it mechanically is admissible, but when an extensive opening is made with a clean cutting in- strument, the facts upon record seem to justify, and to demand the mechanical closure of the wound, by means of the glover’s suture, or the suture recommended by Lcmbert, which I shall hereafter have occasion to describe. In addition to this, we have recourse to blood-letting, general or topical, as circumstances may demand ; to laxative and nutritious clysters; the most mild unirritating food in small quan- tity ; and avoiding, of course, the introduction into the stomach of those nauseating and purgative medicines, from which we derive essential aid in other cases of inflammation. Under such treatment, wounds of the stomach, if not imme- diately fatal, are, in a few cases, speedily healed, in others they degenerate into fistulous openings, continuing sometimes for jnany years. Before considering the treatment of Wounded Intestines, it is necessary to point out the propriety of immediately reducing pny portion of the gut which may be protruded without being wounded. Even when this may have prolapsed for some time, and may in consequence be much inflamed, the re- <WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 339 duction is to be immediately effected. The greater difficulty there may be in accomplishing this, the more obvious its necessity becomes ; for it will readily he perceived, that the in- flammation is likely to be greatly aggravated by that degree of stricture which prevents the return of the intestine. It has been proposed to make numerous small punctures with a needle in the protruded gut, for the purpose of permitting the contained air to escape, and thereby diminish its bulk, and facili- tate its reduction. The slightest experience, however, of this expedient will demonstrate its futility, to say nothing of its danger; it will be found perfectly insufficient to attain the object in view, and although sanctioned by the names of Chopart and Desault, I am compelled to state from personal observation, that the apertures, even if much larger than those of a needle, are speedily closed by the protrusion of the mucous coat; if again these apertures are extended to a size sufficient to ensure the escape of the contained air, they will be so many distinct wounds in the intestine, each of them in- finitely more dangerous than a prolongation of the external wound, which is the most eligible way of returning the pro- truding bowel. Wounds of the small intestines are, for the most part, either primarily or secondarily fatal, while those of the large intes- tines sometimes heal without difficulty. This fact has not escaped the notice of the ancients, for they pronounced wounds of the latter dangerous in the highest degree; those of the former, without exception, fatal. The symptoms indicating wounds of the intestinal tube, are a small and tremulous pulse, paleness of the countenance; great prostration of strength, and tendency to syncope ; the discharge of blood ^ith the stools; and the escape of foetid air or of faecal mat- ters from the wound, which unequivocally show the nature of the injury. But however urgent these symptoms may be, the wounded bowel be not protruded, we must rest satis-MILITARY SURGERY. 340 fled as to treatment with the employment of general remedies, bleeding, abstinence, and rest. No man in his senses would think of enlarging the external wound, for the purpose of searching out and sewing up the wounded part of the gut; a practice, the propriety of which is not universally admitted, even when the wounded intestine protrudes externally. Ex- travasation of the contents of the bowels within the peritoneum is by no means so liable to occur as speculative writers would lead us to imagine, and when it does happen to any extent, the case may, for the most part, be abandoned as hopeless. Mr. Travers, in his Essay upon Injuries of the Intestines, has shewn distinctly the phenomena which wounded intes- tines present, and the processes adopted by nature in the re- pair of such injuries. From this inquiry it appears, that “ if a gut be punctured, the elasticity of the peritoneal coat, and the contraction of the muscular fibres, tend to open the wound, while the villous or mucous coat forms a sort of hernial pro- trusion and obliterates the aperture; if an incised wound be made, the edges are drawn asunder and reverted, so that the mucous coat protrudes in the form of a fleshy lip ; if the section be transverse, the lip is broad and bulbous, acquiring tume- faction and redness from the contraction of the circular fibres behind it; if the incision is according to the length of the cylinder, the lip is narrow, and the contraction of the longitu- dinal resisting that of the circular fibres, gives the orifice an oval form ; and of these two last mentioned incisions, the longitudinal and the transverse, it appears that the former are most easily rcpaired.1, How far art can be useful in promot- ing such repair, and what the form of suture best calculated to promote it, have been subjects of very warm discussion. This discussion, however, like many others, relative to wounded intestines, has been chiefly grounded on experi- ments instituted on brutes, and not on the practice of those most employed in the treatment of wounds in the human sub-341 M OUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. jcct. Those who have been so employed are well aware, that some of the accidents which the older surgeons expected to obviate by the employment of sutures, the falling in of the wounded intestine, and the effusion of its contents into the cavity of the abdomen, are occurrences extremely rare. The whole process of nature in repairing injuries of the intestinal tube, and the mode in which she disposes of the li- gatures employed in securing a wounded intestine, are fully ex- plained in Mr. Travers’s essay, from which it appears, that whether we employ the continued suture, as recommended by this author, or the interrupted, as recommended by others, the gut ulcerates at the points of the ligatures, the threads fall into its canal, and arc discharged by stool. In a large proportion of cases of wounded intestine, patients are little in- debted to the mechanical aids of surgery, as many instances are recorded, in which penetrating wounds of the abdomen, involving several plica; of the intestines, have been treated chiefly by abstinence and rest; and the fortunate termination of some of these cases shews us what wonderful exertions nature makes to relieve every injury inflicted on her, and how often these exertions arc successful, if not interrupted. The older surgeons were averse to leaving any thing to na- ture, although, as Dr. Hennen observes, their own practice of universally employing sutures should have taught them how much she could bear with impunity. Mr. John Bell has broadly asserted, that “ if there be a work of supererogation in surgery, it is the sewing up of a wounded intestine.” And he contents himself with recommending, that the edge of the wounded gut should be united by a single stitch to the edge of the wound in the parietes. Mr. Travers again asserts, that the union of a divided bowel requires the cut extremities to be kept in contact throughout their whole circumference, and for this purpose recommends a continued suture, with a small sewing needle and silk thread.MILITARY SURGERY. 342 Amidst these conflicting opinions, it is consolatory to know how few cases occur in which sutures of any descrip- tion are required. I myself have seen but one case in which I deemed it necessary to follow the practice of Mr. Bell, in stitching the wounded gut to the edge of the wound in the parietes; and Dr. Hennen asserts, that in the course of his more extensive experience, only two cases have occurred in which he thought it necessary to follow a similar prac- tice. This is the mode of treatment which I have, until lately, been inclined to advocate as the step best calculated to save the life of a patient, although at the hazard of producing an artificial anus; but my attention has recently been turned to a mode of sewing up a wounded intestine, which obviates many of the objections to that operation. This new mode I have been in the practice of shewing for some years past to my class ; and am induced to notice it from a desire to ascertain its real value in practice. Of this operation, a detailed account is to be found in a paper by M. Lembert, in the second volume of the “Repertoire Generale D’’Anatomic, et de Clinique Chirurgieale,'” &c. It is difficult to make it fully intelligible, without the assistance of a plate, but it may be executed in the following manner, with a common sewing needle and silk thread. A small stitch, including only the peritoneal coat of the intestine, is to be taken up on one side of the wound, at the distance of a line or two from its edge; the needle is then carried across the wound, and a similar stitch taken up on the opposite side, at the same distance from its edge ; in this way a number of ligatures are introduced at the distance of a quarter or half an inch from each other, and when these come to be tied, the wound is completely closed, the serous surfaces of the peritoneal coat on cither side of the incision are brought into contact, and the lips of the wound arc left projecting into the intestinal tube. So far as we can judge of this mode of suture, from the experiments of Lembert,WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 343 on the inferior animals, it promises to be highly successful; but as we cannot always calculate upon equally favourable re- sults in the human subject, I am desirous of seeing this kind of suture tried in accidental wounds of the intestine in man, and have therefore been induced to describe the operation par- ticularly. Apertures in the intestine, whether the consequence of wounds or of sloughing in cases of hernia, are extremely apt to become fistulous, and to give vent to the contents of the bowel, through what is termed an artificial anus. The dan- ger of these apertures diminishes nearly in proportion as their distance from the pyloric extremity of the stomach increases, and lhave seen several of them ultimately close without any sur- gical treatment whatever ; others have seemed to derive benefit from being touched occasionally with lunar caustic, or with the actual cautery. The ingenious proposal of Dupuytren, for the treatment of artificial anus, is fully detailed in his me- moir on this subject, and is best explained by shewing his con- trivance for restoring the continuity of the intestinal canal; but as my own experience does not enable me to speak of the merits of this proposal, it seems unnecessary to dwell upon it here. Wounds inflicted on the upper part of the Bladder, passing through that portion of it which is covered by the peritoneum, and giving place to the escape of urine into the cavity of the abdomen, are, I apprehend, inevitably fatal, at least I know of no instance of recovery from such a wound ; and Baron Larrey states that, although he has had occasion to give his assistance to many soldiers wounded in this way, they have all died within forty-eight hours. Bayonet and musket wounds in the lower part of the bladder, although complicated with fractures of the bones of the pelvis, with severe injury to the soft parts, and even with wounds of the intestines, are by no means necessarily nor immediately fatal. I have known a patient survive a wound with all these complications for four-34* MILITARY SURGERY. teen clays, and Dr. Thomson in his report on the state of the wounded alter the battle of Waterloo, mentions no less than fourteen cases of wounds of the bladder, some of them of a very complicated kind, which were in the progress of recovery. AY ounds of the bladder are for the most part readily develop- ed by the escape of urine from the wound, or by its infiltra- tion into the contiguous cellular membrane, to prevent which is a paramount object in the treatment; and with this view, the introduction and lodgment of a catheter in the bladder is always desirable. We proceed here as in other cases upon the principle of allowing the wounded viscus to remain as much as pos- sible at rest, to obviate the necessity of its alternate disten- sion and contraction, and to prevent the farther escape of urine into the surrounding parts. In addition to this, the usual antiphlogistic regimen, bleeding, warm bathing, gentle laxatives, and glysters, are often requisite. By such treatment, the inflammatory symptoms are kept under, the wounds be- come fistulous, and ultimately heal. In the event of musket balls, slugs, or fragments of bone, lodging in the bladder, they often become the nuclei of stones, and we are under the necessity of removing them by an operation. Of the satisfac- tory results of such an operation, we have now many instances; and one of the earliest of these cases, which occurred in the person of a soldier of the Irish Brigade, is remarkable as hav- ing been operated upon by the celebrated Frere Jacques at Versailles in 1G98. In this case a stone was extracted, the nucleus of which was a musket ball which had been lodged in the bladder five years. In a recent case of this kind, a staff- surgeon in the service underwent an operation for the removal of a ball from the bladder, which was successfully accomplished. In a still more recent case, an attempt to remove a musket ball from the bladder was rendered fruitless in consequence, as I have been informed, of the ball, which had entered fromWOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 345 behind, having lodged under the pubis, and become partially encysted. The operation for the removal of foreign bodies from the bladder is in all respects akin to that for the stone, and the general superiority of the lateral operation over every other, ap- pears to me fully established. It may always be advantageously performed by a staff and straight scalpel, making the direction of the internal incision through the prostate and neck of the bladder, to correspond nearly with the external incision ; and to this mode of operating it becomes army surgeons, above all others, to habituate themselves, as they cannot expect to have the command of any of these complicated contrivances which have been devised with a view to facilitate this operation. The different steps of the lateral operation for the stone I am in the habit of exhibiting to my pupils upon the dead body ; but as these arc shown in every surgical class, and as the symptoms and treatment of urinary calculi are minutely de- tailed in the common systematic works on surgery, and in numerous monographs on the subject, it would be superflu- ous to cidarge upon them in these outlines, particularly as the stone is a disease extremely rare amongst soldiers and sea- men. During a period of twenty-six years1 connexion with the service, I have only known two cases in which stones were ascertained to exist in the persons of soldiers, and the following extract from Dr. Yelloly’s paper on the tendency to calculous diseases, will show that in this respect my own experience coincides with that of numerous army surgeons. —41 In a valuable report published by Sir James Macgrigor, on the diseases of the British army in the peninsula, under the command of the Duke of Wellington, no case of calculus appears to have presented itself during the period of which he treats, viz. between December 1811 and June 1814, though above 380,000 cases were admitted into the general and regi- mental hospitals during that period.31G MILITARY SURGERY. “ In the last fifteen years, Sir James informs me, that four cases only of calculus have occurred in the English army in Britain; and Mr. Crampton, the surgeon-general of Ireland, states, that one example of lithotomy only, in which the ope- ration was performed by himself, has occurred, within the same period, in the army in Ireland. I am, however, able to add to this, on the authority of Dr. Pitcairne of Cork, the case of an officer of the Scots Greys, whom I had occasion to visit at the barracks here, who was operated upon at Cork, by Dr. WoodrifFe, about two years since, in his way to join his regiment. Mr. Crampton likewise informed me, on the au- thority of Sir James Wylie, physician to the late and to the present Emperor of Russia, that calculous diseases are hardly known in the Russian army. “ The Baron Delessert of Paris, has done me the favour to procure from the Baron Larrey, and M. Gama, surgeons-in- chief to the great military hospitals of Gros Caillou, and Val de Grace, in the French metropolis, a report as to the preva- lence of calculous complaints among the French soldiery. The Baron Larrey states, that in the course of thirty years, only five operations of lithotomy have been performed at the Gros Caillou, (four of which wrere on soldiers, and one on a sol- dier’s child,) and one operation at the Val de Grace. M. Gama states, that during six years that he has been surgeon-in-chief of the military hospital of Val de Grace, and eight previously, that he exercised the same functions in the military hospital at Strasbourgh, he has not once had occasion to perform the operation of lithotomy. He mentions likewise, that the dis- ease is very rare in the army generally; and that no case of stone operation has occurred to him, during any part of his extensive military service.” Mr. Copland Hutchison has made a very minute and ex- tended research into the frequency of calculous complaints amongst sea-faring people, from which it appears, that amongst34-7 WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. the whole mass of seamen composing the British navy, from the beginning to the end of the last war, embracing a period of sixteen years, only eight cases of urinary calculus occurred, being in the proportion of only one such case to ten thousand seven hundred and fifty patients admitted into the naval hos- pitals. Having now pointed out the objects most deserving of at- tention in wounds of the abdominal viscera, it may be neces- sary to avail myself of this opportunity to advert to the sub- ject of Hernia, with the double purpose of explaining, on the one hand, why I do not hold it necessary in a course of Mili- tary Surgery to go minutely into the symptoms, pathology and treatment of hernia, and, on the other, to urge the advantages of an early operation whenever it shall be necessary to resort to this means of relief. In the sixth volume of the “ Recueil des Memoires de Medicine, et de Chirurgie Militaires,” &e., we have some reflections by Savreux, Surgeon-Major of the legion de TOrnc, on the impossibility of a soldier serving actively when afflicted with hernia. He there points out the various risks to which he is exposed, and concludes, « que tous ceux qu’atteint cet infirmite sont physiquement impropres a tout service militaire act if.” The propriety of excluding from the army every individual afflicted with this malady, or whose bodily conformation gives reason to anticipate it, has already been pointed out; and whenever hernia supervenes upon an individual engaged in the service, although, by the existing regulations, he is not directed to be discharged, vet he can scarcely ever be looked upon as an efficient sol- dier, but should be selected for some light duty, or transferred to a garrison establishment. Hence it happens that hernia, in the only state in which it acquires peculiar interest as a sur- gical disease, namely, in a state of strangulation, seldom pre- sents itself to the military surgeon. I know many medical officers of the army, of long standing, who have never met348 MILITARY SURGERY. with a case of strangulated hernia, and the comparative fre- quency with which it has fallen under my own observation in civil and in military practice, offers a remarkable contrast. Indeed the whole history of my experience of strangulated hernia is singular, and not uninstructive. I had not been many hours an apprentice wrhen I had occasion to witness an operation for strangulated hernia ; and thus early impress- ed with the hazardous character of the disease, I embraced every opportunity of making myself acquainted with its nature. While assistant to the late Dr. Barclay,at a time when the pub- lications on hernia by my colleague Dr. Monro, by the late Mr. llcy of Leeds, and by Sir Astley Cooper, had rendered the subject one of extreme and universal interest to myself and to my fellow-students, I laboured hard to become ac- quainted with the numerous fasciae which have been described, with the anatomy of the ring, the course of the epigastric ar- tery, its relative situation to the spermatic chord and to the hernial sac in inguinal hernia ; the general distribution and anomalies also of the obturator artery, with its relations to Gimbernat’s ligament, and to the neck of the sac in crural hernia. With all this information I entered the army, and served for thirteen years without ever meeting with a case of strangulated hernia, save one, which was speedily reduced by bleeding and the warm bath. Circumstances were very much the reverse when I entered upon my duties as surgeon to the Royal Infirmary here. Before I was many months in office, a case of strangulated hernia presented itself, aggravated, as many such cases are, by protracted and unavailing efforts at reduction by the tax- is : I immediately proceeded to operate, with a strong con- viction of its necessity, but with very blunted recollections of the minute anatomy of the parts, and without ever having wit- nessed the operation on the living body, except in the case w hich occurred the first day of my apprenticeship. The re-349 MOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. suit, however, was favourable, and it so happened that, with two or three exceptions, every case of strangulated hernia re- quiring operation, which came into the house for the next three years, fell to my lot, and amongst them, one of that singular variety of the disease termed Hernia Infantilis, of which a notice is given in the 25th volume of the Edinburgh Medical Journal. In commenting upon one of these cases, I have elsewhere expressed myself to the following effect:— “ My observations on this case were chiefly intended to apprize you of what I have found to be the most common difficulties in the treatment of this disease. First, The diagnosis be- tween the hernia and those tumours with which it is liable to be confounded; and, secondly, the diagnosis between the hernial sac and its contents. t; In illustration of the former point, I noticed several mis- takes which had fallen under my own observation, and in- ; stanecd two cases in which every thing was prepared, and the surgeon about to operate, when I had the good fortune to sus- pend his proceedings; and both cases turned out to be glandular swellings in the groin, accompanied with an accidental obstruc- tion of the oowels, and some febrile excitement in the system. “ In illustration of the second point, the difficulty of dis- tinguishing between the hernial sac, and the bowel which it contains, 1 mentioned to you that in one of my earlier opera- tions for a strangulated femoral hernia, where the tumour was very small, and the fascia propria thick, I mistook the latter for the hernial sac, dilated the stricture in the crural arch, and pushed up what I conceived to be the intestine into the cavity of the abdomen ; but the symptoms of strangulation continu- ing, my patient died, and on dissection, I had the mortification to find a small portion of the ileum still strangulated in the neck of the sac. “ When the sac has been successfully opened, and its con- tents fairly displayed, the difficulty of the operation is in aMILITARY SURGERY". 250 great measure at an end; but you are all aware, that the fear of wounding the epigastric artery, in relieving the stricture, has been the great bugbear in this operation; and this fear has, I believe, had a most injurious effect in the treatment of strangulated inguinal hernia. I illustrated by a diagram the true position of this artery, and showed you that when the hernia, as in M‘Intyre’s case, enters the superior aperture of the inguinal canal, and descends along its course, constituting the oblique, or what Hesselbach terms the external inguinal hernia, the artery lies on the pubic or mesial side of the neck of the sac. When hernia again protrudes directly through the lower aperture of the inguinal canal, forming the direct, the vcntro-inguinal, or what Hesselbach terms the internal hernia, the artery lies on the iliac or lateral side of the neck of the sac. In one or other of these situations this vessel is always to be found, and, of course, by avoiding them both, by cutting neither outwards nor inwards, but directly upwards, parallel to the linea alba, you will in all cases avoid this ar- tery ; and for this practical rule in operating, you are indebt- ed to Sir Astley Cooper, to whom his profession is under so many important obligations. “ In support of the opinion which I gave, that the risk of wounding the epigastric artery had been very much over- rated, I mentioned the fact, that even among the older writers, who were in the habit of making more extensive incisions than are now thought necessary, we find few or no instances of haemorrhage from wounds of the epigastric ; and I stated, that in conversing with the most experienced of my brethren here, I could not find that any one of them had met with a serious or fatal haemorrhage from wounding the epigastric in this operation. With the view of encourag- ing you to have speedy recourse to an operation in stran- gulated hernia, I took the liberty of pressing upon your at- tention the result of the cases which I have had occasionWOUNDS OP THE ABDOMEN. 351 to treat in this house. Of seven patients upon whom I have now operated here, six have been saved, and this I attribute entirely to the early period at which the operation has been undertaken. I would have you to recollect the uncertainty of all other means of relief, and to bear in mind the very just observation of Janson, that ‘ we can never foretel what we are to find in a hernial tumour.’ ‘ Nous dirons a ce sujet, qu’on ne peut jamais preciser au juste ce qu’on rencontrcra dans une tumeur herniare.’ I would have you to believe that this is a disease in which many patients are lost from procrastination, but comparatively few from any untoward oc- currence in operating, and I would have you to look upon these as a class of cases in which error is at least as excusable as delay.” I have now operated in all, thirteen times for Strangulated hernia, without having once been able to re- cognise in practice the various fascia*, with which I was for- merly so familiar, and without having once seen, felt, or wounded, either the epigastric or obturator artery, which in my earlier days were looked upon as the great sources of dan- ger. f rom all this, I conclude that the occurrence of stran- gulated hernia in military practice is very rare, that the dan- gers of the operation have been overrated, and its difficulties in some measure misconceived. But to return to wounds of the belly; these, it may be observed, are complicated in proportion to the great variety ot organs which it contains, and dangerous in proportion to the importance of these organs in the animal economy; and while, upon general principles, we should be ready to pro- nounce all penetrating wounds of this cavity inevitably fatal, yet when when we descend to particular cases, we have such strange examples of unexpected cures, that we arc ready to believe that scarcely any wound is fatal. In the treatment of Tnany of these wounds, the surgeon’s duty is exceedingly simple. It must ever be recollected, that bleeding from the 8352 MILITARY SURGERY. arm, is the best preservative from internal bleeding and peri- toneal inflammation, the two great sources of danger in wounds of the abdomen. Quietness, rest, opiates, severe and rigid abstinence, with warm fomentations to the belly, and laxative glysters, are powerful auxiliaries to blood-let- ting. When we have a sound portion of gut protruding through the belly, our business is to put it back, and close the external wound. When we have a wounded intestine protruding, the steps most obviously calculated to preserve the patient’s life, are to return the uninjured part of the bowel, and either to close the wound of the gut in the way described by Lembert, or to stitch the wounded point to the wound in the ab- dominal parietes. In discussing this subject, I have always, on the one hand, endeavoured to repress a too officious inter- ference with the processes of nature ; while, on the other, I have endeavoured, by the narration of some extraordinary re- coveries, and by a reference to others, to show how cautious wre ought to be in pronouncing any injuries absolutely mortal, and what encouragement we have to persevere to the last in our efforts at relief. In wounds of the trunk, both those of the thorax and ab- domen,—cavities filled with organs essential to life,—every re- covery must in some measure be looked upon as an escape, “ and so carefully have these escapes been recorded in the annals of surgery, that in searching the records of our profes- sion, the diligent student is apt to lose sight of the general fatality of such wounds, and he reads of cures till he forgets that there are dangers.” But the sources of danger are numerous and complicated, are both present, and remote; haemorrhage in the first instance, from vessels concealed and inaccessi- ble, inflammation supervening, and extending rapidly over the lining membranes, and internal suppurations, profuse in quantity, and little accessible to the efforts of surgery. De- pletion, with its powerful auxiliaries, abstinence and rest,WOUNDS AND FRACTURES OF THE EXTREMITIES. 353 constitutes much of the surgical treatment of patients wound- ed in the trunk. The removal of extraneous bodies when easily accessible, by the finger, the probe or the forceps, is ob- viously consonant to the dictates of common sense. The re- turn of prolapsed parts, and securing them as far as pos- sible in their natural situation, are almost all that the sur- geon has to do in the way of operation. In the treatment of wounds of the three great cavities, it is of the utmost importance to keep constantly in view the func- tions of the respective organs lodged within. In addition to the general measures of depletion and abstinence applicable alike to them all, we should act upon the principle of giving the wounded viscus the least possible cause for exertion in the exercise of its peculiar function. In wounds'of the head, quietness and exemption from mental exertion should be en- joined. In wounds of the thorax, the circulating fluid should be reduced, with the view of diminishing the effort which the heart is called upon to make in circulating, and the lungs in oxygenating the blood. In wounds of the abdomen, again, the diminution of the ingesta, to the smallest possible quan- tity consistent with life, is eminently calculated to facilitate the repair of injuries of the chylopoetic viscera. WOUNDS AND FRACTURES OF THE EXTREMITIES. Many of the general observations which have already been made on wounds of the soft parts, apply particularly to wounds of the limbs, and a very brief recapitulation of these, is all that seems necessary, previously to entering upon the consid- eration of those injuries which involve the bones. 2 Amilitary 8UR0EUY. 351- Wliile severe cases of lacerated, contused, or gunshot wounds of the limbs lead to the question of amputation, sim pic incised, or punctured wounds, can seldom, perhaps never, be a cause for the immediate performance of this operation. Such wounds indeed, when confined to the muscular parts of the limb, and not complicated by the division of large blood- vessels, the fracture of bones, or the opening of joints, are for the most part devoid of danger, and may be successfully treated by the judicious employment of plasteT and bandage, along with a favourable position of the limb ; and this position is that which relaxes the wounded muscles, and obviates the gaping of the wound. A little reflection will show', that this object is in many cases more easily accomplished than at first might be imagined. An incised wound inflicted with the sabre on the arm or thigh, where the bone lies imbedded in the centre of the muscular substance, provided it does not penetrate or fracture the bone, is of course confined to less than half the thickness of the limb. If, therefore, the sabre strikes in such a position as to divide the flexor muscles, the wound is con- fined to these, the extensors remaining unhurt, and vice versa, so that wre cannot, in such cases, have those muscles which naturally antagonise each other, divided by the same blow. Perhaps, I ought to except from this general view of the sub- ject, wounds penetrating transversely across the calf of the leg,, where nearly the whole muscular substance of the limb is found on its posterior or popliteal aspect. Here, however, we are still enabled to carry into effect our views-of approximating the lips of the wound, by bending the kiiee and extending the ankle joints, so as to relax the wounded muscles. Where an extensive sabre wound lias cut across the princi- pal arterial trunk supplying a limb, we shall seldom have an opportunity of tendering our services in due rime to save the patient, and the ha-morrhago will of course be accelerated in proportion as the wound is nearer to the trunk of the body. InWOUNDS AND FRACTURES OF THE EXTREMITIES. 3 55 cases, however, where an opportunity is afforded of tying a bleeding artery, it becomes our immediate and indispensable duty to do so, whatever 'may be its size. The possibility of the limb being nourished by the anastomosing branches, even when the largest arteries are tied, is now too well established to render it necessary for me to recur to this subject, or to recapitulate those observations and arguments, by which Mr. J. Bell has so triumphantly rebutted the aphorism of Gooch and his predecessors already quoted. Another injury from extensive sabre wounds, is the divi- sion of the principal nerves of a limb, and from this circum- stance the nutrition and perfect functions of the member are more endangered than from the division of the principal artery. Wasting and paralysis more or less complete, arc in- deed common occurrences from the division of the nerves of an extremity ; but the division of such nerves calls for no surgical expedient, nor does our art hold out any particular means of obviating these consequences ; at the same time, the cutting across of a principal nerve, is not a reason sufficient for the immediate removal of the limb, and our duty still is to endeavour by every means to procure reunion. We have some remarkable instances of sabre wounds di- viding the bones as well as the soft parts of an extremity, and even in such cases useful limbs have been saved. Of this an interesting case is given by Baron Percy, in the paper for- merly quoted, on the reunion of separated parts ; in which he states, that “ at the affair of Arlon, under General Delaage, a person named Thiery received a blow from a sabre in the right arm, by which the whole substance of the arm was di- vided, with the exception of a small portion of the soft parts, m which fortunately were the artery and nerve. A cure was accomplished in three months, when the bone, the flesh, and the skin were found to be firmly united; and although the arm remained long in a feeble state, the patient was ultimate-MILITARY SURGERY. 35G ly enabled to devote himself to agricultural pursuits, in which lie had been formerly employed.'” A case still more remarkable, inasmuch as the artery was divided along with the bone, was communicated to me by Mr. Stevenson of the Madras Army ; and the following is an abstract of it from a minute diary kept by Mr. Stevenson. A Jemadar of the Nabob of Masulipatam, received a sabre wound, passing obliquely across the arm, dividing the belly of the biceps muscle and the bone. The attendants described the stream of blood as having been very profuse, and projected several feet, from which circumstance, and the absence of all pulsation at the wrist, it was concluded that the artery was divided. The haemorrhage was stayed in the first instance by a turban wrapped tightly round the arm ; and as the Na- bob firmly opposed the amputation of the man’s limb, the turban was cautiously removed, the lips of the wound approxi- mated, a splint placed under the arm, and a tourniquet ap- plied loosely on the upper part of it. No haemorrhage super- vened, the pulse was barely perceptible at the wrist on the third day. On the twenty-sixth day the wound was nearly all cicatrised, and on the forty-fifth the bone was firmly united ; but as might have been expected, the arm that was saved proved of little use. In punctured wounds of the extremities, it may be remark- ed, that the bayonet, or pike, even when it passes completely through, does not penetrate the member in its longest dia- meter, the point being turned to one side or the other by the bone ; and hence the muscles directly opposed to each other can seldom be implicated in the same wound. The danger from immediate haem or rh age in punctured wounds is greatly less than that from incised wounds, even when the principal blood-vessels are opened, because the nature of this wound affords a much less ready exit to the blood, and ren- ders more effectual those expedients naturally resorted toWOUNDS AND FRACTURES OF THE EXTREMITIES. 357 in such cases. This docs not, however, diminish the risk attendant upon such wounds ; for even although the primary haemorrhage should not prove troublesome, and although the external wound should close, we may still have an aneurism formed from the puncture of an artery. Besides the for- midable consequences from wounds of the arteries, the more common effects of punctured wounds of the extremities, are those formerly noticed, inflammations of the fascia; leading to extensive and deep-seated collections of matter, or to the oc- currence of tetanic affections. Careful reflection, however, induces me to conclude, that the risk of tetanus from punc- tured wounds has been somewhat overrated, and in confirma- tion of this opinion, it has been stated to me by Mr. Mar- shall, that amongst the cases of arrow wounds, which fell un- der his notice in Ceylon, amounting to about one hundred, not a single instance of tetanus occurred. The bad consequences of punctured wounds were formerly attempted to be obviated by the scarification or dilatation of the wound at the first dressing. This practice is now, however, abandoned, at least by the English surgeons, and the dilatation of the wound is deferred until in the progress of the case it may become necessary, or some distinct ob- ject shall be attainable by it; and until we shall distinctly per- ceive in what direction it may be made with most advantage. In a punctured wound of any of the extremities, where no motive exists for its immediate enlargement, such as the se- curing of a bleeding artery, its orifice is to be lightly covered, and perhaps a compress laid along its course, secured by a roller very moderately tightened. In many instances, by this simple treatment, we shall have the satisfaction of finding the wound unite throughout its whole extent. When severe pain, swelling, and tension occur, these symptoms arc to be ob- viated by local blood-letting, fomentations, cataplasms, and perhaps dilatation of the wound.358 MILITARY SURGERY'. Those severe wounds of the extremities inflicted by shot and shells, ar^not only accompanied with injury to the muscles, the blood-vessels, and nerves, but it is by the ex- treme violence done to the bones that such wounds are more peculiarly distinguished. Very extensive breaches in the muscles of a limb from a gunshot wound are often speedily repaired under the most simple treatment; but when such a wound is complicated with injury of the principal blood-vessels and nerves, the case becomes peculiarly hazardous, even inde- pendently of the haemorrhage. Although this may be success- fully controlled in the first instance, yet we know from experi- ence, that musket wounds which injure the main artery of a limb, are very frequently followed by gangrene, probably, as suggested by Mr. Guthrie, from the neighbouring veins and nerve being involved in the injury ; and perhaps, also, from the swelling and tension consequent upon the wound impeding the circulation of the blood through the anastomosing vessels to the lower part of the limb, as explained by Mr. Turner in his valuable paper on obstructions of the arteries in the transactions of the Medico-Chirurgical Society of Edinburgh. The complete escape of an artery lying in the tract of a ball, has often surprised army surgeons, and where the elasticity of the artery enables it to recede, and to escape with a partial injury of its coat, it does not necessarily follow that sloughing and haemorrhage shall be the result. In such cases the coats of the artery sometimes inflame, and its canal is obliterated; in other cases there is reason to believe, that the vessel com- pletely recovers itself. Mr. Guthrie has a preparation where a ball passed between the femoral artery and vein without di- viding either. A large artery, particularly if partially divided by a ball, speedily pours out its contents to a fatal extent; and the numbers who die upon the field from the opening of large arteries far exceed those who survive that accident. Much of the bicoding in all cases depends upon a vessel being cut quiteWOUNDS AND EBACTURES OK THE EXTREMITIES. 350 across, Riul admitting of retraction. If the artery be com- pletely divided, a considerable quantity of blood is quickly lost, and syncope or death arrests the flow. When a limb is carried away, the syncope which frequently supervenes, con- tributes much to prevent the bleeding; and it has been re- marked, that haemorrhage does not usually return after this spontaneous cessation, unless from impropriety of conduct or accidental violence. In some few cases of arteries torn across, particularly in one which has been minutely described and .figured by Mr. Lizars, a peculiar corrugation or puckering of the internal coat has been observed, sufficient, in the faint and languid state of the circulation succeeding such an injury to obviate the effusion of blood, and naturally leading to a reaction within the extremity of the vessel, accompanied with the effusion of lymph, and the complete and permanent closure of the tube. In this way we are probably to explain many of those remarkable cases in which limbs have been separated from the trunk, either by large shot or by machinery, with- out fatal haemorrhage; and perhaps the same state of the in- ternal coat of an artery extending to a distance upwards from the wound will explain another remarkable fact, which has been observed, namely, the absenoe of all bleeding from ar- teries cut fairly across with the amputating knife in the removal of wounded limbs; of which wre have, amongst others, an interesting case recorded by Zinck, in the fourth volume of the “ Recueil des Meraoircs des Medecine ct Chirurgie Militaires.” In some comments upon this case by the editor of the work, he refers to a thesis published at Halle in 1742, by Ischep, entitled “ Casus de Ampulalionc Fanoris non eruenta.1 In this case, the mortification for which the limb was amputated, had affected the principal artery a con- siderable way above the point of amputation. On dressing flic stump on the fourth day, the extremity of the artery wasMILITARY SURGERY. 360 seen projecting from the wound, and on drawing it gently, a portion of several inches separated without any ha:morrhage. This case is very much to our present purpose, as it tends to show, that when mortification or sloughing occurs, from what- ever cause, the arteries are sometimes involved in it, even to a greater extent than the contiguous parts, and when the slough is not prematurely forced off, the trunks of the vessels which have been injured by a gunshot wound are in general perma- nently closed before its separation. On the removal of sloughs, a little blood may occasionally be lost, but it is generally caused by the impatience of the surgeon, or the irregularity of the patient, and seldom requires much attention. Sometimes from about the 8th to the 20th day, a large artery will give way, but the pnqiortion of cases requiring the ligature of arteries from secondary haemorrhage, is stated by Mr. Guthrie, I believe with great truth, not to exceed three or four in a thousand, exclusive of haemorrhage from hospital gangrene, inordinate sloughing, or broken bones ; and he concludes, “ that the opinion, that gunshot wounds do not bleed at the moment of infliction, unless a very large artery be cut, and that they generally bleed, and often pro- fusely, after suppuration, cannot be too soon banished from the minds of surgeons, as leading to unnecessary anxiety and bad practice.” But however urgent injuries of the arterial vessels may be, the first danger is generally the greatest, and if this is once obviated, cases most unpromising in their appearance arc often conducted to a favourable termination. The case how- ever is widely different with gunshot wounds of the extremities, complicated with broken bones, and a large proportion of such wounds arc cases for the immediate removal of the limb. But before specifying those more particularly, or entering farther into the consideration of gunshot fractures, I would ofler a few remarks on those fractures of the limbs occurring fromWOUNDS AND FRACTURES OF THE EXTREMITIES. 3C1 more ordinary causes, and which are usually divided, with reference to the contiguous soft parts, into simple and com- pound, with reference to the bones, into transverse, oblique, and comminuted. Tim reunion of a fractured bone is accomplished by a pro- cess in some respects analogous to that by which the soft parts are reunited, and it is necessary to observe, that with the suc- cessful conduct of this process, either a very high or a very low degree of inflammatory action is equally inconsistent. From a knowledge of the first circumstance, an argument has been drawn for deferring the setting, or as it was formerly termed, the coaptation of a broken bone, until the inflammation super- vening after the accident shall have in a great measure sub- sided ; from the latter circumstance, namely, a deficiency of inflammatory action, we have sometimes to deplore the total want of reunion, and the formation of an artificial joint, to remedy which, much ingenuity has been exercised, and vari- ous expedients adopted, to which I shall immediately advert. The whole process of the reunion of a broken bone,—the effusion first of blood round its extremities, the subsequent swelling and inflammation of the periosteum and surround- ing muscles, the effusion of the provisional and permanent callus, the deposition of osseous matter, which, in the cylin- drical bones, is found to occupy the medullary cavity contigu- ous to the fracture, and, finally, the reopening of this cavity, by the action of the absorbents, are all processes highly deserv- ing attention ; but for a more minute account of these I must refer to other sources. I enumerate these different steps only to show, that from the receipt of the injury to the accom- plishment of the cure, a scries of operations is continually going forward, which may be greatly retarded, or altogether prevented, by improper treatment, and which can only be ex- pedited by the due approximation of the fractured portions of bpnc, by employing the means best adapted to retain them in ■i3G2 MJLiTAKY SUHOKRV. accurate apposition, and by securing to our patient, as far as circumstances will permit, perfect rest, free air, and wholesome diet. In cases of compound fracture, when the bone protrudes through the integuments, there can be no difficulty in dis- tinguishing the nature of the accident; but in simple fractures, when the soft parts remain entire, the diagnosis is sometimes attended with difficulty : this is more particularly the case when they occur close to the joints. The principal diagnostics are pain and inability to use the fractured limb, distortion more or less considerable, and above all, a crepitus or grating of the fractured portions of bone against each other. The two first symptoms, pain and inability of motion are extremely equivocal, particularly when the fracture is seated close to a joint, for here they are equally characteristic of luxation. The distortion, when the fracture is situated towards the mid- dle of the long cylindrical bones, is often so conspicuous, as at once to mark the nature of the accident; and in bones lying superficially, covered only by the common integuments, as the clavicle and the spine of the tibia, we can often detect a frac- ture by the eye, or by running our fingers along the course of the bone. Something may also be learned in doubtful cases, from the nature of the cause producing the injury. Thus, as military surgeons, it is well to bear in mind, that many of those accidents to which the soldier is exposed, arc not cal- culated to produce luxation, while they prove common causes of fracture. In the treatment of fractures, our art has been progressively improved in proportion as it has been simplified ; and we are now convinced, that the least possible degree of force with which we can reduce a fractured limb, and the most simple contrivance by which we can retain it in a proper position, is to be preferred. The first object is often to be accomplished by the hand of the surgeon, without any extraneous aid, andWOUNDS AND FRACTURES OF THE EXTREMITIES. 363 the last may frequently be attained by a piece of pasteboard and a roller. It will readily be understood, that both these objects, the setting and retention of a broken bone, are greatly facilitated by attention to the general position of the limb. In some particular cases, as in fractures of the olecranon and of the patella, we have it in our power, by stretching out the limb, to relax the whole of the muscles whose operation can tend to displace the fractured parts ; and as a general prin- ciple, whenever a particular position of the limb, relaxing the most powerful of its muscles, can be made to co-operate with the best mechanical contrivance for securing a due approxi- mation of the ends of the fractured bone, this unquestionably is the position which we ought to adopt. But as these two objects are not always attainable at the same time, we must sometimes sacrifice the former to the latter. Simple fractures may generally be looked upon as accidents devoid of much danger, and their treatment should be particu- larly successful amongst soldiers, who have, for the most part, the advantage of immediate and constant medical attendance from the receipt of the injury to the completion of the cure. Many soldiers, however, are invalided in consequence of imper- fect recoveries from fractures of the limbs, a circumstance which has not escaped the notice of the authorities ; and the respon- sibility of a more successful treatment ol these accidents is very properly fixed upon medical officers, by the following paragraph ol a printed circular letter, under the signatures of Sir James M‘Grigor and Sir William Franklin. “ Too much care cannot be taken by medical officers to counter- act the measures adopted by designing individuals to ren- der the recovery of an injury incomplete. The 25th and 51st articles of the Warrant, dated 14th November 1329, relative to the discharging of soldiers, confer a power on me- dical officers, adequate, it is hoped, to deter men from pro- tracting their recovery, or from rendering the cure of an injuryMILITARY SURGERY. 364* mperfect. In civil life, persons commonly recover from the effect of fractures and dislocations of bones, and there is no good reason why soldiers should not be equally fortu- nate.” When any considerable displacement of the fractured ex- tremities of a bone exists, it must prove a source of continued irritation, and where the nature of the accident is distinctly seen, the fracture should be immediately reduced. We know, however, that in as far as regards the formation of callus, and the ultimate reunion of the bone, particularly in gunshot frac- tures, the cure will not be retarded by the want of immediate coaptation ; and where the swelling has rendered the nature of an accident obscure, we may run the risk of aggravating the injury by violent or unguarded attempts at reduction. It does not fall within my province to consider successively and minutely the fractures of each individual bone; but I may remark, that when fractures occur near the junction of the limbs with the trunk of the body, much difficulty is experi- enced in their management, from our not being able to confine the upper fragments. Here, generally speaking, the diagnosis is most difficult and the treatment least satisfactory. Fracture of the clavicle is an accident very common in mi- litary as in civil life; its diagnosis is not difficult, and its treatment on the principles so well explained by Desault, should be amply successful. But we find many instances of soldiers whose clavicles have been broken, and carelessly treated, constantly complaining that they are incommoded by their belts, or by the straps of their knapsacks pressing upon the prominent part of the bone, and this even to such a de- gree, as to be thought a ground for soliciting their discharge. Cases of this kind will never cease to be a source of vexation to a surgeon when lie has to blame himself for any negligence in their treatment, which it is well known may be successfully conducted by placing a cushion in the axilla, raising the shoul-WOUNDS AND FRACTURES OF THE EXTREMITIES. 365 dor to a due elevation, and binding the arm down to tli© side. Fracture of the neck of the scapula is an accident of rare occurrence, and difficult diagnosis. I have seen three cases in which this accident was believed to exist, marked by a drop- ping or falling down of the arm, with inability to move it; some degree of flatness under the acromion, and distinct cre- pitus, on alternately elevating and depressing the humerus perpendicularly. The treatment was successfully conducted in all, by elevating the elbow, and binding the arm down to the side. Fractures of the upper part of the humerus, and more es- pecially those in what is properly termed the cervix humeri, are often attended with much difficulty in the diagnosis; a difficulty, however, which is naturally greatest when the dis- placement of the broken fragments is least. In such cases, if we could be contented to let the arm remain bound down to the side for a due length of time, a cure would naturally take place without much surgical aid; but the fear of over- looking a dislocation, with which such accidents are liable to be confounded, often leads to protracted or repeated ma- nipulations, which are anything but conducive to the cure. When displacement occurs, it is naturally influenced by the powerful muscles implanted into this part of the bone ; and without going minutely into all the varieties of such ac- cidents, upon which an interesting paper is to be found by M. Marx, in the “ Repertoire d1 Anatomic, Sic.'1 I shall con- tent myself at present with quoting the following observations from one of my printed Clinical Lectures, suggested by a case of fracture through the neck of the humerus. This I am the more inclined to do, because it bears upon a point of practice, the necessity of a cushion in the axilla, which is not always attended to. “ In remarking upon that case, l took occasion to pointMILITARY SURGERY. 3G6 out to you, that when the bone is broken, as in this instance, above the insertion of the pectoralis major and latissimus dor- si, these powerful muscles tend to draw the lower fragment of the bone towards the trunk, away from the head of the hume- rus w hich remains attached to the glenoid cavity of the scapu- la ; when the fracture, again, passes through that part of the bone into which the two last mentioned muscles are inserted, both fragments are naturally drawn towards the trunk ; and when the fracture is below the insertion of these muscles, it is the superior fragment of the bone which is drawn by them towards the trunk of the body, while the lower "fragment is drawn outwards and upwards by the deltoid. These, I re- marked, were not to be considered as the only muscles tending to displace the broken fragments of the bone, but they are by far the most powerful; and by leaving the others out of view for a moment, you will, I think, be better enabled to under- stand the true position which the broken ends of the bone ge- nerally assume in fractures of the upper part of the humerus; and you will readily perceive, in treating them, the propriety of placing, along with the splints on the outside of the arm, a pad or cushion in the axilla, so as to operate on one or other, or both fragments of the bone, as the case may re- quire.'” Fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone, although chiefly incident to people in advanced life, beyond the age of military service, are nevertheless occasionally met with amongst the various accidents to which soldiers and seamen arc liable. This fracture, like that of the neck of the humerus, is, in some rare cases, accompanied with so little displacement, that I have, in one instance, known a patient to walk after a frac- ture of the neck of the thigh-bone ; and from a memoir of Sabatier’s, it will be seen that the same thing has been observed by others. But the common consequences of a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, arc complete lamenessWOUNDS AND FRACTURES OF THE EXTREMITIES. 36J and shortening of the limb, with eversion of the toes. The space between the trochanter and crest of the ilium is dimi- nished ; on drawing down and rolling the limb, a crepitus is perceptible, and the trochanter may be observed to move along with the shaft of the bone. The attention of the profession has of late been much directed to fractures of the neck of the femur, to the possibility of procuring a bony reunion when the fracture is within the capsular ligament, and to the circum- stances which may favour or counteract such reunion. But without going into this controversy,I may observe, that I have not yet seen any unequivocal instance of a bony reunion where the fracture was wholly within the capsule, and the head of the hone fairly detached, and I am necessarily led to agree with Sir Astley Cooper in questioning the probability of a bony re- union under such circumstances. On the other hand, I am induced, from my own experience, to admit the difficulty of ascertaining precisely whether a fracture of the neck of the fe- mur is wholly or only in part within the capsule; and I con- cur with Mr. Karle in believing, that painful and protracted efforts to ascertain this point may prove not only futile, but ultimately injurious, by lacerating the investing membrane of the neck of the bone, and impeding its reunion ; “ thus con- tributing to make good our opinions by our practice.” In the treatment of this accident, I presume that every sur- geon is desirous of taking steps to procure the most perfect re- union of which the case admits; and I believe that the perfec- tion of this reunion often depends upon circumstances which it is nearly or altogether impossible to ascertain with precision, nay, upon circumstances which may be altered for the worse by the very attempt at such precision. I would therefore recommend in every case to take the chance of obtaining a bony reunion by adopting that mode of treatment most likely to procure it; for, however imperfect this union may ultimately prove, it will always be a pleasant reflection toMILITARY SURGERY. 308 think that nothing has been omitted which was calculated to promote it, and that nothing has been done which could possi- bly impede it. It would ill become me to underrate the importance of the discussion about fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone, con- sidering the distinguished surgeons who have taken part in it; but while several points connected with this controversy are still undecided* I must, pendente lite, be permitted to solicit attention to a division of fractures of the upper part of the thigh-bone capable of immediate practical application. I would divide these fractures into such as occur in that part of the bone above the muscular insertions, and such as occur at or below the point at which these muscular insertions com- mence ; that is, into fractures above the trochanters; frac- tures passing through these processes ; and fractures imme- diately below them ; of each of which there are numerous va- rieties. In the first case, it is obvious that we have no command over the head and neck of the bone, except through the me- dium of its ligamentous connexions with the pelvis, and every contrivance calculated to insure the successful treatment ol this accident must have in view the fixture of the pelvis as well as of the thigh bone. The limb may be placed either in the bent or extended posture ; but the former I consider the best wherever we have an apparatus sufficiently perfect for keeping the parts in apposition. In the second case, that of fracture through the trochan- ters, we have both portions of the bone- acted upon, and some- times rotated in opposite directions by the muscles implanted into them ; and hence we are enabled to explain the fracture of this part of the bone with inversion of the toes ; an occur- rence which was long ago noticed by Pare and Petit, but of which the true explanation has only recently been given by Mr. Guthrie of London, and Mr. Syme of this city, each ofWOUNDS AND FRACTURES OF THE EXTREMITIES. 369 whom has met with an instance of this variety. Of its treat- ment I speak with great diffidence, because I speak without any personal experience ; but I am disposed to think that in most cases the tendency of the limb to deviate from the natu- ral position will be best counteracted by keeping it in the extended posture by a common long splint, or by means of Boyer’s, Desault’s, or Hagedorn’s apparatus. In the third case, that of fracture immediately below the trochanters, the limb ought, I think, uniformly to be placed in the bent position. It has been well observed, that in this instance no modification of the extended posture will answer; for, supposing the patient placed on his back, the powerful action of the psoas magnus and iliacus interims muscles, in- serted into the trochanter minor, will raise, or bend the upper fragment of the bone upon the pelvis, while it is obvious that all attempts to extend, to level, or to depress the inferior frag- ment of the bone will tend to separate the broken ends from each other. I would therefore press upon the surgeon’s attention these three varieties of this accident, as more capable of being re- cognised in practice, and better calculated to lead to a deter- minate and successful mode of treatment. In the first case the position of the limb may be optional, in the second I am inclined to consider the extended posture the best, and in the third the bent position should invariably be adopted. In compound fractures, at least in those occurring from the common accidents of civil life, it may be observed, that in making its way to the surface through the different strata of muscles, some of the fibres must be divided transversely, while others are merely separated longitudinally, by the pro- truding bone, and in relaxing the wounded muscle, we ap- proximate the extremities of those fibres which have been cut across, while we in no degree tend to increase the displace- 2 «MILITARY SURGERY. 370 ment of those which have been merely separated from each other; and in cases of this kind, we have an additional argument in fa- vour of relaxing the wounded muscle, which is not always duly adverted to. In compound fractures, the first object of attention after the reduction of the fracture, is the closure of the external wound, a practice recommended by all the systematic writers, and which is attempted by various modes of dressing; some- times by a pledget of lint soaked in blood, and allowed to form an incrustation over it; sometimes by covering it with a paste of gum or albuminous matter, and sometimes by bringing the lips of the wound into accurate apposition with adhesive straps or sutures. But whichever of these modes may be adopted, I regret to say that the object in view is very fre- quently frustrated by excessive inflammatory action, running on to suppuration or gangrene. The practice of envelop- ing fractured limbs in splints and bandages, without undoing them for weeks together, is akin to that followed by the natives of India, of enclosing fractured limbs in moulds of soft clay. Of the successful result of this practice, I remember a remark- able instance in the case of a little boy who was brought into my tent one morning, having been run over by a waggon on the line of march, and having sustained a severe compound fracture of the leg. I was preparing to amputate this boy’s limb, when his parents came in and carried him away to the potter in an adjoining village, who enveloped the leg in clay, and I believe, finally cured the patient. From the result of this case and of others similarly treated, I was naturally prepossessed in favour of the practice so strongly advocated by Baron Larrey, of dressing fractures with com- presses and cushions of straw, leaving them undisturbed till the completion of the cure, and I remember to have met with an hospital surgeon so much enamoured of this practice, that he said he never expected to lose another case of compoundWOUNDS AND FBACTURES OK THE EXTREMITIES. 371 fracture after its adoption. I fear, however, he will have learn- ed by this time, as I have done, that no exclusive practice of this kind is uniformly applicable, and that it is not easy to discriminate a priori between those cases in which the above practice will be advantageous, and those in which it will prove not only injurious but absolutely insufferable. An account of Baron Larrcy’s treatment of fractures, “ par l’appareil ina- movible,” has lately been transmitted to me by M. Hippolyte Larrey, the son of my distinguished friend the Baron. His Thesis on this subject contains many interesting remarks on fractures generally, and much valuable information relative to his father’s plan of treatment. But while I am disposed to ■ question the propriety of an indiscriminate adherence to one mode of treatment, there are some points in the manage- ment of compound fractures on which my own observation has led me to form a very decided opinion. I have too fre- 1 quently seen a reluctance to use the saw in removing the pro- truding extremities of the bone, when these were either difficult i to reduce or of a sharp and spicular form ; and I have some- times seen the closure of the external wound attempted by i means too forcible and too long continued. In short, I think I have seen here, as well as in other cases, much mischief done by obstinately resisting the termination to which nature obviously points. Inflammation, swelling, tension, and spasms, are the well i known consequences which we have chiefly to guard against m the treatment of compound fractures in their earlier stages, and in proportion as we succeed in keeping these within pro- per bounds by blood-letting, abstemious diet, cold lotions, fo- mentations, &c., in the same proportion shall we succeed in ’ shortening the inflammatory stage, preventing or diminishing the subsequent suppuration, accelerating the process of reunion, lessening the time of our patient’s confinement, and thus sav- ing his constitution. It should be recollected, however, thatMILITARY SURGERY. 372 under the best treatment, the cure of compound fractures is necessarily a tedious process, and hence blood-letting should be used with great, perhaps with more than usual cau- tion. In gunshot fracture, when this occurs towards the middle of a bone, and when the comminution is not great, the soft parts not much contused, and the patient likely to be speedily placed in circumstances favourable to his recovery, an attempt may be made to save the limb ; and after having extracted the ball or other extraneous substances which may havelodgedin the wound, and having also removed any detached splinters of bone or projecting spiculae, the wound is to be co- vered with a pledget of lint, placed in a position calculated to relax as far as possible the injured muscles, and if the patient is to be moved, it should be surrounded with splints and a many-headed roller, more however with a view of securing him from any additional violence to his limb during the trans- portation to the car than with any view to its speedy reunion. Whenever a ball has become imbedded in the substance of a bone, no effort should be spared to effect its removal. Mr. Guthrie’s extensive experience has led him to express himself very strongly on this point, and Sir Charles Bell’s account of the sufferings of the Russian General Baron Driesen, will afford a striking example of the miseries often entailed upon patients by balls lodged in bones. A case in which I was consulted about three years ago, affords if possible a still stronger proof of the extent and duration of suffering from this cause. An officer wounded so long back as April 1813, had retained from that time a musket ball in the upper part of the i tibia, a source of almost continued distress and repeated fe- brile attacks, by which his constitution was so much impaired, that although the extraction of the ball was successfully ac- complished, the fever supervening upon the operation assumed a typhoid character and carried him off rapidly. In gunshotWOUNDS AND FRACTURES OF THE EXTREMITIES. 3J3 fractures, there generally exist numerous splinters and frag- ments of dead bone in the neighbourhood of the wound, which prevent a speedy reunion. These dead portions of bone must come away by exfoliation, and having not un- frequcntly to make their way through callus or newly formed bone with which they become surrounded, the process of their complete detachment and final expulsion sometimes oc- ' cupies months or even years. In the treatment of gunshot fractures, our principal care must be, after removing splinters which are completely detach- ed, to subdue the inflammatory symptoms, by general and lo- cal antiphlogistic measures ; and it is only when these inflam- matory symptoms have been removed, and reunion about to take place, that it becomes an object to secure an accurate .co- aptation by means of a particular position of the limb, splints, and bandages. The process of reunion in fractures of the thigh will perhaps hardly commence till towards the expira- tion of three weeks; and hence, whatever advantages we may afterwards expect from the extended position of the limb, it may, I believe, previous to the twentieth day, be with great propriety left in the semi-bent position without splints or band- age. Indeed, whatever diversity of opinion exists amongst surgeons with regard .to the position of tire limb in simple fractures, the propriety of relaxing as far as possible theinjiuv ed muscles in cases of compound, and particularly of gunshot fractures, is in my opinion indisputable. This, however, is by no means easily attainable in those injuries to which I am now more particularly adverting; for when a ball or other mis- sile passes through a limb, it may wound those muscles which naturally antagonise each other. In this case, the relaxation -of one set of muscles implies the tension of another, and an intermediate position, or state of semiflexion is that which, upon the whole, offers perhaps the greatest advantage. We .are under great obligations to Mr. Pott for having drawn the374 MILITARY SURGERY. attention of the profession to the advantage of relaxing as far as possible the most powerful of the muscles operating upon, and tending to displace a broken bone ; for although Mr. Pott’s views upon this subject are not to be realized to their full extent, yet it is obvious that in proportion as we succeed in evading the natural or the spasmodic action of muscles in displacing the broken bone, so will we be able to lessen the constraint of the patient, and to dispense with a powerful co- ercive apparatus. This ought particularly to be observed in the application of those temporary and often imperfect expe- dients which we must adopt in securing a fractured limb, dur- ing the removal of a patient from the field of battle, or land- ing him from a ship of war. It is chiefly in reference to fractures of the inferior extre- mity, that this question of relaxing the muscles becomes of paramount importance, and the different view of the subject adopted by the English and by the French surgeons, was fol- lowed, for a series of years, by a very marked difference in their practice ; the former adopting the bent position, and the latter the extended. Of late, however, I believe that the surgeons of both countries are disposed to take a less exclu- sive view of this matter; and my own experience tells me, that in the infinite variety of fractures which one has occasion to see in the course of a long run of hospital practice, he will find that a fractured limb sometimes lies best in one position, sometimes in another, without his being always able to see very distinctly the reason why. An early bias, derived per- haps from the study of Mr. Pott’s writings, and the observa- tion that the limbs naturally fall into the bent position during sleep, have made me partial to this position in the treatment of fractures of the lowrer extremities. But there is one im- portant consideration by which I have often been guided, and which army and navy surgeons above all others must never lose sight of. In military practice we are not alwaysWOUNDS AND FRACTURES OF THE EXTREMITIES. 3*J5 able to have recourse to the measures we may think positively best, but must resort to those which under all the circumstances of the case, we can command most readily and use most effec- tually. This applies particularly to the case now under con- sideration, for although we may not always be able to command the finished apparatus of Desault, Boyer, or Hagedorn, we can seldom be at a loss for a long splint upon which to extend the fractured limb; and, even in defect of this we may be able to keep up a continued extension by fixing the patient’s trunk, and then applying a lac or the strap of a tourniquet, so as to draw down the fractured limb towards the bed-post, or to a fixed point in the floor, as recommended by my prede- cessor, Dr. Thomson. For the treatment of broken limbs in the bent position, all the common pieces of apparatus are modi- fications of the double inclined plane, and of these Mr. Earle’s, Mr. Amesbury’s, and Mr. M‘Intyre’s are the best with which I am acquainted ; the last I have nmv been in the habit of using for years with much satisfaction and success. The practice of swinging or suspending fractured limbs in a sort of cradle, is one which I am inclined to think might be ex- tended with advantage to many cases occurring in military life; but upon this point I speak with diffidence, as my expe- rience of it is very limited, having only seen it adopted in two cases. I am in possession of some very neat and ingenious pieces of apparatus for the suspension of fractured limbs, but it would be foreign to my present purpose to enter into any detailed description of them here ; and although in the habit of shewing them in the class, as well as every other apparatus which I can command, I do so rather for the purpose of pointing out the objects aimed at in their construction, and teaching my pupils to devise substitutes for them, than from any expectation that they can in general be furnished with an apparatus in any degree complicated. With reference to gunshot fractures of the lower extremity.376 MILITARY SURGERY. and particularly of the femur, the question as to the position of the limb is, after all, one of secondary importance, for the following abstract of the opinions of the most experienced sur- geons, copied from Velpeau's recent and useful work on oper- ative surgery, will shew that there are very few cases of this kind in which an attempt to save the limb is either wise or warrantable. “ It is not in the neighbourhood of complicated articula- tions only that gunshot wounds, with fracture and lesion of the synovial cavities, are accompanied with danger. These wounds are not less formidable when they occur in the middle of the long bones, more especially those of the lower ex- tremity. Thus, when a ball produces a comminuted frac- ture both of the tibia and fibula, while at the same time the soft parte are bruised or violently contused, amputation is almost always the inevitable consequence. When this oper- ation is not performed, we find that for one recover)', there are at least ten deaths. In the case of the femur, the indication is still more explicit and distinct. Ravaton says that, if am- putation is not had recourse to, gunshot fracture of this bone is nearly in all cases attended with fatal results. Schmucker maintains, that only one in seven thus wounded is saved. Lombard expresses himself in a similar manner. M. Ribes, who has only seen one cure, gives the history of ten cases, where, notwithstanding the utmost care and attention, the patients sunk ; and he also mentions, that at the Hotel des Invalides, out of four thousand individuals who had suffered from wounds of this sort, he could only find one successful case. M. Yvan mentions two cases of cure effected in 1815, in which, however, the patients afterwards fell a sacrifice to fistulous sores consequent upon the fracture. M. Gaulthier dc Claubry, an old surgeon of the imperial guard, holds the same opinion on this point as M. Ribes, and informs us, that in the Spanish army almost all the soldiers who had theirWOUNDS AND FRACTURES OF THE EXTREMITIES. S'J'J thigh-bones fractured died unless amputation had been practis- ed immediately. Out of eight cases treated by Mr. S. Cooper, after the battle of Oudenbosch, only one survived, and the limb in this instance was of very little use to the individual. Percy, Thomson, Larrey, Guthrie, and Hennen, have made similar observations ; and the events of July 1830 have also led most of the surgeons attached to the Parisian hospitals to adopt the same conclusions. One of the individuals, however, who was wounded in this manner, was treated with success by M. Lisfranc, at La Pitie, a second was saved by M. Dupuy- tren, and three other cures are mentioned by M. Arnal. I have not been so fortunate in my practice. Only one case was admitted into my wards; the fracture appeared to be very simple, and nevertheless, no treatment was of any avail, and death put an end to the patient’s sufferings on the thirty- eighth day. M. Somme cured two out of eight without am- putation, during the events at Antwerp in October 1830. M. Lassis and other practitioners, both at Paris and Brussels, have published also some successful cases. “ We must not however forget, that both in France and in Belgium, the wounded were placed in the best possible circumstances, and were treated in the same manner as the sick in civil practice, whilst in the army and in military hos- pitals, they must necessarily have been deprived of much of that care which is bestowed upon them in private life. Besides, success, even in the most favourable circumstances, is trifling, and the limb, when saved, is generally so deformed, that the loss of it must almost be looked upon as preferable. We must remark, moreover, that the fracture is so much the more dan- gerous, as it approaches the middle of the bone, either on account of the splinters which are liable to occur in that situ- ation, or on account of the number, disposition, and force of the muscles. To recapitulate what has been stated, amputation is most commonly indicated in cases of comminuted fractureMILITARY SUHGERY. 378 of the lower extremity ; while, on the contrary, if the injury is not very severe, we may frequently dispense with this oper- ation in the case of the upper extremity. It is impossible, from the very commencement, to distinguish the circumstances which absolutely demand amputation, and those which would prevent us from having recourse to it. We constantly see wounds at first apparently of a trifling nature, speedily present a most serious aspect, while, on the other hand, the most alarming injuries are sometimes followed by no untoward occurrence.” In former times the period required for the consolidation of different fractures was specified with great precision; from thirty to thirty-five days were allowed for the bones of the upper extremity, and from forty to fifty for those of the thigh and leg. We are now, however, too well acquainted with those circumstances which may either promote or retard this reunion, to affect much accuracy on this subject. A bone will, ceteris paribus, reunite sooner in proportion as it is young and vascular, and its reunion will be impeded by advanced life, an unsound constitution, or a want of perfect retention. Indeed, as I have formerly hinted, these circum- stances may altogether prevent its reuniting, and an artificial joint may be formed; although from Mr. Amesbury’s recent observations, there is reason to believe, that when the consti- tution is sound, this unfortunate occurrence may very gene- rally be obviated under the judicious employment of local pressure and rest, without any other expedient whatever. For the cure of false joints, the most simple and the most ancient expedient is that of rubbing the fractured portions of the bone against each other, with the view of exciting an in- flammatory action ; a practice distinctly recommended by Cel- sus. With the same view it has been recommended, in ununited fractures of the lower extemities, that the patient should be made to walk with his leg enclosed in a case formal of stiffWOUNDS AND FRACTURES OF THE EXTREMITIES. leather or strong pasteboard, and this is a practice which I have resorted to with success in two such cases. Another plan of treatment calculated to excite a salutary action in the broken ends of the bone, is the passage of a seton through the fractured part of the limb. This was first employed by Dr. Physic of Philadelphia, and having succeeded in his hands in the case of a fractured humerus, it was shortly afterwards attempted by Mr. Wardrop of London, in the case of Captain Hay of the Astell, East Indiaman, in whom a fracture of the femur had remained ununited for a considerable period. In this case, however, after much perseverance on the part of the surgeon, and much suffering on the part of the patient, the bone remained ununited, and the operation has since been repeated by different surgeons, with various degrees of success. The expedient of cutting down upon the fractured extre- mities of a bone, and removing a portion of them with the saw when they have remained long ununited, was first resorted to by an excellent surgeon, the late Mr. White of Manchester, in a case of fractured humerus. The same operation was performed by Mr. Rowland of Chester, in the case of a frac- tured thigh-bone; but although he succeeded in his object, Mr. Rowland hesitates to recommend a repetition of the oper- ation. Upon the whole, the flattering hopes formed from the success of this operation at first, have been in a great measure blasted by its repeated failure ; and, indeed, unless the want of reunion is obviously the result of some maltreatment or sinis- ter accident in the first instance, which can be sufficiently guarded against on a second attempt, we have no great en- couragement to undertake it. Where non-union has, in the first instance, been the consequence of any constitutional defect, we have no good ground to expect success from any operation ; for it cannot be supposed that health, originally defective,-will be improved under the confinement and re-380 MILITARY SUKGKRY. straint which am attempt to cure a broken bone necessarily implies. The opening of joints, or fracturing the articular extre- mities of bones forming them, constitutes one of the most severe classes of injuries we meet with in wounds of the limbs; and there are perhaps few cases in which it is advis- able to attempt to save limbs so injured. When such an attempt is made, the extent of the wound, its proximity to large blood-vessels, the more simple or complicated structure of the joint, the comparative injury done to the bones form- ing the articulation, the constitution and habits of the in- dividual, and the accommodation to be procured for him, are all circumstances to be maturely weighed. The most essential points in the treatment of wounded joints, are to subdue excessive inflammation by local bleeding and the usual applications, to facilitate the escape of matter when it forms, and to keep the wounded joint in a state of rest. The cavities of the joints of the upper extremity, even the shoulder-joint, is not unfrequently laid open by a stroke of the sabre ; and when the constitution is sound, and circumstances otherwise favourable, the wound ought immediately to be closed, and by proper attention to the after-treatment, re- coveries occasionally take place. Injuries of this joint from musket or grape-shot are often a sufficient ground for the re- moval of the arm at its articulation with the scapula, or for the excision of the head of the humerus. The propriety of this operation, as applicable to cases of caries of the joint, occur- ring in civil life, is well illustrated in Mr. Syme’s valuable work on excision of the joints; and its utility in wounds of the shoulder joint is fully established by several cases, of which the details are to be found in the writings of Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Morel, and others. This operation has been no less successful in the French army, in the hands of Garon Larrey, who observes, “ it sometimes happens that a381 WOUNDS AND FRACTURES OF THE EXTREMITIES. ball fired at a short distance strikes the humerus imme- diately below its head, and breaks it short off; and the pressure of the detached head of the bone, acting as a foreign body, causes irritation and inflammation of the joint. Ab- scesses, sinuses, and caries soon become evident, and there is no resource but in amputation. I have,” adds the Baron, “ had the good fortune, in ten cases, to prevent this unfortun- ate result, by extracting either the head of the humerus or its fragments without delayAfter a detail of his mode of per- forming the operation, by an incision through the deltoid muscle, parallel to its fibres, and along the course of the bone, he states the result of his cases as follows:—“ One died of fever, and two of scurvy, at Alexandria ; one of the plague after the return of the army from Syria, and the others were sent to France cured.” I have now seen this operation executed five times in consequence of a carious state of the joint; two of these patients have died, one of them from incurable inter- nal disease; the other three have obtained cures, and have retained a limb more or less useful. In short, the results have been such as to satisfy me perfectly of the applicability of this operation to military practice. In wounds of the elbow-joint, we have no experience in military practice of the excision of the articular extremities of the bones; but I have had an account of a case transmitted to me by Mr. M‘Intyre of Newcastle, where this operation was successfully executed. The case was one of severe com- pound fracture of the joint, and the patient recovered so far, “ as to manage a steam-engine, and to use his arm with con- siderable strength.” I have now had the good fortune to witness twenty cases in which the elbow-joint has been either wholly or partially excised for caries, being, I believe, all the cases which have been operated on in this city. In sixteen of these cases, the operation was performed by Mr. Syme, in two by Mr. Liston, in one by Dr. Simson, and in one case 1 per-MILITARY SURGERY. 382 formed the operation myself; and from the results of these, I am satisfied that in some cases of gunshot fractures of the elbow-joint, particularly in young subjects, the operation of excision may be successfully and advantageously performed. The hazardous character of wounds involving the hip-joint is well known to every experienced surgeon, and the removal of the thigh at the hip joint, recommended for some of these wounds, is an operation which no one can contemplate with any sanguine hopes of success. The experience which we have of the excision of the head of the femur, in cases of caries, is not extensive, but it appears to me to be encouraging; and since I have become familiar with the excision of other joints, I have frequently reflected upon the possibility of sub- stituting the operation of excision for that of amputation at the hip-joint, in some of those cases of gunshot wounds where the latter has been recommended. That the operation might be performed with facility, I make no doubt. I have been in the habit of shewing in my class for a number of years, that by a perpendicular incision along the bone on the outside of the joint, and by another crossing it at right angles, the head of the femur may be excised, even when the head and neck of the bone are not previously broken or comminuted ; and when this is the case, the operation would of course be greatly faci- litated. I should scarcely expect by such an operation to save a useful limb, but it should never be forgotten, that in cases requiring amputation at the hip-joint, it is not only the patient’s limb, but his life which is deeply involved. Excision of the knee-joint is an operation which I have twice witnessed for chronic disease, and although one case was successful, it is not an operation which I consider advis- able in any case of recent wound, or hardly in any circum- stances whatever. In cases of compound luxation at the ankle joint, the re- moval of the protruding extremity of the bone by the saw hasWOUNDS AND FRACTURES OF THE EXTREMITIES. 383 sometimes been resorted to, but I am not aware that the complete excision of this joint has yet been undertaken, nor is it easy to foresee circumstances in which it would be advisable. In concluding these observations on wounds of the Head, Trunk, and Extremities, I am enabled, through the kindness of Deputy-Inspector Marshall, to introduce an abstract of the returns of cases of gunshot and arrow wounds which were made to him by six of the medical officers employed in the Kandyan provinces in Ceylon during the insurrection of 1817 and 1818, from which it appears, that “ of eighteen cases of gunshot wounds in the head, neck, or trunk, two died and sixteen recovered; of twenty-two gunshot wounds of the extremities, none died; of sixteen cases of arrow wounds of the head, neck, or trunk, one died and fifteen re- covered ; of twenty-five arrow wounds of the extremities, none died. “ In some instances among the arrow wounds, the arrow had transfixed one thigh of a patient and slightly wounded the other, and one or two examples occurred where the arrow penetrated the thorax, wounded the lungs, and thereby occa- sioned haemoptysis. Many of the arrow wounds healed by the first intention, and some where a leg was transfixed. Of the eighteen men who were wounded in the head, neck, or trunk by means of musket balls or iron slugs, the balls or slugs were extracted from all of them except three, and of those wounded in the extremities, one ball was not ex- tracted. “ Under the head, « recovered,1 are here included all those cases who were discharged from the hospital, whether they had become efficient as soldiers or not. I have before me the description of forty-eight cases of gunshot and eleven of arrow wounds, which came under the care of three other medical officers during the above period; but as a con-384 MILITARY SURGERY. siilerable number of these cases were transferred to hospitals out of my district while their wounds were still open, I am unable to state the results satisfactorily.'” This Return I consider interesting, not only as embracing a description of wounds of which we know comparatively little, and of which English surgeons in general have no experience, but as a specimen of the kind of information which, if given upon a large scale and on a systematic plan, could not fail to be highly instructive. Were we furnished with such an abstract as this of the wounds occurring in every battle, siege, or campaign, with a statement of their results, and a summary of the chief means of treatment, we would speedily acquire a knowledge of what was to be expected in any given circumstances, as regards the description of enemy opposed to us, the nature of the service to be accomplished, and the in- fluence of climate, season, and other circumstances in the treatment of wounds. LUXATIONS. In considering injuries of the extremities, I am induced to offer a few remarks on the subject of luxations of the joints, because it will be observed, from the paragraph formerly quoted, that luxations are included amongst those accidents by which soldiers are too frequently incapacitated for their duties; and it should also be known, that luxations have sometimes been produced in the infliction of punishments heretofore in use in the service, instances of which I shall have occasion to notice. Independently of the necessity which these considerations impose upon the military surgeon to study the mechanism of38 5 LUXATIONS. luxations, and to prepare himself for their successful treat- ment, he should ever bear in mind, that there is no one instance in which the comfort of a patient, or the reputation of a surgeon, arc more completely and more frequently involved than in the treatment of luxations. Here the popular prejudice is de- cidedly against us, and we often find well informed people ready to lend a willing ear to stories of the superior skill of a country bone-setter. In proportion as a man is eminent in the other departments of his profession, he is very frequently sup- posed to be ignorant of this particular department; and while I am veiy far from giving the most distant countenance to such an opinion, I cannot divest myself of the knowledge of many mistakes which have happened in the hands of scientific surgeons, and have tended to confirm vulgar pre- judices. Every person knows the superior facility with which luxated bones arc replaced immediately after accidents, and how much all the difficulties of reduction are aggravated by the lapse of time. Much is here to be gained^by accurate knowledge and prompt decision ; much may be lost by doubt and delay. In luxations of long standing, adhesions are formed, and in some instances an ossific deposit is thrown round the extremity of the luxated bone, presenting an almost insupe- rable obstacle to its reduction. A dislocation recently produced, where the head of the bone has escaped from the articular cavity, and retains the position into which it was first thrown, is termed a primary luxation, m contradistinction to those cases termed consecutive disloca- tions, when by the continued action of the muscles'a dislocated bone is drawn into a different position from that which it occupied immediately after the accident. Now as the military surgeon has, for the most part, the advantage of seeing luxa- tions in their primary state, he has not those obstacles to en- counter which are met with in secondary or consecutive dis-MILITARY SURGERY. 33G locations, and this circumstance will no doubt be observed to his prejudice whenever he fails in the reduction. In considering more particularly the subject of dislocation, we find that the more varied and extensive the motions of which a joint naturally admits, so is it more liable to luxa- tion. Thus in joints simply admitting of flexion and ex- tension, as the elbow and knee-joints, luxations are less fre- quent than in the joints of the hip, and especially of the shoul- der. Much is added, in some cases, to the security of joints, by a large articular surface and a powerful ligamentous apparatus; of this we have a remarkable example in the knee-joint. But in proportion as this joint is secured from luxation by a com- plex structure, so are its wounds more dangerous and its dis- eases more frequent. As a general rule it may be remarked, that while the surrounding muscles form the principal secu- rity of joints in their sound state, they also form the prin- cipal impediments to reduction in a state of luxation. It is now very generally understood, that lacerations of the capsular ligament sufficient to admit of the displacement of the head of a hone, are equally sufficient to admit of its replacement, and there are few if any cases in which we can consider the smallness of the breach in the capsular ligament to be an obstacle to the reduction of the bone. Hence it is to the resistance offered by a contraction of the surrounding muscles, that we must chiefly ascribe the difficulty in reducing luxations, these muscles drawing the head of the luxated bone as far from its natural receptacle as the connexions of the neighbouring parts will admit. The principal diagnostics in cases of luxation are pain in the region of the joint, inability to perform the usual ro- tation or flexion, an unusual protuberance or an unusual flatness of the affected joint, and in general a remarkable lengthening or shortening of the limb. In some cases, aLUXATIONS. 387 . certainty as to the nature of the accident may be obtained by < our being able to feel a vacuity in the region of the joint, while i the head of the bone may be felt prominent in a new posi- (tion. This is very often perceptible in luxations of the shoulder- joint, and affords one of the most perfect diagnostics. The i existence of a luxation being once ascertained, the obvious : and the only indications are to replace the bone as speedily as possible, and to restrain the motions of the joint until the i contiguous parts shall have recovered from the injury they have sustained. To effect the replacement of dislocated bones, various me- chanical contrivances have been employed, but with these, of which the pulley is the only one now in general use, the military surgeon can seldom expect to be furnished; and in recent luxa- tions, particularly of thesmaller joints,a sufficientextension may be made either by the hands of the surgeon, or by the use of lacs, towels, or sheets passed round the limb, and pulled by a sufficient number of assistants. In all cases great care should be taken to make the counter-extension, or, in other words, to fix the trunk or superior part of the limb in a way the most perfect and least injurious to the patient; and in luxation of the shoulder and hip-joints, the scapula and pelvis are' to be made as far as possible fixed points. With regard to the point at which the extending force should be applied, some difference of opinion prevails. The French surgeons, for the most part, apply it to the extreme part of the limb, leaving an intervening joint between the dislocated one and the point at which the extending force is applied. Thus in luxation of the shoulder they apply the lac or pulley to the wrist, and in luxations of the hip they apply it. above the ankle. In support of this practice they allege, that they act with more ad- vantage by a lengthened lever, and avoid compressing or excit- ing a spasmodic contraction of those long muscles which extend over the luxated joint to that situated next below. In reply388 MILITARY SURGERY. to the first allegation, it may be observed, that the lever may be extended ad libitum by lengthening the cords, and as to the other, it is to be recollected, that those muscles which pass over two contiguous joints are mostly tendinous at their insertions, and although spasm might be excited by com- pressing the fleshy bellies of these muscles, the same thing will not happen from compressing their tendinous extremities. As to the direction in which the extension is to be made, the only rule which admits of general application is to extend the limb in the direction in which the dislocated bone stands, but where this is not immediately successful, the surgeon naturally tries those other positions which his knowledge of the struc- ture of the joint and the laws of mechanism suggest. I have already observed, that it is chiefly the powerful re- sistance of the muscles which surround a joint that we have to overcome in the reduction of luxation ; and hence much may he gained by putting the limb in such • a position as to relax those muscles from which we chiefly expect resist- ance. It is found also that muscles may he fatigued or worn out, and in some measure paralysed, by long continued extension ; hence, the advantage of pulling, in a gradual and regular manner, instead of attempting to effect the extension by a short, interrupted, or jerking motion. The only instance in which a sudden manoeuvre of this latter kind succeeds, is, when by drawing the patient’s attention to some other subject, the opposing muscles arc, as it were, taken by surprise, and the reduction effected before they are prepared for resist- ance. This power of resistance in the muscles, it is well known, is greatly lessened, indeed almost annihilated in a state of faintness or syncope, and hence, a practice at once rational, judicious, and successful, has been institut- ed with a view of artificially producing this state. For this purpose, the employment of general blood-letting, of the warm-bath, and of nauseating doses of antimonials are in ge-LUXATIONS. 389 ncral use, aud are often attended with the happiest effects. In cases of compound luxation, when the bone is protruded through a wound, the injury is often so severe, and the subse- quent inflammation so great, as to have led some writers to recommend the immediate removal of the limb, a measure which is not, however, to be adopted as a general rule; nor do we admit generally the propriety of removing the protruded extremity ol a bone, for the purpose of facilitating reduction. I liis may in most cases be accomplished without it; and the reduction once effected, our object is to heal the external wound as speedily as possible. For this purpose, its edges arc to be brought into accurate apposition, and secured by Straps of adhesive plaster; or, what sometimes answers ex- ceedingly well, the wound may be bound up in a pledget of lint soaked in blood. In luxations, the circumstances are in a great measure the reverse ol those which occur in fractures. It is by a thorough knowledge of general principles that we must be prepared to vary our practice, so as to adapt it to the endless variety of fractures which we meet with. Luxations again take place for the most part in particular directions, so that the injury is of a more specific character, and every case becomes more an ob- i ject ol individual study and may be treated according to esta- blished rules. rI hese rules are so fully laid down in the com- mon systematic works upon surgery, that it would be quite superfluous to go over in succession the luxations of the seve- ral joints, particularly as they offer no such peculiarities in | military practice as to render them fit subjects of observation here ; and I shall therefore confine my remarks to a few cases, which, either from their obscure nature or serious consequences, become objects of particular interest. Llows in the face, particularly when the mouth is open, | frequently occasion luxations of the lower jaw, and this acci- dent has also been produced by the practice of gagging.390 MILITARY SURGERY. sometimes employed in the army and navy, to prevent men from uttering insubordinate, abusive, or mutinous expressions. In recent cases this luxation is attended with severe pain in the situation of the joint, and inability to close the mouth. If the luxation is partial, that is to say, of one side only, the symphysis vienli is turned somewhat to the opposite side ; if complete, the chin is advanced directly forward, and the teeth of the lower jaw project beyond those of the upper. This luxation is for the most part easily reduced by introducing the thumbs, guarded with a napkin or roller wrapped round them, along the course of the molares, and thus depressing one or both sides of the jaw as may be necessary. When this de- pression is effected so as to disengage the condyle from its new situation under the zygoma, the muscles tend forcibly to replace the jaw in its proper situation, and to shut the mouth violently ; an occurrence which renders it prudent for the surgeon to slip his thumbs out laterally towards the cheek as speedily as possible. Some writers have recommend- ed the introduction of a wooden lever, which being rested on the superior molares as a fulcrum, may be used to depress the lower jaw, but every mechanical expedient of this kind is for the most part unnecessary, and is liable to injure the teeth. In the thirteenth volume of the Edinburgh Medical Journal, there is an interesting detail of the case of a seaman, named Payne, in which luxation of the lower jaw was pro- duced by gagging- The commanding-officer of the ship, who had directed the punishment, was tried by a court martial, and acquitted on the ground that the practice of gagging was cus- tomary in the service, and that, in this case, there was no un- usual severity employed. In consequence of the man’s vio- lence, who bit through one or more gag-sticks, and in con- sequence of his jaw having been twice dislocated by former ac- cidents, the luxation in this case became permanent, and rc-391 LUXATIONS. rluccd this individual to a state of misery, which should pre- vent any military or naval surgeon from being accessory to such a punishment, without warning his commanding-officer of the consequences which may happen. “ 1 he distortion and disfigurement of countenance produced by this injury are very great, disgusting, and humiliating. 1 he constantly open mouth, and dribbling of saliva from the depending jaw, convey the impression of idiotism ; and this impression is per- haps heightened by the unnatural length of visage and projecting chin, consequent on the morbid position of the lower jaw-bone. Thomas Payne may be said to have lost articulate speech ; for, although he certainly can speak, and much better eveu than could have been expected a priori,—yet, when the rela- tive position of the jaws and lips is considered, it will readily lie understood how very imperfect his articulation must be. His teeth arc all encrusted with tartar and sordes for want of use, like the stones of an unfrequented street lialf-hid in ill- placed vegetation. He complains of a constant though slight pain in the place of the condyles ; and this pain becomes se- vere when the jaw is attempted to be forcibly closed, or the bone moved from its unnatural position. He particularly com- plains of the great sense of uneasiness he experiences from the dryness and coldness of the mouth, evidently arising from the constant evaporation of the fluids from that cavity, thus unna- turally and constantly subjected to the action of the external air. These uneasy feelings appear to be peculiarly severe during the night, and frequently prevent sleep.” The dislocation of the shoulder-joint, it has already been remarked, is one of the most common ; and for a great deal of valuable information on the various modifications ol this acci- dent, I would refer to a paper by Monsieur Marx, in the 7th volume of the Repertoire D’Anatomic, from which we may learn, on the one hand, that this luxation has in several cases been successfully reduced after a great lapse ol time; in oneMILITARY SURGERY. 392 instance, the reduction was effected by M. Sanson, so late as the 93th day. From another paper in the third volume of the same work by Monsieur Flaubert, we learn the bad conse- quences of violent or injudicious attempts to effect the re- duction in cases of long standing, such as rupture of the axillary artery, rupture of the axillary nerves, and even death itself. Luxation of the shoulder has been produced by the punishment of picketing formerly used in cavalry regiments; but as the nature of the accident itself offers nothing peculiar in military life, it is unnecessary to enter upon it here. A complete luxation of the elbow-joint backwards, the only direction in which it occurs, is not an accident difficult to de- tect, nor if speedily attended to, difficult to reduce ; but the many instances I have seen of partial dislocations and other injuries of this joint which have either been overlooked or mis- understood, induce me to notice the following case which came under my care in the Royal Infirmary some time ago, and in which a partial luxation of this joint had been mistaken for a fracture, the patient’s arm being found, upon her admission, secured in splints. “ On either side of the upper arm there is a pasteboard splint,tightly confined bya roller, the lowerpart of the limb very tense,'and somewhat discoloured, the forearm has not, according to the usual method of treatment, been placed at a right angle with the upper arm, but forms an obtuse angle with it, and cannot be either bent or extended farther.” Upon the removal of the splints, the head of the radius was found lying behind the outer condyle of the humerus ; the entire upper surface of the olecranon was felt through the soft parts, and there was a distinct depression above this process of the ulna ; the humerus was indistinctly felt lying on the anterior surfaces of the bones of the forearm ; crepitus was quite evi- dent, but appeared to arise entirely from the friction of the displaced bones upon each other, and no crepitus could be de- tected when the two extremities of the humerus alone wereLUXATIONS. 393 moved in opposite directions. The dislocation was reduced by bending and extending the forearm over the knee. The fore- arm was afterwards bent to a right angle with the upper arm, and supported by a sling, a cold lotion was applied to the inflamed parts. In a few days the patient began to have a little passive motion of the joint, and on the twelfth day was dismissed cured. Since the above was written I have seen two instances of displacement of the head of the radius forwards, one of them in a recruit, where the motion of the limb was so little im- paired, and the deformity so slight, as to have escaped the notice of a most intelligent and experienced staff-surgeon. When this man was subsequently brought before a medical board, of which I was a member, he was recommended to be discharged, rather from the apprehension that lie might at some future period make a convenience of this accident, and use it as a pretence for evading his duty, than from an opinion that he was inefficient. Although one would not willingly make a remark which could give countenance to any thing like negligence in practice, yet there is no disguising this truth, that injuries of the elbow-joint, even when treated most carefully and by the most experienced surgeons, are not unfrequently followed by stiffness and im- paired motion; while on the other hand, even when careless- ly treated or altogether overlooked, we sometimes find them followed by little or no permanent injury. The dislocation of the thumb, in which the head of the metacarpal bone is found projecting towards the palm of the hand, was first particularly noticed by Mr. Hey of Leeds, and since his time has been the subject of numerous observations. In commenting upon tbc case of a patient of Dr. Hunter’s, who appeared at the Royal Infirmary some years ngo, with an irreducible luxation of the thumb, I find the following remarks in one of my printed lectures :394 MILITARY SUROERY. —“ This is a case, I remarked to you, of which no one will readily estimate the difficulty who has not experienced it: but the numerous cases which I mentioned, where all attempts at reduction had failed in the hands of the most eminent sur- geons both in this country and in France, will, I am sure, incline you to look with an indulgent eye on every unsuc- cessful attempt which you may hereafter have occasion to wit- ness, and will stimulate you to avail yourselves of any oppor- tunity which may present itself of dissecting the joint in its dislocated state, and explaining the real cause of the difficulty in reducing this luxation. “I pointed your attention particularly to the remarks on this dislocation in the excellent practical work of the late Mr. Hey of Leeds. I noticed also the successful cases recorded by Mr. Shaw and by Mr. Charles Bell, and explained to you by a sketch from Mr. Bell’s Operative Surgery what he conceives to be the true position of the parts in this luxation, and what he considers to be the obstacles to its reduction. Of this troublesome accident I met with two instances about thirteen years ago, in the persons of two young soldiers, which you will find recorded in the 11th volume of the Edinburgh Me- dical and Surgical Journal. In one of these cases I failed, and in the other my efforts were successful. My failure occa- sional me more annoyance at the time than it will ever do again, now that I know how very far it is from being singu- lar ; and, as to my success, Gentlemen, I wish I could per- suade myself that it was any thing more than accidental. It is right, however, to observe, that in most, if not all of the cases where the reduction has been accomplished, it has been undertaken at an earlier period than in Murray’s case; and that this reduction has been effected rather by pushing than by pulling the bones into their natural situation.” In the paper above referred to I have attempted an expla- nation of the difficulty in reducing this luxation, foundedLUXATIONS. 395 chiefly on a consideration of the action of the adductor and abductor muscles. As that explanation is entirely hypo- thetical, I am not disposed to dwell upon it, and I regret to say that out of four cases of this luxation which I have now seen, only one has been reduced. When the accident hap- pens to the right thumb, as was the case in both of my own patients, if the luxation remains unreduced, it renders a sol- dier incapable of some of the necessary motions with the fire- lock, and nothing can be more vexatious to a military sur- geon than to lose the services of a gallant young soldier from an accident apparently so trifling. Upon luxations of the hip-joint I have no particular ob- servations to offer, either as regards the nature of the acci- dent or its connexion with military life, but 1 cannot omit noticing the valuable sketches which Sir Astley Cooper has given of the different positions of the limb in the accidents affecting this joint. These are admirably adapted to impress upon students the diagnostics of the several luxations, and as a teacher I feel grateful for the facility which I derive from them in explaining the nature of these accidents. Of compound luxation of the knee-joint 1 have seen two instances,—in one of these the limb was amputated, and in the other the patient died without amputation. A simple and at the same time a complete luxation of the knee is an occurrence which I have never met with, and which I be- lieve to be exceedingly rare. The nature of such an accident must be immediately conspicuous, and the replacement of the dislocated bone is not represented as being very difficult. Dislocation of the patella is not an unfrequent accident, and is liable to happen to cavalry soldiers in particular, by striking each other’s knees in the ranks. The most fre- quent displacement of this bone is towards the outside, over the external condyle of the femur, and, for the most part,MILITAHY SUROERY. o‘)G it is easily replaced, by extending the knee-joint, bending the limb upon the trunk at the hip-joint, so as to relax the extensor muscles, and then pressing upon the outer edge of’ the patella, and elevating its inner edge over the condyle of the femur. In some cases, however, where this mode of pro- ceeding has not been successful, the dislocated patella has been reduced by bending the knee to the utmost. This was mentioned to me by a gentleman wrho attended my class last year, as a mode of proceeding with which he was familiar, but I confess it was quite new to me when brought to the notice of the profession two years ago by Mr. Mayo and Mr. Broughton of the Life-Guards, who adopted it in the ease of a soldier of his regiment whose patella had been dislocated in consequence of being “ struck sharply on the right knee by the knee of another soldier, as, in the exercises, two opposite lines rode through each other."’ The views which induced the gentlemen concerned to adopt the expedient of bending the knee are given at length in the second volume of the Medical Gazette, where the case is detailed, and the following was the result, “ the patient w’as laid upon the left side, and his right ankle was grasped by a comrade, who, when we bade him, suddenly carried the heel back to the hip, thus bending the knee to the utmost. This motion was hardly completed when the patella audibly returned into its socket.” The patella, from a similar accident to that which hap- pened to Mr. Broughton’s patient, has been known to under- go “ a semirevolution on its own axis, its inner edge resting fixed in the trochlea, between the condyles of the femur, the outer projecting directly forwards.” A case of this kind oc- curred within these few days to a private in the Queen’s Bays, now in the cavalry barracks here, and was speedily re- duced. From the case of a private in the Prussian hussars, which is detailed in Rust’s Magazine, it would appear thatLUXATIONS. 397 the difficulties of reduction were in that instance so groat as to induce the surgeon to cut across both “ the common ten- don of the extensor muscles above, and the ligament below the patella.” Even this desperate measure was unsuccessful, and the patient died of the consequences. Dislocations of the ankle-joint, with fracture of the lower part of the fibula, are cases of every-day occurrence, and their treatment well understood, particularly since the publication of Dupuytren’s Memoir on fractures of the fibula, in which a simple and effectual apparatus is recommended. The ankle- joint is remarkable as being one of the most common seats of compound dislocation ; and although I have known several in- stances of recovery from that accident, yet, in severe injuries of this kind, and particularly when a patient cannot be im- mediately and permanently placed in favourable circum- stances, as often happens in military life, the surgeon will, I believe, best consult his patient’s interest by an immediate removal of the limb. In taking a retrospective view of the several luxations, I would observe that those of the shoulder and of the hip-joints are accidents the nature of which have been well investigated, and the treatment of which is as satisfactory as the circum- stances warrant us to expect. The luxations and injuries of the elbow-joint are so numerous and obscure as to render them fit objects of future inquiry. The luxation of the thumb, to which I have adverted, is an accident of which the nature is not satisfactorily explained, and of which the treatment is very unsuccessful. Luxation of the patella is liable to occur fiom an accident to which horsemen are frequently exposed, and its reduction is sometimes difficult, its consequences, as wre have seen, having in one instance been most deplorable. Luxations of tbe ankle-joint, the last to which I have advert- ed, are, in their simple state, treated, for the most part, withMILITARY SURGERY. 398 facility and success ; in their compound form they are acci- dents of a very dangerous character. AMPUTATION. Amputation is, in every point of view, a subject fraught with peculiar importance to the military surgeon, and the number, variety, and urgency of the cases involving the question of am- putation, which occasionally crowd upon him, render it an imperative duty to prepare himself for their successful treat- ment by the study and practice of this operation. Convinced that there are many points relative to ampu- tation and to the dressing of stumps, which can only be taught by demonstration on the dead body, or by practice on the living ; and convinced, also, that the plan of operating, particularly in military practice, must be greatly modified by the nature of the case requiring it, it is not my intention to enter into any minute description of the different steps of this operation, which are well described in numerous surgical works. I shall briefly state what I conceive to be the best mode of proceeding in the amputations most commonly prac- tised, and advert to some general circumstances regarding am- putation ; of which the most important for the consideration of the army surgeon are,—the nature of the cases which demand its performance,—the period at which it may be most advanta- geously adopted,—and the best mode of its execution. To each of these in succession we shall direct our attention, intro- ducing some historical notices of the operation, with which it becomes every army and navy surgeon to be acquainted, and399 AMPUTATION. for which I am almost solely indebted to the valuable account given of this operation by my learned predecessor, Dr. Thom- son. To whom the honour is due of having first advised or per- formed the amputation of a limb, I am unable to say ; but, from the way in which it is spoken of by the older sur- geons, it is obvious that the operation was confined at first to cases of injury followed by gangrene. From their directions to cut below, to cut through, or to cut immediately above the line of separation between the living and the dead parts, it is obvious that they seldom or never thought of primary ampu- tation ; that their operations were all secondary ; that, in short, they only ventured to complete a division which nature had begun. Their imperfect knowledge of the circulation, and of the means of controlling the hemorrhage, rendered it an operation to which they were naturally adverse, while the less formidable nature of the wounds received in battle, pre- vious to the invention of gunpowder, rendered amputation less frequently necessary. The first person by whom we find this operation recommended, in severe injuries of the limbs, is Duchesne, a military surgeon, whose work is dated in 1G25 ; and it is worthy of remark, that he directs the operation to be performed before inflammation and other constitutional symp- toms shall have supervened ; but how long this recommenda- tion remained a barren precept, or by whom it was first actually carried into execution, I have not been able to acertain. It is obvious, however, that after surgeons became familiar • with the use of the tourniquet, the needle, and ligature, these means equally facilitated the performance of the operation, and rendered its adoption more frequent. Recommended in i ranee by La Charriere and Saviard, it seems to have so fiir captivated the fancy of the junior surgeons, as to have run some risk of being abused. The number of amputations inMILITARY SURGERY. 400 the military hospitals became a subject of raillery and re- proach amongst the vulgar; and we find Dionis labouring to remove from the mind even of the King, Louis XIV., the impression that the limbs of his soldiers were in as much dan- ger from the ardour of the young surgeons as from the fire of the enemy. The execution of this operation is a task to which every surgeon considers himself competent; and we are not now hampered in deciding upon the propriety of this step by those difficulties in its performance which fettered our predecessors. Although the removal of a limb must always appear to a patient and to the by-standers a very formidable undertaking, yet to a surgeon it is perhapsofall the capital operations the most easy of execution. It has been often observed, that the proposal of amputating a limb necessarily implies a confession of our in- ability to cure it; and in proportion as the art of surgery has been improved, so have those cases diminished in number where the amputation of the limb is considered indispensably necessary. Many cases, however, still remain, and it is probable that many will ever remain, “ where,” to use the words of Mr. Pott, “ the patient’s life is much more put to hazard in an attempt to save the limb, than by the operation in removing it;” when, in short, as it has been somewhat quaintly express- ed, “ it is better for a patient to live with three limbs than to die with four.” In civil life there are many intractable diseases, such as cancerous affections, malignant growths, white swellings, &c. which demand the removal of limbs ; and, in the practice of mi- litary surgery, the following are amongst the most common and most obvious cases which require amputation :—1. Cases where a limb is completely carried away, leaving a ragged stump, with laceration of the soft parts and projection of the bone. 2. Cases of lacerated wounds, with loss of substance, rupture of the blood-vessels and nerves, with extensive denudation of the bone.401 AMPUTATION’. 3. Cases of compound and comminuted fractures, particularly those high up in the inferior extremity, and those involving joints. All injuries of the foregoing description which occur in battle, arc, for the most part, prxma facie cases for amputation ; but much depends upon the extent as well as upon the nature of the injury, and much also upon the accommodation and at- tention which a patient is likely to receive. The treatment of sick and wounded in a victorious army, having the command of an abundant country, and at a favourable season of the year, may be in many respects very different from what it would be after a defeat. Wherever limbs, under the circumstances above described, have not been immediately removed, they are liable to fall into gangrene; and it then becomes an important ques- tion whether we should proceed to amputate the limb or await a spontaneous termination of the gangrene. As the cases in support of the practice of amputating during a spreading gangrene are still limited in number, I may be permitted to state particularly the result of my own expe- rience upon this point. I have operated once myself, and have twice seen amputations performed by other surgeons dur- ing a spreading gangrene. Of these three cases, one died soon after the operation, but without any gangrene attacking the stump ; another survived the operation for ten or twelve days, without any return of the gangrene, and, upon dissec- tion, he was found injured internally, one of his ribs was broken, he had effusion into the pericardium, and some small abscesses in the liver ; the third made a perfect recovery : so that, upon the whole, I consider my own experience favour- able to the practice, inasmuch as gangrene did not in any of the above-mentioned instances attack the stump. 1 he proper period for amputation is a question upon which much discussion has taken place, since the use of the tourni- 2 oMILITARY SURGERY. 402 quet and the ligature has made this operation more a matter of option than formerly. We are not now compelled to resort to it as a desperate expedient, as a forlorn hope, after the failure of other means, but have the choice of adopting it from the first, wherever it may promise to benefit our patient by alleviating his sufferings, by shortening his confinement, or by affording him the use of an artificial limb, when we can have no hope of preserving the utility of the natural one. But before proceeding farther with the general question of primary and secondary amputation, it is necessary to advert to a point regarding primary amputation which has been very keenly discussed by two distinguished writers of the present day, I allude to the propriety of operating immediately after the receipt of such an injury as requires amputation, or of waiting until the patient recovers from that state of collapse and disorder of the system which is a common conse- quence of severe gunshot wounds. Mr. Hutchison, along with several other navy surgeons, has denied that any such collapse follows these injuries as to prove a bar to the operation, and that where numbers are wounded the requisite operations should be performed in as quick succession as the surgeon can possibly overtake them ; that, in short, the maxim of “ making the knife follow the shot as speedily as possible,” is the correct rule of practice. Mr. Guthrie again, and several of his professional brethren, both in military and in civil life, have seen the necessity in many cases of deferring the operation for a few hours, endeavouring to rally the pa- tient and to prepare him for an operation, by the administra- tion of cordials and consolatory language. That this is some- times requisite I have no manner of doubt, and with all possi- ble respect for Mr. Hutchison’s opinions, I cannot avoid say- ing, that if his advice was to be uniformly followed, I fear thatAMPUTATION. 403 we should sometimes have to regret the precipitate perform- ance of unavailing operations. I am led to say this from the recollection of two remarkable cases, one of which occurred during my apprenticeship, and the other a few years ago. In these cases the patients had sustained such injuries in their limbs as to be deemed fit subjects for amputation, while no suspicion existed of internal injury. In the first case the patient, who was injured by an explosion in a quarry, was lying in a state of collapse, which was expected to be tran- sient, and, in the hope that it would pass off, I was sent away for instruments to amputate the limb, but on my return found that my master had changed his mind, and had begun very shrewdly to suspect, from the man not rally- ing, that he was hurt internally, which proved to be the case, and he died in the course of the ensuing night. In the other case the patient had thrown himself from a window, and I was prevented from amputating the man’s limb by the opposition of his relatives, he being himself in a state of maniacal excitement. Upon calling a few hours afterwards to see if they had altered their minds, I found my patient in a state of collapse, sinking with symptoms of internal haemorrhage, and upon more minute examination I felt an obscure crepitus indicating fracture of the pelvis. This last case leads me to observe, that the state of excitement under which a man receives a wound or un- dergoes a severe surgical operation, does not instantly sub- side after the receipt of the one or the termination of the other, and that sometimes the constitutional shock does not supervene till some distance of time. This has even been suggested to me as a possible explanation of the differ- ence of opinion between some naval and military surgeons upon the point of delay ; it has been suggested that within the limits of a ship, the wounded are necessarily so near the surgeon that they may always be seen by him before the col-401 MILITARY SURGERY. lapse occurs, while in a great land-battle it is often otherwise. It has also been said that the seaman generally goes into, ac- tion in a full and vigorous state of health, while the soldier is often debilitated by the privations and fatigues of a previous campaign, and that this may render the state of collapse afier wounds more frequent or more marked in the one service than in the other. But these circumstances do not afford to my mind a satisfactory explanation of the difficulty, nor do they exist to such an extent as to lead to opposite results; and although at a loss to reconcile the conflicting statements upon this point, 1 am pleased to observe that the sentiments of a surgeon arc not to be regulated by the department of the service to which he happens to belong. In the most recent work upon the subject, that of Mr. Hammick of the navy, the author distinctly admits the necessity, in some cases, of allowing “ the patient to recover a little from the shock of the accident,” previously to amputation of his limb. This I confess I am greatly pleased to see, not so much because it supports my owrn view- of the matter, as because it takes aw ay from this subject the semblance of a party question between the surgeons of the two branches of the public service, a colour- ing which some have been disposed to give to it, and which, 1 am confident, from the high professional character of the two gentlemen who have chiefly agitated this question, that they would both be very sorry to see it assume. Our celebrated surgeon Wiseman had evidently consider- ed the question of primary and secondary amputation, and he gives a decided preference to the former. It does not appear, however, that Wiseman was in the habit of performing ampu- tation except in the extreme parts of the limbs; and no instance is, I believe, recorded in his works, nor in those of his prede- cessors, of immediate amputation above the knee. In the work of Le Bran on gunshot wounds, published in 1737, we have the first, and one of the most distinct statements of the com-405 AMPUTATION. parative advantages of immediate and delayed amputation, tliis writer being a decided advocate for the former. Our countryman, Ranby, sergeant-surgeon to King George II. although he does not enter minutely into an enumeration of those cases in which amputation may be required, is decidedly an advocate for the immediate performance of this operation when it is absolutely necessary. In consequence of the con- flicting opinions which existed amongst the French surgeons on this point, and in consequence also of repeated failures in cases of amputation from its being performed in unfavourable circumstances, or at improper periods, the Royal Academy of Surgery was induced, in 1750, to offer the following question as the subject ol their prize essay .—“ Amputation being ab- solutely necessary in wounds complicated with fractured bones, and particularly those from gunshot, to determine the cases where it is necessary to operate on the field, and those where it may be delayed.” Of the memoirs submitted to the Aca- demy in reply to this important question, those distinguished by the approbation of this body were the memoirs of Le Cotne, and Faure, to the latter of which the prize was assign- ed, not so much from any superiority of the memoir, but from the circumstance of its being supported by a few cases in fa- vour of the advantages of delayed amputation, which both writers advocate, in all cases where it«s immediate performance is not considered absolutely indispensable. Of cases, however, requiring immediate amputation, Faure has given a most distinct enumeration, which has been very little altered in the writings of subsequent au- thors. It is therefore unfair, as has sometimes been done, to represent this writer as opposed to amputation in almost all the injuries of the extremities. After recounting several eases in which be considers the operation justifiable, be ob- serves, “ in all these six cases I say that the prompt removal of the part injured is the only remedy which surgery acknow-406 MILITARY SURGERY. ledges, on account of the accidents still more troublesome which will inevitably supervene if amputation be deferred.” His principal reason in favour of delay seems to have been an opinion that the operation succeeds better in patients whose habits were reduced by sickness and confinement, than in those enjoying the full vigour of health, an opinion adopted and strongly insisted on by the celebrated John Hunter, “ who,” says Mr. Guthrie, “ if he had had the same oppor- tunities of acquiring knowledge on this subject as he had on others, would have left nothing to be written on gunshot wounds, and who has erred on a point which could only be decided by personal experience.” The memoir of Faure was successfully combated by Bou- cher, to whom it had been referred by the Academy of Sur- gery, and this author contends strongly that amputation is more advantageously performed in the first than in either of the subsequent stages into which gunshot wounds have been divided. These three stages are, 1. “ The period between the infliction of the injury, and the occurrence of tension, pain, swelling, and symptomatic fever,” a period of greater or less extent, according to the violence of the injury, and the state of the patient’s constitution. 2. “ When the inflam- matory symptoms have commenced, and have given rise to a constitutional affection, or symptomatic fever.” 3. “ When the symptomatic fever and constitutional disturbance have abatedand this is the period recommended by Faure as the most advantageous for the performance of amputation. That this last-mentioned period is more favourable than the second will be readily conceded, although we are decidedly opposed to the opinion which this author seems to entertain, that amputation is not more dangerous after the accession of the inflammatory symptoms than immediately after the re- ceipt of the injury ; and I am equally unprepared to admit what he asserts as a general principle, that the longer the407 AMPUTATION. operation is delayed the greater will be the chance of suc- cess. This question of immediate or delayed amputation was discussed in memoirs submitted to the French Academy by Bourdenaave and Bagieii; both of whom advocate opinions similar to those of Boucher, and contrary to those of Faure, who recommended delay. Bourdenaave, in speaking of the cases requiring this operation, admits that it may often become necessary in military practice, when in similar cases occurring in civil life it might be dispensed with. The ne- cessity of moving the sick from place to place, and the in- juries which this movement, in cases of fractured limbs, often superadds to the original mischief, are the circumstances upon which he founds this very accurate opinion. Soon after these discussions in the Academy of Surgery in France, Bilguer, Surgeon-General to the Prussian army, published opinions on the subject of amputation, so singular, supported with so much confidence, and enforced by such an extent of practice, that his memoir on the subject attracted very general notice, and its celebrity was perhaps enhanced by a shew of humanity, which, whether specious or real, is well calculated to ex- cite public sympathy. Such language as Bilguer adopts will always have its effect until due reflection shews its absurdity. “ To cut off a limb,” says he, “ after a bad wound, what is it but to add wound to wound, to heap new pains upon a dis- ordered system ?” The frequent failure of this operation in the Prussian service previous to the time of Bilguer’s appointment as Surgeon-Ge- neral, seems to have made an indelible impression upon his mind of its inutility, and so soon as he acquired the power, he lost no time in enforcing his opinion of its impropriety. A general order was issued forbidding its performance in any case, and at the conclusion of the war we find Bilguer boasting, that amidst upwards of six thousand wounded, the Prussian sur-ioa MILITARY SURGERY. geons had not amputated a single limb. Whether this ought to redound to their praise or their shame may be inferred from Bilguer's own shewing, by which it appears that one-half of those who had gunshot fractures of the extremi- ties died, and of the remainder, more than one-half were left in a state totally unlit for any kind of employment, civil or military. That out of GG18 patients, he should not have been able to adduce more and better instances of recovery than the few which he has related, must astonish every one who has seen even the hundredth part of this number of wounded soldiers. Out of three hundred cases of wounded limbs with fractured bones, he states eleven as instances of sur- prising cases. To these, however, so far as his account enables us to form an opinion, we are by no means disposed to attach the same importance as their author does. They are quite destitute, as Dr. Thomson obseives, of that accuracy and mi- nuteness of detail which can render them interesting or useful; and we do not, I think, pronounce too harsh a sentence on Bil- guer’s practice when we affirm, that by this general and indis- criminate condemnation of the operation of amputation, he must, of necessity, have sacrificed many lives, which, under a different mode of treatment, might have been preserved. But it can neither be necessary nor advantageous at this time of day to enter into a more detailed refutation of the opinions and practices of Bilguer, which has been so amply and successfully done by Martiniere and Mo- rand in France, Van Gescher in Holland, Mr. Pott in England, and in this very city by Mr. John Bell. That limbs have been saved, even when, as Bilguer expresses it, they have been so severely shattered as to hang dangling from the body, “ hue illuc labentes atque pendentes,” I will not go so far as to deny ; but when he asserts that he has always cured such cases, I must be excused for withholding my belief. Of the extent of suffering and the expense of409 AMPUTATION. general health at which such shattered limbs are preserved, we may judge from ail interesting case quoted by Mr. John Bell from a memoir by Cannae in the collection of the French academy. This patient was two years under the hands of his surgeons, and six years more wandering about from one watering-place to another, with open sores and exfoliating bones,—eight years in the flower of life was a dear purchase even for a perfect cure ! But in adverting to Bilguer's doctrines and his practice, I have deviated from the more practical and important question of primary and secon- dary amputation. The evidence in favour of the former has been at all times preponderant, and the question is now set at rest by the concurrent testimony of Baron Larrey, the most distinguished of the French surgeons during the wars of Napoleon, and by that of the British surgeons w ho served in the peninsular war. The results of the united experience of the English surgeons is detailed with precision in the excellent work of Mr. Guthrie on gunshot wounds of the extremities, where there are numerous passages affording the most unequivocal testimony in favour of performing the operation with “ as little delay as possible.” This is the practical maxim laid down by Dr. Hennen, and inculcated long ago by Le Dran, who says, “ Whenever there plainly is a necessity for losing a limb, the sooner it is done the better.” Besides these valuable and highly satisfactory sources of in- formation, 1 may refer to others bearing upon the same point which are mentioned in the recent work on operative surgery by \ elpeau. Here we have the results of primary and de- layed amputation, as exemplified in the comparative success ol the French and American surgeons in 1780, in the results of the amputations performed by Monsieur Del Signore after the battle of Navarino, and in the results of the amputations performed in the Parisian hospitals upon those wounded in the revolution of 1830. To these I may add one of the most410 MILITARY SURGERY. striking illustrations which has yet been given of the successful issue of primary amputation, contained in an official report transmitted by Dr. Burke, Inspector-General of Hospitals, to the Army Medical Board, wherein he states, that of “ eighty cases of amputation-” performed at Bhurtpore in Upper India, “ the whole recovered in fourteen days.” The comparative success of primary over secondary amputa- tions, which has been so generally observed in military hospitals, does not take place to the same extent in civil hospitals. Upon this point I have had as good an opportunity of forming an opi- nion as most of my cotemporaries, having now served nearly thirteen years in the former, and eleven in the latter. In civil hospitals the comparative success of primary amputation has been by no means so great as that which I was accustomed to see and to hear of in the army. Sanson, who has noticed this fact, has assigned several reasons obviously leading to a difference of result, and amongst others, the moral influence of the different circumstances under which a patient is often received into a civil and into a military hospital. A trades- man, who has perhaps an indifferent constitution, and a wife and family dependent upon his exertions, is admitted with an injury requiring amputation, and which may be the result of an accident originating in intoxication, ignorance, or folly, by which he finds himself suddenly reduced to miseiy and dependence; while the soldier, again, with a constitu- tion originally sound, and accustomed to contemplate such an accident, loses his limb in a good cause, under circum- stances creditable to himself and duly appreciated by his country, from which he is certain of a pension for life. In addition to the powerful effect which this moral contrast must necessarily produce, there is a physical cause operating, which I believe to be one of the most influential, although one of the least observed. A soldier going from a filthy billet or a crowded barrack-room, into a clean and well-aired and 3411 AMPUTATION. well-regulated military hospital, goes often from a worse atmos- phere into a better, while a mason or house-carpenter accustomed to work all day in the open air, is taken into a large civil hospital constantly occupied with its full complement of pa- tients, and having its atmosphere thereby necessarily vitiated. This circumstance operates I know particularly upon pa- tients from the country, almost every one of whom, upon admission into our hospitals, goes through a febrile attack, frequently indeed of a transient or ephemeral character, but sometimes of a serious nature. In cases coming in from the country with chronic diseases requiring operation, it becomes a matter of serious consideration for the surgeon whether he should operate immediately, and let the symptom- atic fever of the operation and the house-fever go together, or let the patient go through his seasoning before he proceeds to operate. I have given a good deal of attention to this point, and am of opinion, that the former is, generally speaking, the best practice. After these observations on the proper period for amputa- tion, it is now time to advert to the mode of its performance, premising, that, as a general rule, in proportion as wounds are inflicted on the distant parts of the extremities, and re- mote from the trunk of the body, so will the necessity for im- mediate amputation be diminished. Here the symptomatic fever will, ceteris paribus, be less violent, and the patient will run less risk from delay. The mode of amputation becomes also a more important consideration in proportion as we ad- vance upwards from the extreme points of the fingers and toes to the shoulder and hip-joints. In the present day, the only modes of amputation in general use in the upper parts of the limbs are the double circular incision and the double flap opera- tions. The former may be considered as having long been the favourite mode of operating in Great Britain ; and to its im- provement some of the English surgeons, particularly Chescl-MILITARY SURGERY. 412 den and Alanson, devoted much attention. The Hap opera- tion, again, seems always to have been more particularly patronised by the Continental surgeons. It was first, I be- lieve, practised by M. Vermale, was subsequently recommend- ed by La Faye in the Memoirs of the French Academy of Surgery, and is well described by Le Dran. Although no one, I believe, has ventured to claim this operation as a mo- dern invention, yet I have frequently heard it spoken of as a novelty; and it has, in my opinion, been recommended too indiscriminately. I know of no comparative estimate of the results of am- putations performed by the circular incision and by the double flap, which will enable us to decide their respective merits by the test of experience; but in instituting any comparison between these operations, one of the first cir- cumstances which strikes a surgeon is the different extent of cut surface left by the one operation and by the other. It has long appeared to me that the difference in this respect is much greater than many surgeons arc aware of; and I have often remarked, that the extent of cut surface exposed by the double flap operation appeared to me nearly double that left by the circular incision. I was not, however, aware, until within these few days, that, in making this statement, I was so near the truth. Wishing to ascertain the relative pro- portions with precision, I submitted the matter to two scien- tific gentlemen, Mr. Robison, the secretary of the Royal So- ciety, and Mr. Russell, the lecturer on Natural Philosophy, each of whom came to the same conclusion. Supposing the limb cylindrical, and the amputation performed in the old way, by cutting at once down to the bone, and then dividing it by the saw, the cut surface exposed wrould be the least which it is possible to expose by any mode of operating. Suppos- ing, again, that the limb is amputated by the double flap ope- ration, and that the length of each flap is exactly equal to the413 AMPUTATION. breadth of its base, the quantity of cut surface exposed by this operation would be rather more than double that exposed by the former. Or, in other words, “ Supposing the limb to be cut represented by a cylinder three inches in diameter, then, if the section be made at right angles to its length, the area of the surface exposed will be 7-05 inches nearly.” If the section be made, again, by two flaps of the proportions formerly men- tioned, “ the area of the surface exposed will be 15.5 inches nearly, being the area of an ellipsis formed by the section of a cylinder whose length is twice its diameter.” The above, however, can only be considered as an approximation to the truth, inasmuch as the double circular incision exposes a some- what larger surface than the direct transverse section of a limb, and inasmuch as some of the limbs, the thigh particu- larly, can scarcely be considered as a cylinder, but a gently ta- pering cone. The next and perhaps one of the most important points of view in which the two operations may be compared, is, the covering left for the extremity of the bone, and the fa- vourable state of the parts for an accurate approximation and speedy healing of the wound. In both these respects the flap operation offers great advantages, according to the views en- tertained and the practice followed by the surgeons of this country. But, should circumstances occur to prevent union by the first intention, it is obvious, from what has been said, that the flap operation will leave nearly double the quantity of suppurating surface. In operating by the double flap, it will easily be understood that the blood-vessels are often cut obliquely; sometimes, indeed, they may be seen scooped like a writing pen ; and although this may be of no great moment, when these vessels are carefully and accurately secured with ligatures, yet this is obviously a division of the vessel which is unfavourable to its retraction and rapid closure ; and if, in consequence of the faintness of the patient, a vessel should notMILITARY SURGERY- 414 bleed, and not be secured at the time of the operation, it may be more liable to secondary haemorrhage. And perhaps this view of the matter may account for the circumstance that two cases of secondary haemorrhage have occurred to me after flap operations, while I do not at this moment remember any case in which I have been troubled with this occurrence after am- putation by the circular incision. These seem to me the principal points of importance in a general comparison of the two operations ; and others will hereafter be mentioned, as they apply to particular parts of the limb. Although, in the removal of the fingers, when a portion of a phalanx is left protruding after a wound, one is sometimes induced to cut it across with the cutting plyers or metacarpal saw, yet, whenever the amputation of a finger falls to be performed methodically, this is now almost uniformly done at the junction of the different phalanges with each other. It is most advantageously done by two flaps, the larger formed from the internal or palmar aspect of the finger, as is well represented in Maingault’s “ Traite des diverses Ampu- tations.” When the proximal phalanx is to be removed from its junction with the metacarpal bone, it is best done by two lateral flaps, as figured in the same work. The 'partial am- putations of the metacarpus are regulated by the peculiar nature of the accident or disease; and, so far as verbal description can render them intelligible, they are well explain- ed by Mr. Guthrie. Amputation at the wrist-joint is an operation which I have neither seen nor practised, except on the dead body ; and, looking to the extent of living substance which must be ex- posed, and to the scanty and tendinous character of the cover- ing left for it, one would be inclined to say, a priori, that this was an operation which ought seldom or never to be practised. It has, however, been successfully performed, upon more than one occasion, within these few years ; and an interesting case415 AMPUTATION. of this operation was lately transmitted to me by a judicious practitioner, Dr. Davies, surgeon to the Honourable East In- dia Company’s Depot at Chatham. In this case, the cover- ing for the extremity of the radius was chiefly formed by a flap from the posterior surface of the carpus ; and Dr. Davies concludes his account of the case with the following remarks : “ The gentleman, who is an engineer officer in the East In- dia Company’s service, and a very clever youth, had so well educated his left hand, before he got the artificial hand made, that he could write and draw plans with it, as neat, probably neater, than he could with the right, before he lost it. He has, consequently, neglected the artificial hand, and has not made that use of it that I was desirous he should have done, and in which I am a little disappointed. But the full length of the right fore-arm enables him, without the artificial hand, to assist the left hand as effectually in the adjustment of his drawings and papers, that probably he will never make much use of it, except at table; and a knife or fork being easily fixed on, it will become serviceable in the management of his plate. Here is an advantage in the length of the lever that I did not anticipate. A short stump would have been of little service in the management of papers ; and as an artifi- cial hand cannot, by any ingenuity, be made serviceable with- out a stiff leather case, somewhat heavy, being fastened on the arm, the ability to dispense with this apparatus, especially in a warm climate, is in itself no small gain.” Amputation of the fore-arm is a case in which the double flap operation appears to me peculiarly applicable, and the following remarks were suggested by circumstances actually arising in practice.—“ I may here state an inconvenience which I once witnessed from the performance of the operation by the double circular incision in this part of the arm. In the case allud- ed to, where the arm was brawny, and the bellies of the muscles416 MILITARY SURGERY. very lull immediately below the elbow, the skin, when divided by the first turn of the knife, could not be easily drawn upwards over the subjacent muscles, it formed a stricture upon them as the prepuce does upon the glans in a case of phymosis, and was with difficulty retracted sufficiently to form a covering for the surface of the stump. Although Gardener’s recovery was rapid, and his stump in every respect a good one, yet the con- sideration of this case gave rise to a remark for which I am entirely indebted to Dr. Lubbock, and which I consider well entitled to your attention. In a case like the present, where the tendons have been torn through, or disengaged at their distal extremities, and where the amputation is perform- ed by transfixing the limb with a catline and cutting out- wards, the tendons, from the resistance which they give to the edge of the knife, are in some measure drawn upwards, and are thus cut longer and less smoothly than is desirable ; this remark will obviously apply more forcibly as we come farther down in the lore-arm, the tendons being here cut with move difficulty, and less intimately connected by cellular adhesions. “ Although decidedly favourable to the double flap opera- tion in a large proportion of cases, yet I am not an advocate for its indiscriminate use, and I am desirous that none of its occasional inconveniences should escape notice, in order that we may be prepared to avoid them; in the case specified above, the simple expedient of making an assis- tant grasp the wrist firmly will, 1 think, enable us to do so.” With reference to another case, I find the following re- marks. “ This case, I am induced to mention, not from any very instructive lesson to be gathered from its progress, much less for any thing very unexpected in its event, but to caution you against an accident which occurred during the operation. While passing the knife through the fore-arm, from the radial to the ulnar side, for the purpose of formingAMPUTATION. 4]y a posterior flap from the extensor and supinator muscles, its point slipped between the bones, which rendered it necessary to withdraw it and to pass it more carefully behind the ulna. This was perhaps owing partly to my own inadvertence to the exact position of the bones, but in part also, I believe, to the connexion between the lower extremities of the radius and ulna having been broken up, so that in pressing the knife close to the back of the radius, with the view of obtaining a suffi- ciency of muscular substance to form a good flap, the parallel- ism of the two bones was in some measure destroyed, the ra- dius was pressed forwards, and the interosseous space thus pre- sented to the point of the knife.11 Amputation in the region of the humerus is an operation upon which many valuable remarks are to be found in the writings of Mr. Guthrie and other military surgeons ; it is one of those cases in which, generally speaking, the mode of ope- rating, whether by the circular incision or double flap, is very much a matter of choice. For a number of years past I have been in the habit of performing and seeing my colleagues per- form this operation almost exclusively by flaps, and the gene- ral result of these cases does not suggest any objection to this mode of operating ; but I may remark, than when this am- putation is made at or near to the insertion of the deltoid mus- cle, and the flaps formed by passing the catline perpendicu- larly through the arm, the hone is left very scantily covered in one direction, and in such a case I have once seen it with great difficulty prevented from protruding between the flaps. In all the amputations hitherto noticed, the surgeon may have recourse to a tourniquet for the purpose of suppress- ing the haemorrhage during the operation ; and it may be ob- served, that it is in amputations of the inferior part of the limb, chiefly in the fore-arm and leg, that the tourniquet becomes most useful. In the superior parts of the limbs, when the whole of the blood is concentrated in one channel, and when 2 EMILITARY SURGERY. 418 there is only one vessel of importance to tie, the haemorrhage may readily be commanded by an assistant during the mo- mentary space of time requisite for this purpose; but in the more distant parts of the extremities, when the blood flows through several nearly equal sized vessels, the hands of an as- sistant are liable to become fatigued before these can be all secured, particularly if he exhausts himself, as an inexpe- rienced assistant often does, by pressing too soon, or with an unnecessary degree of force. In noticing the application of the tourniquet during amputation, it may be necessary to caution the young surgeon against the use of too large a pad, the objections to which are well stated by Mr. Copland Hut- chison, who gives an account of an embarrassing accident which occurred to himself, and refers to a fatal one which hap- pened to Mr. Guthrie from this cause. “ A principal objec- tion to the placing of a large pad over the artery is, that the web of the tourniquet passing over a surface so much ele- vated above the circumference of the thigh, a considerable angular space on each side of it will be left slightly, or not at all compressed by the circular band of the tourniquet, how- ever closely the instrument may be screwed. This will not only endanger the loss of a large portion of blood, from the divided ends of such vessels as may happen to traverse that space, a circumstance to be particularly guarded against in cases of debility ; but the emission of blood must also em- barrass and obscure the view of the young surgeon, in the subsequent parts of the operation.-" In operating at the shoulder-joint, the only effectual means of suppressing the haemorrhage, is by pressure above the clavicle, and with due attention this pressure may always be made ef- fectual ; but I have to caution the surgeon against an acci- dent which once happened to myself in this operation. “ In speaking of the operation at the shoulder-joint, I remark- ed, that although this operation has undergone many mo-AMPUTATION. 419 difications, to sonic of which the names of Morand, La Faye, Lc Dran, Larrey, Lisfranc, Broomfield, Alanson and others, have been attached, yet these may all be resolved into two modes of proceeding, either by forming a superior and in- ferior, or an anterior and posterior flap. I have myself ope- rated in both ways, but not sufficiently often to enable me to institute any fair comparison as to the best mode of proceeding ; I may however be permitted to remark, that in a very large proportion of the cases requiring amputation at the shoulder- joint, the soft parts are so lacerated as to leave us no choice, but to compel us, as in the present case, to form the flaps as circumstances will best admit. We are now well aware that the apprehension of an uncontrollable hannorrhage, which alarmed our predecessors and made them slow to adopt this operation, is altogether unfounded ; the bleeding may always be controlled by firm pressure above the clavicle, by the hands of a steady assistant; and, in fact, this compression, as my distinguished predecessor Dr. Thomson observes, has been found ‘ easier in practice than it appeared to be in speculation.’ It is necessary, however, to remark, that at the moment of cut- ting through the axillary vessels and nerves, the patient is apt to give an involuntary start, and may throw the fingers of the assistant oft’ the artery ; an accident which once happened to a gentleman assisting me in this operation, and by which I nearly lost my patient. I was for a moment completely blind- ed by the discharge of blood into my eyes from the open axil- lary artery.” The general result of amputations at the shoulder-joint, particularly of primary amputation, is highly satisfactory, and may here he stated as an encouragement to this operation. Mr. Guthrie we find performed this amputation in all four- teen times while serving with the army, and although some of his patients, from unfavourable circumstances, did not recover.420 MILITARY SURGERY. yet lie states that in one of them only could the fatal event be attributed to the operation. He considers it to be less danger- ous than amputation of the thigh, a statement in which my own experience of the result of seven cases leads me to concur. Of nineteen cases of primary amputation at the shoulder-joint in the army, under the Duke of Wellington, from June to December 1814, sixteen recovered, two were transferred to distant hospitals, but considered out of danger, and only one died. In the French army the results seem to have been equally satisfactory. Baron Larrey performed this operation in sixteen cases during the Egyptian campaign, and of these he lost but two, after the battle of Wagram, and of Essling, out of fourteen cases he lost but two ; a similar train of success seems to have attended this operation in his hands on other occasions, and it is stated, generally, that in the I rench army 90 out of 100 have recovered. Amputations of the toes are almost uniformly performed at their junction with the metatarsal bones, and here they are best done, as in the fingers, by two lateral and equal flaps. Partial amputation of the foot at the junction of the meta- tarsal bones with those of the tarsus, or through the tarsus itself, immediately in front of the astragalus and os calcis, are operations often successfully performed. So far as these can be rendered intelligible by description alone, Mr. Gu- thrie’s observations upon this subject leave nothing to be de- sired, and Maingault’s plates, which I am in the habit of exhibiting to my pupils when performing these operations on the dead body, contribute much to a right understand- ing of the various modifications of amputation which may here be practised. With reference to the operation through the tarsus, or what has been termed Chopart’s operation, the utility of which has sometimes been questioned, I may state, from my own observation, that in two cases where this421 AMPUTATION. operation has been performed, the results have been most sa- tisfactory. In amputating the leg between the knee and ankle-joints, the operation which I have almost exclusively seen and prac- tised for the last ten years is that of Loudham and Verduin, a complete account of which is given in Massuet’s Treatise “ De L’Amputation a Lambeau.” In this operation a large Hap, sufficient to cover the extremity of the bones, is formed from the muscles on the posterior surface of the leg. Here it must be observed, that in a very brawny limb, or in amputat- ing high up towards the knee, it is necessary to guard against a superfluity of muscle, either by cutting from with- out inwards and retracting the skin before forming the mus- cular flap, or by .passing the catline through the limb at some distance behind the bones, so as to exclude a portion of the muscular substance from the flap, leaving it to he after- wards divided by a circular turn of the knife. In this am- putation the flap does not meet a corresponding Hap from the opposite side of the limb, but the muscular substance is turned completely round the extremity of the bone, and it will be observed that every exterior layer of muscular sub- stance has to form an arc of a larger circle than the one im- mediately within, while the integuments, in order to cover the subjacent muscle, must form an arc of a circle of still larger diameter. This leads me to observe, that this ope- ration is, for the most part, executed most neatly and success- fully when performed as a secondary amputation in a limb shrunk and wasted from previous disease, than as a primary amputation in consequence of an accident. In a case of the latter kind, I once saw the muscular substance so redundant, that the integuments were with great difficulty brought to cover it; the stricture was so great that the stump rapidly sloughed and the patient died. This is indeed but one of many cases in which I have seen bad consequences from a422 MILITARY SURGERY. superfluity of muscle, both in the single and double flap ope- ration. It is necessary to observe that this amputation below the knee is frequently performed by the circular incision, and that there is also a third mode of operating by two lateral flaps, which, it appears, has long been shown by Mr. Brooks in his courses of lectures, and of which I am in possession of a minute detail in a letter from Mr. Brooks to Mr. Cop- land Hutchison, written at my request, some years ago. But as I consider the single flap operation, when carefully ex- ecuted, to be by far the most eligible mode of amputating the leg, it seems unnecessary to enter into the subject farther in this outline. The general remarks which were made in regard to the two most common modes of operating in the removal of limbs, may be considered as more peculiarly applicable to Amputations of the thigh, and this is one of the cases in which we see either operation frequently executed with success; it is one of those cases in which the surgeon will be very much guid- ed by his general estimate of their respective advantages; and it may be remarked, that in no other instance is the superior facility and rapidity with which the flap operation may be executed more conspicuous than here. Indeed the rapidity with which this operation is frequently performed, is some- times alleged as an objection to it; but this is an objection in which I do not concur ; for although the maxim, “ sat cito si sat bene," is an excellent one in surgery, yet, we may say, with equal truth, that if an operation is well done, it can scarcely be done too quickly, a sentiment in which the pa- tient will always concur. The only points upon which it seems necessary to remark particularly in regard to amputa- tions of the thigh, is the mode of forming the flaps, and dressing the stump after the circular operation, and both these points I have noticed in the following extract from a Clinical Lecture.423 AMPUTATION. « You would observe, Gentlemen, that in amputating this young woman’s thigh, instead of forming two lateral flaps, as I had hitherto been accustomed to do, I formed an anterior and posterior flap, the one from the extensors on the fore part, and the other from the flexors on the back part of the thigh. This is a mode of operating which I flrst saw prac- tised by Mr. Liston in the cases of two boys whom he operat- ed upon in the house last autumn ; and in the case of such young subjects who cannot readily be made to retain their stumps in a desirable position, but are constantly inclined to elevate the point of the stump, it appears to me to offer de- cided advantages ; in the first place, it obviates the projection of the hone between the lateral flaps, which 1 am told has sometimes occurred ; and in the next place, you will sec that the more the point of the stump is elevated, the more are the extensor muscles relaxed, so as to afford a covering for the point of the bone. Other collateral advantages attendant upon this mode of forming the flaps are pointed out in a paper of Mr. Creasers, formerly of the Bath Infirmary, in the Twenty-second volume of the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal; although he indeed recommends the flap to he formed by cutting from the surface towards the bone, instead of transfixing the limb and cutting outwards. The plan of dressing stumps after the common circular amputa- tion of the thigh, so as to place the line of the cicatrix transversely instead of perpendicularly, you will find advo- cated both by Mr. Guthrie and by Mr. Copland Hutchison, the latter of whom, in the first edition of his Surgical work, gave a marginal sketch well calculated to illustrate his valu- able remarks upon this point.” Amputation at the hip-joint is an operation which can never be contemplated with any sanguine hopes of success, but which it has nevertheless frequently become the duty of military sur- geons to undertake, and from which we have several instances424 MILITARY SURGERY. of recovery. The particular cases requiring this operation are specified in numerous works ; and I cannot help observing that some of these are cases in which the less formidable operation of excision of the head of the femur might perhaps be substi- tuted with advantage. This would seem to me to apply par- ticularly to cases of the following description, pointed out by my predecessor, Dr. Thomson, as cases for primary amputa- tion. “ The kind of wound for which immediate amputation at the hip-joint appears to me to be best adapted, is one in which it has not, so far as I know, been practised or recommended. I allude to that in which a musket-bullet or grape-shot, or a small portion of shell, has been observed to fracture the neck of the thigh-bone, or to fracture the head of that bone, and pass through or lodge in the hip-joint. The proportion of cures which has been obtained from amputation at the hip- joint is, I believe, much greater than of cures from gunshot fractures of the head or neck of the thigh-bone. Indeed, of recoveries from these injuries I know of none which have been recorded. Those, who for a time seem to do well, in the end sink under the hectic which supervenes. This has been the fate, I believe, of the two cases which I have mentioned in the account of injuries of the hip-joint as having put on a favour- able appearance. It seems therefore highly probable, that in the fractures by musket-bullets of the neck and head of the thigh-bone, the practice of amputation at the hip-joint will become the means of saving many lives; and we cannot but expect that the results from amputation in these cases will be found much more successful than in the.class of cases in which it has hitherto been employed, since the local and constitu- tional injuries at first occasioned by musket-bullets, are com- paratively small with those which occur in the more severe wounds produced by canon-shot.” In all the amputations of the inferior extremity which I have hitherto noticed, the main artery of the limb may, as in 7425 AMPUTATION. the superior extremity, either be compressed by the hand of an assistant, or the hemorrhage may be commanded by the tourniquet; but, in amputating at the hip-joint, this instru- ment is inapplicable, and in originally contemplating this operation, the fear of incontrollable hemorrhage was one of the objections chiefly dwelt upon. It does not fall within my present plan to detail the various methods of operating, many of them devised with a view of obviating hemorrhage, for, of all the amputations, this is the one in which the cir- cumstances of the case must determine the mode of operating. Like all the other amputations at the joints, it appears to me to be best performed as a flap operation ; and it is a great ad- vantage of the mode which I would recommend, that, while it seems the most eligible mode of forming the flaps, it is also, perhaps, the most effectual mode of commanding the haemor- rhage. Let the limb be transfixed with one of the long amputat- ing knives, entered on the outside of the joint, and carried transversely across in front of the bone; an anterior flap is then to be formed from the muscular substance in the fore- part of the thigh, and as the knife advances downwards, the fingers of an assistant are gradually introduced into the inci- sion behind it, so that he obtains a perfect command of the femoral artery previous to its division; the limb being then forcibly abducted and pressed downwards, the capsular and round ligaments are cut, and the amputation completed by dividing the parts behind the joint. The command of the femoral artery is in this way perfect ; and the better plan is not to lose time in tying this vessel until the arteries in the posterior flap are secured. The anterior flap may either be made of proper dimensions to meet a corresponding flap from behind, or the anterior flap may be prolonged so as to cover the whole face of the stump, the parts behind being cut perpendicularly. This is the only way in which I have ever426 MILITARY SURGERY. seen amputation at the hip-joint performed on the living body, and it appears to me scarcely susceptible of improve- ment. OPHTHALMIA. The subject of Ophthalmia is, in my estimation, one of the greatest importance to which the attention of a military sur- geon can possibly be directed ; and that I do not overrate its importance to the military profession and to the public at large,jwill appear from the following statement. In an ex- cellent publication on this disease by Dr. Vetch, formerly of the 52d regiment, he states, that in the second battalion of this regiment, consisting of about 700 men, 636 cases of oph- thalmia were admitted into the regimental hospital between August 1805 and August 1806, of which number fifty were dismissed with the loss of both eyes, and forty with that of one; and it appears from the returns of Chelsea and Kil- mainham hospitals, that on the first of December 1810, that is, in little more than five years from the appearance of the disease in the 52d regiment, the number of soldiers who were a burden on the public, from blindness occasioned by ophthalmia, was 2317- The loss of men which armies occa- sionally sustain from fever and from dysentery, a temporary privation of the services of numbers from venereal complaints, from ulcers, and from accidents, are occurrences with which military practitioners have long been familiar; but few of these have ever been such a source of regret to commanding officers, or of vexation and disappointment to surgeons, as that fonn of ophthalmia which, for the last thirty years, has in many instances rendered whole regiments for a time ineffec- tive, and has entailed an unheard of expense on the country.OPHTHALMIA. 427 The term ophthalmia is employed by medical writers to de- note inflammation of the eye, originating from whatever cause, while it may be observed, that amongst non-profes- sional people, the word ophthalmia is thought to imply a dis- ease of a very peculiar and specific nature. The term Egyp- tian ophthalmia has been still more circumscribed in its ap- plication, and has been thought to imply a disease suigeneris, different from every other inflammation of the eye. This is an application of the tenn little calculated to impress us with correct opinions of its nature or treatment; and medical men have ceased to consider the Egyptian ophthalmia as possessing any thing peculiar in its nature, or demanding any specific mode of treatment, the only difference recognised being its ex- treme violence and difficulty of cure. The disease has, perhaps, in all ages been familiar to the inhabitants of warm countries, while the happy exemption of the northern parts of Europe from the more aggravated forms of ophthalmia, rendered us till of late little conscious of their existence. Although ever since the return of the troops from Egypt in 1801 and 1802, the disease occasionally prevailed to a limited extent, chiefly in those regiments which had served there, it was not until 1805 that it appeared in such a form as to give general alarm, and this not in an old corps which had served abroad, but in the second battalion of the 52d regiment, a battalion recently embodied, and at that time quartered in the barracks at Hythe in Kent. The leading circumstances attending the propagation of the disease in this regiment, as given by Dr. Vetch, are interesting, not only from their individual im- portance, but as affording grounds for more general deduc- tions. This battalion was formed at Banbury in Oxford- shire, by a draft of a few officers and privates from the first battalion in the end of 1804, and soon afterwards marched to the barracks in Hythe, where, on the 9th of June 1805, it was joined by about five hundred volunteers from the Irish mi-4 28 MILITARY JSURGKRY. litia. 1 he regiment continued tolerably healthy, making al- lowance for the increased number of diseases from dissipation, always to be expected in a newly raised corps. Excepting a large proportion of venereal cases, no particular distemper prevailed, when the first case of ophthalmia made its appear- ance on the 14th of July, and about the middle of August five others suddenly appeared. These cases did not attract at- tention, as presenting any thing different from those arising from the usual exciting causes, except the little benefit which they derived from the common modes of treatment, and the length of time to which they were protracted. On the 30th of the same month, the first case in which the disease proved vio- lent was admitted, after which it spread rapidly, every day ad- ding fresh numbers to the list. “ An explanation of the causes of the disease was first sought for in the situation of the barracks at Hythe, on the most easterly point of the extensive marsh of Romney. The coast in the neighbourhood is covered for miles with a dry white shingle intermixed with finer particles of sand, in front of which the men were in general paraded. From the hot season of the year at which the disease made its appearance, from the exercise which the men daily under- went, exposed to the reflection of the sun’s rays from the shingle, and the great quantity of fine sand which a long prevalence of blowing weather carried from it, a ready expla- nation of the origin of the disease seemed to present itself. Had the affection proved general among the troops then sta- tioned under the same or nearly under the same circum- stances, those causes, which were at the time very generally complained of, would probably for a while have set aside all farther inquiry. This, however, was not the case, for the first battalion of the same regiment encamped at a little dis- tance, the 43d regiment, and the Lincolnshire militia, who were quartered in the same barracks with the second batta- lion of the 52d, remained free from any participation in the421) OPHTHALMIA. complaint. Upon inquiry it was discovered that many of the Irish recruits had volunteered into the 52d from regiments in which the disease had prevailed, and had themselves been af- fected with it, though in its milder form. The general testi- mony agrees, that those regiments received the ophthalmia from being garrisoned along with others who had suffered from it in Egypt and the Mediterranean. Upon particular inquiry I found, that the men in whom the disease first shewed itself in the 52d had formerly been afflicted with it in Ireland ; and we shall hereafter have occasion to observe, that one of the most unfortunate effects of the disease is the ten- dency which it leaves to a relapse on the application of any irri- tating cause, so that the origin of the complaint in this bat- talion receives the most satisfactory explanation from the combination of the above-mentioned circumstances. The present and every other instance of the occurrence of the dis- ease at a distance from the country in which it has taken its rise, affords undisputed proofs of its powers of self-propaga- tion.'1 Here Dr. Vetch broaches a question of the contagious na- ture of the disease, upon which it is necessary to make a few observations before proceeding to an account of its appear- ances and modes of treatment. This subject had previously been fully entered into by Dr. Edmonstone, in his treatise on ophthalmia, published here in 1806. He refers to Aris- totle and several other ancient writers, from whom passages have been selected tending to prove, that the disease has from very remote times been looked upon as contagious. Some of these passages, however, seem rather to prove too much, as for instance the following expression of Boerhaave, “ Si quis subito videat hominem cujus limbi palpebrarum sunt infiam- mati, coccinio colorc fulgentes, et oculi simul tales sunt, et la- chryma; iiule distillant, ejus oculi etiamiiule leedantur.” Here it is obvious that the author, writing Dc Sympal/tia, adducesMILITARY SURGERY. 430 this as a proof not of contagion, but of the powers of sympathy, a source of the disease which will not he considered very ex- tensive in its operation. In recent times, one of the first authors to notice the contagious nature of the disease was Dr. James Armstrong, who, in a thesis published here in 1789, “ De tuenda nau- tarum sanitate,” gives a history of a severe ophthalmia, which broke out in his majesty’s ship Albemarle, while cruis- ing on the coast of Hispaniola, in January 1782. Its origin was attributed to the impressment of three seamen labouring under the disease from on board a slave-ship ; “ each of these men,” says Dr. Armstrong, “ laboured under a slight inflam- mation of their eyes, and when questioned as to the cause of this affection, said, that they were then convalescent from a very severe disease, under which almost the whole of the men on board the slave-ship laboured, and from an attack of which none except the master of the vessel had escaped. On the fourth day after these men were brought on board the king’s ship, two .of the seamen originally belonging to her complained that they had been seized during the preceding night with severe headach, and were at the same time affected with a troublesome sensation in the eyes, as if dust had been sprinkled into them. On the following morning several others said that they had been seized with the same complaints dur- ing the previous night, and, on the morning of the seventh day from the appearance of the disease, two and twenty men were rendered unfit for duty by it. Some of them were confined to bed, and unable to raise their heads from the pil- low, and the inflammation increased so much that their eyes resembled raw flesh. The disease increasing so rapidly, it was judged necessary to prohibit all communication between the sound and infected ; which being done, the contagion affected no more than twenty-five, and in about five weeks from it' first appearance in the ship altogether disappeared.”OPHTHALMIA. 431 The foregoing very interesting account appears to have at- tracted no general notice, and until the ophthalmia occurred in the second regiment of Argyleshirc Fencibles in the spring of 1802, and fell under the accurate observation of their surgeon, I)r. Edmonstone, we have but little account of the appearance of the disease, and no documents calculated to establish the opinion of its contagious nature. Dr. Edmonstone endeavours to explain the possibility of ophthalmia being propagated by some subtle effluvia, either from the system, or from the eye of the patient, but at the same time admits the very conta- gious nature of the purulent discharge from the conjunctiva, and to this source other writers about the same period attri- bute the rapid spread of this disease. We have already seen that Dr. Vetch is convinced of the contagious nature of the ophthalmia which occurred in the 52d regiment, and to his testimony is to be added that of Mr. Peach, the surgeon of the same battalion. Dr. Charles Forbes, formerly surgeon to the Royals, has also given his testimony to the same effect, in a paper contained in the third volume of the Edinburgh Medical Journal. The opinion, indeed, of its contagious na- ture, has been so generally prevalent amongst the medical officers of the British army, that it were endless to cite autho- rities on the subject; and so well convinced have the Medical Boards and the senior officers of the department been of the disease being chiefly propagated in this way, that wherever it has once made its appearance, the most vigorous measures of seclusion have been enforced. There are indeed very few of the British medical officers who affect to doubt it. The late Mr. Mackesey, however, of the 62d regiment, being doubtful of the contagious nature of ophthalmia, applied to his own eyes rags soaked in the discharge from the eyes of patients affected with the disease, and in this instance without any injurious effect. A particular account of this experiment will be found in the twelfth volume of the Edinburgh MedicalMILITARY SURGERY. 432 Journal. Mr. Mackesey very candidly admits, that a single experiment of this kind is totally insufficient to establish a point of so much practical importance, and his experiment is completely neutralized by one stated to me by Deputy-In- spector Marshall, who observes :—“ I applied a portion of the purulent matter which was obtained from a man labouring under epidemic ophthalmia in the 89th regiment, to the eyes of four persons, including myself, and the disease followed in two of the individuals.” Amongst the opinions in favour of the non-contagious na- ture of the disease is to be reckoned that of Baron Larrey, who, I am informed, ridicules the idea of the disease being propagated by contagion. It is doubtful, however, whether the Baron has ever seen the disease under those circum- stances which have so generally impressed the British sur- geons with an opinion of its contagious nature. We may observe, that it was not in Egypt, where many causes exist calculated to produce the disease, that the opinion of its con- tagious character was chiefly impressed upon the medical men of this country. And although it is true that many French soldiers who escaped the disease in Egypt were suddenly struck blind on returning home, yet this is expressly stated by Baron Larrey himself to have arisen, in his opinion, from “ a paralysis of the organ of vision, induced by a sudden change from the hot climate of Egypt to that of France in the cold- est season of the yearand we have no account, so far as I know, of its subsequent occurrence in the French army in such a shape as to cause general alarm, or to invalid almost whole regiments, as it has unfortunately done in the British service. But it may be observed, that throughout this discussion I have uniformly employed the word “contagion,” and wish it to be understood according to its strict etymology, implying a disease only to be communicated by the actual contact of morbid matter, and not capable of being propagated throughOPHTHALMIA. 433 the medium of a diseased atmosphere. Exclusive of conta- gion, the troops serving in Egypt were exposed to many causes productive of ophthalmia. rI he excess ol heat and light, an atmosphere loaded with particles of sand raised by the wind and forced against the eyes ; the alternate expo- sure to these agents during the day, and to heavy dews during the night, form a combination of circumstances act- ing both as predisposing and exciting causes. How far the excess of heat and of light are calculated to operate inju- riously upon the eyes, every one must be sensible from his own experience; and it is unnecessary to enter into any laboured refutation of the opinion of some writers who deny their agency. It must, however, be admitted, that in order to account for the extreme prevalence of this complaint both in the English and French armies employed in Egypt, as well as amongst the natives of the place, other causes must have operated. Savary, who contends for the general salubrity of the climate of Egypt, observes, that disorders of the eyes are the most prevalent complaints amongst the Egyptians, and that the number of blind from this cause is immense. In his time the great mosque at Cairo alone contained eight thousand miserable victims of the disease. The hot winds of Egypt, loaded at particular times with particles of dust, have been con- sidered as a very powerful cause of ophthalmia ; but Assalini, who accompanied the French army to Egypt, argues against the operation of this dusty atmosphere as a principal cause of the disease, and observes, “ that if the dust or the sand of the soil of Egypt were the cause of ophthalmia, this malady would not cease to attach the inhabitants during the whole course of the year with the same force, since a day scarcely passes in which they are not obliged to walk in a thick mist, or in whirlwinds of dustand he goes on to remark, that it wras chiefly dur- ing the inundation of the N ile that a great number of Freneb soldiers were affected with ophthalmia, when the dust and434 MILITARY SURGERY. sand were under water. “ Notwithstanding this,” says he, “ I do not pretend to say that the dust from the soil of Egypt is not injurious to the eyes, but I think it alone is not suffi- cient to produce ophthalmia, and it seems to me more just to attribute this malady to suppressed perspiration, which often occurs in Egypt during the night, and throwing itself upon the part most weakened, affects sometimes the intestines, but oftener the eyes, fatigued by the too vivid light of the sun.” This, in the opinion of Assalini, is the true source of Egyp- tian ophthalmia, and in the section of Mr. Vetch’s practical treatise on Diseases of the Eye, published in 1820, which treats on catarrhal ophthalmia, arising from climate and at- mospheric changes, we find some interesting observations tending to show the extensive influence of heat and moisture as causes of ophthalmia. “ My own observation,” says he, “ agrees with the testimony of most writers, that, although a humid state of the atmosphere is that which proves most pro- ductive of ophthalmia, it is rather when combined with a cer- tain degree of heat than with the cold of winter.” Wherever we have heat and moisture operating generally as predisposing causes of disease, we have, for the most part, an excess of light affecting the eyes. In tropical climates the in- tensity of the light is at all times offensive to the eyes, while in more temperate climates the warmest days are also the long- est, so that during this season of the year, whether moist or not, the eye is longer exposed to the effect of a brilliant light, and what this wants in force is made up by its longer continuance. Egypt, as has been remarked by Mr. Edmonstone, may be considered as the very hot-bed of ophthalmia, and is perhaps, the part of the world, in which all the alleged causes of oph- thalmia arising from soil and climate exist in the greatest abundance and force. This circumstance may account for the prevalence of the disease in that country ; and that such a combination of causes may give rise to an ophthalmia, which435 OPHTHALMIA. by frequency, inveteracy, or neglect, acquires the power of self-propagation, is consistent with what has been observed in the history of some other diseases. Whoever reads the various accounts given of the disease termed Egyptian ophthalmia, particularly those of Dr. Vetch and of the late Sir Patrick M‘Gregor, contained in the third volume of the “ Transac- tions of a society for the improvement of Medical and Sur- gical Knowledge,'” will, I think, admit that the disease is communicable from one person to another only by the appli- cation of the infectious matter to the eyes. The opinion that the disease is ever communicated from one person to another through the medium of the atmosphere, is at present nearly abandoned, although Sir William Adams maintained, that he had seen many cases which prove that the disorder may spread like small-pox, without inoculation. Dr. Vetch has well observed, that, from whatever cause inflammation of the conjunctiva may originate, when the action is of that nature or degree of violence as to produce a purulent or pu- riform discharge, the discharge so produced operates as an animal virus when applied to the conjunctiva of a heal- thy eye. And, considering the various modes by which such contact may occur, it is obvious that wherever ophthal- mia prevails, wdiether it be the effect of local conditions of the soil or of the atmosphere, “ this contagious effect must sooner or later mix, and unite its operation with that of the more general and original cause.” Upon the venereal diseases of the eye, so well described in the writings of Lawrence and Hewson, it is not my pre- sent purpose to enlarge, but there is one peculiar source of purulent ophthalmia, which it may be necessary here to no- tice ; I mean that arising from the application of gonorrhoeal matter to the eyes, or, as stated by some, from the suppres- sion of the gonorrhoeal discharge. Although I can scarcely say that I have myself witnessed an unequivocal instance ofMILITARY SURGERY. 43(1 ophthalmia arising in either of these ways ; yet, the fact that it occasionally does so, is put beyond doubt by the testimony of numerous writers. But the frequency of this mode of infection must be greatly lessened if Dr. Vetch’s opinion be correct. From some experiments and observations de- tailed in his work on the diseases of the eye, Dr. Vetch is led to infer, that matter taken from the urethra is not capable of infecting the eyes of the individual by whom such matter is secreted, though probably capable of doing so to the eyes of another person. This opinion may be supposed to gain confirmation from the rarity of the cases in which oph- thalmia has, even in appearance, had the most remote connex- ion either with the direct contact of gonorrhoeal matter, or with a suppression of the gonorrhoeal discharge. Dr. Farrcl, who had extensive opportunities of seeing this disease in Egypt and the Mediterranean, asserts, that a single case of this kind never presented itself to his observation, although from the habits and negligence of soldiers this might have been expected, and he says, “ I have repeatedly had patients under my care who laboured under both gonorrhoea and ophthalmia, without being able to trace any connexion between these com- plaints.'” I wish I could divest myself, as completely as Dr. Farrel seems to do, of all suspicion of another cause of ophthalmia ; I allude to the artificial excitement of this disease, by the in- troduction of various irritating substances into the eyes, of which some worthless soldiers have been guilty, with the in- tention of impairing their vision, so as to render them unfit for the service. Suspicions of the existence of such practices have not unfrequently been forced on the minds both of mili- tary and medical officers; and that these suspicions have not always been devoid of foundation, may be ascertained from va- rious statements in Mr. Marshall’s work on “ the feigned dis- abilities of soldiers,” and from the following narration of Dr-437 OPHTHALMIA. Hcnnen’s. “ In a corps under my superintendence, which was in part recruited by convicts, and which was ordered to the West Indies, the surgeon was led in one case to suspect the application of some acrid substance to the eye, by the depth and the defined edges of the ulceration. On minute examina- tion of the person of the ptient, a paper of corrosive sublimate was found in his possession, with some manuscript directions ■for its use, in which it was recommended to put a minute por- tion of this substance into the eye on going to bed, to repeat it every third night, and be cautious not to put too much, lest the eye should be destroyed. There was also annexed to this prescription, a form of receipt for removing the artificial dis- ease thus produced.: it consisted of a decoction of parsnips and clover, with which the eye was to be fomented ; and the leaves of the clover softened by boiling, were to be applied to the part, and to be continued to it during the night.” Indeed it has been seriously questioned how far the British epidemic was spread by contagion, or had anything to do with Egyptian ophthalmia; why was the disease so exclusively confined to particular regiments and garrisons ? Why were women nearly if not wholly exempt from it ? Why did the disease become more prevalent and severe after the passing of Mr. Wind- ham’s act, by which every man who was discharged as disabled was entitled to a pension ? And why were the soldiers of the French army not affected, after their return home, with what we call Egyptian ophthalmia ? Having thus entered into a detail of the circumstances connected with the origin and progress of that severe form of ophthalmia which has made such ravages in our army, I pro- ceed to offer a few remarks on its symptoms and modes of treatment. Of the numerous divisions of ophthalmia adopted by authors, one of the most comprehensive is that of the celebrated Professor Beer of Vienna, who divides this affer-438 MILITARY SURGERY, tion, according to the situation in which it originates, into three general forms,—inflammation of the eyelids,—inflam- mation of the parts between the orbit and globe of the eye, —and, lastly, inflammation of the eye-ball itself, or oph- thalmitis. Of these several affections numerous subdivisions exist, but, premising that the seat of the disease to which I wish more particularly to advert, is in the conjunctiva lining the eyelids, and covering the anterior part of the eye, I adopt the division of ophthalmia employed by the dis- tinguished Italian Professor Scarpa, and various other au- thors, into acute and chronic, as one of the best suited to the object proposed in the following observations, which is, to give such a practical view of the subject, as will enable us to meet it by the most efficient treatment, without bestowing too minute an attention on some of those minor shades of dif- ference, which it is impossible, and perhaps unnecessary to advert to, in treating the disease on that extensive scale on which it has become the duty of military surgeons to meet it. In the valuable work of Dr. Vetch, which has been so often referred to, the word ophthalmia is restricted to an in- flammation of the conjunctiva, including that part of it which lines the palpebr®, as well as the portion which covers the eye ; while Dr. Vetch employs the term ophthalmitis sclerotica to denote the disease as affecting the sclerotic coat of the eyeball, and to designate the affection commonly known by the name of iritis, he employs the term oph- thalmitis sclerotica interna, or ophthalmitis iritica. These are subdivisions of great utility, as marking the different sites of the disease ; and it may be observed, that its severity and difficulty of cure are in a great measure proportioned to the progress it has made from without inwards. Thus, the inflammation, while confined exclusively to the conjunctiva, although sometimes a severe and obstinate affection, is lessophthalmia. 439 dangerous anil less destructive to vision than the second spe- cies, or ophthalmitis sclerotica of Dr. Vetch ; and the inflam- mation, when seated in the ins, is for the most part more difficult to subdue, and more apt to be followed by a perman- ent injury to the sight, than in either of the two fonner cases. Ophthalmia has frequently been referred to, and selected as an illustration of all the phenomena of inflammation, pain, swelling, heat and redness. Of the last particularly it exhibits a most striking example, from the contrast which the blood-red colour of the inflamed conjunctiva presents to its natural white or pearly appearance; at the same time the other symp- toms of inflammation above mentioned are often well mark- ed in this affection. Here we often find the swelling great, the pain severe, and the sense of heat distressing ; to which are superadded intolerance of light, and an increased secretion of tears, symptoms peculiarly connected with the structure and functions of the organ affected. In general, the first symptoms of the approach of ophthal- mia are a sense of itching, or a feeling analogous to it, lead- ing the patient to rub the part affected, and an increased se- cretion of tears,which bedew the surface of the cornea, and par- tially obscure the vision. In this state, however, unless the patient is previously prepared to expect its approach, from its prevalence as an epidemic, the disease is for the most part too little observed, and the first sensation which the pa- tient experiences, is that of sand or dust having got in between the eyelids and ball of the eye. This is a symptom particularly characteristic of that form of the disease which affects the troops, as almost every writer on the subject has noticed, and as I have myself had repeated opportunities of observing. Pa- tients thus affected frequently apply to their comrades, or to their medical officers, for the sole purpose of having the offensive substance removed ; thinking if this were accomplish- ed they would be quite well; and this peculiar sensation hasMILITARY SURGERY. 440 very frequently been observed to come on during the night, which gives rise to the conjecture of its being caused by something having fallen into the eyes from the roof of the barrack. It has also been observed, that “ this sensation is not constant, as it comes on suddenly, and as suddenly departs, confirming to the patient the idea of something extraneous being lodged in the eye.'” Its intermittent form has been explained, by observing, that when a vessel on the globe of the eye first be- comes turgid, its projection excites in the conjunctival lining of the palpebrae an uneasy sensation, as if it moved over a par- ticle of sand or other extraneous substance, a sensation which gradually subsides as the tension of the affected vessel dimi- nishes, and as the palpebral lining becomes accustomed to the new feeling. The accession of this symptom so frequently in the evening, or early part of the night, is perhaps owing to the change from the bracing effects of the open air, to the close atmosphere of a full barrack-room, while the tempera- ture of the eye is augmented by the closing of the eyelids in the attempts to sleep, and the determination of blood towards it in some degree increased by the horizontal posture. The appearance of increased vascularity, which subsequently becomes conspicuous over the whole of the conjunctiva, is at first confined to that portion of it lining the eyelids, and, if examined in a very early stage of the disease, this part will be found to exhibit a mottled appearance, the inflam- mation affecting detached portions or patches of the mem- brane, and these patches become gradually more extensive, until the whole of the conjunctiva assumes a fleshy redness. This inflammation of the conjunctiva is attended from the first with a great degree of swelling and puffiness, which occurs more readily, and extends more rapidly in this situation from the lax and open texture of the cellular membrane, connecting the conjunctiva with the ball of the eye. This ecchymosis is often so considerable as to elevate the conjunctiva very much 6OPHTHALMIA. 441 from the posterior part of the eyeball, while, in consequence ol the firm adhesion of the membrane round the margin of the transparent cornea, the swelling is suddenly stopped at this point, and the cornea is to be seen at the bottom of a circular cup-like depression. While this effusion is going on under the conjunctiva, oedema also takes place in the substance of the palpebra;, sometimes to an enormous extent, completely shutting up the eye, and disfiguring the whole countenance ; and as the integuments swell outwards, the firm inelastic margin of the tarsi not admitting of a correspondent extension, are in some degree inverted, so that the integuments of the upper and lower eyelids come to meet over the tarsi. Of this particular appearance a representation is given in Dr. Vetch’s first work, and of many minute circumstances which I am now attempting to describe verbally, admirable representations are given in the plates attached to Dcmour s “ T. raite, des Maladies des Yeux.” During the progress of this inflammation the discharge, which at first consisted of a little mucous fluid lodged in the duplicature of the conjunctiva, progressively increases, and assumes the character of pus. When mixed with the lachrymal fluid it is sometimes pent up in large quantities within the palpebne, and gushes out in a stream when they are opened; at other times it finds an exit more readily towards the inner canthus of the eye, and continues to flow over the cheek in a quantity almost inconceivable, “amounting to some ounces in the course of the day.” The patient during this period is affected with severe lancinating pains darting through the eye, or referred to the interior of the head ; he also complains of fulness and throbbing of the temples, a symptom which, like every other connected with the disease, is often remit- tent or intermittent. While the disease is confined exclu- sively to the conjunctiva, the symptoms of pyrexia are by no means urgent, sometimes not at all perceptible, until442 MILITARY SURGERY. the inflammation proceeds to affect the sclerotic coat, when the pulse becomes quickened, and the pain increased, from the dense unyielding nature of this tunic. In describ- ing the inflammation of the sclerotic, I)r. Vetch has sub- divided it into what he has termed sclerotico-corncal, and sclerotico-choroideal inflammation, the first being marked by a tendency to ulceration of the cornea, originating from con- tagion, or from occasional external causes, and constituting that form of the disease from which so many soldiers have lost their eye-sight. The sclerotico-choroideal inflammation, on the other hand, which manifests itself most obviously in the form of iritis, is in many instances the effect of an arthritic or rheumatic diathesis, sometimes occurs as a symptom of syphilis, or appears in peculiar habits as the result of a mercurialized state of the system. The first variety of the affection may be considered as the advanced stage of the purulent ophthalmia of the troops; and Dr. Vetch, who has accurately marked the progress of the different phenomena, thinks that the dis- tinction between conjunctival and sclerotic inflammation may be pointed out by a very marked difference in the appearance of the blood-vessels ramified on the surface of the eye. In the in- flammation of the conjunctiva, the blood-vessels admitting of more speedy and uniform distinction, often swell out suddenly, so as to give to the eye the appearance of a uniform fleshy mass, not inaptly compared to the valvulae conniventes of the intestinal canal; while “ the circumstances,” says he, “ to be regarded in the appearance of the inflamed vessels of the sclerotic coat, are chiefly these : posteriorly we observe only a few interspersed trunks, which do not affect the intermediate space; but these, diverging as they come forwards, produce a zone, more or less complete, of minute hair-like vessels, dis- tinguished by their rectilinear direction, and their uniform concentration towards the margin of the cornea—their colour4*3 OPHTHALMIA. deepening as the disease advances.” This is a distinction which I have sometimes been able to observe in practice, but in gene- ral when inflammation of the sclerotic coat supervenes upon an attack of conjunctival inflammation, the swelling and ecchymo- sis already present effectually prevent any accurate observation of the state of the vessels which supply the sclerotic. The eye-balls are, by the swelling of the palpebre, often entirely concealed from our view, and in judging of the progress and severity of the affection, we can derive no aid from ocular observation. The symptoms which more peculiarly mark the accession of sclerotic inflammation, are the supervention of pyrexia, in acute cases and in irritable habits, often to a very con- siderable extent; quick pulse, restlessness, and inability to sleep, more peculiarly characterise the fever attendant up- on ocular inflammation, while heat, thirst, prostration of strength, and loss of appetite accompany it as in other cases. The pain attendant upon sclerotic inflammation is some- times of the most excruciating kind. Patients may be seen writhing under it, apparently suffering as acutely as they do from the most severe surgical operation. It is not un- frequently described as if numerous needles were thrust into the eyeball, and recurs at intervals, sometimes for days, sometimes for weeks, until a paroxysm terminates in rupture of the cornea and effusion of the aqueous humour. This latter event is often marked by the sudden cessation of pain, and the feeling of a gush of warm fluid from the eyeball. Indeed the sensation of bursting of the eye is sometimes so distinct that a patient has been observed fumbling amongst the bed-clothes seeking for something which he supposed had escaped from it. The relief afforded by this occurrence to the affected eye, is often followed by an aggravation of the symptoms in the other ; and the sensation of rupture may re- cur repeatedly for weeks or even months, the attacks gradu-444 MILITARY SURGERY. ally becoming shorter anil less severe as the disease becomes exhausted by its own violence. The rupture of the cornea has hitherto been described from the sensations of the patient alone, it being generally impossible, from the swelling of the external parts, to ascertain its occurrence in any other way. Amongst the variety of appearances, however, which the disease has presented to the accurate scrutiny of Dr. Vetch, he has had an opportunity of observing very minutely the changes occasioned by rupture of the cornea ; and I cannot convey a more perfect idea of the nature of this accident than by employing his own words. a A more accurate inspection has now taught me, that any visible alteration in the cornea is an event subsequent to its rupture. In the first case in which I traced the steps of that process, I examined the eye before the accession of the paroxysm which was terminated by the rupture of the right cornea, in which there was not at that time the least percep- tible alteration ; the patient did not see with his usual dis- tinctness, and the iris did not contract much by exposure to the light. I found the eye in the same state after the acces- sion of the pain, when the repetition of the examination, as is usual, had no effect in increasing it; it continued for about two hours, when he felt the cornea give way, and scalding water rushed over his cheek. On again examining the eye a short time after, from the natural appearance it seemed to possess, I was inclined to doubt the accuracy of the sensation, and to think that too much reliance had been hitherto placed on it. The patient now saw with more correctness than be- fore. My attention was at last attracted by a small line which extended across the lower segment of the cornea, and which remained without any alteration after the eye was washed with tepid water; but as any attempt to ascer- tain the nature of this line gave uneasiness, its examination was left till next day, when I found it more visible along itsOPHTHALMIA. 445 ft hole extent, from a slight opacity which accompanied it, and which daily increased till the greater extent of the cornea was not only opaque, but projected in an irregular cone. As this alteration of structure went on, the vision which continu- ed for some time after the rupture, more correct than be- fore, became completely obstructed. Other cases have occur- red which, by corresponding with the above, confirm the ac- count I have now given, from which it appears that the aqueous humour escapes by a division of the cornea, nearly as clean as if cut by a knife, and that it is to the attempts of the part to effect a re-union, under the presence of disease, that the future deformity is owing. Were the disease to subside immediately after the rupture of the cornea, this accident, in all probability, would not be attended with much permanent injury to the sight; but as, besides the obstacles which the presence of the disease occasions to its healthy re-union, the same causes which produce the first rupture continuing to operate so as to produce a second, or a third, the deformity becomes further augmented, and the termination, with respect to vision, is proportionally unfavourable.” Such is the series of phenomena which generally takes place in an acute attack of purulent ophthalmia, from the first ap- pearance of inflammation, perhaps in mottled spots on the lining membrane of the palpebr®, to the subsequent affection of the whole conjunctiva, the extension of the disease to the sclerotic coat, occasioning an increased secretion of the aque- ous humour, and terminating in rupture of the cornea. The treatment of this affection now claims our attention, and in so far as general remedies are concerned, the practice which I would urge, in the acute stage of ophthalmia and as it occurs amongst young and otherwise healthy soldiers, consists essentially in bleeding and low diet. The obser- vation cannot be too often repeated, that by one early andMILITARY SURGERY. 4*46 well-timed bleeding, the disease is more effectually sub- dued, and the cure accomplished with much less expenditure of blood, and less injury to the system, than by repeated bleedings to a smaller extent; and there can be no doubt that in consequence of the encouragement which was at one time given to repeated general bleedings, many constitutions have been injured, and the cure, in many instances, ultimately pro- tracted. Wherever a subsequent evacuation of blood becomes necessary, it will, for the most part, be taken with greater ad- vantage from the temporal artery, the jugular vein, or by leeches from the immediate neighbourhood of the eye. Whenever the violence of the attack, and the robust habit of the patient, induces us to resort to general bleeding, it is desirable to carry it at once ad deliquium, or to produce a com- plete remission of the pain. The quantity of blood requisite for this purpose varies greatly in different individuals. The ave- rage quantity, as stated by Dr. Vetch, is from thirty to forty ounces, and in speaking of inflammation, the case of a young soldier affected with opththalmia was formerly noticed, in which fifty-two ounces were withdrawn while the patient stood erect with a vein opened in each arm. But it is only when employed within the first forty-eight hours of the existence of the disease, that bleedings to this extent prove either ef- fectual or safe ; beyond this period they make comparative- ly little impression on the eye, while they produce an inju- rious effect on the system, and lead to a tedious convalescence. When we have an opportunity of witnessing the effects of bleeding on the vessels of the conjunctiva, we may sometimes observe the redness disappear during the operation, a con- vincing proof of the impression made on the disease ; and the temporary suspension of the force of the circulation during syncope proves always beneficial. Scarifications of the surface of the eyeball, or lining mem-OPHTHALMIA. 447 brane of the palpebra?, and the application of leeches within the eyelids, arc measures which my own experience does not enable me to recommend. The irritation occasioned by the scarifications, or leech-bites, and the inflammation necessarily established for the cure of the wounds inflicted by them, are more than sufficient to counterbalance the good effects of the small quantity of blood abstracted by this means. Similar ob- jections apply, in some degree, to blisters, particularly in the acute stage of the disease, and in the way in which they are frequently employed, of a very small size, and applied close to the eye; but in the chronic stages, and in some of the se- quela; of ophthalmia, blister issues, on the temples, behind the ears, or on the nape of the neck, are highly beneficial. The effect of long continued nausea and sickness in allay- ing febrile excitement, and checking inordinate vascular ac- tion, is known to every tyro in the profession ; and the pro- duction of this state by artificial means has not been over- looked by oculists. The practice of keeping up incessant vo- miting for several hours, was strenuously urged by Sir Wil- liam Adams ; and while some of his cotemporaries have justly condemned this practice as harsh and unsatisfactory, they ap- pear to me to have scarcely rated the good effects of nauseat- ing antimonials sufficiently high. In slight cases, and in the very incipient stage of the com- plaint, the effect of stimulating or acrid substances, dropped into the eye, is sometimes successful in checking the suppur- ative inflammation, and putting a complete stop to the pro- gress of the disease. The experiment, however, is somewhat hazardous; for if not successful, such applications naturally aggravatc the subsequent attack. Of local applications used in this way, the undiluted liquor plumbi acetatis is perhaps the niost generally useful, and may be employed even in the earliest stage of the disease, without much risk of increasingMILITARY SURGERY. 448 the after-symptoms. Solutions of the nitrate of silver have long been in general use in cases of ophthalmia; and notwith- standing the objections lately offered to this practice by Dr. Jacob of Dublin, the general confidence of professional men in it has not been shaken ; it is particularly urged by some of those, whose experience has been acquired in the extensive field which the army has unfortunately presented of late years for the treatment of this disease, and amongst the most recent advocates of this practice, we find Mr. Melin and Dr. O’Halleran. Mr. Guthrie has long been in the habit of employing successfully, at the Westminster Eye Infirmary, an ointment of nitrate of silver, in the proportion of from two to ten grains, with fifteen drops of the liq. plumb, subaceta- tis to a drachm of wax ointment; and although this may be considered more peculiarly appropriate to the chronic fonn of the disease, yet it is often applied in all stages of ophthal- mia, with the view of u inducing an action greater, and of a different nature, to that already existing in the part.” The facility with which the strength of the caustic solution and ointment may be varied to suit particular cases, gives them a great advantage as general applications, and has led to a preference of these remedies over the Vinum Opii, and other articles, which were at one time very much employed. The sedative and astringent powers of tobacco infusion, both administered internally and applied locally to the eye, are recommended by Dr. Vetch, but of this I have no expe- rience. In the very early stage of the disease, and in the highly irritable state of the parts, there is no application from which better effects are experienced, then from fomentation, either with plain warm water, or with the common decoctions of chamomile and poppy. These are beneficial not only by soothing the irritable surface of the eye and eyelids, but by constantly removing from them the profuse and acrid dis-449 OPHTHALMIA. charge. Hence their superiority to cataplasms, which fos- ter the suppurative process, confine the discharge, and thus prove highly conducive to the destructive effects of ocular inflammation. We must be careful not to mistake the temporary relief of the symptoms from any of these ap- plications, for a security of the organ. The disease must be carefully watched, and no external applications suffered to conceal the changes which may be going forward. Cold applications, solutions of the sulphate of zinc, or acetate of lead, wherever they are attended with relief, are much less injurious in their after consequences, and maybe much longer continued than either fomentations or poultices, without risk of producing an injurious relaxation of the vessels, and tedious convalescence. In concluding these remarks on the local applications most generally used in ophthalmia, it may be right to express my opinion on the common practice of using shades, and shutting up patients in dark or small-sized apartments. These are measures highly calculated to increase the irritability of the eye, to protract the cure, and to produce frequent relapse. A free exposure to the atmosphere is in general preferable to keeping the eye constantly or closely covered with any applica- tion whatever; and although the light should be so regulated as not to prove offensive to the eye, yet it may be remarked, that the cure of ophthalmia is most satisfactory and most perma- nent, when accomplished with the least deviation from those habits to which the patient must necessarily return. When Ulceration of the cornea occurs in cases of ophthal- mia, it is necessary to observe, that if the ulcer makes its ap- pearance in the height of the disease, it is the abatement of the inflammation, by the means already pointed out, which first demands our attention. In chronic cases, however, it has repeatedly been observed, that it is the ulcer which keeps up the ophthalmia, not the ophthalmia the ulcer ; and in such 2 oMILITARY SURGERY. 450 cases, remedies ought first to be applied to the ulcerated parts, calculated to lessen the morbid irritability, to change the ac- tion of the sore, and to stop the destructive process going on. To effect these objects, the practice usually employed is the application of the nitrate of silver to the surface of the ulcer, for which purpose a piece of this substance may be pointed like a pencil, and the sore gently touched with it. This re- moves the excessive irritability, and, for the most part, soon induces a new action in the part, and converts the process of ulceration into that of granulation and cicatrization. Besides ulceration, Opacities of the cornea of different den- sities, are very frequent consequences of ophthalmia ; and these have, according to their nature or site, been divided into dif- ferent varieties. When the opacity is confined to the con- junctival covering of the cornea, it is termed Nebula. When it arises from the deposition of lymph between the laminae of the cornea, it is called Albugo. And when from the cicatri- zation of an ulcer, Leucoma. In all these affections the ratio medendi is the same, viz. to excite an absorption of the sub- stance giving rise to the opacity. Nebula, or that opacity which is confined to the conjunctival covering of the cor- nea, occurs most frequently in patients affected with chronic inflammation ; and in this form of opacity, vessels are often seen extending towards the centre of the cornea in greater or less number, which assist in keeping up the nebulosity. These may be removed by cutting out a portion of the con- junctiva, including the enlarged vessels, and the opacity will thereby, for the most part, be speedily diminished. The local applications used with most success in this form of opacity, are, solutions of the nitrate of silver, varied in strength ac- cording to the effects produced, solutions of corrosive subli- mate in vinum opii, with the addition of muriatic acid, and a variety of stimulating ointments. Albugo is deeper seated and more dense than nebula, and consequently more difficult451 OPHTHALMIA. to remove. When seated opposite the pupil, vision is nearly destroyed ; but this affection is for the most part less exten- sive than nebula, and the remedies recommended for nebula are similar to those which have been found useful in albugo. Leucoma, the third species of opacity, is that arising from the healing of an ulcer ; and although it is superficial, and less dense than the last-described species, yet it is less influenced by medicines. The drops already recommended, and the sti- mulating ointments, are in some instances found to produce a good effect. In addition to local remedies, the use of mer- cury, in the shape of calomel or blue pill, is often beneficial in opacities of the cornea, by stimulating the absorbent system to a more lively action. Upon the very unsatisfactory and contradictory causes which have been assigned for the occurrence of Inflammation of the ins, it does not appear to me that I can enlarge in such a manner as to give more clear conceptions of its treatment. Suffice it then to observe, that in many cases of long con- tinued ocular inflammation, an increasing but regular con- traction of the pupil, and diminished mobility of the iris, be- gin to shew that the inflammation has extended to this part also. The pupil for some time preserves its circular shape, the smaller ring or pupillary margin of the iris becomes of a light reddish colour, while its exterior margin, or larger ring, assumes a greenish hue. The inflammation continuing to increase, the iris now swells, pushes forwards, and presents a convex surface towards the cornea. This is followed by the effusion of coagulating lymph from the posterior surface of the iris, which forms a connexion between it and the capsule of the lens, this adhesion rendering the iris immoveable at particular points. The shape of the pupil becomes irregular, and if the disease is still suffered to proceed, small pustules of a dark orange colour sometimes appear on the surface of theMILITARY SUROERY. 452 iris, which terminate in suppuration, ami as the matter they contain falls into the anterior chamber, hypopion is produced. The occurrence of iritis is fraught with so much danger to the organ of vision, that we cannot be too early or too assiduous in our endeavours to obviate the disorgani- zation of the eye in which it is so apt to terminate. This is most likely to be accomplished by local depletion, either by opening the temporal artery or by cupping, combined with the internal use of calomel and hyosciamus or opium, which in this instance is observed to operate more like a specific than in any other case; and it is one of the singu- lar and apparently contradictory circumstances attending this affection, that whether it occurs without any obvious consti- tutional taint, whether it occurs as a secondary symptom of syphilis under the non-mercurial practice, or whether it oc- curs in connexion with a mercurialized state of the system, the employment of mercury is for the most part attended with the same good effects. In the last case it proves, as Mr. Travers has observed, both the bane and antidote, tending to check the effusion of lymph and to promote its absorption. For this purpose it has been recommended locally ; the blue ointment combined with opium, extract of hyosciamus, bel- ladonna, or stramonium, to be rubbed morning and evening into the eyelids and temple. It is, however, the combination of calomel with opium given internally, general and local bleeding, warm bath, purgatives and antimonials, with the application of extract of belladonna round the eyelids, to which I have been accustomed to trust in the treatment of this af- fection, and my success in numerous instances induces me to recommend such treatment with confidence. One of the most serious consequences of inflammation of the iris is complete closure of the pupil, an affection only to be remedied by an operation ; and as I have avoided goingOPHTHALMIA. 4*53 into the details of operations in these outlines, I will merely observe, that the only operation which I have practised in this case is that of the late Mr. Gibson of Manchester, the steps of which are well detailed in various publications, and are best explained by the assistance of the numerous sketches which I possess of cases successfully operated on in the ophthalmic department of the General Hospital at Chatham, by Staff- Surgeons Murray, Uease, and Lindsay. Amongst the most troublesome sequels of ophthalmia are the projections of the cornea termed Staphyloma, and the va- rious affections of the eyelids, the Entropium and Ectropium, the necessary operations for which may be shewn on the dead body. But there is one peculiar affection of the eyelids to which, from its extensive prevalence, I conceive it my duty more particularly to advert. When the violence of the dis- ease has abated, and the tumefaction of the palpebrs so far subsided as to permit the eyelids to be everted, or when the disease itself has produced this eversion, by the extent and preponderance of the swelling of the conjunctiva beyond that of the external teguments, the protruded surface often pre- sents a granulated appearance. This affection of the pal- pebrae consists at first of a villous state of those membranous linings which, if not properly treated, gives birth to granula- tions becoming hard and warty ; and it has been distinctly proved, that so long as this remains, no patient is free from relapse, but is constantly liable, upon the slightest excitement, to a recurrence of the purulent secretion capable of extending the contagion, and to repeated accessions of sclerotic inflam- mation terminating in opacity of the cornea or in ulceration of its coats. The best explanation as well as the most eligible mode of treating this particular affection, is to be found in the writings of the army surgeons, and particularly of Dr. Vetch. It was, however, claimed by Sir W. Adams as a most import-MILITARY SURGERY. 454 ant discovery, although in his mode of treatment, by excision, he was decidedly anticipated by another famous oculist, Sir William Reid, who wrote a treatise on the eye in I7O6. This work, which gives an account of sundry cures performed in the universities of Oxford, Cambridge, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Aber- deen, St. Andrews, and Dublin, contains, amongst other cu- rious matters, a chapter on “ small excrescences of flesh in the eyelids, concerning the cure of which,” the author observes, “ if they be thick and gross, they must be cut away dexter- ously with the point of a lancet, and afterwards let the place be touched with a little fine salt, alum, or copperas water, ap- plying also such medicines as may dry the eye without great pain.” The treatment of this affection by escharotics was recom- mended by St. Yves, and after a very full trial of excision, both with the scissors as practised by the late Mr. Saunders, and by the knife as recommended by Sir William Adams, the anny surgeons have, w ithout, so far as I know, one excep- tion, returned to the general use of escharotics, particularly to the sulphate of copper and nitrate of silver. For although some peculiar views have been entertained relative to the na- ture of what has been termed the granular state of the lining of the palpebras, yet I believe its treatment by escharotics as preferable to excision is fully established by continued observation. And of the length of time during which this subject has been more or less under the notice of the pro- fession, some idea may be formal from the following passage of a Report of a Committee of the House of Commons ap- pointed in 1821 to inquire into the establishment of the Ophthalmic Hospital in the Regent’s Park, and the claims of Sir William Adams upon the public. “ Your Com- mittee have to report, that the existence of these granula- tions, and the necessity of removing them, seems to have ban455 OPHTHALMIA. known in very early times, and are adverted to in the works of Celsus in the first century, of Paulus of iEgina in the se- venth, of Phases, the Arabian, in the tenth, and in the work of Sir William Reid in the reign of Queen Anne; that, consequently, no person in the present day can on this subject claim more than the merit of having revived knowledge which had fallen into neglect. Your Committee do not feel it ne- cessary to pronounce between the conflicting claims upon this head, or by recommending a parliamentary reward for such revival, to decide to whom that merit properly belongs ; they conceive that question is best left to the decision of the pro- fession and of the public. But they are of opinion that Sir William Adams has, among others, been greatly instrumental in promulgating this knowledge, and in rendering it generally available.” How any pretensions to discovery on the part of Sir W. Adams could have been entertained so late as 1821, appears to me astonishing, considering that this morbid state of the eyelids was described by Scarpa twenty years before, and its cure by caustic and by excision with the scissors and with the knife most distinctly detailed by that accurate writer in 1801. The practice of excision was also in use in the British army so early as 1807, as I learn from Hr. Shortt, who had charge of many ophthalmic patients in Egypt during that year, and who superintended a large ophthalmic hospital in Sicily in 1808, and the subsequent years. Of the pretensions to superior skill and success in the treatment of ophthalmic patients, so confidently brought for- ward by Sir William Adams, some curious results are to he found in a Report submitted by the members of the Medical Board to his Royal Highness the Commander- in-Chief, upon the subject of the out-pensioners of Chelsea Hospital, treated for diseases of the eyes ; and in a Letter addressed by Dr. Vetch in 1819 to Lord Palmerston, then secretary at war, on the subject of the Ophthalmic Hospital,MILITARY SURGERY. 45G in which the writer remarks, “ it cannot fail to surprise every impartial mind to observe, that even from the report of Sir William Adams himself, so far from effecting a national saving of L.GO,000 per annum by a reduction of tbe ophthal- mic pensioners, not one has been sufficiently benefited to admit ofi his pension being either reduced or taken away ; and of six soldiers included in the report, all of them cases of opaque cornea, combined with the secondary stage of Egyptian ophthalmia, not one has been rendered fit for duty, and all have been added to the list of pensionersInto farther de- tails it is impossible for me to enter at present, but I cannot withhold from the junior medical officers of the army, and from those who are yet to enter the department, a knowledge of the injurious aspersions which were thrown upon their predecessors in reference to this subject, and of the triumphant manner in which these aspersions were done away in the opi- nion of our late illustrious and excellent commander-in-chief, who, with that attention to the feelings of every individual under his command, for which his Royal Highness was so re- markable, addressed the following letter to Sir James Mac- Grigor, dated Horse Guards, 28th February 1821.—“ Sib, It having been represented to me that you and your col- leagues in the superintendence of the medical department of the army, and many respectable individuals of various ranks belonging to it, have expressed some apprehension of the general prejudice which might be created against you in the opinion of the public, by reflections cast upon your general conduct, more especially as relating to the part which some of the army medical officers have taken in the investiga- tion which was instituted in my presence into certain pro- ceedings of Sir William Adams, connected with his care and management of the ophthalmic hospital; I cannot hesitate in conveying to you, and through you to your colleagues, and to the anny medical officers in general, the expression of my457 OPHTHALMIA. entire and unequivocal approbation of the zeal, ability, and correct integrity with which you and they have discharged the general duties intrusted to you. « Although I wish not to enter into the immediate merits of the discussion with Sir William Adams, whose duties are not subject to military control, I consider it equally due to you, and to the other army medical officers concerned, to declare that in every transaction connected with that discus- sion, which has come within my knowledge, your conduct and theirs appears to me to have been influenced by a zealous and very commendable anxiety for the good of the service in ge- neral, and for the welfare of the individuals who have been subjected to Sir William’s treatment, and that I am satisfied that no charge was ever more unfounded, or less reconcilable to the characters and conduct of the army medical officers, than that stated to have been brought against them, of having entered into a conspiracy against Sir William Adams. Frederick.” In conclusion, I must observe, that it is by an active and vigorous treatment of the early stages of ophthalmia, that its troublesome sequela; arc alone to he obviated, and that it is by their prevention, rather than by their cure, that we can hope to impede the destructive ravages of this disease, or preserve any considerable number of its victims to the service. Under this impression, I have been induced to enter at length into details of its origin and progress in the British army ; and have chiefly confined myself to the treatment of ophthal- mia previous to any disorganization of the eye ; and 1 would again advert to the common means by which ophthalmia was supposed to he propagated amongst the troops. The crowd- ing of barrack-rooms, the practice of two or more soldiers sleeping in the same bed, the inadvertent and indiscri- minate use of the same basins, buckets, and towels,—even the touching of various articles of barrack furniture by the hands of those labouring under the complaint occasionallyMILITARY SURGERY. 458 soiled with the discharge from the eyes, have been considered sufficient to propagate this virulent disease. In short, a direct contagion was looked upon as the chief source of the epidemic amongst the troops in this country, and to circumscribe the limits of its operation by judicious separation of the sound and infected, by prohibiting all promiscuous use of the same articles of bedding and barrack furniture, were the steps which reason seemed to dictate and experience to recommend. SYTHIL1S. The origin of the venereal disease, as well as its treatment, has been matter of keen controversial discussion ; but into its remote history it seems unnecessary for our purpose to enter. It will be sufficient to offer a few remarks on the first appear- ance, or, to speak more properly, on the first general notice of it in Europe. Alexander Benedictus, who wrote about the year 1497> was, I believe, the first who assigned to it an American origin. In the month of March 1493, Columbus returned to Spain, after the discovery of a new world, and in the summer of that year the venereal disease made its appearance in various parts of Italy and Germany. It was, however, in the French army employed at the siege of Naples that its ravages were most conspicuous ; and Benedict, who was a physician in the Venetian army in 149o, and wno had, therefoie, an oppoitu- nity of observing the" first appearance of this disease, observes, in his work De Omnibus Morbis, “ that a new French dis- ease, or, at least, one that was unknown to former physicians, owing to the pestiferous aspect ol the stars, had burst in upon459 SYPHILIS. them from the Wcst.” The novelty of its symptoms, anil the wonderful rapidity with which it was propagated throughout every part of the then known world, soon rendered it an im- portant object of medical inquiry. The disease became the terror and scourge of every country ; the physicians stood ap- palled, and, confessing their ignorance of any means of cure, and their inability to check the progress of the disease, con- firmed the opinion of its recent origin. We have, however, in these early periods of its history, some very accurate ac- counts of its appearance and progressive extension. Thus, Marcellus Cumanus observes, “ th#t he had seen many offi- cers and foot soldiers, while he was in the camp at Navarre, to have several scabs or pustules breaking out on the face, and spreading all over the rest of their bodies ; the first of which appeared usually under the preputium, or on the outside like a grain of millet; sometimes behind the glans, with a slight itching ;—at other times a single pustule would arise like a little bladder, without much pain, but itching also; if rubbed or scratched, there arose an ulcer corrosive and smarting like the sting of an ant.'1 John de Vigo, speaking of this disease, says, “ Ejus origo in partibus genitalibus, viz. in vulva in mulieribus, ct in virga in hominibus semper fere fuit, cum pustulis parvis, interdum lividi ccloris, aliquando nigri, non- nunquam subalbidi, cum callonitutc can circumdante.” These descriptions appear to me deserving of particular attention ; because, on the one hand, they admit that latitude of appear- ances, which, in characterizing venereal ulcerations, I have always held it necessary to adopt; and, on the other hand, they afford a proof that the hardened and callous base of the ulceration, which was assumed by Mr. Hunter as the peculiar and distinctive character of chancre, did not escape the notice ol the very earliest writers on this diseaes. For many years after the appearance of syphilis, the infec- tion was supposed to be conveyed, like the plague, from onMILITARY SURGERY. 4G0 person to another. Those who were infected were driven from society into the very forests; and in large cities it was consi- dered necessary to provide for the public safety by the most severe laws against these unfortunates. Thus, there is extant in the acts of the parliament of Paris, dated 6th March 1496, a decree, by which those infected with the venereal disease were prohibited, under pain of death, from conversing with the rest of the world, and obliged to retire into the suburb of* Saint Germain, to places set apart for their reception. And on the 27th of May 1197) we find the Bishop of Paris pre- senting a petition to the Court in favour of those infected with the great pox ; in which he sets forth, that a number of those who had been sent to the suburbs of the city, in conse- quence of the decree just quoted, were now cured of their dis- ease, but that their money had failed ; and he beseeches the Court that fifteen or sixteen crowns, which for ten years past had lain in the hands of his notary without an owner, might be ordered to be distributed amongst them ; which was ac- cordingly granted. The disease which excited so much alarm in Paris appeal's to have speedily found its way to the good town of Edinburgh, and to have occasioned no less consternation here. In the Council Register, under date of the 22d September 1497> is to be seen an order of the Privy Council, banishing those af- fected with the venereal disease to tho island of Inchkeith, whither their medical attendants were compelled to accompany them. The order is in the following words :—“ That all manner of persons being within the freedom of this burgh, who are infected of the said contagious plague, called the Grand Gore, devoid, rid, and pass forth of this town, and compear upon the sands at Leith, at ten hours before noon, and there shall have and find boats in the harbour, ordered to them by the officers of the burgh, ready furnished with victuals, to have them to the Inch, and there to remain till a4G1 SYPHILIS. God provide for their health ; and that all other persons who take upon them to heal the said contagious infirmity, and take the care thereof, that they devoid and pass with them, so that none of those persons who take the cure upon them use the same cure within this burgh.” While these and numerous other enactments of the civil authorities, which took place about the same time, show the general alarm excited by the appearance of this disease to- wards the end of the fifteenth century, they at the same time savour of the vague and uncertain notions at first en- tertained of the means of its propagation. But, long prior to this period, regulations existed in the army, whether introduced for moral or for physical reasons, eminently calculated to obviate the true source of venereal infection, and to prevent the extension of this disease amongst the troops. In the rules and ordinances of war enacted in the time of Henry the Fifth, we find it “ ordered that no man keep a harlot in his quarters, upon pain of losing a month’s pay ; and if any man can find any common woman or women in the quarters, my lord commands him to take from her or from them the money found on her or them, and to take a staff and drive her out of the army, and break her arm.” In another part of the same code, we find that this order was to be particularly enforced during the sieges of towns, castles, or fortresses ; and that no women of the above description were upon such occasions permitted to remain within a league of the army, under pain of fracture of the left arm. In a subsequent cotie of articles and ordinances of war, printed at Edinburgh in 1G43, we find that this fracture of the left arm was commuted for another punishment in some measure proportioned to the moral guilt of the offender. By this it is enacted, “ that if any common women shall be found following the army, if they be married women, and run away from their husbands, they shall be put to death without mercy,462 MILITARY SURGERY. and if they be unmarried, they shall be first marked by the hangman, and thereafter by him scourged out of the camp.” To the institution of a prophylactic measure somewhat akin to this I was myself once witness while serving with the 2d battalion of the Royals in India. The regiment being over- run by venereal disease, and upwards of sixty men off duty from this cause, the commanding officer determined on adopt- ing the most summary means for its suppression. With this view, he, without any previous warning, sent a patrole round the barracks in the middle of the night, to take up every un- married woman who should be found there. These were all confined in the congee-house or black-hole until the follow- ing morning, when they were inspected by the native doctors attached to the regiment. Such of them as were found free from disease were furnished with written passports, giving them free access to the barracks at all times ; those who were found diseased were drummed out of the fort, after having their heads shaved and whitewashed, a mark of disgrace which was for a time indelible, and was a sufficient beacon to cause them to be shunned. These salutary but scmibarbarous proceedings are, however, little consistent with our modern notions of liberty and jus- tice ; and we must therefore, in general, rest satisfied to op- pose the disease by the most efficient practice, and to endea- vour to improve that practice by a careful study of its pheno- mena. These phenomena have long been divided into local and constitutional, or into primary and secondary symptoms. The first, comprising those ulcerations and glandular swellings ap- pearing upon or in the immediate neighbourhood of the genital organs, in the form of Chancre and Bubo. The second, including ulcerations of the throat, eruptions on the skin, and morbid affections of the bones, which are frequent sequela* of the former. The nature of the poison producing these various affections has been matter of anxious inquiry.sYrniLis. 463 but this inquiry has not enabled us to fix upon any thing very specific in its nature, and even the very first effects produc- ed by it are by no means uniform. The varying character of the primary sore, in different individuals, has occasioned end- less perplexity,—a perplexity which has not been removed, even by Mr. Carmichael's supposition of the existence of a variety of syphilitic or syphiloid poisons ; “ for,” as Dr. Hen- nen has well observed, “ soldiers are gregarious in their amours ; and we have frequently several men in the hospital at the same time, infected by the same woman, some of whom have had one kind of sore, some another, and some both.1' Neither arc these appearances satisfactorily solved by refer- ence to peculiarities of constitution, or to peculiar states of health, because no explanation on this principle would account for a man having, at the same time, upon the penis, two or three different kinds of ulcers, apparently arising from the same cause, an occurrence which my own experience does not permit me to doubt. And although I am disposed to believe, that difference of texture, perhaps more than any other cir- cumstance, modifies the appearance of those sores, yet even this will not afford a satisfactory explanation of their va- rieties. “ We have had,” says Dr. Hennen, e< frequent op- portunities of remarking two or more sores of different kinds existing at the same time—an irregularly shaped diffused sore, an elevated sore, covered with a light-coloured slough,—a groove or streak along the glans, as if made with a scraping instrument,—and the true and perfect chancre of Mr. Hun- ter, or the true syphilitic ulcer of Mr. Carmichael. This last has, in some cases, occupied the glans; in some the pre- puce ; while sores of another description have been on the same part close beside it.” As we must have frequent occasion, in the course of the following remarks, to refer to Mr. Hunter’s definition of chancre, I shall, before going further, give his own de- scription of it: After observing that the inflammation ofMILITARY SURGERY. has somewhat a fungous appearance. 3. An excoriation of 4G4 the glans, which is productive of chancre, like most other inflammations which terminate in ulcer, begins first with an itching in the part, “ the itching,” says he, “ is gra- dually changed to pain ; the surface of the prepuce is in some cases excoriated, and afterwards ulcerates. In others, a small pimple or abcess appears, as in the glans, which forms an ulcer. A thickening of the part comes on, which at first, and while of the true venereal kind, is very circumscribed, not diffusing itself gradually and imperceptibly into the surround- ing parts, but terminating rather abruptly. Its base is hard, and the edges a little prominent.” This, which in the time of Mr. Hunter appears to have been the more common form of venereal ulceration, and which he states to have occurred to him, in proportion to the cases of gonorrhoea, as one to four or five, has now become comparatively rare; while, says Mr. Car- michael, who was one of the first and most zealous in his en- deavours to classify the different forms of ulcerations of the genitals, “ so common is the occurrence of those ulcers, which have not the characteristic marks of chancre, that if I were to estimate their relative frequency from my own experience, I would, at the lowest computation, infer, that we meet with five cases of those disorders for one of true syphilitic chancre ; and my opportunities have been such, as enabled me to ob- serve not merely the trivial, but those which would be esteem- ed the most malignant cases.” And upon a careful compari- son of an infinite variety of cases, he finds reason to conclude, that there are six species of primary pseudo-syphilitic disorders. 1. A superficial ulcer, with elevated edges, but without indur- ation, sometimes displaying a whitish and at others a reddish- brown surface, without any appearance of granulations. 2. An ulcer, which is destitute not only of induration, but of elevated edges. In general it is raised above the surrounding skin, and exhibits a smooth surface, but without granulations, and4 65 SYPHILIS. the glans, penis, and internal surface of the prepuce, attended with purulent discharge. 4. Gonorrhoea virulenta. 5. The phagedenic ulcer, which, as its name implies, has a corroding appearance, and neither exhibits granulations nor surround- ing induration ; it spreads sometimes with rapidity, causing the most extensive havoc in the course of a few days. G. The sloughing ulcer; which commences by a small black- spot resembling a grain of shot, both in colour and size, which may be recognised as a slough or mortification extend- ing to some depth below the surface. With reference to the above classification of Mr. Car- michael, I would observe, that while I have been able to recognise his different species of ulcer in practice, I have seen an infinite variety of each of these species; every one of them may be seen varying in degree. There are many ulcers which possess characters differing from all of them, and there are numerous ulcerations of the genitals which ex- hibit in different parts of their circumference the character of different ulcers,—one part of the base may be callous and indurated like the true syphilitic ulcer; another part of the same ulcer may have its edge elevated without induration; and in a third part, the edge may be neither callous, indurat- ed, nor elevated. Nay, I have seen one edge of a sore exca- vated, while another was putting forth protuberant granula- tions. I admit indeed, that these variations in different parts of the same ulcer, are only to be seen when that ulcer is of a larger size than the one generally described as a true chancre ; but when nosological definitions come to rest upon the greater or less extent of a sore, I am afraid that they cannot be very safely adhered to ; particularly if an adherence to such defini- tion is to imply a decided difference in the mode of treatment. With regard to Mr. Hunter’s definition, which has been so much dwelt upon, and which has been adopted by Mr. Car- michael as characterising the effects of the true syphiliti 2 H40 G MILITARY SURGERY. poison, I have no doubt that it may be artificially imitated, particularly by the use of potass, and perhaps by the ap- plication of a variety of substances. In short, where these ulcers assume such a variety of appearances, instead of cavilling about what is, or what is not a chancre, a point upon which we can scarcely find two surgeons agree, I would be disposed cither to lay aside the use of this term altogether, or to employ it more as a generic than a specific term. In 1819, the late Mr. Evans, surgeon of the 57th regiment, published the first part of a w’ork on ulcerations of the geni- tals, which I regret has not been completed. In this work a classification was attempted upon a very extensive scale, em- bracing a division of these ulcers which has been too much over- looked :—into those from sexual intercourse, and those arising from other causes, to which, be it recollected, the penis is equally liable with other parts of the hotly. Of the former class, those following impure connexion, whether they be supposed to arise from one specific virus, or from a variety of poisons, they are found to be more modified in their appearances by the site and texture of the parts they occupy, than by the pe- culiar nature of the source from which they originate. Thus, ulcers on the external integuments have often round callous edges, level surfaces, and but little induration of base. Ulcers on the internal membrane of the prepuce are generally either superficial or elevated, their edges sometimes regularly defin- ed, sometimes spreading out like excoriations, but their bases in general little indurated. Ulcers immediately behind the corona glandis, are in general highly irritable, deep, scooped, indurated in their edges and base. Ulcers on the frsenum generally follow lacerations of that part, have bases consider- ably indurated, and are often slow in healing. Ulcers on the body of the glans are often excavated, but little indurated at the base. In attempting a classification of these ulcers, with a viewwhich do I now see reason to alter. “ To Mr. Carmichael % SYPHILIS. 467 to their treatment, the essential object of’ all classifica- tion, 1 would observe, that while I believe they will, one and all, recover without the use ot‘ mercury, yet I am persuaded, notwithstanding all that has been alleged to the contrary, that the cure will frequently be promoted by the moderate use of this mineral ; and that its good effects will be most conspicuous in the Hunterian chancre, and in the others in proportion, as they approach nearer in character to this. Thus, assuming Mr. Car- michael’s arrangement, I believe, that in cases of what he terms the true syphilitic ulcer, and in the first two of what he terms the pseudo syphilitic sores, recoveries will, for the most part, be promoted by the use of mercury, and what is of the utmost consequence, secondary symptoms will, in my opinion, be very frequently obviated. In the next two of Mr. Carmichael’s pseudo-syphilitic diseases, excoriations, and gonorrhoea, no one in this country at least, will, I believe, contend that mer- cury is useful, much less necessary. I say in this country, because Lagneu, a late French writer on this disease, incul- cates the identity of the gonorrhoeal and syphilitic poisons, and the necessity of mercury for the cure of both. In the two kinds of ulcers of the genitals last described by Mr. Carmichael, the phagedenic and sloughing ulcers, mercury is greatly injurious. Upon the general employment of mercury in the treatment of syphilis, it will be necessary to enlarge hereafter; in the mean time I may again remark, that 1 con- sider mercury useful in Mr. Carmichael’s true syphilitic ulcer, and in his pseudo-syphilitic ulcers of the first and second species; in excoriations and gonorrhoea certainly useless, often injurious; and in his phagedenic and sloughing ulcers posi- tively and uniformly hurtful. With reference to this point, I made the following obser- vations in a probationaiy essay on Syphilis, submitted to the Royal College of Surgeons here, in 1820, no one word of468 MILITARY SURGERY. we are under great obligations for his description of the phagedenic and sloughing ulcers of the genitals, and for his observations on the injurious effects of mercury in their treatment: hut the practical utility of his other subdivi- sions of primary venereal ulcers, does not, I confess, appear to me by any means so obvious; and if in any instance we have introduced too much refinement into the diagno- sis of disease, it is, I apprehend, in the case before us. In affections of the internal organs, the mistaking disease of one viscus for that of another, may, in many cases, be produc- tive of the most serious evils ; but in the case of external ul- cers, cognizable by the sight and by the touch, seated upon the same parts of the body, occupying the same structure, originating in the same way, and so much alike that they are liable to be confounded one with another, even by a cautious observer, I will venture to assert, that the same or similar re- medies are likely to prove beneficial, and that, for all practi-. cal purposes, the necessity of a very minute diagnosis is done away. “ As the characteristic of the Hunterian chancre, ‘ the cir- cumscribed hardness of the edge and base,’ is admitted to vary in degree, and as this hardness may be shaded down until it becomes nearly uiulistinguishable, 1 think it advisable not to confine ourselves too rigidly to this definition in deciding upon the mode of treatment; particularly if we arc to exclude from the beneficial operation of mercury all ulcerations of the genitals which do not possess the Hunterian characters of chancre : for my experience convinces me that the cure of many of these ulcerations will be expedited by mercury,when a circumscribed hardness of the edge and base does not exist in any re- markable degree.” As to the local treatment of Ulcerations of (he genitals, this will of course depend much on the characters they exhibit. In many cases they have been treated most successfully bySYPHILIS. 4G9 simple ablution, so as to keep the parts clean, and by cover- ing them with dry lint, or the most mild and unirritating dressings ; in other cases, astringents, stimulants, and escharo- tic applications become necessary. 01' these, one of the most generally useful is the black wash, the lotio hydrargyri sub- muriatis nigra of the pharmacopoeia chirurgica, made by agi- tating a quantity of calomel in lime-water. The ungt. oxyd. hydrag. rubri, and the ungt. subacetat. cupri are the most useful remedies of an unctuous character. But in the application of these and of all other stimulating remedies usu- ally applied by means of lint, it is necessary to caution pa- tients to confine them as much as possible to the surface of the sore. I have seen the healing of sores, particularly within the prepuce, greatly retarded by stuffing the parts with dossils of lint, stretching them out of their natural po- sition, and thus keeping up a continual irritation. In the ap- plication of caustic to primary venereal sores, my practice was long guided by the following statement of Mr. Benjamin Bell. “ Of forty-eight patients with chancres in an incipient state, and exactly as they occurred in practice, one half was treated in the manner that I have mentioned, by destroying the chancres with caustic immediately on my being desired to see them; while all the others were put under mercury for eight or ten days before caustic was used. In every other circumstance the method of treatment was the same. The difference, however, surprised me greatly. Of the twenty-four treated with the immediate application of caustic, twenty were seized with buboes, while only three buboes occurred in an equal number to whom mercury had been previously admi- nistered.” Of late years, however, 1 have been in the habit of at once destroying the surface of these sores by caustic, when of a limited extent, and this practice has for the most part been highly satis- factory, nor would 1 now be justified in saying that it has pro-MILITARY SURGERY. 470 duced buboes in anything like that proportion which Mr. Bell’s statements would lead us to expect. The various degrees of in- dolence or irritability with which primary venereal ulcerations are accompanied, will render the more or less stimulating of the foregoing applications preferable; and the same circum- stance will suggest the propriety of occasionally varying the proportions of their component parts. It will also he observed, in the treatment of these sores, that an application which, in the first instance, appears to he highly useful, soon loses its effect from the parts becoming habituated to the same stimu- lus : and whenever the healing process seems to he at a stand under one remedy, it is, in general, a sufficient ground for changing the application. In the phagedenic and sloughing ulcers of Mr. Carmichael, mercury, as already observed, is highly improper. These ulcers are generally attended with much constitutional excitement, frequently, in young soldiers, requiring in the early stages bleeding and the most decided antiphlogistic regimen. As local applications, anodyne fo- mentations and cataplasms, or stimulating lotions, are, ac- cording to circumstances, the most useful, and of the latter class, diluted nitric or muriatic acid, solutions of the oxymuriate of mercury, and of the chlorurets of lime and of soda, are the best. Venereal Buboes, the next symptom which demands our attention, although sometimes sufficiently perplexing in their treatment, do not afford the same endless variety in their ap- pearances which we meet with in chancres or primary syphi- litic ulcers. A venereal bubo has been defined to be “ a pain- ful swelling of a lymphatic gland produced by absorption of the venereal virus.” In most cases, the first indication of the formation of a bubo is a sense of weariness, stiffness, and pain in the groin, sometimes accompanied with numbness in the thigh of the affected side. Upon applying the fingers to the part, one of the inguinal glands is found to be somewhat swollen.SYPHILIS. 171 These tumours are, for the most part, at first readily move- able under the skin, but as the swelling increases, the integu- ments naturally become more tense, and the tumours more sta- tionary and more painful. The only tumours with which the venereal bubo is likely to be confounded, are scrofulous enlarge- ments of the glands of the groin, swellings of the same glands originating from gonorrhoea, termed sympathetic buboes, and tumours originating from ulcerations and cutaneous erup- tions on the lower extremities. Lumbar abscesses and hernia', both inguinal and femoral, are said to have been mistaken for venereal buboes ; but this is a mistake so obviously the result of ignorance or inattention, that I do not conceive any practi- tioner of common judgment likely to fall into it. Between thctrue venereal and the scrofulous bubo, I regret to say that we do not possess any adequate means of distinction ; the former, however, is in general confined to one gland, is ex- ceedingly painful to the touch, is in general rapid in its pro- gress, and attended with considerable inflammation of the in- teguments. Now in scrofulous affections, tumours are frequent- ly distinguishable in more than one of the inguinal glands, and occasionally also in other parts of the body. These tumours are much less painful ; they are more moveable under the inte- guments ; their progress is slower, and attended with less in- flammation on the surface; at the same time they frequently acquire a much larger size than what the venereal bubo reach- es. In cases of gonorrhoea, when the inflammation runs high, and when the habit is irritable, swellings frequently occur in the glands of the groin, which arc difficult to be dis- tinguished from syphilitic buboes: they are chiefly to be known by the absence of chancres, and by observing whether or not they correspond in their origin, progress, and decline, with the extent of the urethral inflammation. Ulcerations and cutaneous eruptions on the inferior extremities, sometimes give rise to enlargements of the glands of the groin, which are472 MILITARY SURGERY. to be distinguished from venereal buboes, by our knowledge that such ulcerations exist, by the total absence of other ve- nereal symptoms, and by observing that such tumours are frequently seated lower than venereal buboes, and more di- rectly on the fore part of the thigh. Whenever our assistance in the treatment of venereal bu- boes is required at a period sufficiently early to render their cure by resolution practicable, we are to attempt the discus- sion of every tumour of this kind. Although I am by no means prepared to assert that mercury is absolutely necessary for the cure of the present symptom, more than for that of chancre, and although I believe that it will in general have less influence upon the local affection in cases of bubo than of chan- cre ; yet looking upon bubo as one step farther toward a consti- tutional affection, and believing that a course of mercury may be instrumental in superseding this affection, I cannot but judge it eligible in the treatment of this, as well as in that of the former symptom, particularly when the bubo is of a chronic or indolent disposition. Combined with this, every part of the antiphlogistic regimen is to be employed, and every topical means used for the dispersion of the tumour. Of these the most efficacious are topical bleeding by leeches, warm fomen- tations, or sedative and astringent lotions. In some instances pressure by means of compress and bandage has been employed for the dispersion of venereal buboes, and I have in my posses- sion a report from Or. Mahony, surgeon of the Royal Fuzileers, in favour of this practice; but my own experience of this mode of treatment, is not sufficient to enable me to pronounce a posi- tive opinion on its value. When suppuration becomes inevita- ble, fomentations and cataplasms are the applications naturally resorted to, and when matter is once formed, the sooner an opening is made for its exit the better. If the suppuration has. advanced rapidly, and the integuments are not much altered, this is best done by the lancet; if, on the contrary, the sup-SYPHILIS. 473 purative process has been long protracted, and the integu- ments much thinned, caustic is the preferable means of making an opening. In speaking of the diagnosis between venereal buboes and scrofulous swellings of the glands/ I pointed out the torpid and indolent nature of the latter as their chief characteristic ; and in practice we must be prepared to meet with tumours of a mixed nature, evidently originating from a venereal infec- tion, while in their progress they seem more akin to the scro- fulous bubo; remaining for days, and sometimes for weeks, quite stationary, without showing a decided tendency either to resolution or suppuration. This is a most tantalizing occur- rence, particularly in private practice, but I am happy to think, that we possess a remedy which will, in a majority of such instances, procure the discussion of the swellings, and in all of them will certainly expedite their termination either in resolution or in suppuration,—blisters to the surface. After having long employed this remedy, and often urged it upon the attention of my medical friends, I was very happy to find my views of its efficacy confirmed by the following recommen- dation of it by a gentleman of Mr. Carmichael’s talents and experience. “ The buboes in this form of venereal disease are often remarkably hard and indolent, evincing neither a ten- dency to disperse nor to suppurate. In such cases the greatest advantage may be derived from the repeated application of blisters to the indurated bubo, which soon either cause the dispersion or the suppuration of the tumour, and thus free the patient from a troublesome symptom which might otherwise continue many months to torment him.” I he symptoms which usually mark the more advanced stages of the venereal disease, or what are denominated se- condary symptoms,—arc, ulcerations of the throat, eruptions on the skin, and nodes, or caries of the bones. These, when they occur in the same individual, appear frequently, but by noMILITARY SURGERY. +7-± means uniformly, in the succession in which I have now enu- merated them. The peculiar character of Venereal ulcerations of the throat are as difficult perhaps to establish as those of the original primary ulcer; and we ought never to forget how liable the tonsils are to inflammation and ulceration in many individuals, from causes altogether independent of the absorption of the venereal virus. The high degree of inflammation, however, with which such ulcerations are preceded or accompanied, when they originate from cold, or other ordinary causes, consti- tutes an important feature in the diagnosis; for, while in such cases, the pain and general swelling of the fauces attract the patient’s early attention, he is at the same time harassed with inflammatory symptoms in the constitution more or less severe. In venereal affections of this part, on the contrary, the disease is attended with little constitutional excitement, little tume- faction, or difficulty of deglutition, and has for the most part ulcerated before it attracts the patient’s attention. This ulce- ration has been peculiarly characterised by Mr. Hunter, “ as a fair loss of substance, part being dug out as it were from the body of the tonsil; it has a determinate edge, and is com- monly very foul, having thick white matter like a slough ad- hering to it, and not admitting of being washed away.” This has generally been considered as a very correct description of the syphilitic sore throat; and as far as appearances alone can guide us, without adverting to the history of the case, may be safely trusted to. The period of occurrence of such ulcera- tions is extremely uncertain; in some instances they are said to have appeared within ten days from the date of the appear- ance of a primary sore ; and when they follow as a direct con- sequence of such sores, they appear more early than when buboes have intervened. In the latter case, weeks, nay, months sometimes elapse after the primary symptoms have disappeared before the throat becomes affected. In the treat-475 SYPHILIS. meat of this affection, when appearing in the pure unmixed form described by Mr. Hunter, the rapid and beneficial effects of mercury are perhaps more conspicuous than in most other cases ; but when accompanied, as it not unfrequently is, with a surrounding erysipelatous inflammation, mercury is highly calculated to aggravate this symptom, and to lead to extensive sloughing and destruction of parts. It must therefore be withheld until all inflammatory symptoms have subsided under the use of abstemious diet, purgatives, antimonials, warm bath, &c. “ In affections of the throat,” says Hr. Hennen, “ I would be more guarded than in any others in the employment of mercury, until all inflammatory disposition was removed ; after that I have seen them yield as if by magic, so soon as the local effects of the mercury on the parts within the mouth become obvious.” A recollection of these local effects of mercury on the salivary organs will readily explain the irreparable mischief sometimes occasioned by its exhibition in venereal sore throats, when, instead of their usual indolent features and slow progress, they are attended with erysipelatous inflammation, and a tendency to slough- ing. In treating of Venereal eruptions, Dr. Bateman observes, that they assume such a variety of forms that they bid defiance to any arrangement founded upon their external character, and, in fact, they possess no common or exclusive mark by which their nature and origin are indicated. There is perhaps no or- der of cutaneous appearances, and scarcely any genus or spe- cies of the chronic eruptions, which these secondary symptoms of syphilis do not occasionally resemble. These cutaneous eruptions, now so common as sequela: of syphilis, were, during the several years that I served as a regimental surgeon, so comparatively rare under the general use of mercury, that I do not pretend to be able, from my own observation, to point out by what marks of discrimination they arc to be distin-MILITARY SURGERY. 470 guishcd from eruptions arising without any suspicion of a syphilitic taint; and this is an acknowledgment in which I am fully borne out by Dr. Hennen and others who have had the best opportunities of attending to and studying the ap- pearances of those eruptions. The more determinate erup- tions are papular, pustular, scaly, or tubercular, besides which there often occurs a general, diffused, reddish, mottled efflo- rescence of the skin resembling the “ roseola annulata” of Willan, and which the soldiers themselves denominate “ trout back.” Mr. Carmichael, who has paid most parti- cular attention to this point, conceives that certain characters of the primary sore are always succeeded by certain determi- nate forms of eruption. Thus, he asserts that the eruption following the true syphilitic sore is always of a scaly character, while he avows that he has not, in any one instance, observed the eruption to be papular, pustular, or tubercular, where it arose from the true syphilitic primary ulcer, or to be scaly where it followed those ulcers which do not possess the characters of chancre, the indented edge and base. Mr. Carmichael has made some observations on the particular sites and appearances of this scaly eruption, which my own observations enable me to confirm, and which are deserving of attention. The scaly syphilitic eruption is almost in every instance to be found on the forehead, breast, back of the neck, on the groins, and ad- joining surface of the pubis. On the back of the neck and groins, those spots situated near the parts covered with hair, spread into each other so as to form extensive copper-coloured blotches. When the eruption affects a portion of skin opposed by another skin, as between the nates, or between the scrotum and thigh, or under the arms, or between the thighs, it is not scaly ; but the skin becomes elevated into a moist, soft, flat, or somewhat convex surface, which discharges a whitish matter. These arc the appearances which I believe authors have termed condylomata, fici, crista1, maricat1, &c. denomina-syphilis. tions applied according to their figure, or perhaps the fancy of the practitioner. The opinion that peculiar forms of eruption succeed peculiar descriptions of primary sore, is not supported by the general testimony of surgeons, and, indeed, it must be admitted, that the same primary ulcer is sometimes succeeded in the same patient by eruptions of several differ- ent sorts either existing together on various parts of the body, or breaking out in succession. Dr. Hennen assures us, that he has frequently observed eruptions of the same nature and character to succeed to the foul indurated excavated ulcer, and to the simple excoriation. In fifteen cases of eruptions, unaccompanied with any other symptoms, which succeeded the Hunterian sore, six were tubercular, five exanthematous, two pustular, one tubercular and scaly, and one tubercular and vesicular. In twelve cases following the non-Hunterian sore, and in which eruptions were the only symptoms, six were pustular, three were exanthematous, two were tubercular, and one was tubercular and scaly. These statements are sufficient to shew the uncertainty of the oc- currence of any particular form of eruption, after any given appearance of the primary sore, and this is still farther con- firmed by the following general inference stated by Sir J M‘Grigor and Sir W. Franklin, as the result of the reports transmitted to them by the great body of the army surgeons 111 reP1y t0 certain Tories proposed with a view to the estab’ hshment of several important points in the treatment of the venereal disease.-- 1. That of 1940 cases of primary vene- real ulceration on the perns treated without mercury, OG have had secondary symptoms of different sorts. 2 That of 28^7 cases of venereal ulcerations on the penis treated with mercury, ° , , , had secondary symptoms. 3. It has been re- marked, that in cases healed without mercury, iritis has been frequently observed as a secondary symptom, in some instancesMILITARY SURGERY. 478 by itself, in others attended with eruptions of different kinds. 4. That it appears that no peculiar secondary symptoms are seen to follow from peculiar primary sores” The investigations made in the military hospitals abun- dantly prove that all forms of eruptions, supposed to he vene- real, arc curable without mercury, but the beneficial effects of a moderate use of this mineral in the treatment, particularly of the scaly copper-coloured blotches, more especially considered as the genuine venereal eruption, is, I believe, admitted by all practical men. In the other forms of eruption, Mr. Car- michael’s practice, whatever may be thought of his theoretical views, is highly judicious. In the popular and pustular forms of eruption, accompanied as they often are with a considcra- able degree of fever and constitutional excitement, general blood-letting, purgatives, antimonials, warm bath, decoctions of sarsaparilla, and mild diluents are chiefly indicated ; and in their more advanced stages, or more chronic forms, altera- tive courses of mercury and antimony in the very convenient form of the plummer's pill, will be found greatly to expe- dite the cure. In an eruption of a tubercular character, some- times terminating in ulcers covered with thick crusts, which Mr. Carmichael considers as more commonly the sequela of his phagedenic ulcer, the same treatment is followed with success ; general bleeding, abstinence and diluents, if attend- ed with constitutional fever, and mercury in the more chronic stage. When these eruptive diseases are attended by a less urgent but more continued derangement of the general health, the tongue loaded and furred, and the appetite gone, Mr. Bacot of the Grenadier Guards, the author of some excellent observations on syphilis, has very properly advised us to withhold the regular employment of mercury until, by pro- per evacuations and attention to the general health, the pa- tient may have the benefit of a delay, which will sometimes supersede the necessity ot farther medical treatment; and heSYPHILIS. 179 adds, with much truth, “ that whatever plan may be pursued, these eruptive phenomena will eventually disappear ; but where they continue to linger for a long time, and are at- tended with their usual accompaniments, languor, debility, and disturbed rest, I neither know, nor can I understand the advantage of delaying that remedy, which repeated experience has taught me to rely upon, that is, mercury.” Inflammation of the iris has already been noticed as a se- condary symptom of syphilis, and for much valuable infor- mation upon this as well as gonorrhoeal and syphilitic inflam- mations of the eye generally, I must refer to Mr. Lawrence’s recent “ Treatise on the Venereal Diseases of the Eye.” Fo these affections of the superficial or soft parts some- times succeed long-continued and severe pain in the bones, terminating occasionally in permanent thickening of the pe- riosteum, in solid and considerable enlargements of the sub- stance of the bone, or eventually in caries. The progress of these affections is, however, slower in proportion to the lower degree of organization in the parts concerned, and they ge- nerally supervene, at the distance even of months, from the date of the primary affection. The true Syphilitic node, as this kind of swelling is termed, is a solid enlargement of the substance of the bone, apparently commencing in this tex- ture, and not in its incipient state, nor for some time after- wards, attended by any discolouration of the integuments. It is in general an indolent swelling, possessing little of the in- flammatory character, increasing by slow degrees, and often exciting but little pain till considerably advanced in size. The most common seats of these nodes are those bones and parts of bones which lie immediately under the integuments, as the cranium, the clavicle, the sternum, and fore part of the tibia. Swellings of these bones, however, or of the periosteum cover- ing them, occasionally appear independently of a venereal origin ; but in such cases there is, from the commencement,MILITARY SURGERY. 480 swelling and redness of the integuments, proceeding appa- rently from without inwards; they are more rapid in their growth, more acutely sensible to the touch, and yield more readily to the common antiphlogistic remedies. With regard to the origin and most effectual means of treating venereal nodes, I feel more at a loss to speak with confidence than upon any of the symptoms heretofore mention- ed ; for while, on the one hand, it must be admitted, that affec- tions of the bones were noticed as sequelae of syphilis before the employment of mercury for its cure; yet, on the other hand, there is no room to doubt that such affections have become in- finitely more rare since the general abandonment of mercury in the profuse quantities in which it was formerly given. The comparative infrequency of nodes under the non-mercurial practice is, in my opinion, one of the best established and most important facts which the recent investigation has brought to light; and with this fact before our eyes, we can- not venture to urge the use of mercury with the same confi- dence to which I consider it to be entitled in the earlier symptoms of the disease. But it is quite possible that a mo- derate share of mercury may obviate the occurrence of a symp- tom which it may be unable to cure, nay, which, if given in profusion, it may have a tendency to aggravate. I have no difficulty in conceiving that the alterative and deobstruent ef- fects of mercury, if I may be permitted the expression, will remove a cutaneous eruption, while the profuse and con- tinued exhibition of this mineral in cases of periostitis will aggravate this symptom, and lead to caries of the bones. Affections of the bones have been noticed by some of the older writers as occurring only in those cases of the venereal disease which were cured by mercury. On this point the testimonies of Fallopius and Palmarius referred to by Dr. Hennen, are peculiarly deserving of attention. The * %481 SYPHILIS. former, speaking of the loss of the bones of the nose and palate, in his chapter “ Dc Ossium Corruptione,” says, “ et sciatis, quod non in onini inveterato gallico hoc fit, sed tantum in illis, in quibns inunctio facta est cum hydrargyroand Palmarius uses the following remarkable expression, “ Sed hoc iis duntaxat contingit, qui olim a lue venerea hydrargy- rosi vindicati putarentur, non qui decoclo guaiacino et alexi- pharmaco curati fnisscnt." In fine, all that my own experience in the treatment of nodes enables me to say is this, that w'hen they have suc- ceeded to primary venereal sores, in the treatment of which little mercury has been employed, and when they possess an indolent character, with little or no superficial inflamma- tion, the dispersion ol these swellings will often be promot- ed by a judicious course of mercury, confinement within doors, warm bathing, and attention to the general health, with the local use of leeches, blisters, and stimulating lini- ments, one of the best of which is the camphorated mer- curial liniment of the pharmacopoeia chirurgica. But when nodes appear in a very advanced stage of the disease, when mercury has been given irregularly or profusely, when the constitution is broken by dissipation or maltreatment, we must be exceedingly guarded in the use of mercury, and our efforts must be chiefly directed to the restoration of the ge- neral health, treating the local symptom according to its in- flammatory or indolent character by soothing or stimulant ap- plications. The following sentiments of Mr. Carmichael upon this point are peculiarly worthy of attention:—“ It must be allowed, that syphilitic nodes by no means yield to mercury with the same regularity and quickness as the con- stitutional affections of the surface of the body ; a circum- stance most probably owing to the organization of the bones, which is so low, that the strongest mercurial action in the skin and throat may be accompanied by a very weak 2 i one inMILITARY SURGERY. 4b2 the vessels of the former. Yet, in the most obstinate instances, I doubt the propriety of continuing a full mercurial action longer than two months. This period is more than suHieient to supersede the syphilitic action, if the course is managed with judgment. 1 have always found it unnecessary to per- severe in the use of mercury until the tumour of the bone is entirely removed. And there can be no doubt, that if the node remains after a judicious course, we should regard it merely as a simple enlargement of the bone, deriving no character whatever from its syphilitic origin.” Having now enumerated in succession the more charac- teristic symptoms of the venereal disease, both primary and secondary, and having endeavoured to point out concisely what appears to me the most eligible treatment, I would re- capitulate the leading points of that treatment. In primary venereal ulcers, when of a very recent date, and of a limited extent, my practice has lately been to destroy them imme- diately with caustic, by which I have frequently succeed- ed in superseding the necessity of any farther treatment. When these sores are more extensive, and of longer standing, when they offer nothing characteristic in their appearance, but present a clean and indolent surface, 1 adopt the same local application, and consider it in some measure a matter of option whether the patient shall or shall not take mercury ; I warn him, however, that in the event of his adopting the latter mode of cure, although the primary sores may be healed without much loss of time, he runs a greater risk of a subse- quent eruption, or other constitutional symptoms. Where ulcers again present a foul surface, with induration of the edge and base, approaching to Mr. Hunter’s description of chancre, I consider it my duty to urge the patient to submit to a mercurial course as a means of promoting the cure of the primary sore, and of guarding his constitution from a secondary affection.483 SYPHILIS. In short, for a long time back, I have been strongly im- pressed with the opinion, that the more speedily we can cure the primary sore, by whatever means, whether with or without mercury, the more likely we are to prevent any constitutional affection ; and it is a remarkable fact, established by the general returns from the army hospitals already referred to, that of patients treated without mercury, one-twentieth have had secondary symptoms, while of those whose primary sores were cured under the use of this mineral, only one-fifty-fifth have had secondary symptoms. When ulcers are accompanied with much inflammation, where they show any disposition to phagedama or sloughing, I consider mercury positively forbid- den, at least in the first instance, and the inflammatory symp- toms are to be met by local or constitutional antiphlogistic remedies, according to their severity. In the treatment of acute buboes, I recommend mercury more with a view to pro- tect the constitution, than from any decided influence it seems to possess on the local affection. The treatment of these is to be conducted upon the same principle as that of other glandular swellings; but I cannot help again adverting to the bene- ficial effects experienced from blisters in the indolent state of buboes. In the treatment of ulceration of the throat, possessing an indolent, and what has been considered the true venereal cha- racter, mercury will be found to operate most beneficially ; but when much "inflammation of an erysipelatous character exists around the ulcer, it is to be carefully withheld. Cutaneous eruptions for the most part yield readily to the combination of calomel and antimony, in the shape of the Plummer's pill, when in a chronic form ; in their earlier and more acute stages, they frequently require bleeding, warm bathing, and purgatives. In affections of tlie bones, perhaps more than in any other in- stance, much mischief has been done by the indiscriminate andMILITARY SURGERY. 4ff4 profuse employment of mercury. These swellings will, how- ever, when they originate without the previous abuse of mer- cury, often be discussed under the employment of this mi- neral. When they originate in broken constitutions, and after a variety of complicated treatment, we must chiefly expect relief from an improvement of the general health under judicious regimen and wholesome air. In giving this general recommendation of mercury for the cure of venereal complaints, I am not guided solely by my own experience, which has been too generally, and for a long time too exclusively on one side of the question, to enable me to form an accurate comparison. But recollecting that for many years of my life I was in the habit of seeing at least lrom ten to twenty venereal cases daily; recollecting that these cases were almost uniformly treated with mercury; and recollecting only one instance of death from this disease, where the treatment, from first to last, fell under my own observation, I am naturally led to look upon mercury as more generally successful in the cure of syphilis than any other remedy in any other disease whatever. Let me not, however, be misunderstood; I renounce the idea of holding out mercury as a specific, for in what have been called specifics no confidence is to be placed. I have never contended, as some have done, for the absolute necessity of this medicine in the cure of the vene- real disease, and have ever held it absurd to assert that this individual medicine, so peculiar in its character, -and limited in its production, that this and this alone should be capable of curing a disease so Protean in its shapes; so widely diffused over the surface of the globe ; effecting every texture in the body ; incident to the natives of every country, and of every clime, of every colour, and of every constitution. I equally renounce the idea of recommending for the cure of the vene- real disease, those violent and long-continued salivations.SYPHILIS. 4K5 which custom, prejudice, and ignorance used formerly to sanc- tion ; “ when it was believed that the venereal disease uni- formly ran on to a fatal event, if not checked by mercury ; and when the medicine was in consequence pushed with an un- sparing hand, until the patients were seen with their ulcerated tongues lolling out of their mouths, their faces prodigiously swollen, the saliva running out in streams, and the surgeon, in some degree, marking the progress of the cure by the number of pints evacuated daily . 11 The idea of recommending mercury on j'the ground of its being always beneficial and universally harmless, I have never entertained, for in remedies recommended on such grounds, 1 can place no confidence; but that mercury is not guilty of all the evils which have been laid to its charge, I think I have good grounds for believing. When I reflect upon some thousand cases, both of syphilis and of liver dis- ease, in which I have employed mercury with a hand per- haps too unsparing; and when I think of the health which many of my patients have afterwards enjoyed, 1 cannot be- lieve that there is any great proportion of human consti- tutions upon which this medicine exerts the deleterious effects which have been ascribed to it. Did I consider it necessary to go at large into this point, and to analyze the writings of the late Dr. Watt of Glasgow", and Dr. Curry of Guy’s Hospital, I could shew cause to believe, that many con- stitutions have been improved as well as injured by the use of mercury. With this last mentioned author I am quite ready to admit, that like antimony, opium, and every other active remedy, mercury w'ould probably do little good if it were not also capable of doing much harm. “ The knife and the caustic are unquestionably powerful, and in so far may be made dangerous instruments, but who ever blames the surgeon for employing a sharp knife, or an active caustic? or who wnuld be so absurd as to expect that the couching needle andMILITARY SURGERY. 480 the scalpel, which perform such wonders in the hands of an expert oculist and dexterous lithotomist, can be used with equal safety and success by any clumsy or inexperienced person who may fancy himself equal to the task of using them ?” I have already had occasion to observe, that of the peculiar nature of the venereal virus we know almost nothing, and of the 7nodus operandi of mercury, very little more. Taken into the stomach in its metallic state, it has no action on the body except what arises from its weight or bulk ; but in its various states of combination, it produces sensible effects. It is a powerful and general stimulant, quickening the circula- tion, and increasing all the secretions and excretions, capable however of being made to operate more powerfully on one or other of these secretions, according to the preparations into which it enters, or the regimen with which it may be com- bined ; its most characteristic effect is the increased flow of saliva which it generally excites, if given in sufficient quantity. From the writings of Theodoric, it appears that mercury was employed in the practice of medicine and surgery as early as the 13th century, but its use in venereal cases was first men- tioned in a tract by Almenar, published in 1516. It is most probable, that the good effects which it produced in cutaneous diseases, first led to the employment of it in venereal cases, which being frequently attended with eruptions on the skin, ulcers, &e. seemed to present an analogy to the affections in which mercury had already been found successful. Subse- quent to this period, it has alternately been held up as the most certain of all specifics, and denounced as the most viru- lent of all poisons. Many revolutions have taken place in the use of mercury during the last three centuries, owing to the rashness of some and the timidity of others; and it is curious to observe how rival nations have alternately rejected and had recourse to mercury. When decried in Fngland, it has been extolled in France ; and when it lost its credit in France, it487 SYPHILIS. was again resorted to in England. These changes have taken place several times, and the methods of cure adopted in the two countries at the present hour are in illustration ot the fact; for while we are endeavouring to prove the inutility, if not the danger of mercurial remedies, it is well known, that in some of the principal establishments in France, one preparation alone, and that the most powerful, the muriate of mercury, is relied on almost universally for the cure ot vene- real disorders. The various substitutes which have been at different times proposed for mercury in the cure of syphilis, are for the most part so opposite to it in their nature, that it we believe mercury to be useful or salutary, we must almost necessarily believe the others to be impotent or hurtful. From the latter charge we may indeed exempt the present fashionable substitute the sarsaparilla, which seems so opposite in its nature to the preparations of mercury, that it would perhaps be more justly recommended as an antimercurial than an antisyphilitic remedy. Of its powers in any way I cannot convey my own opinion in language more energetic than that of the late Dr. Fordyce of London, who recommended to his pupils to prescribe it in the shape of “ a pudding or a pyc” Of the many publications which have at different times issued from the press in order to prove, u that there are ac- tually, in rerum natura, such remedies and antidotes as will free us from the venereal disease without the aid of mer- cury,” the most singular is that published in 1709 by J. Santilaer, Practitioner in Physic, dated “ from his house in High Holborn, late the-dwelling-house of his Grace the Duke of Leeds, and printed, most appropriately, by George Harris, next door to the Bagnio in St. James’s Street.” It is em- bellished with a plate entitled the “ Martyrdom of Mercury, representing men and women with demolished noses, rottenMILITARY SURGERY. 488 tibia?, exfoliating skulls, empty alveolae, fallen palates, &c. all the consequences of that vile jioisoti mercury.” This an- cient anti-mercurialist is greatly shocked by an observation of the celebrated Harvey, who says that mercury is only hurtful to a few, perhaps to one in five thousand, and many passages might be selected from his work to shew, that he has antici- pated all the modern writers against mercury. But this, while it takes from any originality which may be supposed to belong to the modern doctrines, adds but little to their weight; for while this practitioner is dealing out his anathemas against the medicine, he is perhaps secretly employing it. After all the success which he boasts of from his anti-venereal decoction, “ the knave admits, that one of its component parts he must keep secret, because, forsooth, if divulged, it would tend to his own detriment, and to the no small encouragement of a sin which is only too general and too common already.” Although anxious to rescue from unmerited neglect a medicine from which 1 conscientiously believe that I have seen much benefit, I am not disposed to add to the eulo- giums which have so lavishly been bestowed on mercury, nor range myself with those who, shocked at the conse- quences of its abuse, would engender a prejudice against it, and deprive us not only of a safe and effectual remedy for syphilitic disorders generally, but by exaggerating its morbid effects, discourage its use in other diseases. “ It surely can be no reason because the virtues of a remedy have been abused or overrated by some, that w'e should, by raising a clamour ’ against it, cause it to sink as far below its proper level as it has at times stood above it. Bocrhaave’s observation, that he knew of no remedy but what became so by its proper use, ‘ Nullum sc cognovisse remedium quin solo tempestivo usu tale fierct,’ is peculiarly applicable to the exhibition of mer- cury.” In the hands of a judicious practitioner, it will fulfil489 OONORRHOEA. a number of different and apparently contradictory indica- tions ; in the hands of ignorance, temerity, or indiscretion, it will certainly do more harm than good. GONORRHOEA. The word Gonorrhoea implies a discharge of seminal fluid, and is obviously misapplied in so far as it is generally em- ployed to denote a puriform discharge from the urethra. No practical inconvenience, however, now occurs from the em- ployment of the word in this latter sense, and as it is not my ambition to remodel the language of medicine, but to convey useful information, I would proceed, without dwelling on the early history of the disease, to a question of some practical moment, and which was at one time keenly agitated, namely, the identity of the gonorrhoeal and syphilitic poisons. For many years the sameness of these affections was hardly questioned, and practitioners believed that both were to be cured by the same remedies. The use of mercury, how- ever, which after its first introduction into practice was long held specific in the cure of syphilis, was observed to be given without a proportionate benefit in gonorrhoea, and perhaps it was this which first suggested a doubt of the identity of the two diseases, a doubt which has gradually grown, notwith- standing the ingenious speculations of Mr. Hunter, into a ge- neral conviction of the diversity of the two poisons. Those who argue for the identity of the two diseases, at the head of whom is the distinguished author just named, account for the different phenomena which they present, the ulceration oc- curring externally in syphilis, and the discharge of purulent matter without ulceration in gonorrhoea, by adverting to the different texture and functions of the parts affected. Mr.MILITARY SURGERY. 4U0 Hunter divides the different surfaces to which contagious matter may be applied into secreting and non-secreting surfaces ; the former of which, including the urethra and other mucous mem- branes, when subjected to irritation or excitement, afford an increased or altered secretion, and the latter, comprising the external teguments, are more prone to ulceration. The ex- ternal surface of the glans and the lining membrane of the prepuce, the most usual seats of chancre or venereal ulceration, are not precisely in the situation either of secreting or non- secreting textures; but as these surfaces, when irritated by the application of the venereal virus, are found to assume the ul- cerative inflammation, Mr. Hunter has chosen to consider them more akin to the non-secreting surfaces. This is how- ever in a great measure a gratuitous assumption, for the natural secretion of sebaceous matter under the prepuce is in many individuals profuse, and in some instances it is so far increased as to constitute a disease termed gonorrhoea spuria. But to appeal from this hypothetical reasoning to facts, it must be admitted, that if both gonorrhoea and syphilis are the results of the same poison, we ought oc- casionally, nay frequently, to see the one affection communi- cated by a patient labouring under the other. Now this is on all hands avowedly so rare an occurrence, that the abettors of the opinion which holds the two diseases to proceed from the same virus, have been forced to the necessity of defending their views by a few cases, questionable in their nature, sus- ceptible of different explanations, and resting upon the testi- mony of ignorant, interested, or prejudiced witnesses ; while, on the other hand, the cases which tend to prove that gonor- rhoea is invariably produced from gonorrhoea, and chancre from chancre, arc unlimited in number, unequivocal in their na- ture, and supported by the most unexceptionable testimony both of medical men and of others. The chief supporters of the identity of the two diseases me491 GONORRIKEA. Hunter, Swediaur, and Adams, and one of the arguments much dwelt upon in support of their views, is the proba- bility of syphilis having been conveyed to the inhabitants fif Otaheite, by seamen who previously to their landing had been five months out of port, and who, consequently could not, it is presumed, have laboured all this time under primary ulce- rations, although they might have been subject to gonorrhoea. But if any argument is to he drawn from historical fact sre- lative to the point at issue, such facts appear to me to sup- port the opinion of a difference in the two poisons, for not only have we accounts of the existence of gonorrhoea prior to those of syphilis, as stated by Dr. Adams, but the ravages of the one disease have at different periods been described as totally independent of the other, and the whole history of the appearance of this disease amongst the natives of Otaheite is exceedingly doubtful, as appears from the testimony of Mr. Wilson, who visited this island in 1802 as surgeon of his Majesty’s ship Porpoise. Mr. Hunter, in support of his views, appeals to experi- ments, in which he says that venereal chancres were produced by inoculating with the matter of gonorrhoea ; but these expe- riments are, in my opinion, completely neutralised by those detailed by Mr. Benjamin Bell, some of which were witnessed by Dr. Duncan, the late venerable Professor of the Theory of Physic in this university. On experiments, however, on either side of the question, I am less disposed to rely than upon the prevalent ‘opinion of the profession in the present day, and upon a very extensive experience in this department of practice, during which no one case has occurred calcu- lated to impress me with a belief in the identity of the two poisons. The most important authorities in support of the identity of the two diseases have been already enumerated, and amongst those on the opposite side of the question is Dr. F. Balfour, who in a thesis published here in I7G7 was,MILITARY surgery. 492 I believe, the first who publicly defended this doctrine. While mercury was held to be an indispensable remedy in the treat- ment of venereal complaints, the question regarding the iden- tity of the two poisons possessed an importance, and was agi- tated with a keenness which are now greatly abated. Mr. Bell has well observed as an argument in favour of his views, that if a woman labouring under gonorrhoea was capable of communicating indiscriminately either chancre or gonorrhoea, the former ought to be by much the most frequent occurrence of the two, in so far as it is much more easy for the infectious matter to find access to the surface of the glans than to the interior of the urethra. On the contrary, Mr. Bell states, that according to his observation, the proportion of cases of gonorrhoea to those of chancre wrere as three to one, and Mr. Hunter admits that in his practice they occurred as four or five to one. My own observations do not enable me to speak with precision on this point, but it must be admitted, that while the surface of the glans and interior of the prepuce are directly exposed to the contact of gonorrhoeal matter from the vagina, it is not very easy to see how the infectious matter finds access to the interior of the urethra in any case. But, the infection having been received, the disease com- mences, for the most part, by a sense of itching or titillation at the orifice of the urethra ; the lips of which, upon inspection, are found more florid than usual, pouting, and somewhat swollen. The discharge is yet scarcely perceptible ; but on making water, a sense of heat and pricking is experienced to- wards the point of the penis, and this goes on, progressively increasing, until the pain in making water becomes exceed- ingly acute, while the calls at the same time become more frequent. The discharge characteristic of the disease now makes it appearance, at first extremely variable as to quantity and consistence, but ultimately assuming the appearance of pus. From the swelling affecting the lining membrane of . .V . .... .........GONORRHOEA. 493 the urethra, the stream of urine is often greatly diminished ; the glans, and sometimes the whole penis are affected with an unusual heat, sense of fulness, and swelling. Even in its flac- cid state, the penis retains a preternatural degree of firmness and tension, particularly along the course of the corpus spon- giosum, while it often becomes affected, particularly during the night, with involuntary painful erection, and incurvation. This constitutes the symptom termed chordee, one of the most distressing to which venereal patients are subjected. The swelling not unfrequently extends to the prepuce, and when the opening is naturally small, this swelling, by augmenting the bulk of the glans, and at the same time thickening the substance of the prepuce, and diminishing the extent of its aperture, renders it impossible to denude the glans ; thus constituting the affection termed phimosis. When the prepuce is either preternaturally contracted, from an original malformation, or from the inflammation incident to it in gonorrhoea, it sometimes happens, that in this con- tracted state, it is forced behind the glans, thus giving rise to the disease termed paraphimosis, and constituting an affection extremely troublesome, and not devoid of danger. In this state, while the inflammation and swelling of the glans is in- creased in consequence of the stricture behind it, the prepuce itself sometimes becomes (edematous, thus augmenting the thickness of its coats, proportionally increasing the stricture, and rendering it impossible to draw it forward over the glans. Such are the most common symptoms of a severe attack of gonorrhoea, and these symptoms are greatly varied both in extent and duration, by the habits of the individual, and his mode of living. In careless, dissipated young men, they often continue, where their severity is not such as at once to confine the individual, to increase and diminish alternately for weeks ; but in no well regulated regiment should this ever happen. By frequent inspections the men will see that it is494- MILITARY SURGERY. impossible to conceal their complaints, they will be brought into the habit of reporting themselves immediately on the appearance of disease, anil thus the surgeon will be afforded the fairest opportunity of preventing the most severe symp- toms, and of speedily subduing the milder. Before proceeding to the mode of treatment, it may be ne- cessary to say a few words regarding the pathology of the disease, than which nothing can be more simple, it is now sufficiently established by irrefragable proofs, that the forma- tion of purulent matter, which was formerly thought to be a sequence of ulceration alone, takes place with equal facility, and often in very large quantity, from the inflamed surfaces of mucous membranes ; of this we have proofs in ophthalmia, in inflammation of the bronchia?, and very remarkably in the disease now under consideration. Here the discharge is some- times incredibly profuse, considering the limited extent of the ; inflamed surface, for this, in a large proportion of cases, does not reach above one or two inches within the urethra. Mr. Hunter has limited it to one and a half or two inches, which he terms the specific distance, and the purulent discharge, as he has shewn, is furnished solely from the lining membrane, and from the lacuna?. Previously to the time of this distin- guished writer, the inflammation was thought to extend along the whole course of the urethra, and the prostate, and vesicula? semitiales were thought to be generally affected ; an opinion to which the extent of the discharge might appear to give countenance, but which is now ascertained to be erroneous. Many patients will themselves observe, that they have no pain or ardor urina? beyond a given spot, extending about two inches from the extremity of the penis ; upon desiring them to press along the course of the urethra from this spot for- wards, matter will be pressed out, and when this part of the canal is once completely evacuated by drawing the finger two or three times along its course, no more matter can be pressed |GONOHRHtEA. 495 out from the posterior part of the canal. Although repeated dissections of the urethra in patients dying while affected with gonorrhoea have shewn that ulceration of the lining mem- brane of this passage is by no means a common occurrence, as was formerly supposed ; yet there is no doubt that ulcers do sometimes form within the orifice. This, I have myself wit- nessed in the living subject, and we have the testimony of the accurate Morgagni, and of others, that they are occasion- ally met with in the dead ; but such ulcers are generally of a syphilitic character, and I may safely assert, that the preva- lent opinion of the present day is against the existence of any such ulcers as a principle source of the gonorrheeal discharge. In the treatment of this disease, particularly in its early and acute stages, we have sometimes to resort to consti- tutional or general, as well as local remedies. General blood- letting is perhaps not so frequently employed in gonorrhoea, as it ought to be. Analogies have often been remarked between ophthalmia and gonorrhoea; and in no case per- haps would this analogy hold good, more completely than in the beneficial effects of blood-letting, were we enabled to adopt it at the same early period, and to push it to the same extent in gonorrhoea as has sometimes been successfully done in the treatment of acute ophthalmia ; but this, for obvious reasons, does not happen. Gonorrhoea does not prevail to the same formidable extent, the knowledge of its accession is ne- cessarily confined in the first instance to the patient alone; it is not, unless greatly mismanaged, attended with the risk of so much permanent injury to the individual, nor does it naturally excite the same degree of interest and activity on the part 01 a medical officer as ophthalmia, Krona these cir- cumstances, the most favourable time for the employment of bleeding in gonorrha a is often allowed to pass ; and it is only wheii the violence of the attack is such as at once to incapaci- tate the individual for his duties, and to compel him to resortMILITARY SURGERY. larger quantities, I have generally found it become offensive 490 to medical advice in the very early stage of the affection, that we have an opportunity of putting in practice this means of relief. In all such cases, when the constitution is hale, and the patient young, I am disposed to recommend general bleed- ing, observing at the same time that in proportion as the attack has been of longer duration, and more frequently repeated, bleeding becomes less necessary and less efficacious. The use of purgatives to any great extent, in the treatment of gonorrhoea, is by no means an eligible practice. When an opportunity is afforded of employing them in a very early stage of the affec- tion, they will in this, as in most other inflammatory af- fections, materially promote our views ; but from the repeated and long continued use of purgatives I may safely assert that no good effect is to be expected, and many instances occur of the disease being prolonged, or terminating in gleet, from patients trying to cure themselves by purgatives. Where much constitutional excitement takes place, marked by quick pulse, and hot skin, accompanied by local irritation, frequent calls to urine, pain and scalding, I know of no constitu- tional remedy more efficacious than the warm bath at a moderate temperature, from 90 to 100, and continued from 20 minutes to half an hour or longer. This is a remedy from which patients seldom fail to experience the highest gratification, and which is generally followed by an alleviation of the urgent symptoms both constitutional and local. Before proceeding to consider the use of local remedies, I may here mention some medicines which are administered internally for the cure of gonorrhoea, and which are thought to have a specific influence on this disease. Of these, the prin- cipal are the balsam of copaiba and the cubeb pepper; the for- mer may be given in doses of from half a drachm to two drachms, three times a-day, either simply dropped on a piece of loaf sugar, or combined with some common emulsion. InOONOItRHffU. 497 to the stomach anti loathsome to the patient, before produc- ing much effect upon the complaint for which it was adminis- tered. The Cubebs is the fruit of a pepper vine, “ Piper Cubeba,” the produce of the island of Java, and is used by the Javanese in some diseases of children. From that island it is imported into Bengal, and there used in medicine as a stomachic and stimulant; but whether employed by the native practitioners as a remedy for gonorrhoea, I am unable to say. The his- tory of the introduction of this substance into European practice, as given by Dr. Crawford, the historian of the In- dian Archipelago, is as follows :—<{ An officer of the Indian army, sailing up the Ganges, contracted an inveterate gonor- rhoea, and had recourse to the usual remedies without effect. One of his servants proposed the cubeb, and it was used with success. This officer communicated the above fact to the surgeon of his regiment serving on Java, where the disease was at the time frequent, and the remedy abundant. Having been given in many instances with success, the practice was gradually disseminated over the island, and subsequently found its way into this country.1 The pepper, wrell pounded, is exhibited in a little water five or six times a day, in the quantity of a dessert-spoonful, or from two to three drachms, while abstinence from wine and all heating aliment is to be enjoined. Its sensible effects are generally mild ; it oc- casionally causes a slight purging; it imparts to the urine its own peculiar odour, and increases its quantity; now and then it occasions a flushing of the face, and a burn- ing heat in the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. When this medicine acts successfully, the ardor urinae ceases, the discharge grows ropy, commonly in forty-eight hours, and frequently in less; after which the discharge soon stops alto- gether. In many cases the cure is slower ; in a few instances it has been said to produce swelled testicle; and in other casesMILITARY SURGERY. 498 it has proved altogether ineffectual. Indeed, my own expe- rience in the employment of the cube!) pepper induces me to look upon it as a remedy extremely uncertain in its operation, but in all cases perfectly safe. I consider it a waste of time to urge the continued use of this remedy beyond a week, or perhaps ten days at the utmost; for, if the discharge docs not greatly abate within this period, I consider it in vain to expect any impression to be made upon the disease by the pepper, or perhaps by any internal remedy. In a comparative trial of different modes of treatment in the cure of gonorrhoea, which was instituted in the 88th regiment, when quartered in the Castle here some years ago, the average number of days during which those treated with the cubeb pepper were con- fined was five and a quarter, a statement extremely favour- able to the use of this remedy. The number, however, was much too limited to entitle me to hold this up as a general average of the issue of cases so treated. When the acute inflammatory stage of Gonorrhoea has passed over, either by the lapse of time, or under the use ot antiphlogistic remedies, our chief dependence for the final suppression of the discharge must rest on the use of local ap- plications in the form of injection. I believe that where the disease has existed for some time, and where it is accompanied with no constitutional symptoms, it is impossible to make any impression upon it by remedies taken internally, and that in attempts to cure it in this wray the stomach is sometimes in- jured, without the urethral affection being benefited in any corresponding degree. In the use of astringent injections, the hands of practitioners were long paralyzed by absurd fears of driving the infection into the blood, as they termed it, and thus producing a confirmed pox. It would appear from a letter written in 1750 to the late Sir Caesar .Hawkins, by Charles Hales, Surgeon to the Savoy Hospital, that the use of astringent injections in gonorrhoea was at that time a prae-499 GONORRHCEA. tice by no means generally prevalent. This gentleman, who is a strenuous advocate for injections, says, that he took the hint of using them thirty-five years before, from a Mr. Green, a surgeon in Leman Street, Goodman’s Fields, who was the only man that then used them, and whose practice raised much clamour, and many objections and prejudices against him. Since the above period, injections have been recommended by some practitioners, and reprobated by others in terms the most unmeasured. All unbiassed practitioners however will I think admit, that injections, by coming in contact with the seat of the disease, are more likely to act efficaciously upon it than any other form of remedy. If used of an irritating or astringent nature, in the early stage of the disease, where there is already much inflammation, great sensibility of the urethra, and ardor urinas, the symptoms will in all probability be aggravated ; but when the discharge com- mences, as it sometimes does, without any appearance of mor- bid sensibility and tenderness in the lining membrane of the urethra, or when such symptoms have subsided, the use of astringent injections is the only practice upon which any re- liance can be placed, or from which it appears to me rational to expect any benefit. Although injections have been divided by Mr. Hunter and others into different classes, as emollient, sedative, ir- ritating, and astringent, it is to the last only that my ob- servations apply ; for the emollient and sedative injections, applicable to an early stage of the disease, have never ap- peared to me to be attended with any beneficial effect, and in this state of the complaint, I think more benefit is to be expected from sedative and emollient applications externally to the penis, in the form of fomentations or cold lotions. In this way, decoctions of poppy, and solutions of the acetate of lead, may sometimes be used with good effect. Irritating in- jections act upon the principle of exciting a new action in the500 MILITARY SURGERY. parts, calculated to supersede the previous disease ; but the susceptibility of the urethra is so varied in different indivi- duals, and in the same individual at different times, that it is difficult to foretel what kind, or what strength of in- jections will prove generally irritating; and it is equally im- possible to foresee the consequences to which an unguarded irritation in the urethra may lead. I consider, therefore, the use of injections, with a view solely to their irritating qualities, as a practice very far from being generally admissible. As- tringent injections, if used too strong, will produce every possi- ble degree of irritation, and may lead to all the ill consequen- ces of those more decidedly of an irritating quality ; but when the strength is duly regulated, so as to produce a very slight degree of smarting when injected into the canal, they are cal- culated to lessen the discharge gradually, without increasing the inflammation, and to prevent the occurrence of what is termed a gleet, a tedious and troublesome sequela of gonorrhoea in the form of a thin and serous-like discharge. As the ap- plication of an astringent fluid to the canal can only be tem- porary, it requires to be frequently repeated ; and perhaps the oftener this is done the better, provided care is taken, by using a round pointed syringe, and introducing it cautiously, not to irritate the urethra. The articles used in the form of injections, both from the vegetable and mineral kingdom, are innumerable. Of the for- mer, decoctions of oak or peruvian bark, infusions of tea, port wine, and other substances, have occasionally succeeded in the cure of gonorrhu-a ; of the latter, solutions of the metallic salts, particularly those of lead, zinc, mercury, copper, iron, and silver are most employed, and these nearly in the order in which I have now enumerated them, varying in strength from one to twenty grains to an ounce of distilled water. This variety in the strength of injections marks strongly the different de- grees of susceptibility in the urethras of different individuals, 4GONORRHOEA. 501 ami points out the propriety, when we have no previous ex- perience of this circumstance, of beginning in all cases with those metallic solutions in a very diluted state, augmenting the strength of the solution according to the circumstances of the case and the feelings of the patient. A solution of the most active of all these salts, the nitrate of silver, in the quantity of a scruple and even half a drachm to an ounce of water, was some years ago, in consequence of some reports in favour of it, suggested by the heads of the Army Medical Department, as deserving the consideration of regimental surgeons. How far the general reports upon this practice were favourable, or how many of the army surgeons thought themselves jus- tified in giving trial to it, I am unable to say. I my- self had recourse to it in the cases of two soldiers of the 33d regiment, of which I was then surgeon; but although these men recovered quickly, it was at the expense of so much suffering, that I hesitate to recommend it as a gene- ral practice. The report formerly alluded to from the 88th regiment, gives the following results of twenty cases treat- ed by an injection of a scruple of the nitrate of silver to an ounce of plain boiled water, these were discharged cured at various periods from ten to forty-two days, the average length of time being seventeen days. The above statement, to say nothing of the sufferings of the individuals, cither present or future, is, I think, amply sufficient to deter any j udicious prac- titioner from the repetition of a practice of the success of which, without at all adverting to its hazard, there is so little reason to boast; for in the very same report there is a statement of the results of fifteen cases treated solely by rest and abstinence; of these, three were discharged cured in three days, and the rest at intermediate periods, up to the twenty-third day, the average being little more than eight days. In the early stages of gonorrhoea, much may be effected by subjecting the patient to confinement, strict regimen and an- tiphlogistic remedies, with the timely interposition of a \ vo-502 MILITARY SURGERY. per injection ; but when the first two or three weeks are al- lowed to pass without any effectual treatment, the disease oc- casionally becomes protracted for months, and this under the most approved modes of practice ; our only chance of success is by frequent variations of the kind and strength of injections, as the one first employed soon loses all influence over the dis- charge. In this situation, patients in private life often run from one surgeon to another, who, happening to prescribe a different remedy from the one formerly in use, is occasionally successful in putting a stop to the discharge, and gets all the credit of the cure, which his predecessor might have retained by a very simple change in his prescription. In fine, I know nothing upon which we can speak with less certainty and pre- cision than on the cure of an old clap, and I am persuaded that I have lost many patients from having been candid enough to tell them so. A very common symptom in gonorrhoea, particularly when stimulant or irritating injections have been too early employed, is swelling of the testicle, very absurdly termed HerniaHumor- alis. This swelling may originate from any source of irritation in the course of the urethral canal, as well as from blows or other injuries on the testicle itself. When it occurs in go- norrhea, it seems to be entirely of a sympathetic nature, often appearing suddenly, and sometimes passing quickly from one testicle to the other. It is not unfrequently accompanied with a suppression of the gonorrhea, which is again renewed as the inflammation of the testicle abates. This has led some au- thors to advise the introduction of bougies into the urethra, with a view of renewing the discharge ; a practice however, of which, so far as I know, we have no sufficient experience to guide us in forming an opinion. But when a swelling of the testicle occurs while the patient is using injections for the cure of gonorrhoea, these are immediately to be laid aside, and the discharge permitted to take its course until the swelling of the testicle be removed. In the treatment of this inflammation,STRICTURES. 503 as in all others, rest anti abstinence are of essential bene- fit ; the local application of leeches, anodyne fomentations and sedative lotions, with a horizontal posture, and suspension of the testicle by a proper bandage, are often speedily followed by an abatement of the inflammation, and a rapid diminution of the swelling. But it not unfrequently happens, that a con- siderable degree of induration, sometimes in the whole body of the testicle, but more especially in the epididymis, remains af- ter the bulk of the swelling is removed. Frictions with cam- phorated mercurial liniment, and repeated blisters, are the means which I have found most efficacious in the removal of these chronic indurations. In short, the treatment of swelled testicle is to he conducted on the same principles which regu- late our conduct in the treatment of other glandular swellings; and it is therefore unnecessary to enter into a more particu- lar enumeration of the measures required. STRICTURES. Before entering upon the consideration of the nature and treatment of strictures, it may be necessary to advert to the dimensions and structure of the urethra. This canal, which commences at the bladder, passes out from the pelvis un- der the symphysis pubis, and entering the corpus spon- giosum of the penis, is continued forwards through the centre of that body, until it terminates at the extremity of the glans. In this course the following remarkable dilatations are observed : one immediately at its commencement, where it is encompassed writh the prostate gland ; one immediately ante- rior to its exit from under the pubes, which is termed its bulb, and for the most part also a dilatation less capacious and504 MILITARY SURGERY. more indefinite towards the glans. With regard to the struc- ture of this canal, much diversity of opinion has existed amongst the most experienced and dexterous anatomists. Mr. Hunter considered it to possess a muscular structure, and his brother-in-law, Sir Kverard Home, has strenuously sup- ported the same doctrine by numerous arguments and obser- vations. Although, says he, it may be difficult, and perhaps impossible, to prove this membrane to be muscular, either from its appearance, or from examination of its texture; yet other structures apparently membranous, and equally unlike the fasciculated fibrous texture commonly met with in muscles, are endowed with a power of contracting and relaxing in a much greater degree than is ever found to take place in the membrane of the urethra. Sir Kverard then instances the case of those membranous living sacs, termed hyda- tids, which, although not demonstrably muscular, when taken from their natural situation, and kept in tepid water, are ob- served to contract and relax to a very considerable extent. In addition to these, and other analogical arguments in fa- vour of the muscularity of the urethra, the abettors of this opinion adduce also certain practical observations in favour of their views, tending to show that muscular properties reside either in the membrane of the urethra itself, or in the sub- stance immediately surrounding it. The latter is indeed the opinion more recently adopted by Sir Kverard Home, w ho concludes, from Mr. Bauer’s microscopical observations, that the human urethra is made up of two parts, an internal membrane and an external muscular covering. The internal membrane is exceedingly thin, and no fibres are met with that can give it a power of contraction ; but it is stated that the muscular covering by which the membrane is sur- rounded or enclosed, is made up of fasciculi of very short fibres which appear to be interwoven together, to be connected by their origin and insertions w ith one another, and to have all “ aSTRICTURES. o05 longitudinal direction.” Formerly it was believed, that either the lining of the urethra was composed of “ circular fibres,” which possessed a power of contraction, or that it was imme- diately surrounded by such fibres, and that the disease known by the name of stricture in the urethra, or at least one spe- cies of it, was produced by a contraction of some of these circular fibres ; and it is now alleged, that the lining of the urethra is never met with in a contracted state, but is thrown into folds by the action of the elastic ligamentous covering exterior to the corpus spongiosum, and the swell of the longi- tudinal muscular fibres within it. In opposition to the doctrine of the muscularity of the ure- thra, many ingenious observations are adduced by Sir Charles Bell, who contends that it is from confounding the effect of the proper muscles of the urethra that the canal itself has been imagined to possess a muscular property. “ We can be at no loss,” says he, “ to account for spasm in the posterior part of the urethra, since five inches of the canal in that situation are surrounded by muscles, the accelerator urina?, the sphincter vesicae, the compressor prostatas, and the levator ani, while it should never be forgotten, that it is the sensibility of the ure- thra which governs their contraction and he concludes, that the part of the canal anterior to these muscles has no mus- cular power. Sir. Shaw has also supported this view of the subject by some ingenious observations, in a paper inserted in the tenth volume of the Transactions of the Medico-Chir- urgical Society of London. He observes, that if the ure- thra be laid open, we sec that its inner membrane is contin- uous with the mucous coat of the bladder, that it is a secre- ting coat, and has a great many ducts opening upon its sur- face. c‘ If the pudic artery be injected with size and vermilion, the membrane will be seen to be highly vascular ; if a por- tion of the urethra be distended, and the spongy body be carefully removed, the inner membrane will appear delicateMILITARY SUROERY. 50G and transparent, without the slightest trace of muscular fibres on it. When the urethra is first opened, there is an appear- ance of muscular fibres running in the length of the canal; but by examining this with attention, we shall find that it is principally owing to the inner membrane having been thrown into folds by the elasticity of the spongy body. We are re- ferred to comparative anatomy for the ocular demonstration of muscular fibres, and it is confidently asserted that circular muscular fibres are seen in the urethra of the horse ; an appearance which seems to be nothing but the internal membrane of the urethra thrown into folds by its own elas- ticity, and by that of the spongy body. The cjaculator se- minis is continued up to the glans in the horse, and when we sec this strong muscle surrounding the whole of the ure- thra, we must be at a loss to suggest a use for muscular fibres in the delicate mucous membrane.” But the muscularity of the urethra has been attempted to be proved more by argu- ments from analogy, and from observations occurring in prac- tice, than from ocular demonstration. The expulsion of an injection in a case of gonorrhoea has been considered as one of the most decided proofs, but if we throw- an injection into the dead penis, the fluid will be thrown out with some force; and Mr. Shaw relates the following experiment in confirma- tion of this fact: he threw- a small quantity of water into the corpus spongionsum, so as to swell the penis a little, making it resemble the state in which we generally see it in gonor- rhoea, and on injecting the urethra, the fluid was thrown out nearly two yards. “ Surely,” he adds, “ no one will say that there was muscular action existing in the urethra of a body almost putrid.” What has been considered the spasmodic action of strictures, at times resisting the passage of a bougie, which on other occa- sions passes easily, and the circumstance of a bougie being oc- casionally grasped in a stricture, so as to require some force inSTRICTURES. 507 withdrawing it, have been considered undeniable proofs of mus- cularity in the membrane of the urethra ; but these phenomena may be otherwise explained, and none of them give a satisfactory proof of muscular contraction. In short, I know of no anatomical observations which decidedly prove the existence of such muscu- larity, nor have 1 met in the course of a good deal of experience with any phenomena in the living body calculated to impress me with a belief in the existence of spasmodic or muscular ac- tion in the fore part of the urethra, anterior to the insertion of the acceleratores urinae. As much of the doctrine relative to the formation and to the treatment of strictures has been built upon the supposition of a muscular power in the urethra, I have thought it necessary to offer the foregoing remarks on this point, previously to a consideration of the site, the nature, and the cure of stricture. The doctrine of spasm has engross- ed too much attention in the consideration of this disease, and I cannot help suspecting that it has occasionally been found a convenient means of explaining a failure in the introduction of the bougie, and this, even where such force has been used as would have overcome any muscular power which the urethra can be supposed to exert; which would in- deed have lacerated any part of that membranous canal, had it not been strengthened by the deposition of adventitious matter from disease. On examining accurately the dimensions of the urethra, we observe that one of the narrowest parts of the canal is immediately behind the bulb, and that it is also less capa- cious towards the root of the penis from three inches and a half to four inches and a half from the external orifice, and those are points at which, according to Sir Everard Home, strictures most frequently take place. My own ob- servations enable me to concur entirely with this distinguish- ed surgeon in fixing upon the former of these spots, viz. the contraction immediately behind the bulb, as a common scat ofMILITARY SURGERY. 508 stricture at the distance of from six to seven inches from the external orifice, but in every part of the canal anterior to this I have occasionally met with strictures, and have not found them so generally confined to the situation of three inches and a half, or four inches and a half from the external orifice, as Sir Everard would lead us to suppose. Mr. Shaw, in a se- cond paper on the subject of strictures, in the twelfth volume of the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, asserts, that in more than a hundred dissections which he has made of diseases of the urethra, he has never seen a stricture or narrowing of the canal posterior to the ligament of the bulb ; nor has he been able to find one example of stricture beyond this part, among those preserved in the college museum. In almost all cases where a narrow stricture has existed for some time at the liga- ment of the bulb, or in any part of the urethra anterior to this, the membranous and prostatic portions are dilated beyond their natural size ; and when such a stricture as causes occa- sional retention of urine lias existed for some years, the blad- der is found to be not only thickened, but often at the same time sacculated. Strictures are generally attributed to the effects of gonor- rhoea, or to the use of astringent injections in its cure; and it cannot be denied that injections used in the inflam- matory stage of gonorrhoea are calculated to produce this disease, as arc also all irritations in the canal, from whatever source, as excess of venery, abuse of stimulants, stone in the bladder, &c. How variously these irritations will operate upon different individuals, according to the natural suscepti- bility of the urethra, may be in some measure learned from what was said when speaking of the strength of injections for gonorrhoea, and also from certain phenomena occurring in the treatment of strictures. On the introduction of a bougie, many people experience very little pain or uneasiness ; in others, this operation is attended with great pain, irritation, and con-m STRICTURES. traction of the canal, with fainting, shivering, even convul- sions, and other distressing symptoms. Three varieties of stricture have generally been enumerated by systematic writers : the spasmodic, which is represented as of occasional occurrence, and capable of dilatation to the natural size of the urethra ; the permanent or organic, which admits not of rapid dilatation ; and the mixed, which partakes of the nature ol both. Of the existence of the first, of a pure spasmo- dic stricture, I am somewhat sceptical, unless we are to consi- der as such the obstinate contraction of the muscular fibres surrounding the orifice of the bladder; at least I can assert, that I have never observed a pure spasmodic action of the urethia anterior to that part ol it which is covered by the acceleratores urina?, and have never seen a spasmodic action so complete as to resist the progress of a catheter or bougie until it leached the neck of the bladder. The formation of a permanent stricture is explained by Soemmering, Delpech, Richerand, and other eminent foreign surgeons, as occasioned by a thickening of the diseased part; and these writers do not appear to entertain any belief in the spasmodic nature of such cases. Sir C. Bell very justly observes, that the white con- densed substance which forms the most common kind of stric- ture is incapable of yielding to spasmodic action, ami that, even if the diseased part of the urethra were originally muscu- lar and contractile, the condensation and callosity of the part must be attended with loss ol such contractile power. The condensation of the structure of the urethra, or deposi- tion of adventitious matter within its substance, which alone I consider as constituting stricture, does not always take place round the whole circumference of the canal equally, but is often confined to one side of it, throwing the passage to the opposite side. 1 he disease occasionally occupies but a small portion of the canal, in some instances extending no farther than if the part had been surrounded with a pack-thread; in other cases, andMILITARY SURGERY. 510 these by no means uncommon, the urethra is contracted for per- haps an inch or more of its extent, its coats being often irregu- larly thickened, and forming a tortuous canal. Sometimes, also, we meet with two distinct strictures within an inch of each other, and the whole intermediate space somewhat contracted. When the contraction is not considerable, it appears, on exa- mination after death, to be merely a narrowing of the urethra; but a permanent stricture, in a more advanced state, usually forms a distinct projection into the canal, and the diseased portion of the tube acquires an almost cartilaginous, hardness. With regard to the alleged mixed kind of stricture, partly spas- modic and partly organic, I shall merely observe, that w'hile I do not deny the possibility of a stricture in the posterior part of the urethra being acted upon by the powerful muscles sur- rounding it, I must profess my belief, that when an organic stricture is situated in the fore part of the tube, and when a portion of the canal in this situation has become indurated and callous, it is little capable of being influenced by the spasmodic contraction of muscular fibres so feeble as to render their very existence doubtful, and that all obstructions in this part of the passage from spasm are hypothetical. To enumerate all the peculiar sensations and symptoms, both local and constitutional, to which strictures occasionally give rise, w'ould lead me into an endless detail; I shall therefore content myself with noticing the more prominent. It is seldom that a patient suspects the existence of stric- ture till he observes his urine made in a very minute stream, and incapable of being forced from him without a very un- usual effort. The diminution of the stream comes on so slowly and gradually, that he forgets what it is to make water freely. When the disease is somewhat advanced, the urine is voided in a spiral, irregular, scattered, or forked stream, and sometimes only in drops. It occasionally hap- pens that the disease is altogether overlooked, until the pa-5lt STRICTURES. tient, after some debauch or excess, is surprised by a com- plete retention. Frequent and unseasonable calls to make water, especially during the night; nocturnal emissions; and a gleety or puriform discharge from the urethra, occa- sionally suppressed, and liable to recur upon the slightest ex- cess or irregularity, are all frequent attendants upon stric- ture. We find patients complaining sometimes of strange and indescribable feelings about the genital organs, as of ani- mals creeping or fluttering in the urethra, with intolerable itching. And, in addition to these and various other symp- toms, referable to the seat ot the disease, strictures are often attended with derangement of the general health, and severe constitutional symptoms, of which one of the most common, particularly in warm climates, is a complete paroxysm of fe- ver, commencing with shivering, and succeeded by a regular hot and sweating stage. During the rigor, nausea and vomit- ing frequently occur ; and the patient, having repeated calls to make water, often finds it pass more easily during the pa- roxysm than at other times. But, whatever reason we may have, from the above-men- tioned symptoms, to suspect the existence of stricture, we arc only rendered certain of its presence by the introduction of a probe or bougie; and, while such an examination points out the site of the obstruction, it may be so conducted as to gain useful information as to its nature and extent. For this pur- pose, a species of probe, consisting of a small round ball of silver, attached to a flexible wire of the same metal, has been recommended by Sir C. Bell. A soft bougie, with a thick coating of plaster or wax, of such a size as to en- ter the stricture, and to receive an impression, by remaining some time in contact with it, is also occasionally employed for this purpose. By means of Sir C. Bell’s instrument, or even by the use of a common probe, when the stricture was so si- tuated as to be within its reach, I have occasionally been ableMILITARY SURGERY. 512 to obtain useful information ; but I must say, that, in my attempts to obtain a satisfactory impression of strictures by the soft bougie, I have frequently been disappointed. By either of these instruments, however, the site of the obstruc- tion may always be ascertained, and we are then in some mea- sure prepared to proceed to the treatment. For this purpose, bougies of various descriptions ; some of them calculated to act by conveying escharotics to the stric- ture ; some of them calculated to act either by medicinal sub- stances contained in their composition, Gr with which their surfaces are imbued; and others calculated to act simply by distending the stricture, and promoting its absoqition, have at various times been in use. The destruction of a stricture by escharotics was formerly accomplished by con- veying caustic to it through a canula, an operation pro- posed by Wiseman, who observes, that “ when the obstruc- tion is a caruncle, and you cannot pass it, you may well conclude it is callous; in which case you may pass a ca- nula into the urethra to that caruncle, and whilst you hold it there steady, you may convey a grain of caustic into the ca- nula, and press the caustic to it.” In this manner was the lunar caustic employed to a considerable extent by Mr. Hun- ter. The difficulties, however, of this practice, particularly in the treatment of strictures beyond the straight part of the urethra, induced Sir Evcrard Home to propose and to employ what is termed the armed bougie. This consists of a common plaster bougie with a small piece of lunar'caustic, the nitrate of silver fixed in its point. Of the efficacy and comparative advantages of this instrument, Sir Everard speaks with much enthusiasm ; and it is certainly well adapted to the treatment of the ring-like stricture described by Mr. Hunter, as if form- ed by a pack-thread tied round the urethra. It is also parti- cularly recommended for irritable strictures, the irritability of which is destroyed with the diseased part of the canal; but513 STRICTURES. even Mr. Hunter himself, the great authority for this practice, seems to have been disposed to limit its utility to strictures which occupy a very small extent of the canal. “ I have seen,-” says he, “ one or two cases where the contraction was of some length and irregular, which would have puzzled me if I had attempted the cure with caustic, because I should have been apt to suspect that I was making a new passage, by my gain- ing ground, and yet not relieving the patient by the removal of the symptoms.'” That this practice is ill adapted to more extensive forms of stricture may be learned from a case de- tailed by Sir E. Home, in which the caustic was applied 48G times before a catheter could be passed into the bladder. As a practice better adapted to extensive strictures, when the lunar caustic has been found to act less successfully, the kali purum or potassa fusa has been urgently recom- mended by Mr. Whately, to whose treatise on Strictures of the Urethra I must refer for a particular account of his mode of using it, and content myself with observing, that the principle upon which he proceeds, is to carry down a small portion of this caustic on the point of a common bougie of such a size as to pass through the stricture, and having rested the bougie for a few moments at the entrance of the stricture, until the caustic may have time to liquify, he then carries it onward and passes it two or three times backwards and for- wards, through the contracted portion of the canal, so as to cover its whole surface with the liquid caustic. By this pro- cedure he asserts that the kali is equally diffused over every pait ol the strictured surface, and only ubrades the membrane of the stricture without producing a slough ; an explanation which is not very satisfactory. Of Medicated Bougies, containing various active ingredi- ents in their composition, the most celebrated were those of the brench surgeon Daran, the mode of manufacturing which was kept a profound secret ; but, as these have long been banished 2 i.MILITARY SURGERY. 514 from practice, I consider it unnecessary to enlarge on their nature or effects. A practice, however, somewhat analogous in its operation to these medicated bougies has lately been submitted to the profession by Mr. Bingham, who recommends the application of the unguentum hydrargygri fortius to the surface of the stricture, by introducing into it a bougie be- smeared with this ointment, which he conceives to act by stimulating the absorbents of the part; a well known effect of the ointment in other instances. Having no personal ex- perience of this practice, I am unable to say anything in its favour, but consider myself justified in noticing it by the general character of Mr. Bingham’s work, which contains a useful summary of all the common methods of treating stricture; and also by the character of another work of the same author, on diseases of the bladder, which obtained the Jacksonian prize awarded by the Royal College of Surgeons of London for the year 1821. The treatment of strictures with the common bougie, neither armed nor medicated, may be so conducted as to accomplish a cure by a slow dilatation of the contracted part, or by pro- moting absorption. With a view to this effect, a bougie such as the stricture will admit is to be introduced and retained for a short time, increasing its size very gradually, so as not to occasion any considerable pain to the patient; or the bougie may be increased more rapidly, and retained in the urethra as long as the patient’s feelings can tolerate it. The French practice in this case is to introduce a silver or elastic gum catheter through the stricture, and not to withdraw it for some days ; when a larger one is substi- tuted in its stead. By this means the cure of stricture is sometimes accomplished more speedily than by the occasional use of the bougie as generally employed in this country, but in proportion as a cure is effected more rapidly, so is it less permanent. The length of time during which patients arc515 STRICTURES. able to retain a bougie with tolerable case varies greatly in different individuals; and although in irritable constitutions this may not at first extend to more than a few minutes, yet by extending the period gradually the patient becomes able to retain it sometimes for hours without inconvenience ; and it is obvious that the longer it is retained, the more speedily shall we accomplish our purpose, for by the continued compression the activity of the nourishing vessels will soon be destroyed, and the part itself will ulcerate or be absorbed. In all cases, when we can pass a bougie even of the smallest size through the stricture, we have the cure within our power by due perseverance with the common plaster or metallic in- strument ; but in cases where the stricture is of very limited extent, or where the stricture is so irritable as to prevent the patient from retaining the instrument in contact with it for any length of time, the use of caustic will often be found preferable. Of the bougies in common use, which are made of plaster, catgut, elastic gum, or steel, the last is by far the most manage- able instrument; and although the others may occasionally be found useful, the steel instrument, particularly when the stric- ture admits a bougie of some size, is undoubtedly the safest, from the surgeon having always a command over the point of the instrument. Some ingenious contrivances have been brought forward with a view to the dilatation of strictures, but none of them, it may be observed, is admissible into very tight strictures, and whenever a stricture is of such dimen- sions as to admit \Y iesss Dilator, oranysimilar instrument, the cure is comparatively easy by a succession of common steel bougies. The position of the patient, for the introduction of a bougie, whether erect or horizontal, is in common cases a matter of in- difference ; but wherever difficulty is anticipated, the patient should be made to lie down upon a bed or couch, by which means he is enabled to put his thighs in a state of complete516 MILITARY SURGERY. abduction, and the surgeon has free access with his fingers, to the perineum, and to the rectum, if necessary, for guiding the bougie. This instrument ought always to be warmed and besmeared with oil or lard previously to its introduction, and where a solid metal bougie or catheter is to be carried be- yond the arch of the pubes, I consider the following remarks of Mr. Bingham well deserving attention; they convey the sentiments which I have long entertained upon this point, and I know not where to find these sentiments better expressed. “ Until the point of the curved instrument reaches below the arch of the pubes, it may be introduced either with its concavity or its convexity towards the patient’s abdomen ; the former is the most simple, and therefore the preferable mode, except it be rendered impracticable by the protuberance of the patient’s abdomen. The manner of passing the instrument with its convexity towards the patient’s body is objectionable, because, when its point has got past the arch of the pubes, it must be turned half round to reverse the position of the other end, and in effecting this turn, if the point be not made the cen- tre of motion, there will be great danger of injuring the ure- thra. In taking this semicircular sweep, the instrument must be allowed to be loose upon the surgeon’s hand, and he must delicately accommodate his hand to its movements as it in- clines to approach to or recede from the body whilst he gently carries it round, and then the urethra surrounding it will de- termine the centre of motion to the point. But if the surgeon exerts the slightest degree of control beyond what has been mentioned, the point of the instrument will never constitute the centre of motion, and he will incur risk of doing mischief great in proportion to his unnecessary interference.” It now only remains for us to advert to those troublesome and dangerous cases of stricture accompanied with a complete retention of urine, and where no instrument can be passed into the bladder. In such cases three modes of proceeding517 STRICTURES. have been adopted. The French surgeons from the days of Pare downwards, and particularly encouraged by the example of Desault, have been in the habit of forcing a passage into the bladder by means of a conical silver catheter, “ sonde conique d’argentbut such a practice is very far from being generally advisable, for the strictured part of the urethra is for the most part much firmer and stronger than the rest of the canal, and it will readily be understood how much more easily an instrument of this description will lacerate the sound, than dilate the diseased portion of the tube. Puncturing the bladder, is in such cases another ex- pedient occasionally resorted to, but this only affords a tem- porary relief, and in no degree tends to better the condition of the strictured part, except, in as far as, by abating the irri- tation, it allows the spasmodic and inflammatory action in the parts to subside; after which we are sometimes again enabled to carry a bougie or catheter into the bladder through the urethra. The third, and what I conceive the best practice in such cases, is to open the urethra behind the stricture, wherc- ever this is so situated as to render such an opening practica- ble from the perinamm, and by continuing our incision for- wards through the stricture, we may be immediately enabled to carry a flexible catheter from the point of the penis into the bladder, and proceed to heal the wound in the perinamm over it. By this practice we give immediate relief to the urgent symptoms from the retention of urine, and by the re- moval of the stricture we obviate their recurrence. There are some excellent observations on this subject in Mr. Shaw’s second paper in the Medico-Chi rurgical Transactions, where he inculcates the propriety of patients submitting to this practice, even in cases where a complete retention has not taken place, with a view to obviate other serious consequences of stricture. This practice I was induced to employ twenty- two years ago, in the case of a soldier of the Royals, who be-MILITARY SURGERY. 518 came affected with stricture from an injury in the perineum by falling under a gun during an action on shipboard. In that instance, I was induced by the man’s urgent entreaties for relief, to lay open the urethra from the perinaeum, and the result was so completely successful, that I found my patient a few weeks afterwards preparing to act the part of a jockey at a horse race, a proceeding to which I put a stop. A proposal was some time ago submitted to the profession by Mr. M‘Ghie, a naval surgeon, for the division of strictures by means of a cutting instrument introduced into the urethra ; and a similar practice, which was originally suggested by Mr. Howship, has recently been employed and recommended by Mr. Stafford for the division of strictures by means of a lancet- pointed stilette or bougie, introduced through a catheter open at its extremity. Of these plans I have no personal expe- rience, ; they cannot be looked upon as devoid of danger, and although they may occasionally be executed with success by a man who devotes a large share of time to their study and practice ; yet like too many other ingenious proposals in sur- gery, they will never be rendered generally available in the hands of surgeons who have neither the command of time nor the choice of subjects. PUNISHMENTS. There arc perhaps few situations of greater professional re- sponsibility than that in which a military surgeon is placed, when called upon to regulate the extent to which corporal punishment may be inflicted on a soldier without endanger- ing his health or the interest of the service ; without, on the one hand, weakening the tics of military discipline byPUNISHMENTS. 510 undue lenity, or, on the other, sanctioning an extent of pu- nishment which may permanently injure the individual, and thus prove a heavier infliction than the law contemplates. Upon such punishments as merely imply the degradation or disgrace of a soldier, it is not within my province to en- large, and the following observations must be confined to those in which his health is involved. Many modes of pu- nishment formerly in use in the British army are now happily abolished, and those still permitted are specifically described; so that there is little chance of those cruelties being revived which have sometimes been practised, even in recent times, by arbitrary and capricious individuals, when serving upon dis- tant foreign stations, removed from the surveillance of their superiors, or the salutary control of public opinion. Of the punishments formerly in use, one was riding the Wooden horse, which consisted in a rude piece of frame work somewhat in the shape of those used for supporting scaffolds, furnished with a rude imitation of a horse’s head and tail, and mounted upon wheels. Upon this the culprit was placed, and dragged round the garrison, his hands being tied behind his back and muskets hung to his legs. This mode of punishment has been long laid aside, “ having been found to injure the men materially, and sometimes to rupture them.” The last time I find any notice of the “ wooden horse ” hav- ing been used, is in Knox’s account of the American cam- paigns under General Wolfe and Lord Amherst, when it was inflicted on a grenadier accused of cowardice, and in that in- stance was combined with another punishment, that of “ tar- ring and feathering,” formerly inflicted for theft in the army. Picketing was a mode of punishment formerly much used in the cavalry, and which I have myself witnessed. It was inflicted by placing a culprit upright against a post in the stable, one foot resting upon a blunt round pointed peg . driven into the ground, and one arm secured by the wristMILITARY SURGERY. 520 to a hook in the post; the bare heel of the sufferer was made to rest on the stump, which though it did not break the skin put him to great torture; and the only means of mitiga- tion was by resting his weight on his wrist, the pain of which soon became intolerable. Soldiers were frequently sentenced to stand on the picket for a quarter of an hour or longer. This, like riding the wooden horse, has been for some time left off; it is stated to have lamed and ruptured many sol- diers ; and in our own day we have a remarkable case of luxa- tion of the shoulder-joint mentioned by Sir Astley Cooper, which was produced by the punishment of picketing inflicted by an arbitrary individual on board of an lndiaman. The Walking and the Stand-up drill are punishments here- tofore extensively used in the service ; the former consists in making a soldier, equipped in heavy marching order, move about for hours together upon the parade ; the latter consists in making him stand in an upright position for a length of time. These, when employed with due discretion, arc com- paratively but little calculated to injure the health of the soldier ; carried to excess, they are said to have laid the foundation of permanent derangements of the circulation, and of organic disease of the heart, as will appear from the follow- ing quotation from Mr. Marshall’s late work on the enlisting, discharging, and pensioning of soldiers. “ A temporary de- rangement of the functions of the heart and consequent pal- pitation, is not unfrequent among soldiers, more particularly young recruits, before they are dismissed from drill. For some time previously to a general inspection, the men are of- ten kept long under arms, and to this circumstance may sometimes be attributed slight derangement of the circulation, fainting of weakly individuals, &c. Standing under arms is, I believe, now altogether forbidden as a punishment, which is a wise and humane measure. Frequent tedious drills and inspections are supposed to be sometimes the forerunners orPUNISHMENTS. 521 causes of rupture, aneurism of the heart, varicose veins of the leg, &c. and perhaps not without foundation.” The minor punishments at present authorised in the British army con- sist chiefly of privations and forfeitures of different kinds, as of what is termed “ beer-money,” of the additional pay to which a soldier becomes entitled by length of service, and of the time to be reckoned in estimating his claim to a pension. General Courts-martial are also authorised to award imprisonment, solitary confinement, transportation, corporal punishment, and death. Solitary confinement is perhaps one of the most unexcep- tionable punishments in use in the army. It is one little calculated to affect the health of the soldier, and, at the same time, proves extremely irksome to him. I have heard an Irish soldier, when on trial before a court-martial, solicit the president as a favour to give him a hundred lashes and to save him from solitary confinement. The only circumstances likely to affect the health of prisoners in solitary confinement are the extreme cold of northern latitudes, and a damp or ill ventilated state of the cells, points which are for the most part duly adverted to in this country. It should always be borne in mind, that men who subject themselves to this and other species of punishment, are often dissipated charac- ters, liable to delirium tremens, or to a minor degree of this which the soldiers themselves call the horrors. With this disease I have occasionally known men seized when under solitary confinement, and as complaints of this kind should never be allowed to gain head without the surgeon’s atten- tion, the non commissioned officers, or others whose duty it may be to communicate with prisoners, should be enjoined to make early reports of any appearance of indisposition. Deli- rium tremens, on which we possess some valuable observations by two distinguished army physicians, Doctors Sutton and Blake, is generally treated successfully by the administrationMILITARY SURGERY. 522 of large opiates. I cannot however avoid this opportunity of expressing my apprehension, that this plan of treatment is used too indiscriminately, and may sometimes be pushed to an inju- rious extent. In the cases of young subjects, when the attack was attended with much flushing of the face and tendency to phrenitis, I have repeatedly employed blood-letting, both gene- ral and local, with obvious advantage, and indeed I am at this moment attending, along with another practitioner, a patient whom I have twice seen bled under attacks of this disease. He is a young master tradesman, left by the death of his father at the head of a large establishment, and has repeatedly given himself up to fits of continued intoxication, followed by de- lirium tremens. The extent of Corporal punishment, or Flogging is now greatly restricted ; the powers of a Regimental court-martial extend only to the infliction of two hundred lashes, a circum- stance which relieves the surgeon from much irksome duty and heavy responsibility ; but as the regulations of the service still provide for the corporal punishment of offenders, they also enforce the attendance of the surgeon to see that it shall not be carried to excess. In this climate, soldiers are generally able to bear the limited number of lashes to which the sentence of regimental courts-martial has latterly been restricted, but on foreign stations, men’s constitutions are sometimes brought into a state in which even a hundred lashes may prove most seriously hurtful. The formidable ulcers formerly noticed as prevalent upon some of the East India stations are liable to supervene upon punishments, and I have now before me some remarkable cases of this kind which occurred amongst soldiers who had served on the western coast of Africa. In all climates, it should be recollected, that those individuals who are most likely to render themselves amenable to corporal punishment, are very frequently the least able to bear it; and this applies equally to those whose vital powers may be temporarily impaired523 PUNISHMENTS. by an occasional debauch, and to those whose constitutions may he more seriously and permanently injured by a long continu- ed course of dissipation in early life, and by the remorse and broken spirit under which they are sometimes brought to pu- nishment. This applies particularly to those wretched indi- viduals, the profligate irreclaimable sons of gentlemen, who, after having spent their patrimony, offended their friends, and estranged themselves from society, enlist in the army. Of the unfavourable state' of such subjects for military punishments, I shall never forget a remarkable instance which occurred to myself at the very commencement of my service as an army surgeon. The patient was a near relative of a wealthy Jew merchant; he had dissipated his patrimony, subsequently enlisted, and then deserted ; he was overtaken before he had got many miles from the garrison, was brought back a prisoner, instantly tried by a Garrison court-martial, and was punished with more than usual solemnity, by the tap of the drum. Al- though this individual did not receive what at that time was considered a severe punishment, yet “ he never looked up af- ter it, ” but was taken into hospital in a state of great mental and bodily depression, his appetite failed, and he became much emaciated ; although, fortunately for the credit of the surgeon, his back cicatrized, yet he was seized with dysenteric symp- toms, and in a few weeks died. To add to the melancholy catastrophe, this man’s brother came posting into the barrack- square with an order for his discharge, the very morning on which he was buried. Corporal punishments are usually inflicted with a “ cat o’ nine tails,” which consists of a short handle like a drum-stick, with the above number of lashes attached to it; those in use in the army are made of the common whip cord. The lashes are given in succession by the drummers of the regiment, each in- flicting twenty-five strokes of the cat at a time. The severity ofMILITARY SURGERY. 521 this punishment depends greatly upon the age and strength of the drum-boys, and upon their practice in this part of their duty. Upon the number of lashes which a man may receive without endangering his life, it is extremely difficult to speak with precision ; and it is very remarkable, that in cases where death has occurred, it has generally been from punishments of limit- ed extent. Five hundred lashes with the common army cats may be considered a very full punishment. And although in former times I have seen many men receive more than this number, yet such punishments are generally to be considered as hazardous. Although a medical officer may not have the power of preventing the adoption of any species of punishment which a commanding officer may choose to inflict on his own responsibility, yet it may be well to caution the young surgeon against sanctioning, by his approbation, any of those unusual or apparently severe modes of punishment occasionally resorted to, such as described in the following extract of a charge upon which a field officer commanding a regiment in Ireland was tried in 1829- 1- “ The instrument of punishment, viz. the cat o’ nine tails, with which such corporal punishment was in- flicted, had been previously steeped in brine or pickle.” 2. “ The said cat o’ nine tails was again frequently steeped or washed on the private parade during the infliction ol such cor- poral punishment in a tub of salt and water.” 3. “ rIhc in- tervals between the infliction of the lashes were, during part of the foresaid punishment, protracted to an unusually long pe- riod .” With the minor punishments authorised and used in the navy I am but little acquainted. In this branch of the ser- vice, however, the instruments used for inflicting corporal pu- nishment are different from those employed in the army. The cats arc longer, and made of much heavier cord. The lashes fire here apportioned by dozens, and being inflicted by the525 PUNISHMENTS. boatswain’s mates, who arc generally active powerful men, this species of punishment becomes much more severe in the navy than in the army, a dozen of lashes in the former being equal to at least fifty in the latter. There are two modifica- tions of corporal punishment employed in the navy, which naturally add much to its severity; in what is termed Flog- ging round the Jleet, the culprit is conveyed in a boat, with certain ceremonies, from ship to ship, receiving in succession a proportion of lashes from the boatswain’s mate of each, while the respective crews are paraded to witness the infliction. In the punishment of the Gauntelope, usually termed Gant- let, the whole ship’s crew is disposed in two rows standing face to face on both sides of the deck, each man being fur- nished with a hard twisted cord, having several knots on it. The culprit, stripped to the waist, passes between these rows, each man being enjoined to apply the knottle to his shoulders as he moves along in slow time, preceded by the master-at-arms, who places a naked cutlas under his arm pointing backwards, by which means the delinquent is prevented from quickening his pace, and evading the punishment awarded him. These last mentioned punishments are only inflicted for very heinous crimes ; they are of a most severe and protracted nature ; men occasionally fall down insensible under them, and they demand the most anxious attention from the medical officer whose dis- tressing duty it may be to superintend them. The common method of dressing the backs of punished men in this country, is with a solution of acetate of lead applied by means of a cloth or piece of lint soaked in it; and under this application the swelling and ccchymosis consequent upon the injury for the most part subside rapidly, and the part speedily heals. Even when the punishment has been severe, and the parts in consequence ulcerate considerably, lotions of this kind arc found eligible; but when the ulceration becomes ex- tensive, and puts on a sloughing or gangrenous form, it falls52G MILITARY SURGERY. of course to be treated by the various applications formerly re- commended for ulcerations of that character. All over India, and in the West Indies also, the backs of punished men are dressed most successfully by the young leaf of the plan- tain “ Musa Paradisiaca” of Linnaeus. I his is a prac- tice in all probability adopted from the natives of these coun- tries, and is akin to the water dressings, and other natural pro- ductions employed in the dressing of wounds in savage life, which we would often do well to imitate. The foregoing observations will be sufficient to impress young men with a due sense of the responsibility devolving on a military or naval surgeon, when called upon to superintend the infliction of corporal punishments. It is, I conceive, much less necessary to dwell upon motives of humanity and dis- cretion, • than to caution military surgeons against attempts which are sometimes made to deceive them, by soldiers feigning complaints to evade punishment, and feigning syn- cope or fits during its infliction,—to caution them also against any untimely or undue interference with the discipline of the service, or any vain parade of authority, in the only case in which their authority can be considered as at all paramount to that of the commanding officer. While it may be neces- sary to call to mind what the discipline of the army and navy demands, every thing due to humanity may be very safely trusted to the natural feelings of a British surgeon. Armstrong, De Tuenda Nautarum Sanitate. Assalini, Manacle di Chirurgia. Baeol on Syphilis. Ballingall, Cli- nical Lectures delivered to the Students of Surgery in the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh; Probationary Essay on Syphilis. Bell, (C.) Operative Surgery; Hospital Reports.MILITARY SURGERY. 527 Bell, (J.) Discourses on Wounds ; Principles of Surgery. B ilguer, Dc Membrorum Aviputatione, <§~c. Black adder. Observations on Phagedeena Gangrenosa. Blanc on the Diseases of Seamen ; Improved Health of the Navy. Bog- gle on Hospital Gangrene, Mcdico-Chirurgical Transac- tions of Edinburgh. Briol, Histoire dc FEtdt et des Progres dc la Chirurgie Militaire en France. Cheva- lier, Treatise on Gunshot Wounds. Cooper, (S.) Sur- gical Dictionary, aneL First Lines. Le Dran on Gun- shot Wounds. Edmonston on Ophthalmia, in the 2d regi- ment of Argyleshire Fencibles. Farr el, on Ophthalmia. Guthrie on Gunshot Wounds, 3d edit.; Operative Surgery of the Eye; and Lectures on the Arteries. Hammiek, on Fractures, Amputations, and Strictures. Hennen, Observa- tions on Military Surgery, 3d edit. Hcwson on Venereal Ophthalmia. Ilalliday on Emphysema. Hunter, (J) on the Blood, Inflammation and Gunshot Wounds, 4to. Hutchi- son, Practical Observations in Surgery as regards the Mili- tary and Naval Service; and on the Proper Period Jbr Am- putating after Gunshot Wounds, 2d edit. Journal dc Mcde- cine, de Chirurgie et de Pharmacie Militaire. Larrey, Me- moirc sur les Amputations des Membres d la suite des Coups de Feu ; Relation Historiquc et Chirurgicale de FA mice dc FOrient ; Memoires de Chirurgie Militaire ; and Clinique Chirurgicale. Larrey, (H.) Traitement des Fractures des Membres par Vappareil inamovible. Lawrence on the Venereal Diseases of the Eye. Lind on the Scurvy. Lombard, Cli- nique Chirurgicale des Plaies faites par Armes d Feu. Mac- lagan, Probationary Essay on Tetanus. Mann, Surgical Account of the last Campaign in America. Meyer, Trac- tatus dc Vulneribus Pectoris Penetranlibus. Milman on Scurvy. Percy, Manuel du Chirurgien (TArmce. Ranby, The Method oj Healing Gunshot Wounds. Ravaton, Chirur- gie (TArmce. Recucil des Memoires dc Medicine, dc Chirur- 8528 MILITARY SURGERY. gie et de Pharmacie Militaires. Schetky, Anatomical Draw- ings from Preparations in the Museum of the Army Medical Department at Chatham. Syme on the Excision of Joints. Thomson, Report of Observations made in the Military Hos- pitals in Belgium after the Battle of Waterloo. Trotter, Me- dicina Nautica. Turnbull's Naval Surgeon. Vetch, Vari- ous Works on Ophthalmia amongst the Troops, and Letter to Lord Palmerston.529 DISEASES OF TROOPS ON FOREIGN STA- TIONS.—FEIGNED AND FACTITIOUS DISEASES. The proportion of our troops constantly employed in foreign stations, and the mortality to which they are there subject- ed, imperiously call upon those professional men who are destined to attend them, to qualify themselves for their la- borious, difficult, and dangerous duties, by embracing every opportunity of making themselves acquainted with the na- ture, causes, and treatment of those diseases to which so many brave men fall victims in tropical climates. In these climates, the proportion of sick in an army is seldom below six, and frequently it rises as high as twelve or fifteen per cent, of the whole strength. From some interesting documents in my possession, we may infer that the mean mortality of troops in the East and West Indies is six or seven times greater than that which occurs in Great Britain; and the mean an- nual ratio of mortality amongst troops serving in equatorial climates may be estimated at from eight to nine per cent. 110m a return inserted in the Transactions of the Medical Society of London, by Dr. Jackson, of the mortality of the army serving in the Windward and Leeward Islands, and British colonies on the coast of America, it aj>pears that the 2 MMILITARY SURGERY. 530 average annual mortality for a period of twelve years, was up- wards ofl 2 per cent., anil from a table inserted in Boling- broke’s description of the settlement of Demerara, it appears that the annual number of deaths in the British army serving in the West Indies, from 1796 to 1802 inclusive, was upon an average 21 per cent. ; and in the year 1797 it amounted to upwards of 32 per cent. But before proceeding farther with the consideration of tropical diseases, it may be well to give a view of the extern and general distribution of our forces. The British army, in- dependently of the ordnance department, during peace, usu- ally consists of about 110,000 men. Of these, 26,000 are distributed in Great Britain. A similar number is employed in Ireland, 20,000 in India, and 38,000 in other foreign stations. Forty-four regiments of Europeans, besides native and colonial corps, are commonly employed in intertropical stations. Of these, four regiments of cavalry, and twenty of infantry, are stationed in the East Indies, four regiments of infantry in Ceylon, and three in the Mauritius, eight in the Windward and Leeward Islands, and five in Jamaica. The artillery and European corps belonging to the East India Company amount to about ten thousand men. The usual ratio of mortality among troops employed in the United Kingdom, is about 1.5 per cent. ; in the army generally, it is about 3.5, while among the troops on foreign service, it com- monly amounts to 5.7 per cent. As the mortality among troops employed abroad is about four times greater than that among troops on home service, a corresponding degree of care ought to be taken to preserve the health of soldiers on foreign service, and thereby to diminish the rate of mortality. Among the various means which may be employed to prevent disease among troops on foreign stations, none is of more importance than the selection of that period of the year for their disembarkation which is most con-DISEASES OK TROOPS ON FOREIGN STATIONS. 531 genial to the constitutions of natives of the United Kingdom. To render the few following observations on this subject of any value, it is necessary to be specific in regard to localities, and the foreign stations occupied by our troops may be classed, as follows,—India, Ceylon, New South Wales, Mauritius, Cape of Good Hope, Windward and Leeward Islands, Ja- maica and Honduras, British Settlements in North America, Gibraltar, Malta, Ionian Islands. The territorial possessions of the East India Company ex- tend from the 8th to the 30th degree of north latitude, and from the 72d to the 92d degree of east longitude. They are divided into three presidencies, which will require to be no- ticed separately. The prevailing diseases are dysentery, fever, and liver complaint. In India from 40 to 50 per cent, of the whole mortality is caused by bowel complaints, and the annual ratio of mortality among European troops serving there varies from five to ten per cent. India. Bengal.—Calcutta or Fort-William, latitude 22° 23' north, longitude 88° 28' east, is the capital or seat of government of this Presidency. The cool season of the year commences in November, and continues until nearly the mid- dle of March, during which period the mercury in the ther- mometer ranges from 50° to 'JO0. November is decidedly the best period of the year for troops to arrive at Calcutta. Madras, or Fort St. George, is the seat of government of the Madras Presidency. It is situated in 13° 4' north lati- tude, and 80° 29' east longitude, and its mean temperature is 80.9°. The north-east monsoon commences about the middle of October, and with it the cool season of the year on the Coromandel coast. From the 15th October till the 15th December, the Hag-staff’ is struck at Madras, and no ships are permitted to enter the roads. The best time of the yearMILITARY surgery. 53 2 for troops to land at Madras, is during the period between the 15th December and the end of February. Bombay.—The capital of another Presidency, is situated on the island of Salsettc, latitude 13* 53' north, longitude 72° 33' east. The climate of Bombay is temperate, and the atmosphere cooler than in many parts of India, in consequence chiefly of its insular situation. The rains continue with little interrup- tion from the end of May to the beginning of October, and consequently the landing of troops is best effected in the months immediately subsequent to this. Ceylon.—This island lies between the 5th and 9th degree of north latitude, and the 79th and 32d degree of east longitude. It is computed to be about 900 miles in circumference ; its greatest length is 230, and its greatest breadth 150 miles. Ceylon is a flat island, except about one eighth of its extent which rises near the centre and forms an irregular plateau of from 1300 to 2200 feet above the level of the sea. The mean temperature of the air on the flats along the coast is about 81° or 82°. In the upper country it is about 'JS0. The prevailing diseases in this island, not only among Europeans but also among the natives, are dy- sentery, fever, and liver complaints; and the usual ratio of mortality among European corps varies from four to ten per cent, per annum. There are commonly four regiments of the line employed on this island, as also a regiment of Malays consisting of about 1000 men, and a corps of pioneers, which is chiefly recruited in the southern provinces of India. The north-east monsoon sets in on the east coast of Ceylon about the beginning of November, accompanied by compara- tively cool weather. The best periods for troops to land at Trincomalec is during the months of January and February,DISEASES OF TROOPS ON FOREIGN STATIONS. 533 whereas the most suitable season for troops to disembark at Colombo, the west side of the island, is during the months of June and July. On the interior plateau there is not much difference of season, and consequently one period oi the year is nearly as suitable as another, in as far as health is con- cerned, for the march of troops into the interior. The Medical Topography of the interior ol Ceylon, by Depu- ty-Inspector Marshall, contains much information which may be usefully applied in promoting the health of the troops in this island. New South Wales.—The colony of New South Wales is situated on the eastern coast of New Holland, between the 9th and 39th degree of south latitude, and the 108th and 153d degree of east longitude. The climate is gene- rally salubrious, although the heats in summer are some- times excessive. The hottest and most unhealthy months are November, December, January, and February. The mean temperature during these months is 00 ’. March and April may be looked upon as the rainy season, and of course the most unfavourable for the disembarkation of troops. Mauritius or Isle of France.—This island is situ- ated in latitude 20° 15' south, and longitude 58° 29' cast, 100 miles north-west from the Isle of Bourbon. It is 18 leagues in circumference; its greatest length is 11 leagues, and its irreatest breadth 10. The heat from November to April is very great. In elevated or inland districts the mean temperature in winter is G7‘\ while in summer it is 76°. Three regiments are commonly employed in the island, and reliefs ought to arrive between the months of April and October. Cafe of Coon Hope.—This territory lies between theMILITARY SURGERY. 534 29th and 34th degree of south latitude, and the 17th and 28th degree of east longitude. The thermometer in the hottest months varies in general from 70° t0 90°. There are commonly three regiments and a corps of mounted rifle- men employed in the settlement. The months of May, June, and July are frequently very wet. September, Oc- tober, and November are delightful months, and this is the best period of the year for the landing of troops. In January, February, and March the temperature is commonly very high, the mercury in the thermometer sometimes rising to 107° in the shade. Windward and Leeward Islands, and Stations on the Coast of South America.—There are usually eight regiments of the line employed in those stations, and one or two corps of Africans. Fever is the prevailing disease in these islands; the mean mortality among Europeans is usu- ally about 12 or 13 per cent.; and it may be observed, that from 80 to 90 per cent, of the whole mortality in the West Indies is caused by fever. The following is the usual distri- bution of the troops in this command: at Barbadoes are stationed two regiments; at Trinidad one; two at Demc- rara, Bcrbice, and Essequibo ; the right wing of a regiment is stationed at St. Vincent, while the left is quartered in Grenada; one regiment is stationed at St. Kitts and Antigua, and another at St. Lucie and Dominica. The best time for troops to arrive at these islands is during the months of No- vember, December, and January. Jamaica.—This island lies between the 17th and 18th degree of north latitude, and the 76th and 7}hli degree of west longitude. Its length is about 140 miles, and breadth between 40 and 50. The medium heat at Kingston through- out the year is 80°. There arc generally five regiments535 DISEASES OF TROOPS ON FOREIGN STATIONS. of the line and sometimes a corps of Africans employed on this station, which includes also the Honduras and the Ba- hama islands. The prevailing disease is fever. The mean annual mortality among Huropean soldiers is about lo, and among the West India corps 5 per cent. The time best suited for the arrival of troops in Jamaica is during the period between the beginning of January and the end of March. The air is cooler and drier at this season than at any other period. The rain which falls during the lattci months of the year is commonly dried up by the month of January, and consequently the exhalation from a moist soil is much less than in December. British Settlements in North America,—includ- ing Canada, Nova Scotia, and the Bermudas.— There are commonly ten regiments employed in British America. The climate and seasons are in many respects similar to those of Britain, and the landing of troops may be regulated accordingly. Much useful information on the Medical Topography of Upper Canada will be found in a work on this subject by Mr. Douglas, formerly of the 8th regiment of foot. Gibraltar.—Gibraltar is situate in latitude 30° 6' north, and longitude 5° 19' east; its mean temperature in the hottest months is 84-° and in the coldest 51°. Seven regi- ments are usually employed in this important garrison. From the middle of November to the end of March is the most proper time for landing troops in Gibraltar, the soldiers then arriving at a time when the climate differs little from that of Great Britain. M^lta.—This island is about 50 miles from the coast of Sicily, in latitude 35° 36' north, and longitude 15° 16'MILITARY SURGERY. 53G west. It is about 20 miles in length, 12 at its greatest breadth, and GO in circuit. The prevailing diseases of the island are dysentery, fever, and liver complaints. The tem- perate months are from October to May, and the unhealthy are July, August, and September, when the heat is gene- rally excessive, being frequently 90° or 95° in the shade. The garrison usually consists of four British regiments, two companies of artillery and one Maltese fencible corps. The arrival of troops ought to take place during the period from October to January. Ionian Islands.—The prevailing diseases in these islands are endemic fever and dysentery. The healthy months are from October to May, when fever generally commences, and continues until the end of September. Troops should therefore arrive about the months of November and Decem- ber. The usual number of troops employed in this command is about six regiments. In Dr. Hennen's valuable work on the Medical Topography of the Mediterranean much import- ant information will be found regarding the health of the troops at the three last mentioned stations. YELLOW FEVER. The great mortality amongst the troops in our numerous West India settlements and garrisons proceeds chiefly from the disease termed Yellow fever, a disease distinguished above all others for the frequency and extent of its visitations, its rapid career, and fatal tendency. But notwithstanding the aggravated forms in which this disease has appeared, and theYELLOW FEVER. 537 universal attention it has attracted amongst all classes of prac- titioners in the West Indies, one of the most important points in its history still remains a subject of dispute; I allude to its contagious or non-contagious nature. The only way perhaps of explaining this incongruity of opinion is, by admitting that the yellow fever, like some others, may become contagious under peculiar circumstances. Nu- merous facts seem to attest that the effluvia issuing from the bodies of a number of human beings confined too closely, whether in a state of health or disease, will occasionally pro- duce a contagion, which is capable not only of exciting fever among those so confined, but of propagating itself afterwards from those to others. Independently of numerous observations in the writings of Lind, of Pringle, and of others, which coun- tenance this opinion, a recent and very memorable instance of the apparent generation of such a contagion has been alluded to by Dr. Johnson, in his work on tropical climates. “ The transports which received and conveyed home the wretched remnant of Sir John Moore’s army after the battle of Corunna, afforded decisive and melancholy proofs that bodies of men confined close together between the decks of a ship in stormy weather, w ill soon become sickly, and that their disease may be communicated to nurses and others, after they are landed, washed, and placed in clean and airy hospitals. It is not probable that these men could have carried any infection on board, either in their persons or clothes, after a rapid retreat, during which almost every stitch of garment was washed from their backs by the incessant rains. A. dreadful and sanguin- ary battle at the water’s edge, gave them no time to contract infection, or even to clothe themselves at Corunna. They precipitated themselves tumultuously, naked, exhausted, and wounded, into the first vessels that came in their way, and were thus crowded, from choice or necessity, during a cold, wet, and tempestuous passage across the Bay of Biscay. They538 MILITARY SURGERY. embarked, indeed, with an unusual predisposition to disease, arising from excessive fatigue, chagrin, exposure to the ele- ments by day and night, nakedness, want, oocasional ine- briety, insubordination, and last of all, exhaustion from the severe conflict which closed their disastrous retreat. On the passage a most fatal typhoid fever broke out, which spread far and wide amongst the nurses and medical attendants of the hospitals in England when they were landed, although it was highly improbable, not to say impossible, that a particle of fomites or the matter of contagion could exist among them at the moment of their embarkation. And it was too fatally proved that every transport exhibited a most destructive focus of infectious fever before they reached England, while the tempestuous weather for some days after the ships came into port, prevented their disembarkation, and confined these men to its continued operation.” Although my own observations on the endemic fever of Batavia, which I consider in every respect analogous to the yellow fever of the West Indies, have convinced me that contagion forms no essential part of its character, I must not withhold the distinguished names of those medical philo- sophers who contend for its contagious nature, amongst whom are to be ranked, Lind, Blane, Pym, Chisholm, Fellowcs, Gilpin, and many others. In opposition to these stand the names of Hunter, Jackson, Mosely, Bancroft, Burnett, and Ferguson, all of whom have been employed in the public service of the country, all of them appealing to their personal experience, and all of them, on either side of the question, entitled, from their personal character, to the highest respect. In the Essay on yellow fever by Dr. Bancroft, originally deliver- ed as the Gulstonian Lecture before the College of Physicians of London, and in a sequel to that essay, published in 1817, the question of the contagion of yellow fever is most ably dis- cussed. This author’s observations are particularly calculat-539 YELLOW FEVER. ed to obviate an opinion of there being two varieties of yellow fever, one the common remittent fever of tropical climates, and the other a disease of a highly contagious and pestilential nature, said to have been imported into the West Indies by a slave-ship from the island of Bulam on the coast of Africa. This latter opinion of the importation of yellow fever was stre- nuously supported by Dr. Chisholm and Sir William Pym. The observations of the latter excited so much interest, that the Lords of the Privy Council were induced to apply to the College of Physicians for information on the principal points in dispute, “ the contagious nature of yellow fever,” and the peculiarity of its attacking “ the same person only once in the course of his life.” The College having, from want of personal experience, left these two points undetermined, application was made to the army and navy medical boards for a collec- tive view of the opinions of the medical officers of the respective services, whose experience enabled them to adduce facts and observations in support, or in refutation of these propositions. From the reports furnished by the naval service, of which alone Dr. Bancroft was permitted to make use, he has adduc- ed evidence, in my opinion, satis superque, to prove the futili- ty of the diagnostics upon which it has been attempted to esta- blish the existence of Bulam fever as a separate and highly contagious disease. Some of these diagnostics, the appearance of the eyes, the seat and nature of the headach, the pre- sence or absence of the remission, &c. are vague, accidental, or uncertain. With respect to one of the principal diagnostics of the Bulam or infectious fever, the “ black vomit,” and gangrenous state of the stomach, Dr. Bancroft has well ex- pressed the futility of all such criteria ; for “ the first, ” says he, “ is the almost unerring harbinger of death, and the other can only be known after its occurrence ; as black vomit- ing is a mortal symptom, never occurring, it may be said, in those who recover, and often wanting among those who die.MILITARY SURGERY. 540 its appearance in this disease must be much rarer even than death, and this circumstance, joined to that of its not being peculiar to the fever in question, render it very unfit to be produced as a diagnostic thereof. ” The chief value of a diag- nostic is to enable us to ascertain, at an early period, the true nature of a disease, but this refers to its consequences only. Upon this point, Dr. Musgrave of Antigua remarks, “ had Drs. Pym or Gilpin, or any one holding their opinions, prac- tised in Antigua during the late epidemic, still prepossessed with the idea of black vomiting being distinctive of yellow fever, I venture to assert, without fear of contradiction, that he or they, spite of every preconceived notion, must in candour have admitted, that a disease at least answering in every re- spect the description given by themselves, could ostensibly be produced by miasmata alone.” This, according to Dr. Bancroft’s view of the matter, the application of miasmata to the human body in warm cli- mates, is the most frequent, or rather the only existing cause of yellow fever; that it is really a marsh remittent fever; and he endeavours to establish the identity, or near affinity and connexion of the yellow fever with fevers no- toriously and indisputably produced by marsh miasmata. The latter have certain peculiarities, which he compares with the phenomena of yellow fever, in order to show the identity of the two diseases. The peculiarities of marsh fever, all of which are observable in the progress of the yellow fever, are, according to Dr. Bancroft,—1. 1 hat of occurring in their simple and mild form of intermittents during the spring. 2. That of being exasperated, converted into remit- tent, and apparently into continued fevers by excessive summer heat, and this generally with a great increase of malignity. 3. That of being reconverted or brought back to their mild intermittent form at the commencement of winter, and after- wards extinguished or suspended in cold countries by a conti-541 YELLOW FEVEH. nued frost. 4. That of most frequently and violently attack- ing strangers from colder climates, and more salubrious situa- tions. And 5, That of never being communicated from person to person by a contagious property. With so many proofs of identity in their cause, and of the nearest affinity in their symptoms, and reciprocal conversions into each other, as well as in their effects on the human body, and their changes by heat and cold, &c. it would be unseasonable not to consider them as mere varieties of the same disease. “ We might as well,” says Dr. Rush, “ distinguish the rain which falls in gentle showers in Great Britain, from that which is poured in torrents from the clouds in the West Indies by different names and qualities, as impose specific names and characters upon the different states of bilious or marsh fever.” In the attempt to establish another peculiarity of the Bulam or infectious fever, viz. the non-liability to a second attack, those writers who support this opinion do not appear to me to have been more successful than in their support of the for- mer position. As I cannot at present enter into the arguments in support of this immunity from a second attack, which is compared to the security conferred by an attack of small-pox, nor into the very satisfactory arguments by which Dr. Ban- croft has proved this exemption to be merely relative, and that even a repetition of attacks does not confer absolute immunity, I shall content myself with observing, that the evidence of nu- merous naval and military surgeons, upon which Dr. Bancroft overthrows this doctrine, is to me perfectly satisfactory ; and my opinion upon this point is not a little strengthened by the following remark of Dr. William Fergusson, than whom no one has had better opportunities of informing himself relative to the point at issue. Dr. Fergusson observes, “ Another piece of doctrine has been promulgated from the writings of the authors above alluded to, Sir William Pym and Sir James Fellowes, that the yellow fever cannot be received by542 MILITARY SURGERY. the same subject more than once. Of this, again, we who live amongst yellow fever, not only know nothing, but we see it Contradicted by the daily experience of our lives.” These two points, then, the contagious nature of the yel- low fever, and the non-liability to a second attack, being, in my opinion, so completely disproved by Dr. Bancroft, I must now be permitted to observe, that I see no difference, except in degree, between this scourge of the West Indies and the bi- lious remittent, which I have so often seen at Batavia, at Prince of Wales Island, at Seringapatam, and in various other parts of the East. That a yellow fever under certain circumstances, under great accumulation and concentration of its victims, may not become contagious, is what I am not pre- pared to assert; but I may safely affirm, that I have seen nu- merous fevers, to all intents and purposes yellow, so far as the colour of the skin is concerned, and fevers also with black vo- miting, which were not attended with any circumstances giv- ing rise to a suspicion of contagion ; nor were patients who had suffered an attack of this fever by any means exempted from a second accession. In short, between the yellow fever of the West, as described by numerous writers, and the bilious remittent of the East, I see every possible point of resem- blance ; and I can see no possible difference but what may be accounted for by season, by local peculiarities, or particular idiosyncrasis. With this opinion of the identity of marsh fevers in all tropi- cal regions, I proceed to offer a few remarks on the symptoms and treatment of the yellow or bilious remittent fever of warm climates, premising, thatlhold it entirely foreign to the province of this chair to enter into any exposition of the theory of fever in general, or any lengthened detail of its pathology and cure. Yellow fever, like all other diseases, differs greatly accord- ing to the intensity of its exciting cause, the peculiar situation of the patient, and his natural habit of body. It occurs inYELLOW FEVER. 543 its most aggravated shape amongst young and robust men re- cently arrived from temperate regions. Its approach is marked by lassitude, listlessness, reluctance to exertion, nausea, and chilliness; which symptoms are soon succeeded by strong ar- terial action, intense heat of skin, flushing of the face, redness and suffusion of the eye-balls, uneasiness and pain in the sto- mach, oppression of the pracordia, and a white furred tongue. The patient is distressed with an insatiable thirst, while he loathes almost every thing in the shape of solid food. These symptoms are speedily succeeded by frequent, almost continued, efforts to vomit, with discharges first of whatever the stomach happens to contain, and subsequently of bile, at first of a yel- low appearance, afterwards green, and occasionally tinged with blood. During this first and active stage of the disease the pa- tient’s fate is frequently determined; for, if not met by cor- responding activity on the part of the practitioner, the foun- dation of irreparable mischief is frequently laid in the brain, the liver, or the stomach ; for although in most instances, even where the disease runs its course uncontrolled, a remission takes place within forty-eight, or at the utmost within seventy- two hours, yet this apparent remission is often the transition from inordinate action to perfect exhaustion, and is sometimes only a short prelude to that hopeless state which is speedily to terminate in disorganization and death. Dr. Gillespie, in his account of the diseases amongst the seamen on the Lee- ward Island station, very properly cautions young practi- tioners against a mistake very common with regard to the yel- low or ardent fever, that of mistaking the fatal stage, which follows great and excessive action, and which accompanies spha- celus of the viscera, for a salutary crisis of the disease. Dur- ing remissions, the pulse returns apparently to the condition of health, the skin becomes cool and moist, while the intellect, if previously disturbed, again becomes clear. After some inter-544 MILITARY SURGERY. val, this remission is succeeded by another paroxysm, appa- rently less violent than the former, because the patient's ex- haustion, and that extreme depression of strength characteris- tic of advanced inflammation of the brain or stomach, rendei lum unsusceptible of the former excess of action. In these renewed paroxysms, instead of intense febrile heat and strong arterial action, the warmth of the body and the frequency and strength of the pulse are sometimes less than when the patient was in health ; but the pain and heat of the stomach become excruciating, with incessant strainings to vomit, which in most of the fatal cases are followed by hiccough and repeated dis- charges of matter resembling turbid coffee, more or less dilut- ed, and also by the evacuation of similar dark matters from the bowels. When the last mentioned train of symptoms occur* indicating a severe affection of the stomach and bowels, the patient’s head is frequently but little affected ; he remains suf- ficiently in possession of his intellects to know those about him, and to give distinct answers to questions put to him. In cases, however, where the disease fixes more particularly on the brain, the retching and black vomit just described do not so common- ly occur, but, instead of them, low muttering delirium, or co- ma, with convulsive twitches of the muscles of the face or other parts of the body, supervene. In advanced stages the tongue and teeth become covered with a dark brown fur ; yellowness of the skin and petechia? make their appearance ; the urine, which is sometimes suppressed, and sometimes passed involun- tarily, has a putrid smell and dark colour ; the fa?ces are also exceedingly offensive, and of a putrid character. Haemorrhages occasionally take place from the nostrils, gums, or other inter- nal surfaces; the pulse becomes feeble, and intermits; the breathing laborious; portions of the skin assume a livid co- lour ; the extremities grow cold, and life is gradually extin- guished . It seldom happens in severe cases of this disease that theYELLOW FEVER. 545 bfain ami stomach are both equally affected, but in fatal cases it is from lesion of one or other of these organs that the patient is destroyed. Those who die early in the disease generally perish from an affection of the head, with moderate vomiting ; while those who have the stomach violently affected are usually found to have their mental faculties clear, though often weak- ened, and they seldom expire before the end of the fourth or beginning of the fifth day. Of the two symptoms which have been held more peculiarly to characterize this disease, the yel- lowness of the skin and the black vomit, the former begins in a few cases within the first forty-eight hours, sometimes on the third, and frequently not until the fourth or fifth day. It is first commonly perceptible about the angles of the nose and mouth, gradually extending down over the neck and trunk, so as in some instances to become universal. This yellowness of the skin is ascribed by Dr. Bancroft to the presence of bile in the circulation, occasioned by the compression of the liver in the severe and protracted efforts in vomiting; and although I have never myself seen this peculiar appearance of the skin until an advanced stage of the disease, it is necessary to state, that several authors, amongst whom are Drs. Dickson and M‘Arthur, have seen this symptom previous to the occurrence of vomiting ; and Mr. Dickinson asserts that vomiting does not always precede, nor does it always occur when the bilious suffusion takes place. The black vomit has been considered by some writers as bile altered in character, but it is now more generally and more justly considered as a bloody effusion from the internal surface of the stomach. Tor various arguments in support of this opinion I must refer to Dr. Bancroft’s work, and devote the remaining observations to a summary exposition of the appearances on dissection, and the means o* cure in yellow fever. 1 he dissections of patients who have died of this fever have discovered appearances corresponding to the affection of the 2 N546 MILITARY SURGERY. part most violently attacked by the disease. When the symptoms of an affection of the head have been urgent, the. vessels within the cranium have been found turgid, and watery effusions, sometimes of a yellow colour, into all the cavities of the brain. The texture of the brain is sometimes in- creased in density, and on cutting into its substance the me- dullary part has immediately appeared thickly spotted with red points, owing to the effusion of blood from the divided vessels; while it has occasionally happened, that some of these vessels have been ruptured previously to the death of the patient, and blood has been found effused into the sub- stance of the brain. When the symptoms indicating a severe affection of the stomach have been predominant, traces of disorganization of this viscus have been discovered on dissec- tion ; the whole inner surface inflamed ; portions of the vil- lous coat abraded, and sometimes found floating among its contents, which consist for the most part of the same dark coffee-like fluid evacuated during life. In the less concentrated form of this fever which I have had frequent occasion to see in India, the liver and spleen have often been found increased in size and weight, and Dr. Chisholm considers the liver as the organ principally affected in this disease. In the treatment of Yellow Fever, two modes of practice have chiefly been pressed upon the attention of medical men ; the employment of blood-letting and the administration of mercury. Of the efficacy of the first, I consider myself en- titled in some measure to speak from personal experience, having witnessed its beneficial effects in those levers of the eastern hemisphere, which I consider in every respect ana- logous to this scourge of the west, and in conjunction with this experience, every circumstance attending the usual pro- gress of the disease seems to concur in pointing out blood- letting, in its earlier stages, as the most rational and eflectual means of relief. Its more violent attacks are chiefly confinedYELLOW FEVER. 547 to strangers recently arrived from temperate climates; most of them young, vigorous, and robust. Its first stage is obvi- ously one of great excitement, the indications of which are a hard, full, and strong pulse, a distressing sense of universal tension, a red starting eye, and parched skin; while those who have fallen victims to the disease have generally exhibited, on dissection, traces of inflammation in various organs, especially in the head and stomach. To render blood-letting beneficial, it should be resorted to early, within the first twenty-four, or if possible within the first twelve hours; and to prove effectual it must be done copiously, any thing less than from sixteen to twenty ounces may be looked upon as mere trifling, when a patient’s life is at hazard. In a disease so fatal our hopes must rest on very active measures; in the class of subjects generally affected by this fever, the young and robust, the lancet should be used with a bold hand, and it should ever be kept in mind, that the chance of success will depend much upon its being used within a few hours after the attack. Amongst a host of authorities in favour of this practice, I shall content myself with referring to the works of the late venerable Dr. Jackson ; and my own sentiments are more fully explained in the following passage of my Essay on the Dis- eases of the European Troops in India. “ I may safely assert, that neither in fever, nor in any other disease, have I ever had occasion to regret the employ- ment of blood-letting ; while, on the other hand, I have fre- quently had to blame myself for its omission. Instead of confining the use of this evacuation to the most urgent cases of fever, where its use appears indispensable, I should be in- clined in a great measure to reverse the rule, and to practise it in every case where some peculiar circumstance does not forbid its use. Youth, plethora, vigour, and a recent arrival from Europe, are circumstances which, in the opinion of many of our Indian practitioners, will alone justify the em-548 MILITARY SURGERY. ployment of this evacuation in any disease, and are circum- stances in which I should find many ready to acquiesce in its utility; but it appears to me, that although patients of this description will undoubtedly bear bleeding to a much larger extent than men of an opposite description, yet this evacuation becomes no less necessary in older men, to obviate the tenden- cy of the disease to fix upon and impair the functions of the liver, from which an increase of years certainly affords them no exemption, and to which their residence in India, if of any duration, and the habits of the soldiery there, as certainly create a positive predisposition.” In a disease so intractable in its nature, so frequently fatal in its event, and so unmanageable by mild and ordinary me- thods, it is not surprising that recourse should have been hat to mercury, the effects of which upon the animal economy, whether good or bad, salutary or deleterious, are m general abundantly powerful. The most common operation of this metal, when exhibited internally, is either to produce copious evacuations by stool, or to excite salivation; and m either case, benefit is derived from its exhibition. Dr. Bancroft assures us, that after much research upon this point, he has not been able to discover that the salivators were more suc- cessful than others. Indeed, if it is to salivation alone that we are to trust, I apprehend our efforts must frequently fail, for in a very able paper in the thirteenth volume of the Edinburg Medical Journal, Mr. Sheppherd has adduced the authority of various modern practitioners to show the inutility of attempt- ing to affect the system with mercury during the 1“fla™“a- tofy and active stage of yellow fever. Although Dr. C is- holm warmly acknowledges his obligations to Dr Rush, and expresses his admiration and respect, for his fortitude in pursuing the mercurial mode of treatment; yet Dr. Rush himself has candidly stated, that in the City Hos- pital of Philadelphia,- where bleeding was sparingly used.YELLOW FEVER. 040 and where the physicians depended chiefly upon salivation, more than one-half died of all the patients who were admit- ted. Upon the use of mercury in tropical fever, the follow- ing are the observations suggested by my experience in India. “ In the common fevers of the Madras establishment, this is a remedy which, by a liberal use of the evacuations already recommended, may very generally be rendered unnecessary. Where, however, the patient has laboured under an indifferent state of health previous to the accession of urgent febrile symp- toms, and where the use of purgatives alone seem inadequate to the restoration of healthy secretions, and natural alvine eva- cuations, I have frequently had recourse to it with the very best effects; and in the more severe forms of fever prevalent in India, it is a remedy reckoned indispensable. While some difference of opinion exists regarding the mode of its opera- tion, there seems to be but one opinion generally prevalent re- garding its extensive utility. On this subject I speak with diffidence, but I am inclined to think, that a more free use of bleeding and purgatives would, in a great many cases, even of these severe fevers, supersede its necessity.” As auxiliary means in the treatment of yellow fever, many authors have concurred in the commendation of purgatives, the first objects being, as expressed by Dr. Chisholm, freely to evacuate the prunes, vies, and deplete the muscular system. In my opinion of the inutility and impropriety of emetics in this fever, I am happy to find myself supported by Dr. Ban- croft, who very justly condemns them, from the presence of gastric irritability, which, for the most part, proves one of the most vexatious and troublesome symptoms of the disease. I am also supported by the same authority in urging the utility of the cold effusion, of which I entertain a very high opinion. Upon the treatment of the fevers which have on recent oc- casions proved so destructive to the troops in Gibraltar and at Walcheren, I consider it unnecessary to enlarge, as they ap-550 MILITARY SURGERY. pear to me, in every essential point, akin to those of our East and West India possessions ; but it may not be out of place to notice here the following prophylactic measures suggested by Drs. Borland, Lempriere, and Sir G. Blane, for the protec- tion of the troops at Walcheren in 1809- “ The troops should not be oppressed with duty, or enjoy less than four nights in bed. On the evenings of the nights on which they mount guard, an extra allowance of spirits to each man would be essentially beneficial ; and when relieved next morning, a comfortable warm breakfast of strong coffee should be in readiness. “ The barracks ought to be of the best description, well guarded from cold and damp, with boarded floors; stoves and flues, suitably directed to convey an equal temperature to the remotest corners, to be placed in each room. On no account should ground-floors be used for sleeping apartments. The more lofty the buildings the better ; for the tenants of the up- per stories not only enjoy the best health, but when taken ill have the disease in the mildest form, an instance of which came under our observation when we visited Fort Ramakins ; and the same is confirmed by the experience of the natives. “ The clothing of the soldier should be of warm quality, and in the best repair. He should be equipped with woollen stockings and flannel waistcoats, the frequent changes of which merit particular attention from his officer. The shoes should be strong, of the best water-proof leather, to guard against the peculiar damp of the country. The pantaloons should be of a spongy warm texture, blue or grey, in preference to white, that there may be no temptation to adopt the pernicious cus- tom of cleaning them with wetted pipe-clay. “ The diet, especially in the sickly period, should be nutri- tive, and the broths well spiced with pepper; during which season a small portion of unmixed spirits might be usefully allowed early in the morning.”TROPICAL DYSENTERY. 551 In concluding these observations, I may be permitted to reiterate my opinion, that the yellow fever is nothing more than a highly concentrated form of the marsh remittent; that the yellowness of the skin and black vomit, which have been supposed peculiarly to characterise this fever, are accidental and adventitious symptoms, not supervening, for the most part, until the patient is beyond the reach of medicine, and therefore unfit to guide our practice. In fine, I consider this fever, whether raging on the coast of Java or on the shores of St. Domingo, whether at Seringapatam, at Gibraltar, or at Walcheren, as essentially of the same nature ; its symptoms, its dangers, and its treatment alike, and that this treatment will be most successful when it is most calculated to lessen high vascular action, to subdue local inflammation, and to ob- viate the disorganization of important organs. TROPICAL DYSENTERY. This disease has from the most remote ages been looked upon as one of the principal scourges of an army, both in temperate and in tropical climates. In Sir John Pringle’s work on the diseases of the army, we have an account of the dysentery as it occurred in his time; and for a detail of its extensive ra- vages in the Peninsular army, I would refer to Sir James M‘Grigor’s paper on the health of that army, so frequently quoted in the introductory part of the course. From the de- tails there given, it would appear, that in a period of thirty- one months, from December 1811 to June 1814, nearly 23,000 cases of dysentery and diarrhoea occurred, and that dysenteryMILITARY SURGERY. 552 was the disease which of all others produced the greatest mor- tality. A table of all the diseases which terminated fatally in the Peninsular army during the above period, exclusive of the wounded, gives the following results : In the year 1812, 2340 men perished from this disease; in 1813, 1629; and during the first seven months of 1814, 748; in all, 4717. What may be the comparative frequency and fatality of this disease in our West India islands, I am unable to say ; but, from a table published in my work on the diseases of the Eu- ropean troops in India, it appears, that, at the principal sta- tions of the Madras army, the deaths from dysentery during the year 1817» when that table was made out, were 515, more than double the number of deaths from fever, the next most fatal disease. To an account of the phenomena and treatment of this dis- ease, as it has occurred under my own observation in various parts of India, I must necessarily confine myself, premising the following remarks of Sir James M‘Grigor on the treat- ment of the dysentery in the Peninsular army : “ The prac- tice,'” says he, “ of Dr. Buchan, Dr. Fergusson, Dr. Somers, Dr. Erly, Dr. Vetch, Drs. C. and James Forbes, Dr. Walk- er, (I may add the lamented names of the late Drs. Gray and Cabell, and indeed of most practitioners,) was to attack the disease vigorously by depletion on its earliest commencement. I myself,'” says Sir James, £< had seen much of the benefit of this practice in and about Portsmouth, in the years 1810 and 1811, with many dysenteric cases received 'from the Penin- sula. The plan of Dr. Somers appeared so judicious, and proved so successful on the first attacks of the pure unmixed disease, that I recommended its being generally followed in the army.’’ The particular details of this practice have been published by Dr. Somers himself; and, referring to his tract for the most successful mode of treatment in the form of the disease whichtropical dysentery. 553 assailed our army in the Peninsula, I proceed to offer a few observations on this formidable disease as it assails the army in India. This limit in the application of my remarks I wish to be particularly noted, because, without pretending to say whether or not our European nosologists have rightly charac- terised the disease as it occurred to them, I must take the li- berty of observing, that in the definition of this disease given by Dr. Cullen, comprised in three lines, there are at least three circumstances not characteristic of Indian dysentery : 1. The existence of pyrexia, the distinctive character of the class in which Dr. Cullen has placed dysentery, does not al- ways usher in the disease as I have been accustomed to meet it; and I have known this disease to have very seriously, per- haps irreparably, injured the intestinal canal before any urgent symptoms of pyrexia become either distressing to the patient or conspicuous to his medical attendant. 2. T. he fever attend- ant upon dysentery is stated unequivocally by Dr. Cullen to be contagious. Now I speak I think within bounds when I say, that I have treated not less than two thousand cases of this disease, and have never once met with a circumstance tending to create a suspicion of contagion. 3. Dr. Cullen states the farcal matters to be mostly retained ; and in his description of the disease observes, that, when they do appear, it is in the form of small indurated masses, termed scybalai. The appear- ance of these indurated masses of faecal matter is, on the con- trary, an occurrence exceedingly rare in tropical dysentery. Although little disposed, in general, to occupy my time in critical disquisitions of this kind, I consider it my duty to ani- madvert on these points, my object being to apprize young men who may be destined to serve in our Indian possessions, how little the flux or dysentery existing amongst the troops there resembles the description given of it by some writers at home. A young man, prepossessed with the idea of pyrexia being an essential and primary constituent in every form of554 MILITARY SURGERY. dysentery, would naturally be inclined to make light of any case in which this was not remarkable, and might thus lose the best opportunity of being useful to his patient. Prepos- sessed with the idea of the disease being contagious, he might waste his time in useless precautions, or deprive his help- less patient of that assistance from others, of which dysenteric cases stand so much in need. Adopting the idea of scybalae lodging in the bowels, he might be induced to persevere in the repetition of purgatives, which, in some circumstances and stages of this disease, I hold to be much worse than useless. The remote causes of dysentery in India are conceived to be heat, particularly when combined with moisture ; the im- moderate and indiscriminate use of fruits; the abuse of spi- rituous liquors ; exposure to currents of wind and to noxious night-dews; and in whatever way these causes may act in the production of dysentery, we are assured by Dr. Johnson, that in every case of the disease which has come within his observation, two functions were invariably disordered from the very outset, and soon drew other derangements in their train. These were the functions of the skin and of the liver, and “ I defy,” says he, “ any one who has minutely regarded this disease at the bed-side, to produce a single instance in which these functions were carried on in a natural manner at any period of the disease.” But referring to Dr. Johnsons work on the “ Influence of Tropical Climates on European Constitutions,” for a full account of his ingenious views up- on this subject, I proceed to observe, that I have been strong- ly impressed with a belief in the existence of two distinct forms of dysentery as it occurs in India. The one is an acute disease, confined chiefly to the large intestines, and denominated by some of the Indian practitioners colonitis, a term which does not necessarily imply the existence of a flux, but corresponds extremely well with the appearances on dissection ; the other is a more chronic form of disease,TROPICAL DYSENTERY. 555 is more extended in its site, and is frequently termed hepa- tic Jinx. These two species of the disease correspond near- ly with the acute and chronic dysentery of some other writers, particularly of Mr. Bampfield, the author of a valuable work on tropical dysentery. This author has indeed carried his subdivision still farther, and has enumerated three varieties of the former and five of the latter species. On this arrange- ment Dr. Johnson makes the following remark, in which I most heartily concur. “ This arrangement,” says he, « is cer- tainly logical and luminous, but I scarcely see any advantage in thus splitting down diseases into so many minute varieties. It was the celebrated Cullen who gave currency to this no- tion, swayed perhaps more by the example of preceding noso- logists than by his own excellent judgment. And, upon the whole, I greatly doubt whether such minuteness of diagnosis is often possible, or if it be, whether it is of any avail in ac- tual practice.” On the first arrival of European troops in India, it is an inflammatory affection of the large intestines, the dis- ease which lias been termed colonitis, that principally proves destructive to them. The manner in which a tropical cli- mate operates in giving origin to this inflammatory affection of the colon, did and still does appear to me involved in much obscurity ; for although the remote causes formerly assigned, heat, moisture, night-dews, abuse of fruits and intoxicating liquors, may be considered as powerful agents in the produc- tion of fluxes, it appears to me difficult to account for the very frequent occurrence of severe and extensive inflammation of the colon, on the first arrival of a European regiment in India, before many of those causes can possibly have taken effect, before the climate can well be supposed to have ex- erted its baneful effects on the constitution at large, or on the hepatic system in particular, and before the soldiers have be- come habituated to the abuse of the most pernicious descrip-MILITARY SURGERY. 55G tion of spirits, which subsequently renders their diseases fre- quent, obstinate, and incurable. Although I am not inclined to encourage the practice of pampering soldiers, but rather disposed to recommend that they should be habituated to bear the evils which they cannot shun, yet I am induced to notice the following pas- sage, recommending the confinement of soldiers newly arrived in India to their barracks during the heat of the day. It is from a communication to the Medical Board at Madras, by Mr. How- ard, a very experienced medical officer of the East India Com- pany’s army, and refers to a very fatal dysentery which pre- vailed in the 30th regiment at Wallajahbad in I8O7. “ The confinement of the men to their quarters was from the hour of eight A. m. till four o’clock r. m., and is still conti- nued. This was attended with such beneficial effects, that in about a fortnight after the admissions not only became fewer in number, but what was also observable, the disease, from being highly aggravated in its symptoms became gradually less so, and from that period took on daily more and more the cha- racter of common diarrhoea. Now as there was not during that time any change or alteration in the diet of the men, or deviation from the established discipline of the regiment, which appears to be guided by that rule best calculated to preserve health, I am disposed to attribute this mitigation in the symptoms of the disease to the confinement of the men to their barracks; and the regulation having been found of such benefit and importance to the soldier’s welfare in this instance, I trust it may at no time be overlooked on the landing ol a new regi- ment from Europe ; for I am persuaded, had the plan been adopted on the arrival of the 30th regiment at this station, much of that distress and suffering in the first place would have been avoided, and many subsequent deaths ultimately prevented.” In whatever way the acute inflammatory form of flux mayTROPICAL DYSENTERY. 557 be excited, it commences in general with much of the appear- ance of a common diarrhoea, occasional griping pains in the bowels, frequent and unseasonable calls to stool, with an irre- sistible inclination to strain over it. The evacuations aie in general copious, at first of a fluid consistence, and without any peculiar fetor ; they are sometimes streaked with blood, and at other times a small quantity of blood is voided in a sepa- rate form, unmixed with the faecal matter. The pulse in this early stage of the disease is seldom altered, the heat of skin but little increased, and the tongue little, il at all, changed in its appearance. The patient soon begins to complain of fixed pain in the hypogastrium, more or less acute, sometimes peculiarly urgent in one or both iliac regions; and often to be traced along the whole course of the colon. The evacuations now become more frequent and less copious; they consist chiefly of blood and mucus, or are composed of a peculiar bloody serum, not inaptly compared to water in which beef had been washed or macerated ; the tongue is noiv for the most part white and loaded ; the skin is either parching hot or covered with profuse, clammy perspiration ; the pulse is still frequently found to be little affected, only assuming an in- creased quickness, without any other remarkable feature. But at times the pulse, without much increase of velocity, will be felt full and bounding, with a peculiar thrilling sensation under the finger. This state of the pulse always denotes extreme danger, and shews that the disease is rapidly hurrying on to the final stage, in which the lassitude and dejection so con- spicuous throughout its course, are converted into the utmost degree of anxiety, depression, and fear of death. The discharges by stool which are frequently involun- tary, are now accompanied with the most intolerable fe- tor ; they are frequently mixed with shreds of membrane, and quantities of purulent matter; a protrusion of the gut, forming a complete prolapsus ani, often takes place, and558 MILITARY SURGERY. cases are not infrequent, where a portion of the inner coat of the intestine, amounting to some inches, has been thrown off in a state of mortification. Even from this deplorable state I have known recoveries take place ; more frequently, however, the pulse, which, in some cases had given but little indica- tion of the mischief going on, begins finally to sink ; pain ceases ; delirium supervenes; frequent hiccup, accompanied with vomiting, becomes exceedingly distressing to the pa- tient ; his features change ; a quantity of sordes collects about the roots of the teeth ; his skin becomes covered with a cold, clammy sw'eat; a peculiar cadaverous smell is emitted from the body, and death comes at last as a desirable relief from this loathsome state of existence. The periods occupied in passing through the different stages I have described, are va- rious, the disease frequently proving fatal within a week from the patient’s admission, and at other times its duration is protracted to two or three weeks, although I think it seldom exceeds this, where the disease is confined solely to the in- flammatory affection of the colon. The more chronic form of disease, termed hepatic flux, of which the complaint above described is sometimes a precursor, is more particularly incident to men after being some time resident in India, and more frequently attacks those who, from habit and constitution, are less liable to violent inflammatory affections, but more prone to irregular and disordered secretions of bile. This flux, like the other, often assumes at its commencement the appearance of a common diarrhoea, and becomes afterwards character- ised by frequent and severe fits of griping, resembling cholic pains, particularly urgent about the umbilical re- gion. Each attack of griping is generally succeeded by a call to stool, and the evacuations are always unnatural in colour and consistence, free from any admixture ol blood, but generally of a yeasty or frothy appearance, and accompa-TROPICAL DVSBNTERY. 559 nieil with large discharges of flatus; while in passing they arc attended with a sense of scalding about the anus. The patient, after each evacuation, feels considerably relieved, and hopes to enjoy an interval of ease, but the recurrence of the griping, accompanied with a sensation of air passing through the bowels, and succeeded again by a call to stool, give him little respite. From the commencement of the attack, the patient complains of nausea, want of relish for his food, and preternatural thirst, attended often with a disagreeable taste in the mouth. The tongue is furred or loaded, and not un- frequently covered with a yellow bilious coat. The pulse is quickened and the skin parched. After these symptoms have existed for some days, the stools for the most part become and continue of a w hitish appearance, insomuch that the disease is often termed by the soldiers the white, in contradistinction to the bloody flux. The griping pains continue, and sometimes the patient feels a permanent degree of oppression, rarely amounting to pain, about the region of the epigastrium. The nausea and loathing of food increase, ac- companied with hiccup and bilious vomiting, the latter a symptom peculiarly troublesome, as it leads to the rejection of every thing offered in the shape of food or medicine. The thirst becomes more and more urgent; lassitude and debility increase, emaciation succeeds with rapid strides, the quick- ness of pulse continues, and the skin often communicates a peculiarly greasy sensation to the touch. Under these symp- toms, more or less aggravated, the patient continues to labour for weeks, and not unfrequently for months; so that this form of flux often does an irreparable injury to the constitu- tion, and reduces the patient to a state of emaciation and de- bility, in which his life is held by a very precarious tenure. It does not of itself, however, generally, or perhaps ever, prove fatal, but either terminates in recovery, or the patient is car- ried off by the occurrence of an abscess in the liver, or by the560 Military surgery. accession of ulceration and mortification in the course of the colon. In patients dying of the acute or inflammatory form of flux, the following are the appearances which usually present them- selves. On laying open the abdomen, a quantity of serum, sometimes mixed with coagulable lymph, is found accumu- lated in this cavity. The omentum is generally shrunk, firmer than usual, and feels doughy, with slight adhesions to the covolutions of the bowels; at other times thin, per- fectly transparent, and destitute of fat; the latter appearance chiefly confined to those cases where the disease has been un- usually protracted, and complicated with a liver affection. The stomach is seldom altered in its appearance or structure. The small intestines are often perfectly sound; sometimes exhibiting slight inflammatory patches, to which patches the omentum is occasionally found adhering. The great intes- tines again, the principal seat of disease, show the strongest mark of inflammation in all its stages ; some portions ex- hibiting externally a slight inflammatory redness, while others are marked by the highest degree of lividity ; in some cases parts of the gut are found to have given way, so as to permit the escape of air and even of fa:ces into the cavity of the ab- domen. In these destructive effects of inflammatory action, the ccecum and sigmoid flexure of the colon are found more parti- cularly to participate. On slitting open the gut, a quantity of fetid air makes its escape, and the natural dimensions of the canal are in many parts found much lessened by the thickening of its coats. The villous coat is found in some instances simply abraded, in others ulcerated and besmeared with a bloody mucus, mixed with specks of purulent matter. In a few in- stances I have seen parts of this coat exhibit the pustular appearance, which has been compared by Sir George Baker and others to small-pox. Extravasated grumous blood, in considerable quantity, is sometimes found in the colon, butTROPICAL DYSENTERY. 5G1 the appearance of hardened lumps of feculent matter in the form of scybalas is, as formerly observed, exceedingly rare. While diseased appearances are thus so remarkable in the intestinal canal, and very often confined entirely to the parts situated below the valve of the colon, the liver is frequent- ly found free from even the most trifling appearance of dis- ease ; at other times it is simply and slightly altered in colour, without any change of structure. In old residents and hard drinkers it is not unfrequently enlarged and indurated. The coats of the gall-bladder are occasionally thickened ; and the bile itself in some degree inspissated. Many of the appear- ances just noticed, of which it is not easy to convey an idea by verbal description, are well represented in the splendid plates of Mr. Annesley’s work on the diseases of India and of warm climates. Before proceeding to offer any remarks on the treat- ment of dysentery, I think myself entitled to conclude, with Mr. Bampfield, that hepatic inflammation and dysentery are not so frequently co-existent in India as has been commonly stated and believed. Coupling the preceding detail of symp- toms with the appearances on dissection, the slight degree of constitutional derangement, with the violence of the topical affection, I have been led to consider the colonitis, or acute form of flux, as more of a local disease, and more subject to the influence of local remedies, than has generally been ima- gined, to look upon it as a disease almost exclusively con- fined to the large intestines ; an inflammation in short of this part of the canal, tending rapidly to mortification, and ha\ing in a great proportion of cases little or no connexion with disease of the liver. Even allowing, as Dr. Johnson seems to suppose, that a diseased action of the liver and a vitiated state of the biliary secretion always precede the attack of colonitis, and are in some measure the cause of the latter affection, still in the state in which wc often meet the disease, 2 oMILITARY SURGERY. 562 it would be of little avail to exhibit remedies calculated to restore a healthy action to the liver, while the patient is dying of mortification of the colon. In the chronic or hepa- tic form of flux again, many circumstances combine to induce us to consider it more of a constitutional disease than the preceding. The circumstance of its prevailing chiefly amongst men some time resident in India, the degree of fever which is always more or less conspicuous, the diseased secretions apparent in the stools, and in the matter rejected by vomiting, all tend to mark a disease in which a more general derange- ment of the functions of the glandular viscera of the abdomen and of the intestinal tube takes place. That in this disease the functions of the liver, the stomach, and upper part of the intestinal canal are greatly impaired seems obvious ; of which the vitiated secretions, the frequent attacks of vomiting, the passing of indigested portions of food along with the faeces, and therapid emaciation of the patient, appear to me abundantproofs. While, then, in the acute form of disease, our attention is to be directed to the diminution of a violent inflammatory affec- tion of the colon, threatening to terminate in mortification and death, in the more chronic form of disease, our object is to restore healthy secretions, and to obviate a general affection and tendency to disease in the chylopoctic viscera, without a mark- ed inflammation of any particular organ. With these views of the indications in the treatment of dysentery, 1 proceed to observe, that, in the worst form, or inflammatory stage of it, blood-letting is the remedy upon which our chief dependance must be placed. But, in expressing a favourable opinion of this practice, I must candidly own, that it is grounded more on the ravages of inflammation so uni- versally apparent in the dead, than on any repeated or exten- sive experience of its beneficial effects in the living. In those cases of dysentery in which I have employed bleeding, the majority have, I think, terminated favourably, and of those.563 TROPICAL DYSENTERY. in which the result has been fatal, the appearances on dissection have been such as to excite a sentiment of regret at not hav- ing carried the evacuation farther. I am now indeed satisfied, that in the cases of dysentery which occurred in the Royals on our first arrival in India, blood-letting was not practised to a sufficient extent. The prejudices against it at that time ex- isting in India, and the state of our men’s constitutions, after a voyage of full five months without having touched anywhere for refreshments, were circumstances which restrained us, more than they ought to have done, from the use of this evacuation; but that the utility of this remedy may not rest, either up- on any acknowledged error of mine in its omission, or upon any conjectural opinion in its favour, I beg leave to quote the following passages from Mr. Bampfield’s essay. “ From the history and explanation of the symptoms, causes, and consequences of this disease, the reader will hardly be prepared to learn, that the propriety of bleeding in tropical dysentery should be questioned ; that a large proportion of me- dical practitioners in both Indies, not only discountenance the practice, but have never employed the remedy ; and influen- ced by them and long established practice or usage, many of the old European inhabitants are prejudiced strongly against it. Hence, its recommendation must rest on its merits and utility, and its employment be sanctioned only by its efficiency. I am able to prove its utility in tropical dysentery by the cases annexed; and I hope to vindicate the principles on which it is employed, by establishing a particular identity of some symptoms in dysentery and enteritis, which are characteristic of intestinal inflammation, and a further analogy between it and inflammation of other viscera possessed of secreting mem- branes, when peculiar functions differ from the intestinal. My experience justifies the employment of it in dysentery, and it should be laid down as a rule of practice, that venesection should be early and universally employed in all cases of dy-MILITARY SURGERY. 5G4 sentery of the inflammatory variety, when there is a fixed, constant, and acute pain of the abdomen, accompanied by fe- ver and constipation. It is employed with equal propriety and advantage when the rectum discovers the high state of inflam- mation formerly described.” I have already had occasion to notice the favourable opinion entertained by Sir James M‘Grigor and l)r. Somers of blood- letting in dysentery, and to the late Dr. White, who died in Egypt, from inoculating himself with the matter of a plague bubo, the profession is also much indebted for having shown the safety and utility of blood-letting in this disease. Dr. White, in a letter addressed to his late Royal Highness the Duke of York, published in the Medical and Physical Jour- nal, has recommended it to be pushed ad deliquium. The cir- cumstances, however, attending the death of this individual, from an ill judged experiment on himself, induced many to dis- countenance the practice which he recommended in dysentery, and to look upon it as the suggestion of a well meaning, but hot- headed medical enthusiast. But the practice of blood-letting in dysentery is sanctioned by much more ancient authority than this; for besides that of the distinguished military sur- geon, Leonardus Botallus, Trallian has recommended general bleeding in this disease to the extent of “ two heminas, ” or little less than twenty ounces. Prosper Alpinus also, in his work, De Medicina Egyptiorum, approves of venaesection, and contrasting the artificial abstraction of blood with the quantity which the patient must necessarily lose if the dis- ease is not subdued, has the following remarkable expression. “ Nos dicemus, si non mittatur sanguis, atque eo modo statim in principio divertatur fluxus ab intestinis, multo sane majorem sanguinis copiam per alvum, perseverante illo affcctu, emanaturum; qui longe plus quam arte facta vires resolvet; optimum itaque esse remedium dyscntericis, modicam sanguinis evacuationem existimo.TllOriCAL DVSENTERY. 565 The next important remedy which has been recommended in the treatment of dysentery is mercury ; and however highly I am disposed to think of this remedy in the chronic form or advanced stages of the disease, I have never been able to see the benefits of its exhibition in the acute inflammatory affec- tion of the colon. In compliance with the practice prevalent at Prince of Wales Island, when the Royals landed there in 11507, we were induced to prescribe mercury in our dysenteric cases to the extent of producing profuse salivation ; but this practice was speedily abandoned from being found decidedly unsuccessful, and from our soon ascertaining by dissection that these cases were not dependent upon any conspicuous disease of the liver, which we had been led to expect, and in which view mercury was thought an appropriate remedy. Hav- ing never resumed the general use of mercury, in the acute dysentery, at any subsequent period of my service in India, I am unable to say more of it from my personal experience; but it is necessary to notice the use of this mineral, in the form of calomel combined with opium, from which we are assured by Drs. Johnson, Annesley, and others, that the most essential benefit may be derived, and in urgent cases it is recommended to be given to the extent of a scruple, combined with two or three grains of opium, two or three times in the twenty-four hours. As I have no experience to guide me in speaking of this treatment, I give it chiefly on the authority of l)r. Johnson, who first recommended the practice. If, in the acute form of dysentery, I refrain from any gene- ral, and, as I conceive, unmerited commendation of this power- ful medicine, it is only to offer my testimony to its beneficial ef- fects in the chronic form of the disease. The general success of mercury, under every form, in the cure of hepatic fluxes, shows the extensive powers of the medicine, and the little comparative importance of the form in which it may be administered, a pointMILITARY SURGERY. 5GG which, with some practitioners, seems to me to claim an undue shareof attention. The quantity of the medicine to be exhibited must vary greatly in different individuals; it is always to be carried the length of producing considerable ptyalism; and this, wherever the exhaustion of the patient does not forbid it, is to be kept up without intermission until natural secretions return, and the stools resume a healthy appearance. For the profuse salivations, which many suppose necessary, I have never heard any good reason assigned; while the relaxation and debility of the patient, partly induced by the medicine, and partly by its rendering him incapable of taking the little sustenance to which he might otherwise be inclined, seem very strong objec- tions to this practice. Upon the various auxiliary and topical means employed in the treatment of dysentery, I cannot now enlarge; they chiefly consist of purgatives, sudorifics, warm bath, topical bleed- ing by leeches, blisters, and injections. The various circum- stances in which these are indicated, and the various symp- toms they are calculated to relieve, will readily suggest them- selves ; but I cannot help remarking, that, from the view I take of the topical nature of the colonitis or acute form of flux, I am induced to attach a very considerable importance to topical remedies, particularly to leeching, blisters, and in- jections. And I conclude by again observing, that, in order to establish a rational and discriminating mode of treatment in dysentery, we must ever hold in view the leading distinc- tions in its nature, which it has been a principal object of these remarks to point out.567 LIVER DISEASE. LIVER DISEASE. This disease, when it occurs in an acute form, with all its usual diagnostics, is easy of detection, and in general leads to a practice sufficiently active and amply successful. “ It may,1’ says Dr. Chisholm, “ be generally observed, that regular acute hepatitis is a very tractable disease, if early known, and suit- able means promptly and judiciously administered.” It is not, therefore, by this well marked form of the disease that so many lives are lost, and to which the health and vigour of so many Europeans are prostrated in tropical climates; but in these climates insidious and ill-marked cases of liver dis- ease steal upon us unawares, and proceed to an extreme, from which there is no chance of recovery, without giving either patient or surgeon a sufficient degree of alarm. While, in a great majority of cases, affections of the liver are obviously the joint effects of climate and intemperance, we find them in others the result of climate alone, and in such cases they are often very obscurely marked. It is a singular fact, that, in a register of deaths kept in the regiment with which I served in India, in a period of seven years, and out of up- wards of five hundred deaths, twenty-seven only are ascribed to hepatitis. This, however, I am persuaded, is not the pro- portion which this disease bears to the other fatal diseases of the country, for this register shows only the disease under which a patient was admitted into hospital; and many have, no doubt, been registered under the head of fever or dysentery, where symptoms of these were alone conspicuous at the time of their admission, while eventually they have died of dis- eased liver. Upon the relative proportion of these diseases in India and elsewhere, much valuable information will be found in Mr. Marshall’s sketch of the geographical distribution of diseases in a recent number of the Edinburgh Medical Journal.568 MILITARY SURGERY. There is little clanger of our neglecting or overlooking those acute cases of the disease which are attended with severe pain in the region of the liver, impeded respiration, quick andbard pulse, with the other symptoms enumerated by nosologists as charac- teristic of hepatitis. It is, therefore, more my present object to direct attention to some of those symptoms characteristic of those milder or more chronic forms of the disease, where pam is not urgent, and where we want this guide to direct us to the seat of the evil. The class of patients to which my expe- rience has been chiefly confined is not perhaps the most fa- vourable for making observations on the state of mind accom- panying disease ; but the depression of mental energy in most cases of hepatitis is sufficiently conspicuous to arrest the atten- tion of the most superficial observer. The patient is general- ly overcome with a degree of languor, listlessness, reluctance to exertion, and aversion to enterprise, for which no adequate cause is conspicuous, and an apprehension and alarm exist which no external symptom seems to justify. The sufferer is prone to enter into a detail of his miserable feelings, at the same time obviously labouring under the greatest difficulty in explaining his sensations accurately. Pain, as I have already hinted, is not in general urgent; and when more distinctly complained of, it is, I think, frequently described as occupy- ing the epigastric rather than the right hypochondriac region. It is occasionally found extending up the side, and reaching to the top of the right shoulder, where a gnawing or aching sensation is experienced. The patient generally speaks of a sense of oppression, full- ness or stuffing about the lower part of the chest, leading him to press upon the part affected, from which he obtains a momentary relief. In some instances a distinct sensation is felt, as of a circumscribed solid mass was appended in- ternally to the right side ; and when the patient lies on the opposite side, he experiences what has been often and wellLIVER DISEASE. 5GQ characterised as a dragging pain. By a manual examination of the side, we are sometimes materially assisted in ascertain- ing the existence of a liver affection, particularly in its ad- vanced stages, when emaciation has proceeded to a consider- able extent. And it is perhaps here worthy of remark, that I have met with some patients, who, although they could themselves press the side freely, yet shrunk from the hand of a stranger the moment it was applied, as if it occasioned them exquisite pain. In such cases we must not be deceived ; but, by pressing more firmly on the side, by trying whether the patient can bear the application of our hand to his opposite side, and by trying whether he can bear pressure with his own hand on the region of the liver, we are to satisfy ourselves whe- ther any unusual susceptibility, tenderness, or pain in that region actually exists. Such are the principal symptoms and feelings referable to the liver itself. The pulse, in cases of chronic hepatitis, does not afford any decisive criterion, until its increased quickness, accompanied with fits of rigor, alternating with sweatings, thirst, and restlessness, gives reason to apprehend the forma- tion of matter. Respiration is often impeded, and may, for the most part, particularly if accompanied with dry tickling cough, be considered as marking inflammation of the upper or convex surface of the liver. Irritability of the stomach has, on the other hand, been, I conceive very justly, held to denote the existence of inflammation on the lower or concave surface of the liver; and, indeed, in all severe affections of the latter organ, a peculiar irritability of the stomach exists, marked by nausea and frequent retching, an appetite frequently caprici- ous, but not always defective. The state of the alvine dis- charge is always particularly deserving our attention in cases of hepatitis. The disease generally commences, and often continues, with a constipated state of the bowels, the stools being both less frequent and more scanty than usual. The570 MILITARY SURGERY. evacuations also are often remarkable in colour, being some- times darker sometimes lighter than natural, often alternating in this way, according to periodical accessions of activity or torpor in the liver, and an alternate increase or diminution in the secretion of the bile. The urine is scanty, and frequently deposits a copious flaky sediment. The peculiar sallowness of complexion and jaundiced eye, which some authors have held to be particularly characteristic of liver disease, I do not dwell upon, conceiving, that although, in obscure cases, this may assist our diagnosis in Europe, and although, perhaps, it may generally originate in diseased liver, or indicate a pre- disposition to that affection, yet we see it so frequent in India, that, as a diagnostic symptom of disease, it becomes compa- ratively unimportant. On dissecting patients who have died of hepatitis, the ap- pearances of course differ materially, according to the rapidity and violence with which the symptoms have proceeded. In acute cases of the disease, when it proves speedily fatal by terminating in suppuration, it is not uncommon to find one, or both lobes of the liver almost wholly converted into matter ; partly serous and partly purulent, confined in a sac formed by the peritoneal coat of the liver. In a few cases of this kind I have found the diaphragm eroded, and the matter commu- nicating with the extreme branches of the bronchia, through which, when the patient has survived for any length of time, it has been discharged by expectoration. In many instances, an extensive adhesion is formed between the liver and trans- verse arch of the colon ; from which it is apparent that the matter may thus find its way into the intestinal canal, and be discharged by stool. Although I believe that abscesses of the liver have occasionally been discharged in this way, I have never really seen such a communication in the dead body. In the chronic form of disease, instead of meeting with an abscess of any remarkable size, we generally find several small distinct col-LIVER DISEASE. 571 lections of pus, similar to what are termed vomica; in the lungs. The whole mass of the liver, in such cases, is generally altered in colour ; it assumes an appearance as if parboiled, and be- comes much firmer in texture than natural; insomuch, that on cutting into its substance, a sensation is communicated to the hand of the dissector as if his knife were passing through a cartilaginous mass. The small quantity of blood which flows from an incision into a liver in this indurated state is also remarkable. Although white spots on the surface of the liver, and tubercles in its substance, with other anomalous appearances, are sometimes met with in India, yet in that country such appearances are comparatively rare ; while sup- puration and induration, the more common and legitimate results of a preceding inflammation, are extremely common. The gall-bladder does not exhibit any general or uniform morbid appearance; sometimes it is a little thickened in its coats, and consequently diminished in capacity, while the bile itself is frequently found thickened or inspissated. In the treatment of hepatitis, of the symptoms, and con- sequences of which I have now given a brief sketch, our most strenuous efforts should be directed to prevent suppura- tion ; for although I do not mean to assert, that whenever the liver suppurates, the patient must inevitably die from this cause, yet 1 believe that after such an event very few recove- ries take place, and that an individual has little chance of enjoying any thing like health and comfort under the vicissi- tudes of a soldier’s life. Recoveries would be more fre- quent were we enabled by any means to procure an early derivation of the matter to the surface, and to make an opening for its exit; but in these deep-seated abscesses, such is the resistance opposed to their progress outwards, and such the facility with which the substance of the liver gives way to the ulcerative process, that we are often sur- prised to find an enormous collection of matter accumulated,MILITARY SURGERY. 8 w ithout any external appearance to direct us to the precise scat of it, or to guide us in making an opening for its evacu- ation. With a view to obviate suppuration, and to promote the resolution of inflammation, blood-letting, both general and topical, is our chief resource ; but, in addition to this, mercury has been long held to possess a specific influence in resolving inflammatory affections of the liver, and to its efficacy in such cases I can bear personal testimony. I am at the same time persuaded, that, from the high repute which this medicine enjoys, it has in some instances, par- ticularly of the acute disease, been too exclusively trusted to. Practitioners seem now, however, to be generally aware, that, in patients of peculiarly robust constitutions and san- guineous habits, full mercurial action cannot be induced un- til the tone of the system is lowered by bleeding and other evacuations. It therefore behoves us to remember, that, while bleeding in the acute hepatitis cannot be too promptly resorted to, the exhibition of mercury may perhaps be deferred, without any ultimate disadvantage. It was common, in my time in India, to look upon blood-letting as an evacuation which it was upon all occasions desirable to avoid, but this was a sen- timent in which I never permitted myself to indulge; and in the regiment in which I had the honour to serve, an opposite practice was gradually established, both in fever and in hepatitis, where something peculiar in the patient’s habit or circumstances did not forbid it. In hepatitis, I have frequently observed, that when doubt or hesitation existed on the part of the practitioner, when half measures were adopted, and the early stage of the disease thereby ne- glected, it became extremely difficult of cure, apt to de- generate into a chronic form, and to become a troublesome companion for life. Under the apprehension of such a re- sult, I have employed blood-letting to a larger extent thanLIVER DISEASE. 573 what the state of the pulse, the height of the symptoms, or the habit of the patient would seem to demand, and of such practice I have never had occasion to repent. I do not how- ever mean to allege, that bleeding will altogether supersede the necessity of mercury, but that in the acute form these should at least go hand in hand, and that the latter should be pushed to the extent of producing ptyalism with the least possible delay. In the chronic form of the disease, it is to mercury we must chiefly trust for the re-establishment of a healthy action in the liver, and the restoration of healthy secretions. The relief experienced, in many cases of chronic hepatitis, so soon as the mercury affects the mouth, is truly surprising; the removal of all uneasy feelings from the side, the comparative clearness of the patient’s skin and visage, the return of natural evacuations, and the removal of every complaint but debility, abundantly evince the powers of this remedy. In either form of hepatitis, smart and habitual purging will materially promote the objects we have in view ; and, in this instance, the preference so generally given to calomel in India, is, I believe, well founded. A few grains of this preparation over night, with a solution of some of the neutral salts on the following morning, is what I was in the habit of employing; and when by these means copious evacuations are procured, they seldom fail of producing beneficial effects, relieving the indescribable sense of tension, stuffing, and oppression about the region of the liver, and making the patient feel compara- tively light, easy, and cheerful, so that we have seldom any difficulty in persuading him to repeat them as often as they become necessary. Leeches, blisters, and setons, are all well known and highly useful auxiliaries in the treatment of liver complaints ; but upon the virtues of these it seems to me un- necessary here to enlarge.574 MILITARY SURGERY. FEIGNED AND FACTITIOUS DISEASES. Various motives have induced individuals to simulate the •appearances of disease, and of these one of the most common is the hope of evading military service. The great amelio- ration in the condition of the soldier and seaman, which has taken place under a liberal and enlightened government, has indeed rendered attempts at this species of deception less fre- quent than formerly : still there are to be found both in the military and naval branches of the service some worthless characters, who, instead of shewing a commendable zeal in the discharge of their duty, are incessant in their attempts to impose upon the surgeon ; and whenever they succeed in exempting themselves from duty, they throw an addition- al burden on the willing and meritorious soldier, while at the same time every successful case of imposition becomes a focus, whence other similar attempts emanate. This subject, therefore, possesses, in a national point of view, a much deeper interest than might at first be supposed; as it regards the efficiency of men for the public service, the protection of the real and innocent sufferer from suspicion, and the exemp- tion of the good soldier from an undue proportion of duty. The extent of malingering varies greatly at different periods of our military history. Mr. Marshall observes, “ there is a much greater proportion of malingerers in some regiments than in others, a difference which may perhaps in part depend upon the discipline of a corps, the conduct and general demeanour of soldiers being greatly influenced by the nature of the dis- cipline under which they are controlled. But with regard to the simulators of disease or disabilities, I am disposed to think that they never become numerous in a regiment, when the surgeonFEIGNED AND FACTITIOUS DISEASES. possesses experience, and that peculiar tact which enables him not only to detect malingerers, but so to adapt the means to the end as to induce them to give in. Soldiers soon form an opi- nion of the ability of their medical attendant in this respect, and seldom attempt to deceive, unless they think their artifice will succeed. This tact does not depend upon severity; for the most efficient surgeon will often doubt without expressing his suspicions, and seem to be the dupe of a schemer, that he may become his master.” The medical officer intrusted with the examination of mili- tary men claiming leave of absence, exemption from duty, or pecuniary rewards for their sufferings, must be constantly on his guard against imposition, or the exaggeration of acciden- tal and trifling symptoms and appearances. He ought at the same time to be careful not to push his incredulity too far. Of this a melancholy instance, and by no means a singular one, is recorded by Dr. Johnson in the fourth vo- lume of the Medico-Chirurgical Review, in which a seaman who complained of disease of the shoulder-joint, was punish- ed for skulking, when it afterwards turned out that a deep- seated abscess had been forming, which ultimately terminated in anchylosis. It is in general hospitals, when soldiers are separated from the surgeons of their own corps, that impositions are most frequently attempted, and whenever the suspicions of a medi- cal man are excited, he should endeavour to conceal them. He should himself become a dissembler; for while the im- postor is persuaded that the medical attendant is his dupe, he will be less on his guard, and if judiciously questioned as to the circumstances, the origin, progress, duration, seat, and intensity of his malady, the effects of remedies, &c. he will seldom be able to tell a consistent tale, but will betray some incongruity in his statements which will enable us to elicit the truth. “ It is generally however good policy to afford aMILITARY SURGERY. 57« malingerer an opportunity of retreating, or to use the language of the military hospital, to let him down softly The persevering obstinacy of some impostors, and the ex- treme simplicity of others, are equally remarkable, and in some instances equally ludicrous. Of the first, a singular example, which I well recollect, was presented in a case mentioned by Mr. Marshall, that of Fitzgerald, a soldier of the Royals, who, in consequence of an alleged injury in his back, pretended to be unable to stand upright, and, in spite of much rough treat- ment, kept his body bent forward day and night for a period of eighteen months, so that when his arms were allowed to hang down, the fingers reached to within a few inches of the ground. His period of service being expired, and the prospect of a bounty of sixteen guineas held out to him, this individual recovered in two days ; but “ moral turpitude, not physical disability,” prevented his being re-admitted into the Royals. Of the extreme simplicity of another dissembler I recollect a ludicrous instance in the case of a man rather advanced in life, who had been enlisted at an out-station, had been regularly passed by an experienced surgeon, and duly attested ; but before joining the regiment, having begun to repent of his engagement, he stated to me that he was liable to rupture. Upon the most minute examination, I could find no trace of hernia, and gave my opinion accordingly. The recruit then very gravely told me that his rupture was of that peculiar kind that it always went up under fatigue, and that the exertion of marching up to the head-quarters of the regiment had made it disappear. I immediately told him that this was a very singular species of rupture, but of all kinds the most convenient for a soldier, that we could contrive to give him plenty of fatigue, and that, at all events, we should keep him until the rupture again made its appearance. The man went to his duty, and the rupture was never more heard of. The distinction between feigned and factitious diseases willFEIONED AND FACTITIOUS DISEASES. 377 readily be understood ; but without adhering rigidly to tins distinction, 1 shall offer, in succession, a few observations on these diseases as they affect the system at large, the brain and nervous system, the thoracic and abdominal viscera, and the extremities. In lecturing upon this subject I am in the habit of teaching chiefly by examples, giving, in addition to the cases which have fallen under my own observation, a selection from those contained in the writings of Marshall, Cheyne, Hutchison, Hennen, and in the article “ Feigned Diseases,’ in the Cyclopaedia of Practical Medicine ; here however I shall content myself with a few general remarks on the most com- mon impostures practised by soldiers and seamen, the charac- teristic distinctions between real and feigned diseases, the means by which artificial diseases are frequently produced, and the best means of counteracting imposition. „ The diseases assumed by malingerers, or “ hospital birds, as they are technically termed in the service, are various, ac- cording as they are assumed for temporary or permanent purposes—for the purpose of admission into the sick list, or of procuring their discharge from the service. Of the acute forms of disease, one of those most commonly simulated is a Paroxysm of Fever, and in the history and symptoms of an intermittent, some old soldiers are profoundly versed, skilfully imitating its rigors, but, in general, overacting their parts, increasing their efforts to deceive, as the surgeon’s suspicions seem to be awakened. The febrile paroxysm consequent on intoxication has sometimes been the means of cloaking the of- fence, and of screening the offender from punishment; while it has subsequently become the source of much mirth at the expense of the surgeon who has been deceived by it. A paroxysm of fever is said to be excited by the introduction of a clove of garlic into the rectum, and the white tongue, char- acteristic of this disease, has been imitated b> rubbing it iwt i chalk. In one remarkable case narrated by Mr. Cop an 2 p57 8 MILITARY SURGERY. Hutchison, the tongue was loaded one-eighth of an inch thick by a coating of common brown soap, a clumsy expedient, which was readily detected. The pallor and cadaverous aspect in- cident to some stages of fever, and to protracted disease in ge- neral, are said to be imitated by exposure of the face to the fumes of sulphur, and by drinking an infusion, or smoking the seeds of cummin ; an effect of this substance, which is mention- ed by several ancient authors, Persius, Horace, Diascorides,and PJiny, who states that the scholars of Portius Latro, a celebrat- ed professor of eloquence, took this way of imitating the colour w hich hard study had given to the complexion of their master. The effect of all these substances, however, is, of course, tem- porary, and will cease soon after the cause is withdrawn. Other diseases of a more chronic character are frequently either feigned or artificially produced; and in the class of Mental diseases, those most commonly simulated are the ex- treme casesof furious mania, and intellectual weakness or drivel- ling idiocy; but in none of these cases is it easy for an impos- tor to keep up that continued attention to appearances which is necessary for his purpose. Besides, the difficulty of sus- taining, for a length of time, the mental phenomena of insa- nity, there are often present, particularly at the commence- ment of a genuine maniacal attack, certain physical peculiari- ties which it is scarcely possible to feign. Amongst these, long continued abstinence, incessant watchfulness or want of sleep,an immoderate muscular power, and non-obedience to the usual effects of medicine, arc amongst the most remarkable. It is to be observed also, that the real disease is often slow in its advances, and that on looking backwards, various circum- stances will be recollected in the conduct of a patient, which lead to the conclusion that his mind has been, perhaps for months previously, in a state of occasional aberration, while in cases of feigned mania the paroxysm comes on without any pre- monitory symptom, and often under circumstances where theFEIONED AND FACTITIOUS DISEASES. 579 object of it can be distinctly seen. These last observations apply equally to cases of assumed idiocy or mental weakness, which in the case of a clever and persevering impostor it is extremely difficult to detect; most men having enjoyed “ op- portunities of studying the character in the instance of the poor idiot still to be met with at large in almost every village.’1 Solitary confinement, spare diet, bleeding, and repeated blis- ters or counter-irritants are amongst the most appropriate re- medies in real mania, and are not very tolerable to an impos- tor. It has been well observed, that “ seclusion is particularly necessary in all such cases, as nothing tends so much to keep alive the hopes and the courage of the impostor as the con- sciousness that his raving is heard by his fellows, and the be- lief that an impression favourable to his views may be made on the minds of his officers by the continued exhibition of his miserable state.” There is perhaps no disease more frequently and success- fully feigned than Epilepsy. The intermittent character of this affection obviates the necessity of that continued simulation which is necessary in the cases of mania and idiocy. In cases where this disease is assumed either amongst the soldiery or in civil life, the times and places of attack are naturally selected, so that the paroxysm may not pass unobserved by those upon whom it is desirable to make an impression. The impostor frequently here, as in other cases, overacts his part, and by the excess of his contortions, throws himself into a profuse perspiration ; the discharge of blood and saliva from the mouth has been occasionally produced by biting the tongue, pricking the gums, and chewing a piece of soap; but the fictitious epileptic is unable to produce the bloated and dis- torted countenance, and to exert the convulsive muscular power characteristic of the real disease, or to resist the usual ef- fects of stimuli applied to the eyes, the nostrils, or the skin. While in the real epileptic the pupils remain expanded andMILITARY SURGERY. 5H0 insensible to the action of light, they are in fictitious cases obedient to this stimulus; and individuals have been roused from a feigned paroxysm of epilepsy by dropping into the eye a few drops of alcohol, or any acrid liquid ; by blowing into the nostrils some pungent snuff; by sud- denly dashing a bucket of cold water over them; or by applying to the skin a spatula or piece of cloth dipped in boiling water. Fictitious epileptics have also occasion- ally betrayed themselves by opening their eyes, evidently for the purpose of observing tbe effects of their gesticulations on the bystanders; or by adopting certain suggestions as to the nature of real epileptic fits, which have been purposely thrown out in their hearing by expert and intelligent surgeons with a view to mislead them. Partial convulsive affections, if feigned, are for the most part readily exposed by protracted watching, it being impos- sible for the impostor to keep up an incessant muscular action without exhausting himself; and when it is pretended that such affections come on periodically, the suspected person should be placed, as if accidentally, in a situation where he can be overlooked without his being at all aware that he is under ob- servation ; in such a situation he will not continue the sem- blance of diseased when he can expect no impression to be made even by the reality. Paralytic affections, it may be observed, unless dependent upon some obvious organic lesion, are but little incident to men at that time of life, when they are usually called upon to serve as soldiers or seamen. The general appearance of paralytic limbs is well known ; and when this disease has been feigned, impostors have occasionally been detected by the application of strong and unusual stimuli, particularly the electric shock, or by approaching the individual cautiously during sleep, and tickling him in such a way as will induce him to move the pretended paralytic limb.FEIGNED AND FACTITIOUS DISEASES. 581 Ophthalmia. The artificial production of this disease has already been noticed, and of the extent to which this has upon some occasions been carried in the army an estimate may be formed from the following statement. “ In the year 1809, three hundred of the men of two regiments which were on duty at Chelmsford, became affected with ophthalmia. The healthy men of the corps were removed to another station, and the sick remained in hospital, but under mi- litary command. Information having reached their com- manding officer that one of the nurses of the hospital was in the habit of going to a druggist s shop for the purpose of purchasing medicines, suspicions were excited ; and in con- junction with the medical officer in charge of the hospital, lie made a successful attempt to discover whether the men had any drugs in their possession which might be employed to excite inflammation of the eyes. Accommodation having been provided for about twenty-four men, the number contained in one ward, at midnight the officer made his appearance in the hospital; the men were roused from their beds and forth- with marched in a state of nudity to the new ward. 1 he old ward was secured for the night; and next day when the beds were examined, a number of small parcels of corrosive subli- mate were found concealed. Means were taken to prevent a supply of this article, and in a very short time two hundred and fifty of the men had recovered, and w'ere then marched to their respective corps.” The substances used for producing artificial ophthalmia are, it is believed, very numerous. Amongst others to which the pa- tients have for the most part ready access are lime, snuff, the juice and ashes of tobacco, &c. Amongst the more prominent of the circumstances leading to a suspicion of the factitious nature of the disease is the suddenness of its invasion, and the rapidity of its progress ; its confinement almost exclusive- ly to the privates, or non-commissioned officers of a regiment,MILITARY SURGERY. 582 without affecting the officers, women, or children ; the cir- cumstance of its being very frequently confined to one eye, and that almost always the right. The most effectual means of counteracting attempts to in- jure the eyes by the application of noxious substances, are the seclusion of suspected individuals ; the employment of hand- cuffs, or the use of tin masks for the face, so contrived as to prevent the patient’s access to his eyes. Of this last-men- tioned contrivance, which has been used with success, I am in possession of a pattern made for me under the direction of Mr. Marshall, assistant-surgeon of the 87th regiment. But perhaps the most efficient check to the future propagation of artificial ophthalmia will be the following paragraph of the Pensioning Warrant issued in 1829. “ Whenever a case of total or partial blindness shall be involved in so much doubt, as to have been reported to a court-martial by a medical offi- cer to be ‘a suspicious case,1 the commissioners shall deal with it as to them may seem most just; but in every case in which it is proved that a soldier has tampered with his eyes, or that his loss of sight has been caused by vice, intemper- ance, or other misconduct, and that his character is bad, in- stead of being discharged on a pension, he shall be detained in an eye infirmary, or shall be sent home to his parish, or dismissed without a pension.” Palpitation of the heart, and inordinate action of the arte- rial system, are excited by means some of which arc not well understood, but a very interesting account is given by Mr. Hutchison of an epidemic of this kind which prevailed amongst the men of the Marine Artillery, and was discovered to have been produced by the use of hellebore. Hemoptysis, has been frequently assumed as a counterfeit disease, and besides the very obvious practice of pricking or cutting the gums and contiguous parts for the purpose ol tinging the saliva with blood, it is said to have been artifici-583 FEIGNED AND FACTITIOUS DISEASES. ally coloured with various pigments. In a case detailed to me by Mr. Guthrie, and subsequently noticed in his work on the arteries, a soldier resorted to the very desperate expedi- ent of swallowing a piece ol cork stuck full ot pins, which in the first instance produced copious hemoptysis or hemateme- sis, and ultimately death by wounding the carotid artery. The most obvious circumstances demanding attention in sus- picious cases are the character of the sputa, the presence or absence of fever, and the usual characteristics of real hemop- tysis, with a rigid and frequent examination of the patient s mouth. Dysentery and Diarrhoea. Wherever these diseases arc prevalent in an army, we have individuals occasionally assum- ing them for the purpose of evading duty. The symptoms are readily learned from patients actually labouring under them, and dysenteric evacuations are not unfrequently borrow- ed for the purpose of deception. Mucous evacuations are said to be occasionally produced by introducing suppositories of soap, or of more acrid matters into the rectum, and blood is sometimes artificially mixed with the stools. Bowel complaints are stated by Mr. Hutchison to have been artifi- cially produced amongst the seamen by the employment of vinegar and burnt cork ; the rationale of this process I am not able to explain, but I may remark that all feigned bowel-complaints arc for the most part easily detected by secluding the suspected individual, debarring him from access to the means of carrying on the imposture, and compelling him to use a close stool, so as to be satisfied about the nature of his evacuations. Incontinence of Urine has been very frequently feigned by soldiers and seamen. It is stated to have been a very fre- quent complaint amongst the French conscripts during the wars of Napoleon, and upon some occasions it has appeared like an epidemic in our own service, as in the instance of a584 MILITARY SURGERY. militia regiment mentioned by Dr. Cheyne. Whenever numbers come at once to be affected in this way, the disease may almost with certainty be considered as feigned, as it can never prevail epidemically amongst men at that time of life and with those habits and constitutions for which soldiers and seamen are selected. It has been detected by carefully watch- ing a patient, and observing him make a muscular effort for the expulsion of the urine, and by the administration of an opiate, which will not suspend the real disease, but will pro- duce its natural effect upon the impostor, throw him into a sleep, and thus interrupt his voluntary efforts to expel the urine. Fictitious cases have been successfully treated by pre- scribing a few lashes on the loins, with the avowed object of strengthening the parts, and by the administration of a cold bath morning and evening ; but perhaps the most humane and at the same time the most efficient means of checking an artificial complaint of this kind is the practice followed in the Austrian army of furnishing a patient complaining of enure- sis with a urinal, and compelling him to do his duty. Hernia. Attempts have not unfrcquently been made to simulate the appearance of hernia, or sarcocele, chiefly by means of inflating the cellular substance of the scrotum ; and a paper, containing the following “ receipt for making a rup- ture,'1 was picked up in a ward of the King’s Infirmary in Dublin, which had been recently vacated by a soldier, who sub- sequently availed himself of the directions it contained ; “ To puncture the bag with a corking-pin, and then, by means of a piece of tobacco-pipe, to blow it up with air; and if it were wished to produce a double rupture, the same thing was to be done to the other side ; after which warm poultices were to be applied, to take down the inflammation.11 This is an impo- sition, however, which can scarcely deceive a surgeon whose attention is in any degree excited to the subject. Itheumalism. The acute form of this disease cannot be easily585 FEIGNED AND FACTITIOUS DISEASES. simulated, and in its more chronic form it cannot exist long without wasting the limb and impairing the health. The im- postor who feigns this disease gives, for the most part, an exag- gerated picture of his sufferings, beyond what seems ever to be experienced in the genuine disease. He is also given to com- plain at all seasons, and acknowledges no benefit from any re- medial measures that may be adopcd, while in the real dis- ease relief is often experienced from the remedies usually em- ployed, or from a more genial season. As to treatment, it may be remarked, that the practice most beneficial in the real dis- ease, as repeated blistering and counter-irritants, become event- ually intolerable to the impostor, and that rheumatism is often benefited by exercise, and is not therefore always a cause of exemption from duty. No man ought to be discharged for alleged rheumatism until some organic change has taken place, and until he has undergone a series of local applications, cup- ping, leeches, blisters, and issues, which will indelibly mark him as an unfit person to be again taken into the service. Contractions of the joints are not unfrequently feigned, and often difficult to detect. If persevered in for a long time, they arc attended with wasting and .permanent lameness. The most obvious means of detecting an impostor are, to take him by surprise, engaging his attention by some conversation in which he is interested, and then suddenly moving his limb; to employ a tourniquet or tight bandage, so as to suspend the action of the muscles, and then trying to move the joint; or to suspend the muscular power by the operation of an emetic, or perhaps by intoxication. Ulcers are occasionally produced artificially, and more fre- quently aggravated by the application of various irritating substances, as quicklime, acids, various salts, copper coins, &c. In two cases furnished to me by Mr. Cockburn, the agent for sick and wounded seamen at this station, the impression of the naval button was to he seen upon the sores, the anchorMILITARY SURGERY. 58(i . and cable most distinctly marked. In cases where artificial interference was suspected with ulcerated legs, the practice of sealing or marking the bandage, so as to prevent its being un- done without detection, has long been in use; but this is not sufficient to prevent individuals from irritating their ulcers by blows on the part, or by means of pins thrust through the bandages. The more effectual plan therefore is, to enclose the leg, after being dressed, in a box or wooden boot, such as was used by Mr. Hutchison in the naval hospital at Deal, and a specimen of which he has been good enough to transmit to me for the purpose of being exhibited to the students of military surgery. Maiming or self-mulilation has been occasionally practised in all armies from very remote times; one form of it prac- tised amongst the Romans in the latter days of the em- pire, was the cutting off a thumb, and hence the derivation of our word poltroon, “ pollex truncatus.” Maiming is occa- sionally practised openly and avowedly, with the view of dis- abling the individual from the service ; and of the daring hardihood and desperation with which it is sometimes re- sorted to, I recollect a romarkable instance in the case of a soldier, who discharged the contents of his musket through his wrist, for the avowed purpose of obtaining his discharge and being sent home from a distant foreign station on which he was serving. I found it necessary to amputate this man’s hand, and was no sooner done, than he held out the other hand, saying, that if I would give him a glass of grog, I might take it off also. He was subsequently tried by a General court martial, and, instead of being sent home, was sentenced to corporal punishment, and afterwards to be degrad- ed and employed in sweeping the barracks. His object being thus frustrated, he went immediately and drowned himself. Mutilation has, however, been more frequently practised in a secret way, the object of the soldier being to get rid of587 FEIGNED AND FACTITIOUS DISEASES. the service, and at the same time to secure a pension. In judging of such cases, a medical officer will naturally be guid- ed by a consideration of the nature, site, and extent of the wound, its correspondence with the alleged cause, and other collateral circumstances. But the difficulty of forming a cor- rect judgment in such cases may be estimated by the follow- ing occurrence in the French army after the battles of Lutzen and Bautzen, in which it appears that 2632 soldiers were slightly wounded in the hands ; suspicions having arisen that the wounds were voluntarily inflicted, a board of medical officers, at the head of which was Baron Larrey, was assembled by order of Napoleon, to investigate the circumstances attend- ing these wounds; but, after mature inquiry and deliberation, the board came to the conclusion, that it was impossible to distinguish between wounds occasioned by the fire of an enemy and those voluntarily inflicted, and, consequently, they report- ed that there was no satisfactory proof that any of the soldiers under examination had mutilated themselves. An effectual provision against future acts of mutilation will probably be found in the 26th and 27th clauses of the pensioning warrant, formerly referred to, by which it is provided, that “ every sol- dier maimed by the firing off of his musket, or by other means, and who thereby becomes unfit for service, whether the injury occurred on or off duty, whether accidentally or intentionally, shall in all cases be tried by a district court martial, as soon after the event as possible.” The soldier’s claim to discharge or to pension, and even his exemption from punishment, depends on the decision of the court.588 MILITARY SURGERY. Ainslie, Report on the Epidemic Fever in India, in 180!), 1810, and 1811. Anncsley, Sketches of the most prevalent Diseases of India; Researches into the Causes, Nature, and Treatment of the Diseases of India and of Warm Cli- mates. A Series of Tables, exhibiting the Results of Disease in the different European Regiments serving under the Madras Presidency, and in the Garrison Hospitals of Madras and Poonamalec; Madras, 1828: Second Series, Madras, 1831. Ballingall, Practical Observations on the Diseases of the Eu- ropean Troops in India, 2d edit. Bampfield on Tropical Dysentery. Bancroft's Essay on the Disease called 1 dime Fever, with Observations concerning Febrile Contagion, Ty- phus Fever, Dysentery, and Plague. Bontius, Dc Medtcina Indorum. Campet, Traitc Pratique des Maladies Graves des Pays Chauds. Chisholm's Essay on the Malignant Fever introduced into the West Indies ; Manual of the Climate and Diseases of Tropical Climates. Curtis on the Diseases of India. Davis' View of the Fever of Walcheren. Dawson's Observations on the Walcheren Disease. Desge- nettes, Ilistoire Medicale de I'Armee de rOrient. Dewar on Diarrhoea and Dysentery in the Egyptian Campaign. Dick- enson on the Infammalory Endemic oj the 8 est Indies. Ion- tana, Des Maladies qui attaquent les Europeens dans les Pays Chauds. Gillespie on the Preservation of the Health of Sea- men in the West Indies ; Observations on the Diseases pre- valent on the Leeward Island Station, from 1/94 to 179G. Gnurlay on the Natural History, Climate, and Diseases of Madeira. Ilcbcrden on the Prevention of Yellow Fever. Hillary on the Changes of Air and Diseases of llarbadoes. Hunter on the Diseases of the Army in Jamaica. Hunter (W.), Diseases of Lascars in Long Voyages. Jackson, Observations on the Fever of Jamaica; Sketch of the His- tory and Causes of Febrile Diseases, as they appear in the Wvsl Indies among the Soldiers of the British Army : Re-589 MILITARY SURGERY. marks on the Epidemic Yellow Fever of the South Coasts of Spain. Johnson on the Influence of Tropical Climates on European Constitutions. Lempriere, Observations on the Diseases of the Army in Jamaica. Lind, Diseases of Sea- men ; Essay on Diseases incidental to Europeans in Hot Climates. MiGrigor, Medical Sketches of the Expedition to Egypt ; Health of the Peninsular Army, Mcdico- Chirurgical Transactions, vol. 6. Maclean on the Mortali- ty among the Troops at St. Domingo. Marshall, Notes on the Medical Topography of the Interior of Ceylon, and on the Health of the Troops employed in the Kandyan Pro- vinces. Moseley, Treatise on Tropical Diseases and the Climate of the West Indies. Parliamentary Papers relative to the Expedition to the Scheldt, 1810. Pinkard, Notes on the West Indies. Pym on the Bulam Fever. Report of a Committee of the House of Commons on the Ophthalmic Hos- pital, 1821. Somers, Suggestions on the Treatment of Dy- sentery. Transactions of the Medical and Physical Society of Calcutta. United Service Journal, various numbers. Veitcli, Letter on the Non-contagious Nature of Yellow Fever. Wade on the Method of treating Fever in Bengal; and on the Prevention and Treatment of Diseases of Soldiers and Seamen in Bengal. Winterbottom, Medical Directions for Hot Cli- mates ; Account of Sierra Leone. Wright, History of the Walcheren Remittent. THE END.. '• i »■ tw '\x ' ' v . ■■ . *5V •• #«v . ’ a U»\ - . -«:»’» V. ■ ’' ‘l • i'-v a ;a * ■ V.u . A ,• ) • *: * '; '\o V \ v' - r\ • . ':i '1 i: - v.V, VirtiMi ” A. . ~ i^ > - ' ’ V > Vti • V' ,’f \J • .V ' SO ■>' 3 . , v." . j y L \ ' s’ ^ v ■ v ■ ' ... .... ■ ■ • A. i '* ■*■ A- IV YL •. ..!< . .V