■ NOTES ON CARVING 471 NOTES ON CARVING. Nothing is more prejudicial than bad carving. A joint, ill- carved at first by one, is always disregarded by the other members; and frequently from this circumstance a joint of great weight and price is no longer presentable, and is left, to the loss of the establishment. In serving soup, one ladleful to each plate is sufficient. A steel knife applied to fish is likely to spoil the delicacy of its flavoiu'; so that it should be helped with a silver slice or trowel, and be eaten with a silver knife and fork. Do not pour sauce over meat or vegetables, but a little on one side, In helping at table, never employ a knife where you can use a spoon. The fairest mode of cutting a ham, so as to serve fat and lean evenly, is to begin at a hole in the centre of the thickest part, and cut from it thin circular slices; by this means also the moisture and flavour of the ham are best preserved. The upper part of a roast sirloin of beef should be carved at the end, and never cut in the middle, unless j'ou wish to destroy the joint in revenge. Be careful always to cut down straight to the bone, by which method you never spoil the joint, and help many persons with little meat; what remains looks well, and is good to eat. In carving a leg of mutton, slice it lightly, else, if you press too heavily, the knife will not cut, you will squeeze out all the ■gravy, and serve your guests with dry meat. Eustache Ude considers a saddle of mutton is usually carved contrary to taste and judgment. “ To have the meat in the grain, pass your knife straight to one side of the chine, as close as possible to the bone : then turn the knife straight from, you, and cut the first slice out, and cut slices lean and fat. By disengaging the slices from the bone in this manner, it will have a better appearance, and ^mu will be able to assist more guests.” If you begin to carve a joint in the middle, the gravy will run out on both sides, and the meat shrink and become dry, and be no more presentable Never pour gravy over white meat, as the latter should retain its colour. Of roasted fowl, the breast is the be.st part; in boiled fowl, the leg is preferable. The shoulder of a rabbit is very delicate; and the brain is a tit-bit for a lady. . In helijing roa.st pheasant or fowl, add some of the cresses with which it is garnished. The most elegant mode of helping hare is in fillets, so as not to give a bone, which wmuld be a breach of good manners.