PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 496 previous to his marriage—that he made friends with Louis Eustache Ude, of Crockford's Club House, with whom he was afterwards, with his wife, on terms of friendly intimacy. Ude gave a dinner party on the occasion of his birthday, and to this M. and Madame Soyer were duly invited. The scene is most amusingly described by Soyer, who made great fun out of the complications that were occasioned by M. and Madame Ude’s passion for dogs. From all accounts that can be gathered from those who knew him Alexis Soyer was a merry fellow, and as full of fun as could be—no man loved a practical joke more than he, and few were so smart at repartee. One day Lord Melbourne was inspecting his kitchen at the Reform Club, and laughingly observed to Soyer that his female assistants were remarkable for good looks. “ Ah ! my lord,” replied Soyer, with a knowing smile, “ we do not want plain cooks here.” With reference to Soyer’s work in his profession, it has been stated by some that there was not so much art displayed as originalit3^ This maybe so ; but, in any case, whether deserving or not, Soyer was a thorough master of the art of making himself famous. His method was to make something, or some one else, famous first, and then to take his share as the promoter: for instance, every aristocrat in the country paid a visit to his “model” kitchen at the Reform Club, and these Soyer would conduct himself, with his red velvet cap set on one side of his head and spoon in hand, and, after extolling the glories of the place, he would shake up a j)an and commence to prepare a dish, explaining the process as he went along, and then serve it to his guests, requesting the opinion of their palates. It might be mentioned that he always had a glass of good wine to set alongside, and proclaimed the dishes as being specially prepared for some grandee a degree or two at least above the status of his visitor. To her ladyship he would say, “ The Duke of has ordered this dish for to-night; let us taste it,” and the result was a certain appreciation. Amongst all this gastronomic splendour it is remarkable, though, that Soyer’s own tastes and habits were exceedingly simple. He tells us in one of his works, the “ Modern Housewdfe ” : “ MTien I first married our means were limited, and the following was our system of living :— Roast beef, potatoes, greens, and Yorkshire pudding. Hashed beef and potatoes. Broiled beef and bones, vegetables, and spotted-dick pudding. Fish, if cheap, chops, and vegetables. Boiled pork, peas-pudding, and greens. Bea-soup, and remains of pork. Stewed steak, with suet dumpling.” Sunday Dinner Monday ,, Tuesday ,, Wednesday,, Thursday „ Friday ,, Saturday „