555 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES Eizine Creams.—Ingredients: Rizine, ^ pint cream, oz. castor sugar, pint milk, and 10 drops of flavour- ing. Mode : Boil the Rizine in the milk till softened, let it cool, whip the cream to a stiff froth, add to it the sugar and flavouring, mix in the Rizine, fill ramakin cases (heaped up) with the mixture. Serve cold, with coloured sugar and finely chopped pistachios sprinkled over. Rizine Pancakes.—Ingredients : 3 oz. Rizine, 1 oz. flour, .V pint milk, 2 eggs, lemon and sugar. Mode: Soak the Rizine in the milk, add the flour slowl}% beat up eggs, and add separately and mix well together. Put a small piece of lard or butter into a frying pan, and when hot pour in a portion of the mixture and fry. Roll up each pancake as it is fried, serve at once with castor sugar and lemon juice. Apple Snowballs.—Ingredients : Eight small apples, | lb. Rizine, sugar, and cloves. Mode : Soak the Rizine in water 20 minutes, then drain off water, peel the apples, take out the core, and till cavity with sugar and a clove ; cover each apple ^ inch thick with Rizine, and tie each ball up in a small floured cloth; put the balls into boiling water, and keep boiling until apples are soft, 20 to 30 minutes. Serve with custard. Rizine Trifle.—Ingredients : 1^ oz. of Rizine, 1 pint milk, 2 eggs, 1 oz. castor sugar, 6 drops flavouring, jam, or stewed fruit. Mode : Boil the Rizine in milk, and when done add the sugar, yolks of eggs (well beaten), and flavouring. The heat of mixture wall be sufficient to cook the yolks of eggs— pour slowly into a glass dish, spread over it a layer of jam or stewed fruit—whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add a little castor sugar, and lightly place it on the jam or fruit—then place in the oven to set. This can be decorated with a little coloured dried fruit, cut fine. Rhubarb Sponge Pudding.—Fill a deep pie-dish with alter- nate layers of rhubarb, sweetened and seasoned with nutmeg, and slices of stale sponge-cake. Bake twenty minutes. Whisk the whites of three eggs thoroughly, add three tablespoonfuls of sifted white sugar ; spread this evenly over the top. Return to the oven for fifteen minutes to brown. Picnic Cakes.—Ingredients : Three eggs, their weight in Rizine and castor sugar, butter and flour, 1 teaspoonful of Rizine baking powder, ^ pint milk. Mode : Soak Rizine in milk ten minutes, put the butter and sugar in a warm basin and stir five minutes, then add one egg and half Ihe flour, then another egg and remainder of flour. By degrees add the Rizine and the other egg; when well mixed add baking powder and flavouring. Have two baking tins, of same size, lined with greased paper, spread on the mixture, bake about ten minutes, turn on to a sugared paper, spread jam on one of the cakes, press the other cake on top, cut in fancy shapes.