554 PRACTICAL GASTRONO.RY n pie-dish with pastry, put in the mixture and bake half an hour. Whip the whites of eggs to a stiti froth, and place lightly over the pudding. Sprinkle with castor sugar and return to the oven to set. Mock Eggs.—Ingredients : 4 oz. Rizine, 2 oz. sugar, about 1 pint milk, preserved apricots. Mode: Roil the Rizine in the milk with the sugar, and when done spread in a layer about one-third of an inch thick to cool; when cool, cut in rounds with a pastry cutter, and place the half of an apricot on each, with cut side down. Serve in glass dish with apricot syrup, Rizine Dough Wuts.—Ingredients : 3 oz. Rizine, j lb. flour, 2 oz. butter, 1 oz. castor sugar, 1 tea.spoonful Baking Powder, 1 egg, t pint milk, jam. Mode: Boil the Rizine in the milk, rub butter in flour, put the cooked Rizine into the flour, add sugar, baking powder, and egg (well beaten). Make a stiff dough, roll out thinly on a floured board, cut in rounds, put a little jam in half the rounds, wet the edges, and cover with the remaining rounds. Fry in hot fat a golden brown. Serve hot or cold. Sprinkle with castor sugar. Nursery Puddings.—Ingredients: 3 slices of bread or cake, 4 sticks of rhubarb, ^ lb. sugar, 4 oz. Rizine, pint milk. Mode : Cut the bread and rhubarb in 3-inch strips, cook rhubarb until ten- der with sugar and a little water, put a layer of bread at bottom of glass dish, then a layer of rhubarb, and so on until the dish is fall; boil Rizine and milk until smooth, about five minutes. vSweeten and flavour to taste, then pour over the fruit and bread. Serve hot or cold. American Pudding.—Ingredients : } lb. Rizine, 1 oz. bread- crumbs, 2 oz. suet, 6 oz. treacle, ^ teaspoonful of ground ginger, 1 egg, about ^ pint milk. Mode: Soak the Rizine in the milk for ten minutes, chop suet fine, beat up the egg, and mix all the in- gredients well together. Put the mixture into a greased basin and steam for two hours. Serve with sweet white sauce. Spanish Pudding.—Ingredients: ^ lb. Rizine, 2 oz. bread- crumbs, 2 oz. sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls marmalade, 2 eggs, 2 oz. suet, one lemon, ^ pint milk. Mode; Soak Rizine in milk for ten minutes, add eggs (well beaten), the grated rind and juice of lemon, sugar, marmalade, and suet chopped fine ; deco- rate a greased mould{ with dried cherries or raisins, cut in half, pour in the mixture, and cover with a greased paper. Steam for 1^ hour. Serve with sweet sauce or custard. Beignets Souflles.—Take a large cup of water and 1 oz. of butter, boil, and add one large cup of flour, stirring well until it leaves the side of the saucepan, and add one by one four or five eggs, until the dough is perfectly smooth and firm ; fill a baking sheet by dropping pieces from a tablespoon. Bake a quarter of an hour, open the pieces with a knife, and fill in with compote or custard.