FAMOUS CHEFS AND Ei’lCrKES 495 o£ the late Duke of Cambridge, 'rheiioe lie found his way to the Duke of Sutherland’s kitchen, the iMarquis of Waterford’s, and then to iMr. Lloyd’s, of Aston Hall, Oswestiy. After spend- ing some four or live years in, this latter engagement, he left it to enter the establishment of the Marquis of Alisa, at Isleworth, a ijourmet of the very first water. But Soyer left there in 188G, ha\dng previously contracted an acipiaintance with a Miss Emma Jones, a. clever pupil, and step-daughter of one M. Siinonau, a Flemish artist in Fitzroy Square. The story goes that Soyer wanted a painting of himself to send to an old sweetheart in France, but possibly changed his mind about the destination of the portrait after making the friendship and awakening a reciprocal affection in the heart of this amiable lady. In April, 1887, the marriage ceremony was solemnised, in the presence of Louis Eustache Ude and a select few friends, at St. George’s, Hanover Square, between Alexis Benoit Soyer and Elizabeth Emma Jones. Madame Soyer, nee Jones, deserves some special notice, for she was a very clever woman in many ways. Not only could she paint cleverh’, but her skill as a musician was considered of a very superior character, although it is a noteworthy fact that her pictures, which were her strongest point, were cleclined at the Ivoyal Academy, in spite of Soyer’s very enterprising letter to the president, requesting his particular consideration. Soyer was given to versify at times, and he made the president’s reply to him, and the hanging committee’s refusal of his wife’s painting, the subject of some bitter metrical lampoons. Madame Soyer’s end was of a very tragical character, and happened whilst her husband was on a trip to Brussels, in the suite of the Duke of Saxe Coburg. The first of Soyer’s literary efforts was entitled “ The Gastro- nomic Regenerator,” which had a splendid sale of over 2,000 copies in twelve months, at a guinea apiece. His next effort was as the writer of a ballet, “ La Fille de I’Orage.” M. Soyer could be as recherche in his imaginary as in his real dishes, and there was, probably, no compound with which he used to astonish and delight the palates of the members of the Reform Club more elaborately and artistically worked up than his “ Creme de la Grande Bretagne.” It was in 1837, just before his marriage, that Soyer accepted the i)ost of head cook to the Reform Club, and, as his historians .state, “ It was no joke for a young aspirant and a foreigner to face some fifteen hundred members of the aristocrac}', whose refined appetites were on the qui vive to taste, with severe criticism, the productions of the youthful artist. But Soyer was in no wise daunted bj’ such an array, but undertook with a light heart to face their severely critical tastes in the preparation of a public breakfast, given by the members of the club to 2,000 gue.sts. It was about this time—that is, just