550 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Yorkshire Padding.—Ingredients: 3 oz. Rizine, 1 oz. flonr, 2 egfgs, one pint milk, salt. Mode: Soak the Rizine in milk for ten minutes, add eggs (well beaten), flour and salt, beat well together, pour into a greased tin, put small pieces of dripping on the top and bake three-quarters of an hour. If a joint is cooking at the same time, place the pudding under it for ten minutes before serving. Rizine and Cheese Pudding.—Ingredients: Three table- spoonfuls Rizine, 1^ oz. cheese, one pint milk, ~ oz. butter, one egg. Mode : Soak the Rizine in the milk, beat up the egg, grate the cheese, and add both to the soaked Rizine. Mix together and pour into a greased dish. Bake half hour. Cost, Zd. Curried Prawns.—Fifty praAvns, one small onion sliced, I oz. flour, 3 oz. butter, juice of half lemon, half-pint of milk, one dessertspoonful of currie powder. Skin the prawns and wash them well, then fry the onion with the butter, mix the flour and milk, and let it boil for ten minutes ; then add lemon juice and prawns. Allow five minutes for them to be hot, and serve with some boiled rice. Cheese Tartlets.—Butter some small patty pans, line them with some trimmings of puff paste, beat up two yolks of eggs, mix with j lb. of grated Parmesan cheese, a little “ Oriental salt,” or a little salt or cayenne pepper; put a dessertspoonful in each patty pan, and bake in a quick oven from ten to fifteen minutes. Superior Welsh Rarebit.—Beat up 2 eggs, mix them with ^ lb. of grated cheese, 2 oz. of oiled butter, 2 table- spoonfuls of fresh bread-crumbs, a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, a dash of cayenne and salt to taste. Work the mixture well, spread on to buttered toast, put it in a hot oven just long enough to melt the cheese, and serve. Wine Biscuits.—Five oz. sifted flour, 3 oz. of grated Par- mesan cheese, 1 oz. of butter, one egg; flavour with Searcy’s Oriental^salt (a preparation of red chillis). Mix it with a little water into a smooth but firm paste, roll out thin, cut or stamp out some lozenges with a round fancy cutter about the size of a penny-piece ; put them on a baking sheet, and bake from ten to fifteen minutes. Oriental Savoury of Beetroot.—Cut a cooked beetroot into round slices about the thickness of a penny-piece ; stamp out with a fancy cuttef, dust with cayenne pepper; put a layer of shredded anchovy fillets on each piece, prepare a mixture of a teaspoonful of capers, one gherkin, and two chives, all chopped finely and mixed with a few drops of vinegar and a little anchovy paste. Spread a little of the mixture over each round, put a slice of hard-boiled egg on the top, and sprinkle wdth Searcy’s Oriental salt. Crofites of Caviare.—Cut some slices of bread about half