PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 516 COUTISE, /. When small scallops of truffles, smoked tongue, ham, are inlaid as garnish or ornament, by incision, in fillets of any kind, they are said to be contises. Craquelins, /. Cracknels, e. A kind of milk biscuits. Crepes,/. French pancakes, e. Cretes de COQ,/. Cock’s combs, c. Used for garnishing rich ragouts. Crevette,/. Prawn; shrimp, c. Ceoissant, f. Half-moon-shaped fancy bread. Croquantes,/. a transparent mixture of various kinds of fruit and boiled sugar. Croque-en-bouche,/. Is the name given to large set pieces for suppers or dinners, such as nougat, iced cakes, fruits, which are covered with boiled sugar so as to give them a brilliant appearance. The real meaning of the word is “ crackle in the mouth.” Croquettes, /. Savoury mince of fowl, meat or fish, prepared with sauce, shaped to fancy ; generally egged, crumbed and fried crisp. Croustades, /. Shapes of bread fried, or baked paste crusts, used for serving game, minces, or meats upon. Croutons, /. Thin slices of bread cut into shapes and fried, used for garni.shing dishes. Cru, -e, /. Raw, e. CuiLLERES DB CUISINE, /. Are wooden spoons. The use of wooden spoons is strongly recommended instead of metal spoons, especially for stirring sauces. The latter often contain certain acids which produce a black colour. CuissON, /. A method of boiling meat. It is finished off by cooking in its own juice whilst in an oven. CuLiNAiRE, /. This is applied to anything in connection with the kitchen, or the art of cooking. A good cook is called “ un artiste culinaire.’ Curry, from the Hindoo word lilinra (palatable, eatable). Karl,/’. All Indian condiment; a stew of meat, fish or fowl; a sharp spiced sauce. D. Dariole, /. A kind of small entree piites, composed of a com- pound of forcemeat or mince, baked or steamed in small moulds. Certain small tarts are also so called. The name usually applies to the shape of the moulds. Uarne,/. The middle cut of large fish, salmon or cod. D’.\rtois,/. a kind of Frencli pastry (puff paste and jam). Daube,/. Meats or poultry stewed.