552 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY cold water, pour in the mixture. Wlien cold, turn out and serve witli stewed fruit or fruit pies. Fruit Pudding.—Prepare a mixture as for blancmange. After boiling eight minutes, pour one-balf of the pudding into a greased pie-dish. Strew about two pounds of gooseberries^ cun’ants, plums, cherries, rhubarb, or other fruit, upon this. Then pour the remainder of the pudding all over the fruit. Bake the pudding an hour and a quarter. Peeled apples or pears may be used for the same purpose. Apricot Pudding.—Take 3 oz. corn Hour, 3 eggs, 5 oz. sifted sugar, 2 pints milk, and 1 tin of preserved apricots (or other fruit). Mix the milk gradually into the corn flour, and put to the side. Beat up the yolks of the eggs well with 3^ ozs. of the sugar, and add to the com flour. Pour the whole into a goblet, and boil for eight minutes, stirring gently. Then pour it into a pie-dish, and bake in the oven till somewhat Arm. Pour over it a layer of apricots (the juice of which may be mixed with the corn flour when boiling). Beat the whites of the eggs with 1^ oz. of the sugar to a stiff snow. Spread this over the top, and return to the oven to brown. Orange Pudding. —Prepare as for blancmange. After boil- ing eight minutes allow it to cool. Slice twm oranges, beat up two eggs with 3 oz, of sugar ; stir this well into the corn flour fill a buttered pie-dish with the mixture and alternate shoes of oranges ; bake for half an hour in an oven. Sultana Pudding.—Prepare same as for blanc-mange. After boiling eight minutes stir in sultana raisins at discretion; put into a pie-dish and bake till browm. For a finer pudding eggs may be added. Sou£B.€ Pudding.—Measure out 2^ oz. corn flour, 2^ oz. pounded sugar, 2 oz, fresh butter, 3 eggs, and 1 pint milk. Beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff snow, and beat up the yolks with the sugar till thick and foaming. Slake the corn flour in a little of the milk, and pour into a saucepan with the rest of the milk. Add the butter, a pinch of salt, and a flavour- ing of 2 or 3 drops of essence of vanilla or almond, &c. Bring to the boil, stirring well, and boil for three or four minutes. Work in vigorously the yolks of the eggs (beat up with the sugar), and stir till thoroughly mixed. Then mix lightly the firm snow'^ of the whites into the batter, and pour the batter into a slightly-buttered pie-dish. Bake in a moderately heated oven for about half an hour, sugar over the top, and serve at once with a sweet sauce to taste. Cocoanut Pudding.—Grated fresh cocoanut to the amount of 5 lb., lb, of sugar, 3^ lbs. of good butter, the whites of 4 eggs, half a glassful of sherry or brandy, and a teaspoonful of orange-water. Line a pie-dish with puff paste, pour in the mix-^ ture, and bake in a cool oven for about three-quarters of an hour. Serve hot.