FAMOUS CHEFS AND EPICURES 503 ANTOINE A. PARMENTIER. The birthplace of Antoine Augustin Parmentier is Mondidier in France, where he was born in 1737. France owes much to the exertions of Parmentier in introducing the potato as an article of diet—one of the most interesting chapters in the history of the human race. Parmentier not only introduced this edible root into his fatherland, but he also induced his countrymen to accept it as a food, and at the same time taught them more than twenty different ways of preparing it for the table. At first people believed all manner of evil things of the tuber. Some alleged that it contained poison, whilst others would have it that it produced skin-disease ; and the general verdict was that the plant was only fit for pigs’ food. The prejudice against it even became so strong that in some of the French provinces the cultivation of the potato was forbidden under the threat of heavy penalties. Parmentier, however, would not be dis- couraged by the opposition of his detractors; but, had it not been for his great and untiring energy and the protection of the king, his efforts to produce and popularise this edible root might probably have been in vain. The king, Louis XVI., who professed m\icli esteem for the great philanthropist, had an interview with him. Parmentier lauded the virtues of the potato, explaining that it was a most nutritious food, and an excellent and economical substitute for bread. As it happened, this was the period of the great famine in France, and the king was so impressed and pleased by Par- mentier’s earnestness, that he there and then conferred upon him a title, the recipient appropriately choosing for his crest a potato flower. Furthermore, the royal order went forth that fifty acres of uncultivated land, called the Plaine des Sablons, should be devoted to the cultivation of potatoes. It is on this land that the town of Neuilly now stands. Parmentier planted the field with potatoes, and when the tuber was ripe and fit for digging he had the place guarded by gendarmes, who ostensibly withdrew at dusk. As he anticipated, the field was plundered during the night by the people, tempted by the charm of forbidden fruit. The taste, thus acquired, spread with amazing rapidity amongst all classes. There was then a potato mania, and it is said that at a ball given at the palace of Versailles the queen and all the ladies were adorned with potato blossoms, whilst the king and all the gentlemen of the court wore the flower as “button-holes.” The scientific and medical notabilities of France were invited to a potato banquet, at which the favoured tuber was served cooked in thirty-three different ways. It is an amazing fact that France, the culinary nation par excellence^ ignored the existence of the potato until the year 1787, whilst it was generally known and appreciated as an