487 FAMOUS CHEFS AN]) EPICURES ANTONIN CAREME, 1784-1838. Antonin Caeeme—or, to give him his full title, Murie-Antoiiin Careme—was a chef of whom all cooks should feel proud ; foi', as a French historian tells us, although he rose From nothing, having been “ suddenly deserted in his childhood by his parents, in an agon}' of destitution ”—yet he rose, by his own magni- ticent talents, from the lowest condition to the highest, to be one of the greatest of chef:^ and to administer to the tastes and bodily requirements of Talleyrand, Rothschild, the Emperor Alexander of Russia, our King George the Fourth, and many others. “ The name of Careme,” says Larousse, in his “ Dictionnaire Universelle,” “has become proverbial to designate, in a manner, the ideal of a perfect cook. Careme was not only a practitioner of the first water, but was also deeply learned in the culinary art, and all that appertains to it. He studied for a long time the ancient cookery of Rome when she was unequalled for her lavish luxury and munificence, but of their table productions he expresses himself unfavourably. He comments in high terms upon their table decorations, cups, bowls, flowers, music, and all that, but of their dishes he says nothing of a noteworthy character.” M. Antonin Careme was born at Paris in 1784, and as a youth attracted the attention of M. Laguipim’e, who took him in hand as a lad, and sowed the seeds in him that produced such splendid results. This great and generous service was not forgotten by Careme, and it is thus that he memorialises his friend and patron :— “ To the Memory of Laymjrlcre. “ Rise, oh illustrious shade of Laguipiere ! Hear the words of a man who was thy devout admirer and piipil. Thy extra- ordinary talents have brought down upon you the hatred and persecution of those who ought to esteem you in recognition of thy noble efforts for the perfection of thine art. But what am 1 saying? Is it fitting for a man of talent to enjoy in peace the fruit of his mental labours ? Have I not had a pitiable experience of it I 0 vicissitude! O ignorance ! O Laguipiere, infamous calumny has indeed surrounded thee with tribulation—on ac- count of which thou hast been forced to quit thy beautiful country, and go to serve, in Italy, a powerful man for whom you recently made delicacies in the Elysee-Bourbon. Thou hast followed thy king inio Russia ; bur, alas ! by a most deplorable fatality amongst military pomps, thou hast pei'ished ; thy hands and feet frozen by the frightful climate of the north. You were compelled to sit without moving behind the carriage of your king, longing to quit this murderous land ; but, alas ! implacable