PRACTICAL (IASTRONO:\IY 48f) Mr. Henry Osborne, the excellent cook to S'ir Josc])b Banks, who was then President of the Royal Society, who had been a great traveller in his time, besides having journeyed round the world, where he picked up some foreign novelties and tastes like other epicures. Several books nj)on cookery liave been written by physicians:—Sir Kcnelin Digb}', one of the physicians to Charles 1.; Sir Theodore Mayerne, a physician to Henry IV. (in Paris), James I., and afterwards to Charles I. ; Professor Bradley, Dr. Hill, Dr. Le Cointe, Dr. Hunter, and others. He says that a phj’sician, who studies the practice as well as the science of the thing, is the best authority on this subject of cookery; but if we ask whether a woman can write a book on cookery, we must see what Dr. Samuel Johnson says on this subject;— “ Some people have a foolish way of not minding, or pretend- ing not to mind, what they eat; for my part, I mind my belly”— and he had one to mind too—“ very studiously and very carefully, and I look upon it that he who does not mind his belly will hardly mind an}dhing else.” And then, again, he once observed to his friends : “ I could write a better book of cookery than has ever yet been written ; it should be a book on philosophical principles; I would tell what is the best bucher’s meat, the proper seasons of different vegetables, and then, how to roast, and to boil, and to compound.” “ ‘ Mrs. Glasse’s Cookery Book,’ which is reckoned the best,” said Mr. Dilly, the publisher, “ was written by Dr. Hill.” “Well, sir, this shows,” continued Johnson, “how much better the subject of cookery may be treated by a philosopher ; but you shall see wdiat a book of cookery I shall make, and shall agree with Mr. Dilly for the copyright.” Miss Seward—Johnson’s housekeeper—observed**' That would be Hercules with the distaff, indeed ! ” “ No, madam,” replied Johnson, snuffily : “ women can spin very well, but they cannot iiiake a good book of cooker}u” Women have made a few of them, though, in later years, and very excellent books they are—being practical if not philoso- phical or Johnsonian. Boswell sa}'^s of this Johnson : “ never knew a man who relished good eating more than he did ; when at table he was absorbed in the business of the moment, nor would he, unless in very high company, say one word, or even pay the least attention to what was said by others, until he had satisfied his appetite,” which was no trifling matter, we are told ; so that, if being a thoroughbred glutton and an epicure as well qualities a man for giving an opinion on cookery, surely Dr Johnson’s remarks may be taken as evidence enough.