549 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES water or stock, oz. butter, 3 oz. cooked beetroot (chopped or grated), one slice of onion. Mode : Put all the ingredients into a saucepan, stir and boil gently five minutes, then add pepper and salt, and if liked, a little chopped parsley or mixed herbs ; pour into an oval pie-dish which has been soaked in cold water, and when cold brush over with egg, roll in bread- crumbs, and fry a nice brown. Serve with gravy. Savoury Steak.—Take a piece of beefsteak, about an inch thick. Sprinkle it with bread-crumbs, sweet herbs, and season highly with pepper and salt. Roll the steak up neatly, and tie it with string. Roast it in a saucepan in the following manner: Place sufficient dripping in the saucepan to cover the bottom when it is melted ; put in the steak, cover with the lid, and baste from time to time in the ordinary way. Turn the steak over, so that it does not burn at the bottom. The same time must be allowed as for roasting in the oven. Serve with rich brown gravy, and garnish with Indian pickle or walnuts. Any joint may be roasted in this way. It is a great convenience to do this sometimes if the oven should be out of order or needed for other things. Rizine Cutlets.—Ingredients : 3 oz. Rizine, three-quarters of a pint stock, one onion, half teaspoonful of sage, 2 eggs, bread-crumbs, pepper and salt. If preferred, one teaspoonful chopped parsley, half teaspoonful dried sweet herbs, and one small tomato (chopped fine) may be substituted for the sage and onion. Mode: Boil the Rizine in the stock, add the onion (chopped very fine), sage (or other herbs), and a well-beaten egg. When cold, shape into a cutlet, dip in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in hot fat a golden brown. Serve on paper, the cutlets overlapping each other in a circle with parsley in the centre. Savoury Rice.—Boil some rice till soft, then let the water evaporate till the rice is nearly dry; stir in a lump of butter, some grated Parmesan cheese, a little tomato sauce, pepper and salt; when well mixed, turn it on to a very hot dish and serve at once. Rizine Kedgeree.—A Breakfast Dish. Ingredients : ^ lb. of cold fish or dried haddock, ^ lb. Rizine, 2 eggs (hard boiled), I oz. butter, pepper and salt. Mode : Boil the Rizine in water^ add the butter, whites of eggs (chopped fine), fish (freed from bones), salt and pepper. Mix well together, and when hot make into a dome shape on a dish, and sprinkle with yolks of eggs. Oarnish with parsley. Rizine Savoury.—Ingredients : 2 oz. Rizine, 3 oz. grated cheese, one tomato, 1 oz. butter, pepper, quarter of a pint of milk, and bread. Mode ; Boil the Rizine in milk, add the grated cheese, butter, tomato (chopped fine), and pepper. Cut into rounds some thin slices of bread and fry them in hot fat, pile on the mixture, grate a little cheese over each and seiwe hot.