490 PRACTICAL GA8TRONOM Y colleagues with wliom he would have been associated were unworthy of such an association. After being the object of a species of semi-worship, and yielding to every new offer, yet affecting to despise them all, Careme ultimately joined the house- hold of Baron Rothschild, in Paris. George IV. is said to have tempted him by offering triple salaries; but all in vain, for London was too triste an abiding place for a man wliose soul,, out of kitchen hours, was given to study. And so Careme remained with his patron, “ until infirmity overtook his noble nature, and he retired to dictate his immortal wmrds to liis accomplished daughter.” Even in his retire)nent Careme was eagerly sought after, but he was deaf to the voice of the tempter. Money was no longer an object with him, for he was realising twenty thousand francs a year from the booksellers, besides the interest of the money he had saved. “ Think of it, shade of Milton (Milton used to dictate to his daughter),” shrieks a writer of recent years,, “eight hundred pounds sterling yearly for writing on kitchen- stuff! Who would compose epics after that?” But Careme’s books are “ epics ” after their sort, and a fitting monument of a famous man, who had been “the imperial despot of European kitchens, had been ‘ be-ringed ’ by monarchs, and been smiled on by princesses; he had received lords in his kitchen, and had encountered ladies who gave him a great deal for a very little knowledge in return.” When we look back upon the past history of the kitchen, it seems rather more than a paradox why it should be that, although so many clever cooks have left their marks in literatiu’e, yet so little is known of their personal qualities, or history. Antonin Careme is the chef to whom the title “ Father of Modern Chefs ” was once most aptW applied; but how many good chefs have existed since then, and fretted their hour upon the stage to pass into oblivion—a memorable instance of the ingratitude of mankind, and of epicures in particular, towards those wdio have .served them well. One wrote immortal poetry and starved, the other made delicious pastry and rode in a chariot ! We know how much Oliver received for his “ Vicar,” whilst Antonin Car§me used to receive twice as much for merely vTiting out a I'ecipe to make aywf^. Nay, Careme's untouched patties, when they left royal tables, were bought up at a large price ; and a cold sugared entremet, at the making of which Careme had presided, was oidy obtainable by such as had plenty of money .at their conimand.