PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES 559 room for swelling, and put into a saucepan of cold water; boil gently for twenty minutes, and if, after a time, the cloth seems too loose, take out pudding and tighten cloth. Serve with sweet melted butter, cold butter and sugar, stewed fruit, jam or marmalade, any of which accompaniments are suitable. Plain Rizine Pudding (baked).—Ingredients: 3 to 4 oz. Eizine to pint milk, 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, and the rind of a lemon rubbed on a lump of sugar; stir the whole well together, and bake half an horn:. Baked Rizine Pudding (another way).—Ingredients ; Three tablespoonfuls Rizine, 1 tablesi^oonful sugar, 1 pint milk, 1 egg, ^ oz. butter, dust of nutmeg. Mode : Grease a pint dish with a portion of the butter,’put in the Rizine and sugar, beat up the egg, add it to the milk, pour over the Rizine and sugar, stir, put remainder of butter on top, dust over the nutmeg, bake half an hour in a moderately slow oven. Rizine Pudding (boiled).—Ingredients: 3^ oz. Flake Rizine, 1 pint milk. Mode: Place the Rizine and milk in a saucepan, and bring gently to the boil. Serve up with sugar and butter, jam, stewed fruit, marmalade, or any accompaniment used with plain boiled rice. Balmoral Pudding.—Ingredients : 3 oz. Rizine, 1 oz. sugar, 3 oz. sultanas and peel, pint milk, 2 eggs, vanilla. Mode : Mix dry ingredients together, put 2 oz. sugar in a saucepan, shake it over the fire until it is a dark-brown colour, take off the fire and add milk, and when milk is the colour of coffee strain into the dry ingredients and let them soak ten minutes ; then add eggs (well beaten) and flavouring, pour into a well-buttered mould, cover with a greased paper and steam until firm. Serve with custard. Children’s Trifle.—Ingredients: 1 quart milk, 2 eggs, I lb. castor sugar, ^ lb. Rizine, ^ oz. butter, jam, or tinned fruit. Mode: Put the Rizine into a saucepan with 1 pints of milk and the butter, boil gently five minutes, then sweeten and flavour to taste ; pour into saucers half an inch thick, whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add sugar and flavouring, put remainder of milk into saucepan ; when boiling drop the whites of eggs in spoonfuls and poach one minute; then take cup, add the yolks to milk, stir over fire a few seconds. When cold turn the Rizine into a glass dish with fruit or jam between the layers, pour over the custard, and place the white of eggs on the top, decorate surface with dried cherries, coloured sugar, or a few almonds cut in strips. Chocolate Jelly.—Take 3 oz. corn flour, 2 oz. cocoa, G oz. sugar, 2 pints water, and a little vanilla. Slake the corn flour, cocoa and vanilla with a little of the water, and pour into a saucepan with the rest of the water. Place on the fire, add the sugar, and bring to the boil. Boil for eight minutes,