499 FAMOUS CHEFS AND EPICURES and practice has become a by-word of ridicule, and that we should be compelled to have recourse to foreigners, ignorant for the most part of our tastes and habits, to prepare our feasts.” The following suggestions that he makes in one of his books are worthy of more than a passing comment:— “ The English custom of dividing a grand dinner into several courses is an error quite at variance with common sense and con- venience. Tt is a needless complication that necessarily leads to useless profusion, and much additional trouble. Our neighbours across the Channel allow of two courses only in the largest dinners. With them fish and hors d’oeuvres—such as patties, croquettes, &c.—form part of the first course, and not a distinct course, as they are considered east of Temple Bar. The French, too, regard the dessert as a mere delassement after dinner, in- tended rather to propitiate than to thwart digestion. “ I cannot refrain from alluding to an injudicious habit fre- quently adopted at English tables—that of introducing sweet champagne in the first course. This wine, from its sweetness, counteracts the flavour of savoury dishes. Madeira, sherry, and burgundy are better suited to the first course, their stimulating and generous qualities tending to assist digestion. “ The ordinary practice in London of serving turtle and veni- son indiscriminately, as mere accessories to recherche dinners, is, in my opinion, most injudicious. Turtle and venison being generally reckoned by us as the best of good cheer, it follows that, when they form part of a dinner, the removes and entrees are comparatively neglected. Very light entrees should always be served with these,” &c. The portrait of Francatelli is one which he himself considered exceedingly good. Amongst his appointments was that of chef de cuisine to the Earls o'f Chelmsford and Dudley, Lord Kinnaird, Sir W. Masse}’’ Stanley, and Mr. Rowland Errington of Melton Mowbray, which town is even now famous for pork-pies made from a recipe provided by him. He was for a time manager of Crockford’s Club, whence he removed to the Royal Household as maitre dliotel and chief cook in ordinary to Her Majesty. He next superintended the then flourishing Coventry House Club, and was for about seven years chef to the Reform Club. As manager of the celebrated Freemasons’ Tavern he did much to ensure the exceeding popularity of that house, which it has maintained to the present day. As an author on cookery he has had few equals. His first work, “ The Modern Cook,” appeared in 1845, and ran through twelve editions. In 1861 he produced “The Cook’s Guide and Butler’s Assistant,” and shortly after a book on “ Cookery for the Working Classes.” Next appeared his “ Royal English and Foreign Confectionery Book.” In 1876 he departed this life at the ripe age of seventy-one. S2