558 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY pastry round, and roll out, again fold in three. The paste is then ready for fruit tarts, meat pies, sausage rolls, puffs, yc. Caramel Pudding. — Ingredients: 1 pint milk, 3 oz. Rizine, 2 eggs, a few currants, j lb. castor sugar, for caramel. , ]\Iode : Stir the castor sugar in an iron saucepan until it is the colour and consistency of treacle, then pour into a dry mould, turn the mould round and round until it gets completely lined with the caramel, put Rizine and milk in a saucepan and boil five minutes, then add the eggs well beaten, sugar, and flavouring to taste ; pour mixture into the mould, cover with a piece of greased paper, and steam until firm (about thirty minutes), then turn carefully on to a hot dish. No sauce is re- quired, for the caramel in cooking becomes a liquid. Denmark Pudding.—Ingredients : lb. sago, pint milk, 1 egg, 2 oz. sugar, j lb. apples, 2 cloves. Mode: Boil the sago in the milk a few minutes, peel, and mince apples, and place them in a pie-dish, mix the egg and sugar with the cooked sago, pour over the apples, and bake till the apples are soft. Sprinkle with castor sugar and tine cinnamon, and serve. It may also be steamed. Moka Corn Flour Cake.—Ingredients : 4 eggs, 4 oz. of castor sugar, 4 oz. corn flour, 1 teaspoonful baking powder. Grease a round shallow cake-tin with clarified butter. Separate the whites from the yolks of the four eggs, add the castor sugar to the yolks, and beat them well together for ten minutes. Mix the baking powder with the flour, and stir in gradually to the sugar and yolks. Add a pinch of salt or castor sugar to the whites of the eggs, and whip to a stiff froth ; then stir in lightly to the mixture, pour into cake-tin, and bake in a quick oven for twenty-five minutes. When done, turn it out on to a wire sieve, or rear it up, so as to allow the steam to escape, to prevent it from getting heavy. When thoroughly cold, ice, and decorate as follows: Ingredients for icing: 1 lb. icing sugar, ^ lb. fresh butter, 1 tablespoonful essence of coffee. If the icing sugar is lumpy, pound it in a mortar, then rub it through a wire sieve. Put the butter into a basin, and work it with a wooden spoon for a few minutes. Add to it, a little at a time, the icing sugar, and beat to a smooth cream, then stir in gradually the coffee essence. When the cake is ready to ice, cut the top of it quite even, and coat it round the sides with the icing mixture with a palette knife, occasionally dipping the knife into hot water so as to make the surface smooth; then ice the top of the cake in the same manner. Put the remainder of the icing into a forcing-bag, with a rose forcer, and decorate according to taste. This is a very delicious cake to serve with coffee, much used in Paris. Rizine Pudding (plain boiled).—Ingredients: ^ lb. Rizine Mode: Tie the Rizine in a pudding-cloth, allowing