MENUS AND THEIR COMPILATION 455 A Bill of Fare in plain old English style. Ye annnale Whytebaite Dinner of hyr Majestye’s Ministers, on Wednesdaie, ye 14th August, 1858, atte ye Hostelrie ’yclept ye “ Shippe,” atte Greenwiche. This Bille of ye Fare is drawn in playne Englysh, without any cloake of Frenche or other foreygne tongue, for the sadde and sobere comforte of frendes, and that ye maye know what ye are asked to accept. Ye BlUe of ye Fare. YE SOUPE.—Soupe made from ye Turtle, and alsoe Soupe made from ye Greene Fatte of ye same. YE FUSHE.—Ye Flounders curyously cooked, and Salmonne servyd inne lyke mannere. Ryssoles of ye Lobstere. Ye lyttel Soles, fryed. Ye Pudynges of ye Whyting. Ye Eles skynned and stewed inne ye riche wyne of Oporto. Ye Omelette of Crabbe inne ye style as servyd to ye Guardes of Blue Seale. Ye Troute from ye River Spey, grylled with ye sauce of Tartar. Salmonne inne collopes, with ye sauce inne in ye Cyprus fashonne. Ye Whytebaite, be-frizzled, and alsoe be-devylled. FLESHE AND FOWLE.— Sweetbreades, with ye Mush- roomes added thereunto. Ye Hauncbe of ye Royale Bucke, with Haricotte Beanes servyd therewith. Ye Antient Hamme, from ye Citye of York, grylled inne wyne of Champagne. Y’e Grouse from ye Northe Countree. Hogge Bacon and younge Beanes. YE SWEETES, &C.—Apprycottes flavoured with Noyau. Pudynges iced, afterye Nesselrode mannere. Lyttle Cakes made with ye Cheese from Parma, inne Italie. Ye Ices flavoured with Oranges and Strauberres. Divers Fruytes which are your Desertes, and ye Wynes of Champagne and manie outlandysh countrees. Ye Dinner will be servyd after 3’^e mannere of ye Russian people. Ye guestes are b3^dden to eate after ye Hungarie mannere. W. T. Bale, Mastere. A CURIOUS BILL OF FARE OF 1761, For the Study of English Clerks of the Kitchen, Cooks and Housewives. £ s. Bread and beer ... ... ... ... ... 0 4 Potage de Tortue ... ... ... ... ... 0 IG Calipash 1 1 Calipees 0 16 Une pate de Jambon de Bay'one ... ... ... 2 10 Potage Julien Verd 1 12 d. 6 0 0 0 0 0