PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES 545 rice into a basin of cold water, and then drain otf the water through a colander or sieve, place it before 3’oiir kitchen fire in order that it may dry and also get hot, and stir it occa- sionally to loosen it. SAUCES, &c. Sauce for Mutton Cutlets.—Stew in half a ]>int of gravy (made with half a teaspoonful of Liebig Company’s extract) one dozen button mushrooms chopped, half a bay-leaf, a sprig of parsle}^ and half a shallot, shred finely ; tlncken with butter, rolled in flour, take out the bay-leaf, and add salt and pepper. Economical Mayonnaise Sauce for Cold Meat, Pish, Salads, &c.—The j'olks of three very hard-boiled eggs and the 3'olk of one unboiled egg are mashed very fine ; then add two teaspoonfuls of sugar, one teaspoonful of grated shallots, some salt, pepper, the juice of one lemon or a little sharp vinegar, and stir the whole till it has the appearance of cream ; add further, while constantly stirring, one-eighth of a pint of olive oil, and, when this is worked in by degrees, a cupful of cold white sauce (bechamel or veloute), and as much sharp vinegar as is required to flavour. Brown Onion Sauce.—Slice five or six small onions, fry them in a stewpan with dripping until they are a nice brown colour; add half a pint of good brown stock, stand the pan at the side of the fire, and let the sauce simmer slowly until the onions are cooked. Oyster Sauce.—Boil the beards of the 03'sters in a little water, with some lemon-rind, a little white pepper, and one bay- leaf, and strain through a sieve. Frj- a large tablespoonful of flour in plenty of butter till pale yellow, and stir in the broth, strained from the beards, and the juice of one lemon. Let this sauce boil up with sufficient Liebig Company’s extract of meat and salt, add half a glassful of white wine, and stir in a little mace and one or two jmlks of eggs. As the oysters become hard by boiling, they should, with their liquor, be added to the sauce <mly when quite ready. Green Sauce.—Pound a plateful of well-washed parsley in a mortar, add a teacupful of soaked bread, eight boned anchovies, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and about half a pint of salad dressing by degrees. Melted-butter Sauce.—In making this always put the butter into a saucepan, and when oiled stir in the flour. Work it smooth, then gradually add the required quantitj" of boiling water. Bacon Sauce.—Cut some bacon up small and fry it slowly, stirring frequently; add plenty of onions, also cut small, and