488 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Deatli was already knocking at the door. Arrived at Wilna, thy generons prince was lavish with his gold to save you, but thy dying body could no longer take nourishment. “ Oh, my master !' thou hast lived persecuted and, to com- plete the sorrowful chapter, thou hast died in agony a thousand times more cruel than hunger, or the icy cold of the north. “ O grand Laguipiere ! upon this solemn day, accept the public homage of a faithful pupil. Yes, in spite of thy enviers, I will associate your name with my works. Already, in my works I have quoted you with pride, and this day, so dear to my heart, I league with your memory the best of them all. This will bear witness in the future to the elegance and sumptuosity of the culinary art in the eighteenth century ; and, if Vatel is rendered illustrious, by a sense of honour dear to every man of merit, thy unhappy end, O Laguipiere, renders thee well worthy of being also illustrious. It was due to thy sense of honour that made you willing to follow your prince into Russia, and you were then a witness to the disasters by which you yourself were struck down. But, alas ! you of all people ought to have died in Paris. Thy white hairs seemed to ensure for you a better fate ; yet ^mu shared the sad lot of our veterans, and the honour of our martial ranks, perishing of hunger and of cold under the frigid sky of Russia. “ 0 Laguipiere ! may thy remains rest peacefully in the tomb; th}' renown has revenged all thy injuries ” Careme adds to this elegy the following note:—“ In the frightful campaign of 1812 we lost a great number of cooks belonging to the marshals of France and ministers of Napoleon. Of more than twenty men who composed the personal domestic staff of the Duke de Narbonne only two escaped from this terrible catastrophe.” This pitiful story of Laguipiere is worth recording, but to what Careme alludes as the infamous calumnies and persecution that drove him from his country we are unable to discover. Apparently cooks are quite as subject to scandal as their masters, and often more so, and that probabl}^ with greater justice than it would at all times be convenient to acknowledge. We are told that Careme was illustrious by descent, “ for his ancestors had served in the household of a Pope, who himself made more sauces than saints, Leo X.” But Careme was one of so poor and so numerous a family, that when he came into the world he was no more welcome than Oliver Goldsmith was. Careme, it is said, studied under various great masters of the kitchen, but perfected his studies under Boucher, the cJief to Prince Talleyrand. The glory of Careme was crowned with that of Napoleon. Those two individuals were great men at the same time, but the glory of one will, perhaps, be a little more enduring than that of the other. In the days of the Emi)ire—“the era of