PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES 561 t)eatou ong-, sugar, and essence. Grease some small custard moulds with the butter, decorate them with the raisins (stoned and cut in halves), the ciTt side against the mould. Fill moulds with mixture, cover with greased paper, and steam for fifteen minutes. Turn out on a dish and pour a custard round them. Kizine Bars.—Ingredients: 2 oz. Rizine, 2 oz. sugar, 2 oz. marmalade, 2 oz. bread-crumbs, a little grated rind and juice of lemon, two eggs, and three-quarters pint of milk. Mode: Soak the Rizine for five minutes in the milk, put it on to boil, and when cooked add the sugar, marmalade, one well-beaten egg, 1 oz. bread-crumbs, and lemon. Mix all together, and when cool shape into bars about inch wade, ^ inch thick, and about I inches long. Dip these into the remaining egg (beaten), roll them in the bread-crumbs, and fry in hot fat a golden brown. Serve hot or cold, piling the bars on a dish across each other. Sweet Cassolettes of Rizine.—Ingredients: ^ lb. Rizine, i oz. butter, 1 pint milk, 2 oz. castor sugar. Mode: Soak the Rizine for ten minutes, put it on to boil, and cook with butter and sugar added for live minutes. When sufficiently cooked turn out on a dish or flat tin in a layer about an inch thick, and when cold cut in rounds about 2 inches in diameter; take out the centres with the handle of spoon, fill in with any kind of preserve, and sprinkle with a little desiccated cocoanut. Swiss Roll.—If you follow this recipe you will have no difficulty in making Swiss roll. Mix together a teacupful of Eureka flour, half-teaspoonful of baking powder, a pinch of salt, and a teacupful of castor sugar. Make into a light batter with tw’o eggs which have been previously beaten. Pour into a well- greased Yorkshire pudding tin, and bake in a very quick oven for about ten minutes. Turn out on sheet of paper, .spread with jam, and roll. Economical Custard.—Ingredients: 1 quart milk, 3 oz. Rizine, 2 eggs. Mode: Boil Rizine and milk five minutes, withdraw from fire and stir in the eggs, well beaten up with sugar, flavouring, and a little cold milk; stir until custard thickens, then pour into cups or glasses, grate over each a little nutmeg. Invalid Pudding.—Ingredients : 2 tablespoonfuls Rizine, 1 teaspoonful castor sugar, white of 1 egg, ^ pint milk. Mode: Boil the Rizine and milk seven minutes, whisk the white of egg to a stiff froth, stir into it the sugar, then add to the cooked Rizine. Beat lightly and serve in a glass dish. Family Rizine Cake.—Ingredients : 1 lb. flour, 4 oz. Rizine, ^ oz. carraway seeds or lb. currants, 1 oz. candied peel, lb. butter, 1 egg, about | pint milk, 0 oz. sugar, and 2 tea- spoonfuls baking powder. Mode: Soak the Rizine in the milk for half an hour. Rub the butter in the Hour, add the