524 PRACTICAL CrA8TR0N0:\IY ^lAiTRE d’hotel (a la),/, Hotel steward’s fasliion. Maquereau. Mackerel.' A spotted lish. Maraschino, e. Marasqnin, f. A delicately flavoured white liqueur, used for flavouring jellies and ices. Marcassin, /. Grice, e. Young wild boar, generally cooked whole. Marengo. An Italian village, which gives its name to the dish “ Poulet saute a la Marengo.” Marie Louise. Second wif^e of Napoleon I., born 17t>l, died 1847. The lady was a great gourmand of her time. Marigold. A flavouring herb, also known as Pot Marigold. It is a native of Spain, and was introduced into England in 1673. Marinade,/. The brine in which fish or meat is sauced or' pickled. Marjolain,/. Marjoram, e. An excellent kitchen herb of strong flavour, used fresh or dried for game seasoning ; also for flavouring sauces, forcemeat, etc. Marquer, f. To prepare, and arrange in a stevqDan, a piece of meat ready for cooking. Marzipan. Delicate German dessert dainties made from al- mond paste. Mask. To cover any kind of cooked meat with thick rich gravy or savoury jelly. Masquer, /. To sauce a dish which is ready for serving ; also, to mask the inside of a mould vvith savour}^ jed.V or chaudfroid sauce when required for cold entrees. Massepain, /. A French dessert pastry. Matelote, /. A marine dish; a rich fish stew with wine and herb flavouring. Mayonnaise, /. A kind of salad of lish or poultry, with a thick cold sauce made of yolks of eggs,' oil, and vinegar ; a salad sauce. Mazagran. a French term for a glass of black coffee, sugar, and water. Mazarines. Turbans,/. Forcemeat ornaments of fish, poultry, or game. Menu, / The bill of fare. A list of the dishes which are to be served at a meal. Menus were first used in 1541. Menus droits. Pig’s ears served up as an entree. Meringue, /. Light pastry, made of white of eggs and sugar, filled with cream or ice. Merlan, Whiting. A delicate lish allied to the cod. Mets, /. The meal, or dish : “Mets de farine,” “ entremets de- douceur,” “ de legumes,” etc. Mignonette pepper. Coarsely ground white peppercorns. Mijoter, /. To cot)k slowly ; to simmer gently over a small tire. Milk. Du lait,/.