rRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES 557 cocoanut or ground bitter almonds. Stir the sugar with the yolks of the six eggs and the flavouring till thick and foaming. Add the corn flour gradually, stirring well till thoroughly mixed. Then stir in lightly the firm snow of the whisked whites of the six eggs. Pour into a buttered mould three parts full and bake in a quick oven for half an hour. Lemon Sponge.— Take oz. corn flour, 3 oz. sugar, ^ oz. butter, 2 eggs, 1 lemon, and pint of milk. Mix the milk gradually with the corn flour, pour into a stewpan and bring to the boil, stirring. Beat up the eggs with the sugar, the butter, and the juice and gxated rind of the lemon till into a thick cream. Then pour this into the corn flour. Boil the wliole for eight minutes, stirring well, and pouring into a shape rinsed with cold water. When cold, turn out and serve with cream. Ice Cream.—Mix 1 pint milk gradually with 1 oz. corn flour, and pour into a stewpan. Beat up the yolks of 2 eggs with 4 oz. sugar. Pour this into the corn flour, and bring the whole to the boil, stirring. Boil for two or three minutes, stirring gently, and then allow to cool. When cool, stir in the whites of the two eggs beaten to a stiff snow, and one pint of whipped cream.- Flavour with lemon, vanilla, or pineapple, &c., and freeze. Rizine Bread.—Take 6 lbs. flour, place in earthenware pan. Mix 2 oz. French or German yeast in pint of lukewarm water, with sufficient flour to make a thin batter. This should then be poured into a hollow made in the centre of the flour, and allowed to stand in a warm place for an hour and a half. Now prepare the Rizine as follows : Take 1 lb. Rizine, and over it pour a quart of hot water, allow to stand until cool, then add half-pint of luke- warm water and 1 oz. of salt. Mix the prepared Rizine with the yeast and flour into a stiff dough, let it rise before the fire for about an hour, then place in tins, and allow to further rise for thirty minutes. Bake at once in moderate oven. Sufficient to make six loaves. Queen’s Bread.—Ingredients : 1 lb. flour, ^ Rizine, 1 cup of milk, 1 tablespoonful Rizine Baking Powder, 1 oz. butter, 1 egg, 1 oz. sugar. Mode; Soak Rizine in milk ten minutes, rub butter into flour, stir in sugar, baking powder, sultanas, and a pinch of salt, and mix to a light dough with Rizine and milk, divide in three parts, roll each piece to size of a small plate, brush over with egg, cut in four, j)lace on greased tin, and bake twelve to fifteen minutes. Economical Puff Paste (easily made).—Ingredients; 12 oz. flour, one teaspoonful baking powder, 6 oz. butter or lard, cut in inch squares. Mode : Mix a pinch of salt with flour and butter, add water to make a firm paste, roll out one-third of an inch thick, sprinkle over half the baking powder, fold in three, turn pastr}’- round, the rough edge towards you ; roll out again, sprinkle over remainder of baking powder, fold in three, turn