PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 520 Frittata. An Itnliaii dish ; a kind of rolled pancake crumbed and fried in fat. Fritter, c. Beignets,/. Anything dipped in batter, crumbed or egged, and fried. Friture,/. The frying substance in which fish, fritters, &c. are fried. Fromage glace,/, a dish of ice-cream in a cheese like shape. Frumenty. Once a Lord’s Mayor’s dish, and a staple food of our robust ancestors ; it is wheat or barley boiled. Eaten with honey, sugar, milk, or treacle. Fumet,/. The flavour or essence of game. Furciper is the name under which the fork was introduced into England at the beginning of the seventeenth century. Tom Coryat first brought table-forks to England. Gr. Galantine,/. A dish of white meat rolled, served cold. Garbure,/. a kind of broth made with bread and vegetables. Gasterea. Goddess of Gastronomy. Gastronome. A caterer ; hotel or restaurant keeper. Gateau,/. A round flat cake. Gaufre,/ a light biscuit; wafer. Gelee, f. Jelly, e. Inspissated juice of fruit or meat. Gelinotte,/ Hazel-hen ; heath-cock. Genevoise (a la). Geneva style. Genoise,/. Genoese style. Also the name of a kind of sponge cake ; a brown fish sauce, German style, e. A TAllemande, f. Gigot a sept heures, or Gigot a la cuillere, is a leg of mutton which has been cooked for seven hours, when it may be carved witli a spoon. Gingerbread, or Pain d’epice, has been in use ever since the fourteenth century. It was then made and sold only in Paris, according to Monteil, “ Histoire des Fran^ais.” Gingerbread was introduced into England b}" the court of Henry IV. Gitana (a la). Gipsy fashion. Glace,/. Frozen, iced. Glace, /. Ice. Glace DE SUCRE (Glace royale). Icing sugar; very fine dust sugar. Glaze, e. Glace de viande,/. Stock or gravy reduced to the thickness of jelly; used for glazing meats, A'C., to improve their appearance. Well-made glaze adheres firmly to the meat. Also used for strengihening soups and sauces. Gnocchi. a light savoury dough, boiled, and served with grated Parmesan cheese (Italian dish). Godiveaux/. Rich veal forcemeat. Goose, e. Oie,/. Goose liver = foie gras ; foie d’oie,/’.