548 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY some PaMuesan cheese, a mushroom or two very fhuily chopped, and pepper and salt; fill the tomatoes with this mixture, place them in a buttered tin, with a little bit of butter on eacli, and bake in a moderate oven. Ham Toast. -Mince ^ lb. of lean ham very fine, and mix it with ^ oz. of butter, pepper to season, and the yolks of two or three eggs. Put the mixture in a small saucepan, and stir over the fire until it thickens. Spread on toast, and serve very hot. Curried Kidneys for Breakfast.—Take 2 kidneys, 2 oz. butter, one spoonful of currie paste, pinch of salt. Skin the kidneys, wash them and slice them very fine, put the butter into a frying-pan, and when hot throw in the kidneys; stir them over a sharp fire for three minutes, take them off, add the salt and paste. Mix well together, and serve up on toast. Potato Salad.—In man}^ families cold boiled potatoes are considered as waste, and do not make their appearance a second time at table. If cut into thin slices, and dressed with salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar, also, if possible, with beetroot and celery added to them, they compose a most excellent and refreshing salad, especially when lettuce is scarce. A little chopped parsley should always be sprinkled over this dish as a garnish. Dish of Mince with Bizine Border.—Boil G oz. Rizine in sufficient water with a saltspoonful of salt and 4oz. butter until done. Have read}'' to serve some hash or minced meat; put the cooked Rizine round the dish and fill centre with the meat; brush border with yolk of egg, sprinkle with .bread-crumbs, put into hot oven to brown. Serve hot. This will be found a good substitute for potatoes or rice, more easily and quickly cooked. Beef and Veal Cutlets Baked.— Chop finely lb. of nice steak, the same weight of veal and 4 oz. of suet belonging to the latter, 8 oysters, 8 small mushrooms, 4 shallots, and 2 oz. of parsley. Season highly with a teaspoonful of hot spices and salt, and flavour with the rind of half a lemon grated, a little sweet marjoram and thyme. It should be thoroughly mixed while dry, and then made into a thick paste with four or five eggs, or as many as necessary. Cut into cutlet shapes, lay them on a buttered baking-tin, squeeze a lemon over them, and put them into a brisk oven. Beef Rissoles.—Mince finely some lean beef, a little suet, one onion, three or four sprigs of parsley, and a cupful of grated bread-crumbs; mix all thoroughly, moisten with beaten egg, roll into balls, flour and fry them. Have ready three-quarters (jf a pint of gravy, slightly thickened, and seiwe over the rissoles. Vienna Steak.—Ingredients: ^ lb. Rizine, one pint cold