470 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY NOTES ON LAYING A TABLE IX THE ENGLISH STYLE. The manner of laying a table is nearly the same in all parts of tTie United Kingdom. A centre ornament, whether it be a plateau, an e^Dergne, or a candelabrum, is found very convenient and contributes so much to the good appearance of the table that a dinner is seldom or never set out without some- thing of the kind. A very false taste is, however, often shown in centre ornaments. Strange, ill-assorted nosegays and bouquets of artificial flowers begin to droop or look faded among hot steams. Ornamental articles of family plate, carved, chased, or merely plain, can never be out of iDlace, however old-fashioned. In desserts, richly-cut glass is ornamental, and the foliage and moss, in which the fruits are sometimes embedded, have a good effect. Fine white damask and a green cloth underneath are indispensable. Whether the dinner be of two or three courses, it is managed nearly in the same way. Two dishes of fish, dressed in different ways if suitable, should occupy top and bottom ; and two soups, a white and a brown, or a mild and a high seasoned, are best disposed on each side of the centrepiece; the fish sauces are placed between the centrepiece and the dish of fish to which each is appropriate; and this, with the decanted wines drunk during dinner, forms the first course. The second course at a purely English dinner, when there are three courses, consists of roasts and stews for the top and bottom ; turkey and fowls or fricandeaux, or ham garnished, or tongue for the sides, with small made dishes for the corners served in covered dishes. The third course consists of game, confectionerv, the more delicate vegetables dressed in the French way; puddings, creams, jellies, kc. Caraffes, with the tumblers belonging to, and placed over them, are laid at proper intervals ; where hock, champagne, kc., &c., are served, they are handed round between the courses. When the third course is cleared away, cheese, butter, a fresh salad, or sliced cucumber, are usually handed round ; the finger- glasses precede the dessert. The dessert at an English table may consist merely of two dishes of fine fruit at top and bottom. Liqueurs are handed round at this stage, and the wines usually drunk after dinner are placed, decanted, on the table along with the dessert.