541 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES Salmon or Cod Cutlets a la Victoria. —Cut 2 lbs. of the fish into slices, about two inches wide and an inch thick, dry and sprinkle with pepper and salt, dip in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in enough hot fat to cover them. Have ready the following sauce : Three-quarters of a pint of strong Liebig Company’s extract gravy (one teaspoonful), one teaspoonful of anchovy sauce or mushroom ketchup, a little minced parsley, a glass of brown sherry, the juice of half a lemon, pepper and salt; thicken with a little flour. Take up the cutlets carefully, and arrange on a hot dish; pour the sauce over them. Croutes of Haddock with. Rizine.—Ingredients: 1 oz. rizine, ^ lb. dried haddock, 2 oz. butter, bread, one egg (hard boiled). Mode : Pour boiling water over the fish, and let it remain three minutes. Boil the Rizine in water till done (about five minutes), scrape the fish from the bones, add it to the cooked Rizine, also half the butter and a little pepper. Cut, toast, and butter some slices of bread, spread over the same the mixture. Chop the yolk and white of egg separately, and use each piece alternately to garnish. Scalloped Shrimps.—Pound in a mortar 4 oz. of cold salmon and two boned ancho^^es, season wdth pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; then add a tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley, one of bread- crumbs, one of tomato sauce, and the same of good gravy, a piece of butter the size of a, walnut, and half a pint of joicked shrimps. Mix all well together, and put in a saucepan over the fire till well heated. Lay as many scallop-shells as you require on a hot stove, and fill each with the mixture; brown the tops with a salamander or hot iron, squeeze over them the juice of a lemon, and serve with thin slices of toasted bread. MADE DISHES. Salmi of Duck.—Take the giblets of a duck and put them into a stewpan with some stock, rathet highly seasoned with salt, pepper, and cayenne, an onion cut into small pieces, and two cloves. Put the stewpan by the side of the fire, where the contents can simmer slowly. Roast the duck for about twenty minutes, then cut it up into neat joints. Lay these in the gravy and allow them to simmer gently for half an hour. Arrange the joints when done on a hot dish ; add the juice of a lemon to the gravy, and strain it carefully over the duck. Garnish the dish with sippets of toasted bread. RagoAt of Poultry.—Any kind of poultry may be used. Half roast the bird. Carve it into joints, and stew in good Liebig stock, with two onions, two dozen corns of allspice and black pepper, a few cloves and a piece of lemon-peel. Skim the stew, and let it simmer for about three-quarters of an hour, or more, according to the size of Hie bird. Strain off the gravy,