62 SERIES VII. THE TEETH. 91. Section of an Incisor and a Molar Tooth, showing the disposition of their component structures: the ivory or dentine surrounding the pulp-cavity, and forming the greater part of the tooth ; the enamel covering the dentine of the crown ; and the bone covering the dentine of the fang. 7. 1 92. Sections of Teeth after maceration in dilute hydrochloric acid. The greater part of the saline and earthy constitnents of the teeth having been decomposed or dissolved in the acid, their animal matter remains, preserving their natural form and size, but soft and pliant. The animal matter consists principally of gelatine. 7. 7 93. Sections of Burnt Teeth. The dentine is almost completely blackened by the charring of the animal matter it contains; but the enamel, containing an exceedingly small portion of animal matter, is only tinged with yellow. In some of the specimens the dentine is more completely blackened near the pulp- cavity than near the outer surface of the teeth; as if indicating that the animal matter is most abundant in the former situation, where also the dentine tubes are largest. 7. 3 94. Sections of a Molar Tooth of a Horse similarly burnt, and displaying similar appearances. The bone is not so black as the dentine; perhaps because its animal matter is more completely burnt. 7. 4 95. Portions of the Lower Jaw of a mature Foetus, from which the outer wall is removed, so as to show the outer surfaces and general forms of the capsules of the teeth. 7. 5 96. A similar specimen, displaying the capsules of the Teeth in the upper jaw. 7. 6 97. The Upper Jaw of a Foetus from which parts of the anterior wall are removed, together with the anterior walls of the capsules of the tucth. In the cavities of the capsules thus laid open the rudiments of the teeth are shoAvn, on the right side, consisting of caps of dentine and enamel like tlie crowns of the deciduous teeth without fangs. On the left side, the caps of dentine are removed from the pulps, to the surfaces of which they were exactly adapted. The pulps, presenting the forms of the crowns of the sevei'al teeth, are con- nected with the bases, or deepest parts of the capsules; their blood vessels are imperfectly injected. 7. 7 98. A similar preparation of a Lower Jaw; showing, on the right side, the rudimentary teeth, and on the left the teeth-pulps. 7. 8