13 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE AXIS, suture; but as in the preceding cases they are depressed nearly into contact with the base of the skull. The cervical vertebras are so fused that it is im- possible to decide with certainty whether or no they are normal in number. Only ten dorsal vertebrse are present, though which are missing is quite uncertain. Some of the bodies are bilobed, and the fourth from the last is represented by only the left haJf. There are nine ribs on the right side and ten on the left: several of the former being bifurcated at their vertebral extremity, and fused in other parts. The number of the lumbar and sacral vertebrae is normal. A. 138 3462. The separate Bones of the Skull of an Anencephalous Foetus, marked according to the descriptions of the cranial vertebrae. A. 139 3463. The disarticulated Bones of the Skull of an Anencephalous Foetus. A. 191 3464. An Anencephalous Foetus. The spinal cord and medulla oblongata appear normal, but no trace of brain exists. The spinal nerve-roots are perfect, as well as some of those arising from the medulla oblongata; bristles are placed beneath the cranial portion of the accessory nerve. A. 117 3465. A similar specimen. The cerebral extremities of the cranial nerves, which are not connected with the medulla oblongata, lie free at the base of the cranial cavity. A. 118 3466. A Foetus similarly malformed, showing the loose, soft, and vascular or bloody tissue, with which the collapsed and neai'ly obliterated cranial cavity is covered. A. 119 3467. A Foetus similarly malformed, and having its skin marked with large dai'k brown spots, which were believed to be due to syphilis. A. 120 Presented by Dr. Conquest. 3468. A dwarfish, adult, Anencephalous Foetus. A portion of the liver and small intestines protrudes through the anterior abdominal wall (exomphalos). The greater portion of the spinal canal is open posteriorly. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 3469. A similar specimen of Anencephalia, with Spina Bifida in a premature , Foetus. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 3470. Section of an Anencephalous Female Foetus at full term. The skull-cap with the supra-occipital bone is entirely absent; the neural arches of the vertebras are absent along the whole length of the column. The membranes of the brain project from the occipital region ; some broken down brain matter was adherent to their inner surface. The limbs, viscera, and genito-urinary organs were well developed. a. 240 (B.) ENCEPHALOCELE. 3471. A Brain, a large portion of the substance of which was contained in an Encephalocele. The following is an account of the dissection:— The skull was small and ill-developed, especially in the frontal region. A soft, flattened spheroidal mass was attached by a narrow pedicle to the uppermost part of the vertex. On either side of the apex of the mass there were two ulcerated apertures in the skin covering it as large as a crown piece, through which the contents protruded. On laying open the skin, the tumour was found to be filled with a dis- coloured mass of brain substance, enclosed by membi'anes, which were almost entirely covered by a thick layer of lymph and gelatinous pus.