238 BOTANICAL SPECIMENS. PL ANT AGINACE^. Plantago Ispaghula, Boxb. Seed. {Spogel seeds, Isphagul.) Note.—These seeds contain a quantity of mucilage, and are official in tlie Pharm. Ind. as a remedy for diarrhoea and dysentery, as well as for catarrhal and renal affections. For fig. of plant, see Bentley and Trimen, Med. Plants, tab. 211. [0. P. S.] Christy, New Com. Plants, S{c., vi, 99. Dose for an adult 2| drachms, mixed with water and sugar, and swallowed whole. Drury, Useful Plants of India, s. v. POLYGONACE.ffi. COCCOLOBA UVIFERA, L. {Seaside Grape.) Fruit. Note.—Jamaica kino is made by evaporating a decoction of leaves, wood, and bark of the tree. The wood yields a red dye. The pulpy fruit consists of the fleshy perianth which surrounds the fruit. It has an agreeably acid flavour. Polygonum Fagoptuum, L. (Buckwheat.) Fruit. Rutine. Note.—This species is dimorphic, having long and short styled forms. This plant is a native of Central Asia, but long and much cultivated in Europe, where it is employed as human food, being made into thin cakes. The nutritious qualities are between rice and wheat. In Prance it is called Savrasin and Ble noir, " black wheat," possibly corrupted into buckwheat. The plant contains a yellow colouring matter, crystallising in primrose-yellow needles. It is identical with Eutine obtained from Rue, Rata graveolens, and from Capers. Ure's Bict. of Arts, Manufactures, and Mines, s. " Buckwheat." Polygonum Bistorta, L. {Bistort or Snaheiveed.) Root. Note.—The flowers are strongly protandrous and dichogamous. The root is twisted upon itself, whence its name. It contains tannin and starch, and was formerly used for making an astringent gargle and injection. See Bentley and Trimen, 3Ied. Plants, tab. 212. The green tops are eaten in Cumberland under the name of Easter Man Giants (? Easter- eating—Fr. mangeant). Rheum officinale, Baill. Rootstock. {Bussian Bhuhari, Tiirlcey Bhuharh, Bussia Brown Bhubarh.) Note.—This kind of rhubarb has not been exported from Russia since 1860. See P. J. [3], vol. vi, p. 861. Russian rhubarb is distinguished by the large size of the holes made in it, which are large enough to admit the end of the little finger, by its surface having been sliced off, and by its structure resembling that of East Indian Rhubarb. [C. P. S.] Rheum palmatum, L. {Kiaclita Bhubarh.) Root. Note.—Seeds of this species were first brought over in 1750. It was first found wild by Colonel Prejevalsky in 1872, in the Tangut division of Kansu, North West of Cliina. (Bentley and Trimen, Med. Plants, tab. 214.) Rheum ehaponticum, L. {English Bhubarh.) Root. Note.—This was the first species of Rhubarb known. It is a native of South Siberia. It was cultivated in the 17th century at Padua, and in England since 1777. Rheum undulatum, L. Fruit. {Bucharian Bliuharh.) Note.—This rhubarb is an inferior kind, which docs not appear at the present time in Englisli commerce. It is described by Guibouvt xiiidcr the name of Rhubarb dc Perse, os it was imported through Persia and Turkey. [C. P. S.] Tliis species supplies the edible leaf- Blalks of the common garden of Europe. The root is inferior to others medicinally.