202 CASTS AND MODELS. 61. Cast of part of a Child which lived several weeks with a tumour nearly as large as its head projecting from its occiput. The tumour contained the greater part of the cerebrum, covered with dura mater, and continuous with the rest of the brain through a fissure in the median line of the occipital bone. A. 15 Presented by — Foi-ster, Esq. 62. Cast of a Child's Head, with a spherical Tumour larger than itself, united by a kind of stem to its occiput. The tumour contained fluid, which communi- cated with that within the child's head. A. 15a 63. Cast of the Head of an Infant with a large Encephalocele projecting fi'om the vertex. For full description see A. 270. 64. Cast of a Head vsdth Meningocele. 65. Cast of the Back of a Child 3 years old, with a large Spina bifida, in the sacral and lower lumbar region. A. 16 Presented by Dr. Cape. 66. Cast of a Foetus, with hydrocephalus. A. 14 Presented by Dr. Hugh Ley. 67. Casts of the Trunk of a Woman in whom there was congenital absence of some of the doi'sal vertebra and ribs. The left scapula was united by a plate of bone to the cervical vertebrae. See vol. ii, Series III, No. 3523. 68. Cast of the Thorax of a Child, aged 8 years. The left scapula is raised and fixed to the spines of some of the upper dorsal vertebrae by a plate of bone. The superior angle of the scapula is prominent, and higher than that on the opposite side. The posterior dorsal curvature is diminished, and in the lower dorsal region the spine is slightly curved to the right side. The child was 3 feet 7 inches in height. The plate of bone was successfully removed by operation, and is preserved in Specimen, No. 3524, vol. ii. Series III. See Sitwell Ward Book, vol. Ti, p. 399. 69. A Cast taken from the trunk of a Lady who was born without arms. There is a well-marked lateral curvature of the dorsal spine. 70. Cast of a Hand with congenital absence of the third and fourth fingers, and union of the first and second fingers in their whole length. A. 19 71. Cast of a Hand, in wEiich the third metacarpal bone with its phalanges are congenitally absent. 73b See also No. 88. 72. Cast of a Hand, in which the thumb is bifid and two of the digits are absent. 73. 74. Casts of a Man's Hands. On each hand there are two thumbs of unequal size; on each, a scar at the base of the little finger marks the place fi-oni which a supernumerary finger was removed; on each, the first, second, and third fingers are united in their whole length, and the tliii-d and fourth fingers arc partially united. A 21. 22