BOTANICAL SPECIMENS. 240 Laueus Tawa, Gunn. Cotyledons. Note.—A native of New Zealand. The cotyledons are boiled in the water of hot springs and eaten by the natives. THYMELACE^. Aquilaeia Agallocha, Boxh. Wood. (Lign Aloes Wood.) Note.-—This wood is supposed to be the aloes of Scripture. It has an odour faintly resembUng that of patchouli. [C. P. S.] PEN-ffiACE^. Pen^a Sakcocolla, L. Gum. {Gum Sarcocol.) Note.—This substance was formerly used for healing wounds, hence its name. The taste is sweet, with a decided bitterness. It is said to have been brought from Arabia. Sarcocolline is a substance siii generis, intermediate between sugar and gum. [C. P. S.] Dr. Dymock in his Veg. Met. Med. of Weatern India believes this plant to be leguminous, and allied to Astragalus. Dioseorides describes Sarcocolla as a tear of a Persian tree, with a bitterish taste and a reddish colour. "Itiaused internally as an antirheumatic and anthel- mintic, and the Egyptian women eat it on account of its fattening properties." BALANOPHOBE^. Balanophoea elongata, Bl. Note.—The species are leafless parasitical plants, found on the roots of oaks, maples, vines, &c., in tropical countries. Some of the Himalayan species cause the formation of large knots on the roots of these trees, which are used for the manufacture of cups in Thibet. This species furnishes wax in great abundance, used for making candles in Java. Species of Balano- phora attack the roots of maples in Thibet, causing knots, from which they make tea-cups for drinking brick-tea (see specimen). EUPHOP-BIACE^. Euphorbia eesinifera, Berg. Gum resin. {Euplwrhitiin.) Note.—This drug is chiefly used as a vesicant in veterinary medicine. It causes considerable irritation of the nostrils and eyes when powdered. It is said to be used as an ingredient in paint for shijjs' bottoms. CaRCAS purgans, L. (English Physic Nuts.) Seeds. (Physic Nuts, Polga Nuts, Pinheiro de Purga, Pinhao Paraguay.) Oil expressed from the seeds. (Oil of Wild Castor Seeds, Jatropha Oil.) Note.—These seeds are in size and shape hke those of the castor oil plant, but have a dull, black, cracked surface. Christison states that twelve to fifteen drojis of the oil are equal to one ounce of castor oil, but the action of the drug is uncertain. The oil is only sparingly soluble in alcohol. [C. P. S.] Ceoton Eluteeia, Bennett. Bark. (Sweet or Cascarilla.) Note.—The barks of other species of croton have sometimes been found mixed with Cas- carilla bark in the bales as imported. See P. J. [I], vol. vii, p. 35. for lig. of plant, see Bentley and Trimen, Med. Plants, tub. 238. [C. P. S.]