THE TEETH. 66 132a. Fossil Tooth of a Crocodile. 132b. Fossil Tootli of a Shark. Presented by E. Charlesworth, Esq. 133. The Head of a large venomous Snake, from the Island of St. Lucia, with the poison glands and fangs displayed. The poison fang is the first of the series of large curved teeth exposed by the dissection; it is tubular, and the upper end of its tube receives the duct of the poison gland; which rests on the outer side of the upper jaw. 7. 47 Presented by Major Gibson. 134. The right half of the Lower Jaw of a Fcetal Calf, with the capsules of the teeth displayed by the removal of the inner wall of the bone. 7. 10 135. The Capsules of two Molar Teeth from a Fcetal Calf, laid open, so as to show the rudiments of the teeth and part of their connection with the pulps. 7.11 136. The anterior portions of the Jaws of a Horse, about 2 years old, with the incisor teeth. The " mark " is shown, formed by a central isolated portion of enamel, which is raised in an oval ridge, surrounded by and enclosing shallow depressions or cavities in the discoloured cement. 7. 45 137. Transverse sections of the Crowns of two Molar Teeth of a Horse, showing the complex and convoluted arrangement of their component structures. 7. 46 138. Sections of a Molar Tooth, probably the third, of a young Elephant. The enamel, dentine, and crusta petrosa or cement are shown in each of its thirteen plates. The anterior three plates alone are worn by mastication so as to expose the dentine and enamel. 7. 43 139. Transverse section of the fourth Molar Tooth of an Asiatic Elephant, showing the relations of its component dentine, enamel, and cement. 7. 44 140. Molar Tooth of an Indian Elephant. 141. A Tooth of the Mastodon giganteus ; probably the last deciduous molar. 7. 41 142. A last, or true Molar Tooth of the Mastodon giganteus, with five trans- verse bifid ridges and a posterior talon. 7. 42 Found, with tlie preceding, at Big-bone Lick, Kentucky. 143. Sections of a Canine Tooth from an old Lion. The pulp-cavity is closed, and crystals of phosphate of lime are deposited on its walls. 7. 21 144. Skull of a Rat (Mus decumanus), showing the chief characteristics of the teeth of such rodents, viz., in each jaw, the long curved chisel-edged incisors, whose mode of growth is desci-ibed under No. 145 ; the wide edentulous space between them and the molars, canine teeth being not present; and the trans- versely ridged three molar teeth on each side. 7. 46a 145. Sections of the Head of a Rat, with its incisor teeth. The cavities in which these teeth are set are shown. They are very deep, extending in the upper jaw to the wall of the orbit, and in the lower jaw to the base of thecoronoid process. Each cavity is filled with the fang of a tooth, and at its bottom has a vascular pulp, iu which the growth of the tooth constantly goes on. The growth, by