228 BOTANICAL SPECIilENS. DoEEMA Ammoniacum, Don. Fruits, gum resin. (A mmoniacum.) Note.—A native of South West Persia. The ammoniacum of commerce is derived from the stem, its esvidation being caused by the puncture of beetles. It is in two forms, in separate tears, or in compact masses of agghitinated tears. A good ammoniacum is also yielded by Dorema aucheri, Soiss., of West Persia, but it is not the off. plant. Ammoniacum in tears somewhat resembles olibanum externally, but has a smooth outside and an opaque fractiu-e ; wliile olibanum is powdery externally, and has a translucent fracture and different odour. Lump ammoniacum resembles galbanum ; but, unlike the latter, it cannot be indented by the finger nail. African ammoniacum is very similar in appearance, but has an odom- resembling that of apples. [C. P. S.] Sagapenum. Gum resin. Note.—The botanical source of this drug is unknovrn ; it smells like assafoetida, but less strongly, and differs in the tears not becoming pink when broken and exposed to the air. [0. P. S.] ARAIilACE^. Aralia nudicaulis, L. Root. American Sarsaparilla, Small Spihenard. Note.—Official in secondary hst of the TJ. S. P. It is used like sarsaparilla. Panax quinquefolium, L. Root. (American Ginsevg.) Note.—Tliis root is occasionally found mixed accidentally with senega and serpentary roots. CAPRIFOLIACEiE. LoNiCERA Pericltmenum, L. (HoneysucMs.) Flower (section). Note.—Floral formula, {5. [(5). 5]. (3) }. Obs., corolla slightly irregular. Sambucus nigra, L. (Elder.) Section of trunk, flowers. Unguentum Sambnci viricle. iV^o/e.—Floral formula, {5. [(5). 5]. (3)}. Obs., corolla regidar, stamens extrorse. Fresh elder flowers, separated from the stalks or preserved with salt, are used in making elder flower water. The bark is purgative. S. canadensis, L., is official in the U. S. P. KtTBIACEiS (Cinchonacese). COFFEA AEABICA, L. Berries (dried naturally). Seeds. (Moclia) before "garbling," and witb " parchment." Ditto. after being garbled. Leaves. (Cofee leaf Tea.) Note.—Mocha coffee "berries" are small and dark yellow ; Java and East India, larger and pale yellow. The Ceylon and West India kinds have a bluish or greenish-grey tint. The commercial " berry " is really the convoluted albumen of the si'cd, the minute embryo being concealed within it at one end. Tlie leaves liave analogous properties to coffee ; Slenhouse found I hem to contain both caffein and caffeo-tannic acid, but in larger proportions than in the roasted seeds.