ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 38 the septum is at the base, and will allow the passage of the tip of the index finger. The walls of the left ventricle are thicker than those of the right, but its cavity is much less capacious. The aorta arises entirely from the right ventricle, and was otherwise natural. The coronary arteries, one of which is much smaller than the other, arise close together behind the same valve. The orifice of the pulmonary artery is situated in the septum ventriculorum, being partly occluded and subdivided by a large columna carnea which crosses it obliquely. The lower of the two openings thus formed, which is also the larger, presents signs of old endocarditis, and from it a probe can be passed downwards behind some colunmse carneje as far as the apex of the heart, apparently almost in the substance of the septum. A partial adhesion seems to have occurred between the cusps of the pulmonary valves, so that the orifice of the artery will barely admit the tip of the little finger. This condition, combined with the peculiar mode of origin of the artery, must have olfered considerable obstruction to the pulmonary circulation. The calibre of the pulmonary artery itself is but slightly diminished. The auricles communicate by a partly closed foramen ovale. The right auricle is the larger. The ductus arteriosus was not pervious. The heart weighs 8^ ounces. The specimen was taken from a boy, aged 8 years, -vrlio died of typhoid fever. His mother staled tliat whenever he had a cold he became very bhie, but that at other times this was not the case. On admission he was very cyanosed ; the apex beat of the heart was in the fifth intercostal space, immediately in the nipple line; the area of dulness was natural, and a soft systolic murmur could be heard, being most clearly marked at the apex. The fingers and toes were much clubbed. The specimen is described by Dr. Tooth in the Transactions of the Pathological Society for 1883-84. (I.) IMPERFECTION OE THE VENTRICTJLAR SEPTUM AT THE APEX OE THE HEART. 3620. Heart from a Foetus at fall term, in which an opening was found in the ventricular septum. The aperture admits a crowqaill, and is in a very unusual situation, being near the apex, instead of (as is more common) near the base of the septum. A. 229 The case is reported fully in the Journal of Anatomy and Physiology for October, 1876. (J.) CONGENITAL NARROWING OF THE LEFT VENTRICLE IMMEDIATELY BELOW THE AORTIC VALVES. 3620a. The heart and aorta of a man, aged 18 years, who died with Bright's disease and pericardial effusion. The right side of the heart is normal. The aoi-tic valves are free from disease and of the usual form, and did not permit of regurgitation when fluid was poured into the aorta. When depressed in this way by fluid the aortic valves approached a fibrous ring with the tissue of which their bases are continuous. Looked at from the ventricle this abnormal structure appears as a circular ridge attached to the uppermost part of the ventricular septum and to the mitral valves. The part attached to the ventricular septum may be divided into two parts. The posterior and lesser crosses the bare spot two-thirds of the way up, and projects about half a line downwards into the ventricle. At the anterior boundary of the bare spot a very slight spur or puckering projects one line downwards on the sui'face of the septum ventriculorum. The anterior part of the ridge increases in down- ward pi'ojection as it extends forwards till it roaches the depth of one line. This it does at a point one-fifth of an inch fi'om the pi'ojection of the anterior wall of the ventricle from the septum ventriculorum. At this point there is another spur from the ring extending one-third of an inch on to the septum. The opposite part of the ring is continuous with the tissue of the mitral