ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE GENERATIVE ORGANS. 50 3677. Tlie Pelvic Viscera of a Woman. The nterus and vagina are absent. The ovaries occupy the normal position, and are of the usnal size. A deep pouch is formed hj the reflection of peritoneum between the bladder and rectum. There was a shallow pouch, externally, in the situation of the fossa navicularis. The parts were taken from a middle-aged woman, who had coliabited with a man as his wife for some years ; she appears to have been a woman of strong sexual passions. The pelvis is preserved. Series XLVII, No. 3104. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. II. IN ANIMALS. 3678. Part of the impefectly formed Male Genital Organs of a Male between tbe Horse and Ass. The testicles are very small and irregularly shaped, and have scarcely any trace of natural secreting structure. The vasa deferentia and epididymes are more nearly normal: on one side they are injected with mercury. A. 170 3679. The remaining Male Genital Organs of the Mule, with the Urinary Bladder. The vesiculee seminales, prostate gland, and Cowper's glands are displayed, and appear of normal size. A. 171 3680. The Female Genital Organs of a Mule between the Horse and the Ass. They appear not imperfectly formed. A. 172 3681. The Internal Genital Organs of a Free-Martin, or Calf born as a twin with a bull-calf, and having external characters of a cow-calf. The genital organs are hermaphrodite, consisting of an imperfect vagina ending in a cul-de-sac; a rudiment of an uterus, apparently devoid of cavity ; Fallopian tubes and small wrinkled ovaries ; vasa deferentia, and vesiculse seminales. Presented by Dr. Conquest. 3682. The Organs of Generation of an hermaphrodite sheep. This case is chiefly remarkable for the complete union of male and female organs. There are two testes possessing a natural structure, and seminal vesicles with a uterus and vagina. During life the sheep was regarded as an ewe. This specimen is described and figured by Mr. Savory in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions for 1859. A drawing is preserved, No. 19.