MOLLUSCA. 195 1628. Helix Pomatia (Edible Snail). Dissected. The mantle had been cat, and is turned back at the lower part of the preparation. The integument of the head and anterior part of the body has been divided, and turned back to either side. Beneath the supra-cesophageal nerve mass a piece of black paper is passed, and from it the nerve trunks can be seen passing to the pedal and parietosplanchnic ganglia. Situated on the anterior portion of the stomach are the large, white- looking, salivary glands. The intestine is seen to enter and make several convo- lutions in the brown-looking liver mass. Just between the whorls of liver matter is the hermaphrodite gland and its duct passing down to the uterine cavity, which is elongated and has a crenated border. The white looking albumen gland hides the juncture of the duct and the uterine cavity. At the lower end of the latter a long duct, coming from a globular mass (the receptaculum seminis), joins the other generative organs; and below this again are situated the dendri- tic CEeca of the accessoiy glands, and the dart sac, and beneath these the long whip-like penis. The plication of the wall of the pulmoniferous cavity is well seen, and through the thin transparent wall, the heart in situ. 1629. Bulimus. CLASS 11.—PTEROPODA. 1630. Clio Borealis. The little rounded masses at the anterior end of the specimen on either side are the expanded portions of the foot, known technically under the name of Epipodia. This little animal forms one of the principal sources of food for the Right or Gi-eenland Whale. DENTALID^. 1631. Dentalium Ensiforme. CLASS III.—CEPHALOPODA. (A.) TETRABKANCHIATA. 1632. Shell of Nautilus Pompilius (Common Nautilus). The only living represen- tative of the Order. The shell is broken, and near the apex the septa dividing it into chambers can be seen. The animal Uves in the terminal chamber. (b.) dibranchiata. Decapoda. 1633. Sepia Officinalis (Common Cuttle Fish). Typical of the Family Sepiada?. The animal is suspended by a string passed through the dorsal surface of the mantle, in which is imbedded the rudimentary shell, consisting of numerous calcareous plates separated by vertical fibres. The expansions of the mantle along the sides of the body are as long as the body itself, forming the so-called lateral fins. Projecting beyond the anterior edges of the mantle is the head, furnished on each side with large, well-developed eyes. The arms, ten in number, surround the mouth, two of them, answering to the epipodia, are elongated into tentacular organs having expanded ends, furaished bke the other divisions of the foot or arms with four rows of suckers. The remainder of