181 ANNULUIDA—ECHINODERMATA. ray almost at once subdivides, so that tlie animal appears to be provided -witli ten arms or rays. Along the sides of the arms are situated the jointed lateral processes or " pinnules," which in the recent state are clothed with and supported by a broad membrane. The mouth and principal part of the soft structures of the animal are situated in the cup-shaped cavity in the diso opposite the convexity shown in these specimens. (B.) OPHITTEIDEA. 1450. Ophiocoma Granulata (Granulated Sandstars). On the dorsal surface the disc is round and flattened. No madreporic tubercle or anus exists in the Ophiuridea. The under surface shows the quinpartite arrangement of the disc, and the oral aperture. The dorsal and ventral plates of the rays are smooth, whilst the lateral ones are symmetrically fringed with spines. (C.) ASTEKIDEA. 1451. Uraster Rubens (common Crossfish; common Starfish). The specimen in drying has assumed a much flatter form than is natural in the recent state. The animal consists of a central disc, prolonged into five rays of nearly equal size. Situated nearly in the centre of the disc may be seen the anus, and nearer the circumference of the disc, between two of the rays, is seen the " madreporic tubercle or plate," which communicates with the water vascular system. The two arms or rays between which the madreporic plate is situated are known as the " bivium," the remaining three as the " trivium." 1452. A smaller specimen of the same species, in which two of the arms, one of the bivium, and one of the trivium, are in a rudimentary condition. The rudimentary rays are in process of growth, to replace arms probably lost by accidental violence. 1453. A specimen of the same species in spirit, showing on the under surface the numerous rows of ambulacra, with their globose ends. 1454. Uraster Glacialis (Spiny Crossfish). The specimen is placed on a sheet of talc, with dorsal surface outwards, and in such a position that the median ray and the next to the left form the "bivium," the remaining three the " trivium." On the dorsum of the disc a small pit is visible, marking the situation of the anus ; and above it, and a little to the left, is situated the " madreporic plate or tubercle." The rays are long, rounded, and spinous ; on the under surface the mesially placed mouth, or oral aperture, can be seen, with the rows of suckers along the arms. These suckers are placed in four rows along the middle of each arm : the rows are technically called " avenues." 1455. Cribella Oculata. 1456. Cribella Oculata. The number is placed on the central ray of the " trivium." The amount of calcareous matter present in the integument is much greater than in the preceding specimens. On the under surface the gz'ooves through which the ambulacra project are very nai-row. Situated between the two rays of the " bivium" the madreporic tubercle is very visible, and above it, and a little to the left of the line drawn from the madreporic tubercle through the axis of the central ray of the trivium, is the anus. 1457. Solaster Papposa (common Sun Star).