\ . ' BOTANICAL SPECIMENS Croton Tiglium, L.. (Purging Croton.) Seed. Fixed oil, obtainable from tbe seeds in England. {Croton Oil.) Note.—The tree is a native of Coromandel, the Indian Archipelago, &c. The principal constituents of croton seeds are a fattj fixed oil, tiglinic acid, crotonic or quartenylic acid, and crotonol. The latter is the drastic principle. The oil expressed in England is more esteemed than that imported from India. The English oil is darker in colour than the Indian. Hyper- Ciitharsis produced by croton oil may be controlled by copious draughts of diluted lemon or lime juice or vine jar. East Indian oil forms a milky mixture with its own weight of alcohol (0 79(5), which ultimately separates ; but English oil dissolves, and forms a clear solution under the same circumstances. Pereira suggests that the East Indian oil may be adulterated with jatropha oil, which is not soluble in twenty-four parts of alcohol. [C. P. S.] MaNIHOT UTILLISSIMA, Pohl. Cassava meal, coarse and fine. Cassava bread. (Tapioca Meal, Moussaclie, or Cipipa.) Cassava starcb. (Brazilian Arrowroot.) Note.—The root is grated and pressed in a matapi, or cylindrical bag, made of Ita palm (Mauritia flexuosa, L.) ; and after being pressed and dried, is sifted through an etami, or sifter, made of the same material, and then forms cassava meal. Cassava bread occurs in thin round cakes, and is made from the meal in a moist state by gently heating it, and then drying it in the sun. Cassareep, which is now an article of commerce in London, is the concentrated juice of the bitter cassava, which loses its poisonous properties by heat. It is said, but wrongly, to preserve meat boiled in it longer than any other substance which can be used. Cassareep, mixed with peppers and meat, forms the West Indian "pepper-pot." Tapioca is made by heating and stirring the starch in a moist state until it agglomerates. Rio tapioca is whiter than that from Bahia. Eor fig. of plant, see Bentley and Trimen, Med. Flants, tab. 235. [C. P. S.] HuRA CKEPITANS, L. (Sandbox Tree, Monheifs Dinner Bell.) Fruit. Note.—The seeds possess purgative and emetic properties, the emetic property being said to reside in the embryo only. The seeds lose their properties by age. The fruit affords an instance of the regma, and it is from the noise caused by the bursting of the fruit that the plant gets its curious name. [C. P. S.] CiCCA DISTICHA, L. Fruit. (Otaheite Gooseberry.) Note.—This is a small tree, and native of India, where it is cultivated for its fruit. They are used as an article of food, either raw or cooked. Europeans pickle and preserve them, or use them in tarts. A decoction of the leaves is used to cause perspiration, and the roots aic emetic, but violent. RiCINUS COMMUNIS, L. Seeds. (Castor Oil Seeds, Semtna CataputicB majoris.) Note.—A small variety of the seed is cultivated in India, where the large variety is expressed for lamp oil, and the small variety for medicinal oil. The American variety, with 'reddish seeds, is said to yield more oil than the Egyptian black seed, but the oil obtained from the Egyptian seed is paler in colour. [C. P. S.] RoTTLERA TiNCTORiA, Boxb.; Mallotus Philippensis, Milll. Arg. Glands covering tbe fruit. (Kainala, Kapila, Kapilapodi, Wars, Wurrus, Wassunta gunda.) Note.—Wurrus is used in India very extensively as a rich orangc-broivn dye for silk. It is a less pure form of the drug than kamala. Kamala is used as a vermifuge, and sometimes in cutaneous diseases. [C. P. S.] B