MOLLUSCA. 19)5 the arms closely surround the mouth, the two largest being situated towards the ventral, the two smallest towards the dorsal aspect of the body of the animal. In the centre of the oral aperture can be seen the hard horny parrot- like beak, surrounded by fleshy and somewhat fringed lips. 1634. Stomach, with Pancreatic Sac, of Sepia Ofiicinalia. A black rod is passed through the communicating passage. Another black rod is passed down the oesophagus, and is seen protruding into the stomacb. The whole length of the intestine with the anus is shown, but the lower third only of the oesophagus remains. Presented by Dr. Norman Moore. 1635. Loligo vulgaris (Common Calamary). Female. The animal is suspended fi-om the caudal extremity. The Avhole body is more elongated than in Sepia. The head projects considerably beyond the mantle, and on the ventral sm-face the orifice of the funnel is seen projecting beyond the edge of the mantle. Of the arms two are more elongated than the rest, becoming tentacular organs. The suckers on the arms are arranged in a double row. 1636. Loligo vulgaris (Common Calamary). Male. Very similar to the pre- ceding specimen, diifering only in liaAang the caudal portion of the body more elongated and finer. 1637. Loligo vulgaris. Partially dissected, so as to show the horny pen in s!fv, imbedded in the mantle on the dorsal surface of the body. This may be regarded as a rudimentary shell. A black bristle is passed into the funnel on the ventral aspect. The elongated tentacular arms, "ndth their club-shaped extremities covered with four rows of suckers, are shown. 1638. Pen of Loligo vulgaris. OCTOPODA. 1639. Eledone cirrhosa. Young female. The eight arms, each with a single row of suckers, the head with the eyes, the free edge of the mantle, and the funnel, are to be noticed. Presented by Dr. Norman Moore. 1640. Eledone cirrhosa. Dissected, to show the whole length of the alimentary canal from the beak to the anus. Close beneath the bulb in which the beak is bedded are two small salivary glands. Lower down are two larger ones with their ducts. The first dilatation of the alimentary canal is the crop. It has been filled with size, and is globular. At the lowest part of the specimen is the gizzard, and immediately beyond a smaller, rounded mass, the pancreatic sac. Beyond this the intestine proceeds to the anus, into which a bristle is inserted. The mass upon which the crop lies is the largest of the animal's viscera, the liver. On one side a piece of the lateral wall of the body is left to show the relative position of parts. Presented by Dr. Norman Moore. 1641. Ovisac of Eledone cirrhosa. From each side of the sac comes an oviduct, the whole length of which is shown. On each oviduct is a dark coloured globular mass, the nidamental gland. Presented by Dr. Norman Moore. 1642. Eledone cirrhosa. Dissected, to .nhow the general features of its structure. The arms have been removed, and tlie S{)ecimcn is hung by the funnel. Tlie