BOTANICAL SPECIMENS. 224 CiESALPiNiA BREVIFOLIA, (Balsamocarpon.) Pods. Note.—In this pod tliere are seeds and a tliin web-like Iiusk ; tlie rest contains at least 80 p.c. of tannic acid, so that it is nearly pure tannin. It appears to differ from other agents in its great strength and rapid action. It changes very rapidly into gallic acid, hence to gain its full action the infusion has to he appHed at once to the skin. Its native habitat is on the top of the mountains of Chili. See Cliristy. Cjisalpinia bondicella, Boxh. (Bonduc or Nicker Nuts.) Legume and seeds. Note.—The vrhite starchy embryo contains a fixed oil, resin, and a bitter principle. Com- pound powder of Bonduc (Bonduc and Black Pepper), and the seeds. Doses : Powder, 15 to 30 grains, three times a day. Seeds : 10 to 15 grains, twice daUy. C.ESALPINIA ECHiNATA, Lam. (Peach tvood.) Chips. Note.—This wood is sometimes called Bresil de St. Martha. It dyes red and peach-colour. It is imported from Lima, Eealizo, &c. Cj;salpinia coRURrA, Willd. Legames. (Divi-divi.) Note.—The pericaps are said to contain 60 to 65 p.c. of tannin, and are used as an astringent in India ; in this country for tanning. For fig. see Hist, des Drot;., vol. iii, p. 398. HjsmatoxyIjON Campechianum, L. (Logwood.) Chips, extract of. Note.—With acids, a bright red colour (e.g., red ink) is obtained, but with alkalies, a purple or violet, and with salts of iron, a dark violet, or nearly black. (Bentley and Triuien, Alecl. Plants, tab. 86.) Acacia Farnesiana, L. Legumes. Note.—From the flowers is made the essence and pommade de fleurs de cassie of French perfumes ; and the bark yields a gum. The pods were imported into France at one time from the Island of Mauritius under tlie name of Balibahulah. They were used for tanning and to dye black. Acacia Catechu, Willd. {Catechu Acacia.) Square cakes. Acacia Senegal, Willd. (A. Verek, Q^iill. et Fere.) Gum (Arabic). Note.—The best Gum arable is characterized by its opacity, its briltleness and whiteness. Pereira states that it is known in Paris as gomme Turiqite, and the inferior qualities as gomme Qeddah, so named from the ports from which they are shipped. For fig. of plants, see Bentley and Trimen, Med. Plants, 95. [C. P. S.] ROSACEA. Amygdaltjs communis, var. a amara (Pkunus Amygdalus, Stol-es). (Almond.) Oil. Note.—Bitter almonds frequently occur mixed with all varieties of the sweet almond, except the Jordan almonds. Valencia almonds may generally be recognized by tlu-ir greater com- parative breadth and by their flatness ; the Barbary by their being smaller and very variable in size and shape. For fig. of several varieties, see P. J. [1], vol. vi, p. 222. Prunus Cerasus, L. (Cherry.) Gum. Note.—The g>im wliich exudes from the bark of species of Prunus is a mixtm'C of Arabine (C13II22O11) with Ccrasinc (Ci.jTljyOni), which is insoluble in cold water.