SERIES XIX. —♦— THE HEART. 788. A Heart, -with the Aorta and Venge CavEe, and some of their principal branches injected with wax and dried. They are placed in the position which they occupy when the body is erect. 17. 1 789. A Heart, with the large arterial and venous trunks, dried after the injection of their cavities with wax. 17. 2 790. A similar specimen : the right auricle and ventricle, the vense cavae and the pulmonary artery being filled with dark yellow wax ; and the left auricle and ventricle, the pulmonary veins and the aorta, with red wax. 17. 3 79L A Child's Heart, with the large vessels similarly prepared. 17. 5 792. Casts in Wax of the four cavities of a Heart; those of the right side in yellow, those of the left in red wax. 17. 6 793. A Heart, with its cavities and principal vessels laid open, so as to display their forms, relative positions, and modes of communication. 17. 7 794. A Heart, in which the Eustachian valve at the opening of the vena cava inferior into the right auricle, and the valve at the opening of the coronary vein into the same cavity, are distinctly shown. The tricuspid and mitral valves are spread out. 17. 8 795. Portions of Adult Hearts, in both of which the foramen ovale in the septum of the auricles has remained open. The opening is in both instances oblique, valvular, one margin overlapping the other, and situated at the anterior part of the fossa ovalis. 17. 9 796. Section of a Heart. The tricuspid valve is depressed, and in the position which it assumes while the blood is flowing through the open orifice of communication between the right auricle and ventricle. The bicuspid or mitral valve is raised, so as to close the orifice of communication between the left auricle and ventricle, as it docs while the lel't ventricle is propelHng blood into the aorta. 17. 10 797. A Mitral Valve, with the ring of musculnr and filn-ous substance to whicii its attached liorder is connected, and the tendinous cords by which its free border and interior surface are fastened to the fieshy columns of the left ventricle. 17. 11