CARTILAGINOUS AND OSSEOUS TISSUES. 61 83. Bones (articulated) of the upper extremity of a Foetus. 6. 53 From the Collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 84. Ulna of a Foetus injected. 6. 52 From the Collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 85. Numerous Bones from a Foetus 9 montlis old. Bristles are introduced into the canals in the walls of the bones through which blood vessels passed. These canals are in several of the bones more numerous than in after life. For example, the femur, which in the adult has but two canals for the medullary or nutritive arteries, is here shown with four canals in one limb, and two in the other: the tibia also has four on one side and two on the other; in one scapula fovir canals are shown, in the other five. 6. 46 86. Several Bones of young Dogs and young Pigeons, after a series of experiments to determine the mode in which growing bones increase in length. Needle points were introduced at measured distances into different parts of the bones a certain number of days before the animal was killed. After death, by measur- ing in each case the distances between the needle points, and between each of them and the ends of the bone, it could be ascertained whether the bone had grown in length between the points, or beyond them. The result of the experiments showed that the bones increased in length by addition to their extremities, especially their distal extremities ; and that when any part of the walls of a bone in a young animal is thoroughly hardened by ossification it ceases to increase in length. 6. 47 87. Sections of the Femur of an Ostrich (Struthio Camelus) displaying as its chief characteristics thinness but extreme hardness of walls, and a very large medullary tube traversed with hollow bony beams and plates which supported the membranes of air cells. The air cells within the bone communicated with the lungs by apertures (foramina pneumatica) near the proximal articular end of the bone. 6. 27 88. Sections of the Humerus of a Swan (Cygnus Olor), showing the same general characters. 6. 28 89. Sections of the Femur of a Turtle (Chelone Midas). Its walls are thin, except at the middle of the shaft, where is the principal curvature of the bone ; within the walls nearly the whole of the bone consists of a very close cancellous tissue, the spaces in which contained medulla, 6. 29 90. Sections of the Coracoid Bone of a Turbot (Bhombus maximus). It displays, as characteristics of the bones of fish, lightness and whiteness of its general texture, and a laminated and fasciculate appearance of its surface, with little diversity of internal construction. 6. 30 I