ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 29 3550. An additional Inferior Thyroid Artery, passing from the right subclavian across the front of the common carotid, about half an inch from the division of the innominate artery. -A- 67 3551. An Arm with its Arteries. The artery which has the place of the brachial, and divides into the radial and ulnar, is of small size, and gives off no branches in the upper arm. On its inner side is a large artery derived from the axillary ; and this, pursuing the usual course of the brachial, and giving off the usual branches in the upper arm, passes, at the bend of the elbow, into the position of a median artery, and anastomoses with the ulnar to form the superficial palmar arch. A. 70 3552. A Brachial Arterj^, from which the ulnar arises at the middle of the arm, and passes over the muscles at the inner side of the bend of the elbow. A. 73 3553. A Brachial Artery, giving off, at the upper part of the arm, a large branch, which descends on its inner side, and joins the ulnar at the bend of the elbow. A. 75 3554. A similar specimen. The superficial palmar branch of the radial artery is long and large. A. 76 3555. A similar specimen, in which, moreover, the branch descending from the brachial to the ulnar is joined by one of equal size from the inferior profunda. A. 77 3556. A Brachial Artery giving off the radial at the upper part of the arm. A. 80 3557. A similar specimen, except in that the radial artery passes down the arm on the inner side of the brachial, and crosses in front of it at the bend of the elbow ; while in the preceding specimens the radial artery lies outside the brachial in its whole length. A. 81 3558. A Brachial Artery, giving off near its commencement a large branch, which descends on its outer side and joins the radial artery. A. 82 3559. Arteries from both Arms of the same Person. In the right, the brachial artery divides high up in the arm ; the radial artery gives off the interosseous ; and a branch from the deep palmar artery of the radial unites with a branch of the superficial palmar arch to supply the middle finger. On the left side there is a similar high division of the brachial artery; and a large branch from the ulna descends superficially in the forearm and ends in communications with the superficial palmar arch and one of the branches given from the radial to the thumb. A. 83, 83a 3560. A Brachial Artery, from which the interosseous arises at the middle of the arm. A. 84 3561. A Brachial Artery, dividing, two inches above the bend of the elbow, at once into radial, ulnar, and interosseous. Thus three large arteries lie close together and superficially in the front of the joint. A. 85 3562. An anterior Interosseous Artery, which in the lower part of its course passes to the inner margin of the ulna and divides into branches to the inner and back part of the hand. The ulnar artery arises from the brachial high up in the arm and passes over all the muscles at the bend of the elbow except the palmaris longus. A. 86 3563. An Ulnar Artery, giving off at the upper part of the forearm a large median artery, from which arise, in the palm, the digital arteries for the first finger and the radial side of the second. A. 87