THE TEETH, 63 99. Sections of au Intermaxillary Bone removed in an operation for hare-lip. The section has passed through the capsule and rudiment of a tooth of the second set. The lower section displays part of the tooth turned oif its pulp. In the upper section bristles are placed between the pulp and the substance of the tooth, in which is visible, besides the layers of dentine and enamel, the thin layer of bone with which the enamel of the crown is covered for some time after its protrusion. 7. 9 100. A Molar Tooth of the second set, the crown of which is completely formed. A portion of the capsule is preserved, to show that, when the formation of enamel is complete, the capsule becomes a thin, tough membrane, much less vascular than it was before. 7. 12 101. A set of Rudimentary Teeth from the left side of the jaws of a mature foetus. 7. 13 102. ^ set of specimens to show the development of a Canine Tooth; including (1) the formation of a thin cap of dentine; (2) the enlargement of this, till it acquires the size, and then the thickness, of the complete crown of dentine; (3) the gradual coating of the crown with enamel; and (4) the growth of tlie fang. 7. 14 103. A similar set of specimens, to show the development of a Molar Tooth. 7. 15 104. A Set of Teeth, showing the effects of mastication. The surfaces of their crowns are slightly concave, and bordered with a narrow, sharp-edged layer of enamel. The rest of the enamel and the greater part of the original dentine of the crown is worn away, but the pulp-cavity is not opened, because while the exterior of the dentine was being removed new matter was added to its interior. The new dentine thus formed in the part of the pulp enclosed within the crown of the tooth is of yellow colour, and does not possess the perfect minute structure of the original dentine. It has received the name of Osteo-dentine, to indicate that its structure combines those proper to bone and dentine. 7. IG 105. Foetal Jaw Bones, showing between the anterior and posterior walls of their alveolar portions the grooves for the lodgment of the capsules of the teeth. In the anterior half of each jaw the groove is divided by partitions into distinct rudimentary sockets or alveoli; in the posterior half the divisions are not yet formed. 7. 22 106. Jaw Bones from an older Foetus, with the alveoli more completely formed. 7. 23 107. Jaw Bones of a Child, with the alveoli similarly shown. One large cavity, undivided by partitions, exists in each half of the lower jaw for the capsules of the permanent true molar teeth. 7. 24 108. A Lower Jaw, with the outer wall removed to display the alveoli of the teeth, the canals for the trunks of the inferior dental nerves and vessels, and the minuter canals for their branches passing to the apices of the alveoli. 7. 25 109j Lower Jaw of an aged Person, exhibiting changes consequent on the loss of the teeth. The alveoli of the incisors, canines, and first molars, remain; all the rest have disappeared by the absorption of the alveolar part of the jaw, whose upper margin is slightly hollowed out, and marked with a line of minute apertures in the situation of the former alveoli. The angle of the jaw is more obtuse than is natural. 7. 26