TEMTOLOGICAL CATALOGUE SERIES I. ABNOEMAL COmiTIONS OF THE AXIS. CLASS I.—VARIATION. (A.) SITUS MTJTATXJS. 3400. Part of a Foetal Calf, witli partial transposition of viscera and other malformations. The apex of the heart is directed forwards and to the right; and the aorta passes along the right side of the spine. The spine is tortuously curved. The oesophagus terminates in a cul-de-sac at the lower part of the chest. A. 176 3401. Body of a Child, about ten months old, with partial transposition of the viscera, and an irregular arrangement of the blood vessels. A. 175 " The appearance of the body strongly implied that the child had, when living, possessed much vigour of constitution. The situation of the lieart was reversed : the base of that organ ■was placed a little to the left of the sternum, whilst its apex extended considerably to the right, and pointed against the space between the sixth and seventh ribs. The cavities usually called the right auricle and ventricle were consequently inclined to the left side of the body. The inferior vena cava passed as visual through a tendinous ring in tlie right side of the centre of the diaphragm ; it afterwards pursued the course of the vena azygos, the place of which it supplied ; after having united with the superior cava, the conjoined veins passed beneath the base of the heart, to expand into the anterior [or transposed right] auricle. The veins returning the blood from the liver united into one trunk, which passed through a tendinous aperture in the left centre of the diaphragm, and terminated immediately, also in the anterior auricle. " The distribution of blood to the lungs, and the retiu-n of it from these bodies, were accomplished after the usual manner. " The aorta, after it had emerged from the posterior ventricle of the heart, extended its arch from the left to the right side, but afterwards pursued its ordinary course along the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae. " From the curvature of the aorta there first arose the common arterial trunk, which, in this subject, divided into the left carotid and subclavian arteries, whilst the right carotid and subclavian proceeded from the aorta by distinct trunks. " The inferior aorta gave off the cceliac, which as usual divided into three branches ; however, that artery which was distributed to the liver a)ipenred larger than common ; it exceeded by more than onc third the size of the splenic artery of this subject. This was the B