THE HEART. 128 812. The Heart and Large Blood Vessels of au Ostrich. At the orifice between the right auricle and ventricle ai-e two strong muscular valves. The single pulmonary artery has three membranous valves. At the orifice between the left auricle and ventricle are two membranous valves. The large arteries, into which the left ventricle impels its blood, are the left and right arterise innomi- natjB, from which the subclavian and carotid arteries arise, and the aorta, which arches towards the rig'ht behind the veiiJB caviB and over the rioht bronchus and pulmonary vessels. 17. 18 813. The Heart of a Condor Vulture, with its several cavities, and its auriculo- ventricular valves displayed as in the preceding specimen. The muscular substance of the heart and of the right semilunar auriculo-ventricular valve is very strong, and the walls of the ventricles are thick in proportion to their capacities, and more nearly of equal thickness than in the hearts of mammalia. 17. 19 814. Heart of a Porpoise. Apertures have been cut into the various cavities to show the origins of the main vessels. 815. The Heart and Large Vessels of an Elephant, injected and dried. Three vense cavse terminate in the right auricle. 17. 16 816. The left half of the commencement of the Aorta, with the adjaceat portions of the left Ventricle and Auricle, from the Heart of an Ox. In front the section has been carried through the anterior aortic valve, and shows the broad basis of muscular tissue formed by the upper border of the ventricle, over which more than half of the semilunar valve passes, and upon which it rests. Behind, the section has been carried through the anterior cusp of the mitral valve, the formation of which is shown. It is seen to be continued down from the posterior wall of the aorta; while immediately behind the vessel the anterior wall of the left auricle, passing down, is attached to the posterior wall of the aorta and the upper border of the valve. 17. 28 817. Portion of the commencement of the Pulmonary Artery of an Ox. Two of the semilunar valves have been divided through the centre to show the broad basis of muscular tissue formed by the upper border of the right ventricle upon which a large portion of the valves is supported. 17. 29 818. Two large and two small Bones from the Hearts of Oxen. The large bones especially are seen to vary much in shape. 17. 30 819. The two Heart Bones of an Ox in their natural position, together with the adjacent parts, viz., the commencement of the aorta, the border of the left ventricle surrounding the vessel in front and at the sides, and the anterior cusp of the mitral valve. Behind, above the mitral valve, the extremities of the bones are observed almost to meet near the centi'e. They are seen projecting into the base of the pouches of the two posterior semilunar valves. The fibres of the ventricular septum are attached to the lower border of the anterior portion of the larger bone. Along the posterior wall of the aorta the termina- tion of the anterior wall of the left auricle is seen. In the wall of the aorta are the orifices of the two coronary arteries. The muscular floor of the anterior aortic valve is also shown. 17. 31 The two preceding specimens were prepared by Mr. Savory. 820. The Vestibule of the Heart of a Sheep. The superficial layer of muscular fibres is dissected to show the vortex of the right ventricle. A piece of glass rod is inserted where the fibres turn inwards. 17. 37 821. Heart of the Hairy Armadillo (Dasypus Conurus). 17. 32