58 CARTILAGINOUS AND OSSEOUS TISSUES. 50. The Skull of a young Pig, to wliicli madder was given with its food for a considerable time before death. The surfaces of all the bones have a bright red colour, derived from the madder which combined, with the phosphate of lime, was deposited in the growing bones during its administration. 6. 11 51. A similar specimen dried. The tinge of colour is less deep in this than in the preceding skull; and the centres of the surfaces of the parietal, squamous, and superior maxillary bones are white, probably because the ossification of these parts was complete before madder was mixed with the food, and it is chiefly or only that phosphate of lime which is deposited while the colouring matter is in the blood that receives its tinge. 6. 12 52. Section of the lower part of a Femur, displaying the arrangement of its cancelli, and that the chief of them are in the form of delicate fibres and lamelloe, running vertically down to the articular surface, and slightly converging towards its centre. In the middle of the cancellous tissue, above the articular portion of the bone, the fibres are very delicate; and most of them are placed across the axis of the bone, as for the support of the medullary adipose tissue. 6. 14 53. Transverse section of the upper part of a Tibia, displaying the construction of its cancellous tissue, the princij^al lamellfe of which, though much interrupted, are arranged in vertical planes, with their borders directed to the front and back parts of the bone. Within the tubercle of the tibia the cancellous tissue is very close, and its lamellge thick and strong. 6. 1.5 54. Section of a Patella, showing the uniform, finely alveolar construction of its cancellous tissue, and its thin wall of compact tissue, arranged according to the general plan of structure of round or spongy bones. 6. 16 55. Part of a Femur, in which, after the removal of its earthy salts by solution in acid, the outer part of the wall has been separated into thin layers. The deeper substance of the wall has also been more coarsely split into layers and fibres, of which the princiioal direction is parallel with the axis of the shaft. 6. 16a 56. Portion of a Humerus. After long immersion in dilute hydrochloric acid, a part of the walls of the shaft has been split into bundles of coarse interlacing fibres, the chief of which are parallel to the axis of the shaft. 6. 17 57. Portion of a Fibula, similarly dissected into layers and bundles of fibres. 6. 18 58. Section of an Os Calcis, dried after the minute injection of its blood vessels. 6. 19 59. Section of the lower part of a Tibia, similarly prepared. 6. 20 60. Section of a Tibia, the vessels in all parts of which have been partially injected through the medullary artery. 6. 21 61. Section of a Tibia, in which vessels have been injected in the mcdullaiy tissue as well as in the walls, through the arteries derived from the periosteum. 6. 22 Tlie aniistoinoscs tliroufjh wliicli in these instances the injection passed avc in the inner hi)oi-s of the walls of the bone, between the arteries wliich they derive from the periosteal arteries without, and from the meduUary or great iiutritire artery witliin.