109 SERIES X. THE MOUTH AND TONGUE. 649. Portion of the walls of a Moutli, displaying the papillary surface and vascu- larity of the mucous membrane of the lips and cheek. 8. 1 650. Portion of an tipper Jaw, displaying in the mucous membrane of the hard palate and the gum the same kind of papillae and the same vascularity as are shown in the preceding specimen. 8. 2 651. A Tongue, on which, together with its general form and connections, are shown the several kinds of papilte. The upper surface of the tongue, its edges, and part of its inferior free surface, are covered with minute, uniform, cylin- drical, and conical papilla;, "papillee conies vel filiformes." Tiear the posterior part of the tongue, in two lines forming an angle with its apex directed back- wards, are eight larger bodies, named " papillae circumvallatae." Each consists of a circular flattened elevation of the mucous membrane surrounded by a ring, from which it is separated by a narrow fossa. Both the elevation and the ring consist of close-set papillse, like the " papilliB conicse." Over the front part of the tongue, especially near its sides, are other papilla?, named " papillte fun- giformes," which are narrower at their bases than at their summits, and are covered with much thinner epithelium than that which invests the conical papillse. 8. 3 652. A Tongue, of which the left lingual artery was injected with size and ver- milion. Scarcely any of the injection has entered the vessels of the right side of the tongue. 8. 4 653. A similar specimen, in which also the papillae of the tongue are very dis- tinctly shown. 8. 5 654. A Tongue, with the trunks and principal branches of the glosso-pharyngeal, hypoglossal, and lingual nerves displayed. 8. 6 655. The Lower Jaw, Larynx, and Tongue, partly withdrawn from its sheath, of a Boa Constrictor (Python Sebae) eight feet long. 8. 12 656. The head of a Green "Woodpecker (Picus viridis), with the hyoid bone and tongue. The tongue is very long and slender, and the horny sheath with which, like most birds' tongues, it is tipped, is barbed at its sides with several sharp recurved processes. The hyoid bone has a slender body placed under the base of the tongue, whence its branches or cornua diverge, and extend backwards to