BOTANICAL SPECIMENS. 242 Emblica officinalis, Gcertn. (Emhlic Mijrohalans.) Fruit. Note.—Tliis is found wild, and cultivated in various parts of India and the Indian Archipelago, and is a tree of 20 to 30 feet in height. In Borneo the bark and young shoots are used to dye cotton black, for which purpose they are boiled in alum. The fridts are often made iuto a sweetmeat, but are very acid. The wood is hard, and resists damp. In India the bark is used for tanning, and the root-bark mixed with honey is applied to inflammation of the mouth. The fruits when ripe and dry are given in cholera, diarrhoea, &c. The seeds are used in nausea and bihous aiiections, &c. BUXUS SEMPERVIRENS, L. (JBoX.) Wood. Loaves from a Roman tumulus, fruit. Note.—This is a native of Europe and Asia. It is only indigenous at Box Hill in Surrey, in England. It occurs plentifully by the Black Sea, whence the wood is imported for wood- engraving, and for mathematical and musical instruments. The specimen of leaves was obtained from a Roman barrow at Bartlow, within which a sprig was placed probably in Ueu of myrtle. The leaf is remarkable for its epidermis being separate from the underlying tissue. SiPHONIA ELAvSTICA, liich. Fruit and seeds, India-rubber as " bottle." Note.—From this genus a considerable quantity of caoutchouc has been obtained. It is a native of French Guiana and elsewhere in South America. The bulk of caoutchuc exported from Para is obtained from S. Braziliensis, common in the forests of Para. It exists in the tree as a thin white milk, and is obtained by making incisions in the trunk. The mdk dries over clay balls in successive coats ; the clay being removed, the rubber takes the form of a bottle. Stillingia sebifera, Mich. (Tallow Tree, Wu-hHu muh, Yah-¥iu.) Seeds, solid fat. Note.—This fat consists of tripalmitin. It forms a coating on the outside of the seed. It is used extensively in China for making candles, and to a small extent as an emetic purgative, and antidote to poisons. It has also been recommended for use as an ingredient in ointments and suppositories. [C. P. 8.] UBTICACE^ (Cannabinese). Cannabis (Indica), satiya, L. (Indian Remp.) Leaves powdered, Bangb, Gudak (Smoking-paste). Cburrus (resinous extract) ; Fruit (Hemp seed). Note.—Herodotus mentions the use of the fibre of hemp, from which the Thracians made garments, "very like flax:" as also of its intoxicating qualities; saying that the Scythians, instead of washing, "purified themselves with an intoxicating kind of smoke ;" this was obtained by throwing hemp seeds on red hot stones. Ounja has a strong aromatic and heavy odour, abounds in resin, and is sold in the form of flowering stalks. Bhatirj is in the form of dried leaves, without stalk, has not much odour, and is only slightly resinous. Gunja is smoked like tobacco, but bhang is not smoked, but pounded up with water into pulp so as to make a drink highly conducive to health. Gudak is made with some oily substance. Churrus is the resin which exudes in minute drojis from the stems and leaves. It is very impure, and is chiefly consumed in smoking. Hashish is the Arabic term for hemp. The word "assassin" is derived from it. The name " Hashish " appears to be applied in Arabic to that which is called Bhang in Hindustanee. " Hemp seed " is the fruit. Each contains an oily seed ; when ripe they appear to have no narcotic properties; they yield by pressure about 25 per cent, of fixed oil, used for varnish, &c. ITUMULUS UII'CLUS, L. (TIop.) Strobiles, fruits, lupuline, or lujuilinic glands. Note. — Lupuline consists of the glanJs which cover the fruit, &c. It must not be con- founded with lupulite, the bitter principle of the hop, contained in the glands.