ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE AXIS. 17 CLASS VI.—DEFORMITY RESULTING FROM DISEASE. (A.) HYDROCEPHALTJS. 3489. The Skeleton of a Foetus, born with hydrocephalus. It is well formed, except at the head, which measures twenty inches in circumference, and seventeen inches from the nose to the foramen magnum. The bones of the upper part of the cranium are wide apart, lying separate on the extended dura mater. The base of the cranium is flattened out and widened. A. 140 The uterua was ruptured in parturition, and is preserved in Series XLVI. No. 3081. Presented by Dr. Conquest. 3489a. A similar specimen. There is in addition a large lumbar Spina Bifida. 3490. Skull of a Foetus, born with hydrocephalus. The ossification of the bones of the upper part of the skull is extremely irregular. A. 141 Presented, with the preceding, by Dr. Conquest. 3491. Skull of an Hydrocephalic Foetus. A. 141 A. 3492. Skull of a Lamb congenitally hydrocephalic. A. 141 B. (B.) spoEADic cretinism:. 3492a. Skeleton of a Foetus, twelve inches in length, showing the condition of the extremities which is typical of cretinism. The head is enlarged and singularly deformed, and its enlargement having taken place in the vertical and transverse directions, it is broadly pyriform, measuring four inches from base to vault. A single and continuous case of bone, widely open in front and above, occupies the place, and imperfectly imitates the form of the frontal, parietal, and occipital bones, there being complete synostosis of the segments of the latter. The other cranial bones are depressed, set apart, and bowed out by the pressure of the hydrocephalic fluid; thus, the squamous portion of the temporal looks vertically downwards, as does also the external auditory meatus, the direction of the zygoma being mainly upwards and forwards. All the bones of the cranium are light, dry, and porous. The spine is natural, the clavicles are very long in proportion to the height of the body, and the ribs are thick and heavy, but not beaded. Both the upper and lower extremities are very stunted. The arms measure but three inches and a quarter from the shoulder to the finger tips, and do not reach below the anterior superior spines of the ilium. The lower limbs from the head of the femur to the heel show a similar measurement. The total length of the spine is four inches and a-half, almost half as long again as the inferior extremities. All the bones of the limbs, including the phalanges, are thick, heavy, and firmly ossified; they are, in addition, more or less curved, esjoecially the fibulae, which are bowed out- wards and backwards. Although, on account of the mode of preparation, the epiphyses have considerably shrunken, it is evident that they are very lai'ge in proportion to the size of the shafts. The characteristic swelling at the junction of the epiphyses with the diaphyses which is met with in rickets is conspicuous by its absence. A. 142 3492b. A very large Male Cretinous Foetus which was born at term, and lived one hour. The body is well formed. The back of the neck is occupied by large masses of fat. The head is very large, but well shaped, and a longitudinal section shows that its cartilaginous base is normal. The nose is very flat and broad. The mouth is of natural size. The arms are abnormally shortened, only