ICHTHYOPSIDA, 101 cord, and from tlieir convergence bear a long spinous process or neural spine. The neural spine is grooved on its anterior and posterior surfaces, and into each groo've is fitted a long slender bone, the interneural spine. Each of tlie two interneural spines belonging to each vertebra is connected at its extremity with a long dermo-neural bone, or fin-ray, which lying in the fin forms part of the exo-skeleton or dermal skeleton of the fish. With the lower or right border of the centrum of each vertebra, bones are connected, which correspond with those just descr'ibed, but extend in the opposite direction. They are parapophyses, or inferior transverse processes, which converge and unite to form the hgemal canal; an haemal spine, united with them at their convergence; two interneural spines, fitted in the grooves of the htemal spine; and at their distal extremities two dermo-hsBmal bones. From each side of the centrum, above the converging parapophysis a short process extends transversely out- wards. This may be regarded as another branch or division of the para- pophysis.* 28. 5 563. Two Vertebrae of a Herring (Clupea Harengus). They are among those most remarkable for the number of " appendages " to the proper elements of the vertebi'ae. On the junction of the neurapophyses where they enclose the spinal canal are two long thin neural spines; and a yet longer and more slender appendage is attached to the side of each neurapophysis, whence it extends upwards, outwards, and backwards, between the muscles of the back. Similar appendages diverge outwards from the short parapophyses or transverse processes attached to the lateral and inferior parts of the centrum ; and again other very slender appendages proceed from the ribs or pleurapophyses near their articulation with the parapophyses. At their distal extremities the ribs are connected with a dermo-hgemal bone of scale like form, bearing two sharp diverging processes. 28. 6 CLASS II.—AMPHIBIA. 564. Articulated Bones of the extremities of a Frog. 28. 307 * The skeleton of the plaice shows that when the parapophyses, according to the usual type in fishes, bend down and converge to form the heemal arches in the caudal region, they, or at least those of the anterior caudal vertebrae, bifurcate or give ofE processes which extend trans- versely and form " spurious transverse processes."