ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE AXIS. CLASS v.—ARREST OF DEVELOPMENT. Stib-Class I.—cranial ARREST. 3424. The Head of a Foetus, with a wide Fissure extending through the whole length of the palate and uvula. The lower border of the nasal septum projects into the middle of the fissure. A. 10 3425. The Head of a mature Foetus, with a Fissure extending through the entire length of the hard and soft palate and uvula. The tongue and larynx have been divided through the median line, and their halves are set apart. The muscles of the soft palate are dissected, and bristles are passed beneath those of the right side. All the muscles occupied their natural positions. The palato-glossus was found proportionally larger than in the adult. The tensor palati was, in its outer portion, very short, the pterygoid plates appearing imperfectly developed ; its inner or horizonal portion did not appear fibrous. The azygos uvulge was large, each half of the uvula having its proper muscle. The levator palati was large, and passed between some of the fibres of the palatine portion of the palato-pharyngeus. The last named muscle appeared normal. A. 10a Presented by Gr. F. Lane, Esq. 3426. Specimen showing a complete cleft of the Soft and Hard Palate, extending through the alveolar process on the right side, the left nostril and left side of the lip. The intermaxillary bone is fused with the right maxilla. A. 230 Presented by Dr. Connolly. 3427. Skull of a Foetal Lamb, with defective formation of the lower jaw. The ascending rami are nearly normnl, but they are connected only by a short transverse plate of bone. The mouth terminated posteriorly in a cul-de-sac, having no communication with the oesophagus. A. 148 3428. A male " Cyclopian " Foetus, showing the deformity resulting from arrested development of the anterior portion of the cranial axis. The single orbital cavity is situated immediately above the palate, and the eyeballs are fused into a single mass. The proboscis which projects above the median eye consists of the naso-frontal process, partially perforated by a single nostril. The ethmoid bone is absent. The foetus is otherwise well formed. A. 148a The mother had borne nine other healthy children. 3429. Brain of the Foetus last described. It is greatly malformed. The corpus callosum and the fornix are absent, the cerebral lobes are small and fused anteriorly, and the third and lateral ventricles are opened out into a large cyst^ 3430. The Head of a Foetal Pig exhibiting a deformity similar to that seen in the preceding specimen. The eyes are only partially fused, and above them projects a proboscis perforated by the nostrils. A. 144 3431. A similar specimen. The eyes are in the same orbital cavity, but are not completely fused. A. 145 3432. Skull of a Foetal Pig. The upper wall of the single orbit is formed by the coalition of the orbital plates of the frontal bone and the lesser wings of the sphenoid; these being united by sutures into one broad plate^ at the posterior margin of which are the posterior formina. The inferior wall of the orbit is chiefly formed by the diminutive and approximated superior maxillary bones.