223 BOTANICAL SPECIMENS. Myroxtlon Pereik^;, Klotzsch. (Balsam of Peru.) Fruit. Note.—Professor Baillon thinks that both balsam of Tolu and balsam of Peru are yielded by the same plant. BuTEA FRONDOSA, Boxb. {Blialc or Palas tree.) Gum (Butea'). Note.—The flowers yield a yellow dye. The exudation is official in the Indian Pharmacopoeia. It is known as butea gum, Bengal kino, dhak tree gum, and pidas kino. (Bentley and Trimen, Med. Plants, tab. 79.) The gum or lac is the produce of Coccus lacca. When the bark is wounded a red juice exudes, which hardens into a brittle astringent gum. Astragalus gummifer, Lahill. (MilJc Vetch.) Wood, and gum tragacantli. Note.—A gummy exudation from the stems of this and several other species. Its formation is owing to a more or less complete transformation of the cells of the pith and medullary rays of the stem into a mucilaginous mass. It is produced in various parts of Asia Minor, Syria, Armenia, Kurdistan, and Persia. (Bentley and Trimen, Med. Plantt, tab. 73.) PoNGAMiA GLABRA, Vent. (Dalbergia Arborea, Willcl.) Seeds. Note. —The oil (Poonga oil) is highly esteemed by the natives of India as a remedy in skin diseases. MucuNA PRURiENS, D. C. (Cowhage.) Legumes. Note.— Official in the Indian Pharmaeopmia, page 73 ; formerly official in the P.L. Cowhage consists of the hairs covering the legumes. (Bentley and Trimen, Med. Plants, tab. 78.) DiPTERYX ODORATA, WiUd. Legumes, seeds. (Tonka or Tonquin Bean.) Note.—The leaves have been occasionally found mixed with senna on the Continent, but not in this country. The leaflets resemble those of Cassia obovata, but are equal at the base. They are purgative. [C. P. S.J The Tonga or Tonka bean is used for scenting snuff and perfumery. The odour is due to Coumarine, a principle common to MeUlotus and some grasses, e.ff., Authoxanthum odoratum. DiPTERYX EBOENSis, Hooh. (Ebor Tree.) Oil. Note.—The fruit and seed resemble that of the Tonga bean, but are entirely destitute of the odoriferous principle. The seeds contain much fatty oil, which the natives of the Mosquito country use for the hair. Ceratonia siliqua, L. {Kharoub.) Fruit. {Carob beans, Locust bean.i, St. John's bread.) Note.—They have been imported from Spain under the name of Algarobo beans ; they are called Kharoub (whence Carob) by the Arabs. The pods contain muoli mucilaginous and saccharine matter, and are used for feeding cattle, pigs, &c., in South Europe. The name St. John's bread is a misnomer, as the locusts he ate were the animals; though the "husks" mentioned in the parable of the Prodigal Son were probably these. Erythrophl^um Guixeense, Don. (Sassy or Casca barJc.) Bark. Note.—Dr. Lauder Brxmton, in the British Med. Journ., March 29th and 31st, 1877, described this bark as " a drug which strengthens and slows the heart, contracts the arterioles and increases the urine." MM. Lee and Bochefontainc found that Sassy possesses a remarkable action ou the heart, almost identical with that of Homolle and Qucvcune's Digitalino. Cliristy {New Com. Plants and Drugs, vi, p. 101, and Lancol, Suno 17th, 1882.) Prep.: The alkaloid Erythrophleinc. The bark is used as an ordeal poison in West Africa.