204 CASTS AND MODELS. 86. Hand of a Woman, in whicli there was arrested growtli of the third and fourth digits. 87. Casts of two Hands and a Foot, the digits of wliich are ill-developed. The fingers and thumbs of each hand are welded together, and the separation between them is indicated only by grooves ; the extremity of the limb is covered by a single nail having- the appearance of a hoof. The metacarpal bones and first phalanges could be distinctly made out through the integuments, but the distal bones of the digits did not appear to have been developed. The digits of the foot are only indicated by small separate nails attached to the upturned extremity of the limb; the other foot presented the same appearances. A. 37 The subject of tlie malformation was an infant, agerl 3 montlis, haying a too prominent forehead, but otherwise healthy looking. The mother had given birth to ten healthy cliildren, all of whom were at the time living ; but she had felt weak and unwell during the last pregnancy. See Sitioell Ward Boole, vol. vii, p. 261. 88. Cast of a Leg and Foot. The condyles of the femur are widely separated. The tibia is absent, and the leg is curiously bent upon the thigh. The foot is deformed, and bent upon the fibula, so that the external malleolus forms a projection. The phalanges of the first and second toes are absent, though tlie corresponding metatarsals are present. The fifth metatarsal with its phalang-es is entirely absent. The leg itself is preserved. A. 73 See Teratological Catalogue, Series II, No. 3508; a cast of the hand of the same patient is preserved in No. 71. 89. Casts of Two Hands with extreme deformity of the fingers. Of the right hand the thumb and index finger only are normal. The second finger has the appearance of having been amputated through the third phalanx ; the third is short, ill-developed, and presents a median constriction, and the little finger is represented only by a stump. The fingers of the left hand are in a somewhat similar condition, except that the index finger is here absent, and the third is longer and more shapely. Taken from an otherwise well-formed woman. Her feet were short, and the web between the second and third toes extended nearly up to the distal end of the first phalanges; they were otherwise normal. Presented by Dr. Eoper, through Dr. Matthews Duncan. 90. Cast of the Leg of a Child 12 years old, with a deep circular constriction at the lower part of the calf. This constriction existed at the time of birth, and the surface of the skin over it was like that of a cicatrix. It is probable that the constriction was caused by the umbilical cord, or a band of false membrane, drawn tightly round the leg, as in the cases of intra- uterine amputation of the limbs. The parts above and below the constriction were natural, and all the movements of the foot were perfect. A. 35 91. Cast of parts connected with the malformation named Ectopia Yesicaj and Epispadias in a male child. 92. Model of a similar defect of the Anterior Walls of the Abdomen and of the Urinary Bladder, with protrusion of the posterior wall of the bladder, in a girl 15 years old. A. 6 93. Fissure and Extroversion of the Urinary Bladder. The urinary bladder is open anteriorly, and its mucous membrane is protruded throngli an aperture in the middle line of the abdomen near the symphysis pubis.