258 APPENDIX TO BOTANICAL CATALOGUE. Gtmnospermous—Cypress, Salishuria (Gingko), Thuja, Tew. Endogenous.—Ge^-oxylon and other palms. The young undergrowth of various palnas is largely imported for umbrella sticks, &c. Draccena, showing the corky tissue and woody f.v. bundles. (Sach's Text Booh, 2nd Ed., fig. 104, p. 128.) AcROGBNOUS.—Stems of Tree-ferns. Rhizome of male fern, Nephrodinm Filix-mas. {Anomalous Woods.) These are chiefly characteristic of woody climbers, e.g., the British Clematis vitalba, and the lianas of tropical forests, illustrative of the following natural orders :— Ranunculaces.—Clematis vitalha, Ti-aveller's Joy, or Old Man's Beard. The liber is the only element of the bark developed ; the medullary rays are large and the vessels numerous. Menispeemace^.—Gliondrodendron tomentosum (true Pereira Brava). The wood is of a loose fibrous texture, in concentric or excentric circles, and divided into wedges by large medullary rays. The zones of wood are separated by wavy rings of a waxy substance. "False Pereira Brava; " is of unknown origin. This is remarkable for the extreme excentricity of the layers. Coscinium fenestratmn (false Columba Root). It is characterised by large wedge-like medullary rays, as in Clematis and Aristolochia, with large vessels. Malpighiaces.—The wood of members of this order is characterised by having one or two rings only, with great irregularities of development in a radial direction. The bark follows the sinuosities (like the skin in the ruminated albumen of the Nutmeg). Sapindace*.—Faullinia sp. Besides the primary wood, secondary and ter- tiary axes are produced in the bark. Wistaria, a genus of Leguminosse, has wood of a similar type. Ntctaginej?.—Pisonia sp. The annual rings are very obscure, but the vessels are numerous. Aristolochiace^.—Aristolochia siplio. The wood is characterised by having numerous medullary rays, the wood being without annual zones. The liber is in minute bundles, but the suber occurs in large lobes. {Injured Woods, cj'c.) These specimens illustrate the exogenous growth of young wood over injured surfaces where the wood has died. They show how the new wood gradually conceals, but forms no organic union with the injured part. Branch of Elm in which a mahogany pulley in an iron staple is completely embedded. The wood has taken thirteen years to cover it, by growing excen- trically over it. The pulley probably being fi-om the underside of the bough, gravity thus caused tlie excess of growth on that side.