83 AVES. side ; (5) the sternum having its anterior median process bifurcate, and its posterior border deeply notched on each side ; (6) a double obturator foramen between the ischium and pubis. In the CoracomorpliEe, Cypselomorphce, and CeleomorphEe the maxillo-palatines are free, and the vomer is truncated in front, but in the Coccygomorphee the maxillo palatines are united. 28. 261 357. Skeleton of a Jackdaw (Corvus Monedula). 28. 260 358. Skeleton of a Green Woodpecker (Picus viridis). The characters common to the Psittacomorphse and some of the Coccygomorph£e, formerly included under the " Scansores," are illustrated by this and the following specimens: (I) in the Parrots, the great development of the posterior, superior, or jugal process of the sphenoid bone, so that in some it completes, with the lacrymal bone, the ring round the orbit; (2) in the same genera, the inter- maxillary bone united to the skull by ligament only, and therefore very movable; (3) the palate bones having their surfaces placed obliquely, or vertically in the Parrots, in which also they are very large and broad, and in which no vomer appears; (4) the deep broad lower jaw in the Parrots; (5) in the Woodpeckers, and others assisted by their tails in climbing, the body of the last caudal vertebra broad, and bearing a flattened concave plate beneath it; (6) the sternum generally small, and doubly notched on each side of its posterior border; (7) a single wide obturator foramen. The maxillo- palatine bones are united. 28. 262 359. Skeleton of a Cuckoo (Cuculus canorus). 28. 262a 360. Skeleton of a Parrot (Psittacus). 28. 263 Presented by W. S. Ward, Esq. 361. Skeleton of a Hen Harrier (Circus cyaneus). The following characters of the -iEtomorphaj or Accipitres may be observed in this and the two following specimens: (1) The posterior part of the skull projecting more or less behind the occipital foramen; (2) the general smoothness of the surface of the cranium; (3) the long and thin ossa communicantia, pterygoid bones, and lower wings of the sphenoid bone; (4) the developed lateral por- tions of the ethmoid bone; (5) the developed lacrymal bones, helping to form tbe roof of the orbits, and supporting the ossa superciliaria ; (6) the flat and broad palate bones, placed nearly horizontally; (7) the broad and deep- keeled sternum, without posterior notches, having its anterior median process single and undivided, and two round small openings in its posterior part; (8) in the diurnal species the furcula with its branches widely divaricated and arched; (9) the large and strong humeri; (10) the very long radii and ulnee ; (II) ossified pubo-ischiatic symphysis; (12) the ossa pubis converging behind their union with the ischia; (13) the femora in the diurnal species having air cavities. The maxillo-palatine bones are united. 28. 257 362. Skeleton of a Sparrow Hawk (Accipiter fringillarius). 28. 258 363. Skeleton of a Falcon. 28. 259 364. Skeleton of a Stork (Ciconia alba). The chief characters common to the Charadriomorphee, Geranomorphje, Amphimorphse, and Pelargomorphse, all formerly included under the " Grallae, or Wading Birds," are shown in this and the following specimens, namely: (1) In many species the hollowed and grooved palatine bones, and a ligamentous union of the pterygoid bones with the body of the sphenoid; (2) in general a firm ligamentous or osseous union of the furcula with the keel of the sternum; (3) in gencial also the ossa