137 SERIES XXIIL THE BEAIN AND SPINAL CORD. 922. Portion of a Cerebral Hemispliere, showing the fibrous structure of its white substance. 22. 1 923. Portion of a Cerebrum, with its blood vessels injected. Thej are derived from those ramifying in the highly vascular pia mater. 22. 2 924. Portion of the Base of a Brain, displaying parts of the crura cerebri, and, in front of them, the corpora albicantia, tuber cinereum, infundibulum, pituitary body, optic tracts, and optic commissure. 22. 4 925. Vertical median section of a Cerebellum, Pons, Medulla Oblongata, and other adjacent parts, displaying especially the cavity and boundaries of the fourth ventricle, and of the canal from the fourth ventricle to the third. A bristle is passed beneath the fourth or trochlear nerve winding round the crus cerebri. 22. 5 926. A Medulla Oblongata, below which is shown the decussation of the fibres connected with the anterior pyramids. 22. 6 927. Portion of a Brain, including the pons and medulla oblongata. Fibres are shown passing through the pons from the right anterior pyramid to the right crus cerebri; while on the left side the fibres that appear to correspond with these, and lie at the same part of the pons, pass from the inferior part of the crus cerebri, to the left crus cerebelli. 22. 7 This and the two following specimens were prepared and presented by Holmes Coote, Esq. 928. Portion of Brain, in which a large bundle of fibres is shown passing from the right restiform tract forwards and inwards into the substance of the pons. 22. 8 929. Portion of Brain, with the origin of the sensory or ganglionic portion of the fifth, or trigeminal, nerve, on the right side. The root divides into thi'ee portions, of which one passes into the medulla oblongata between the restiform and olivary bodies, another into the middle of the crus cerebelli, and the third extends transversely into the pons. 22. 9 929a. A Spine, with the Spinal Cord, showing its membranes and the origins of the spinal nerves. 22 c.