31 ABNORMAX, CONDITIONS OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 3576. A Leg, in which there is no posterior tibial artery. The peroneal artery is of large size, and its trunk passes across the back of the ankle joint to the inner side of the os calcis, and thence takes the place, and supplies the usual branches, of the posterior tibial. A. 101 3577. A Leg, with a very small anterior tibial artery, and a peroneal artery as large as the posterior tibial. The anterior branch of the peroneal artery gives a large transverse branch to the anterior tibial; and from the junction of these the anterior tibial is of ordinary size. A. 102 3578. A Leg, in which there is no peroneal artery. A. 103 3579. Vena Cava Inferior, ascending, on the left side of the aorta, to the diaphragm, and then obliquely crossing over the aorta to the inferior surface of the liver. A. 104 3580. A similar specimen : the aorta is in the median line. A. 105 3581. Common Iliac Veins, ascending to the first lumbar vertebra before uniting to form the inferior cava. A. 106 3582. Two left common Iliac Veins. At the junction of the left external and internal iliac veins, two large trunks are formed, which proceed parallel to each other, and of which one joins the right common iliac vein, and the other joins the trunk thus formed a little higher up. A. 107 Cases of transposition of blood vessels are in Nos. 3400, 3401. (II.) OP THE HEART. CLASS I.—VARIATION. (A.) IN" THE VALVES OF THE HEART. (I.) MAIiFOKMATIONS OF THE PULMONARY, AORTIC, AND TRICXTSPID VALVES. 3583. The Heart of a Girl, set. 6, with Congenital Malformation of the Tricuspid, Pulmonary, and Aortic Valves. The tricuspid valve forms a continuous septum without any division into cusps. The pulmonary valve is represented by a ti'iangular membranous projection rising up into the commencement of the pulmonary artery : a minute aperture at the apex of it being the sole communi- cation between the ventricle and the artery. Only one semilunar flap of the aortic valve is developed. The child was well grown and apparently healthy. She was under observation as an out- patient for eighteen months, during which period there was noticed an increased impidse, and loud systolic murmur audible over the whole cardiac region and in both carotids, but loudest in the left subclavian region and at the inferior angle of the left scapula. There was no cyanosis. She died from erysipelas. (II.) ABNORMAL NUMBER OF VALVES. 3584. Portions of a Heart taken from a Man, set. 31, who died from an attack of apoplexy, a large clot being found in the third cerebral ventricle. Four semi-