PREFACE. "♦— Since the former Catalogue of the Anatomical and Physiological Preparations was printed, several hundred specimens have been added to this portion of the Museum. Some of these are entirely new, but many take the place of others of a similar nature which have from time to time required renewal. The series illustrating the Anatomy and Physiology of the Generative Organs in the Female, and of the growth and development of the Foetus, have been rendered almost complete by the presentation in June, 1879, of Dr. Matthews Duncan's Collection. He is also the donor of a valuable collection of obstetric instruments. The whole of this section of the Museum Collection has now been re-arranged and re-numbered, and several selected specimens from Dr J. R. Farre's Collec- tion have been included in the General Catalogue. All the descriptions have been revised and collated, and some of them amended or extended. The specimens are now numbered consecutively throughout the Collection. Those included in the former Catalogue may be identified by the old numbers, which are placed at the lower right-hand comer of the description. The Catalogue of the Invertebrata is almost entirely compiled from a manuscript catalogue formerly written by Dr. Church. The Catalogue of the Botanical specimens has been written by the Rev. G. Henslow, the Lecturer on Botany, by whom the specimens described therein have been presented. In the Teratological Catalogue are included, in addition to specimens of congenital deformity, others in which the malformation has been acquired. The chief reason for this arrangement is that these latter have not found a place in the Pathological Catalogue already published. The Teratological specimens are numbered in direct continuation with the Pathological specimens in Vol. I. The general arrangement of the Teratological Catalogue is in accordance with that adopted by Mr. B. T. Lowne in the Teratological Catalogue of the Royal College of Surgeons of England. A 2