59 CARTILAGINOUS AXD OSSEOUS TISSUES. 62. Section of a Tibia, dried and put in turpentine, after the injection of its medullai-y artery, and the removal of its earthy matter by solution in dilute hydrochloric acid. The trunk of the medullary artery passes very obliquely through the posterior wall of the bone, from above downwards, and extends along the axis of the medullary tissue into the lower third of the bone. In its course it gives off many branches, which supply the medullary tissue and the inner part of the wall. Its principal branch is given off shortly beyond its entrance into the medullary tissue, and after passing downwards for a short distance takes a recurrent course, and supplies the upper part of the shaft of the tibia. 6. 2.3 63. The lower part of a Tibia, from which a portion of the walls has been removed, to exhibit the branchings of the injected medullary artery. 6. 24 64. The upper part of a Skull, from which the outer table is removed to show the large osseous canals for veins ramifying in the diploe. The walls of the canals are painted blue. 6. 25 65. Section of the upper part of the Femur of a Woman 73 years old. It shows, as the usual degeneration of old age, the comparative thinness and defective hardness of the walls, the wider spaces in the cancellous tissue, and the larger quantity of fatty matter not removable by maceration. 6- 26a 66. The Vertebral Column of a Foetus about 4 months old. In the centre of the body of each vertebra is an opaque spot, or a small mass of yellowish cancellous bone, indicating the commencement of ossification. The process is furthest advanced in the lower dorsal and the upper lumbar vertebrae; proceeding from these, both upwards and downwards, its progress in the successive vertebrje appears gradually less. 6. 31 67. The Vertebral Cokimn and Pelvis of a Child about 1 year old. It shows the further advanced ossification of the bodies of the vertebree, and the nearly completed ossification of the laminae, transverse, and articular processes, and pedicles. The parts which remain cartilaginous, and thus constitute the epiphyses of the vertebrse, are the spinous processes, the extremities of the transvei'se processes, and the anterior roots of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebree. The anterior half of the ring of the atlas also contains only a small central portion of bone. 6. 32 68. The Sternum of a Foetus about 7 months old. One portion of bone occupies the centre of its upper piece; three portions of smaller size are placed irregularly in the second or middle piece. 6. 33 69. The Sternum of a Foetus about 8 months old, exhibiting the further progress of the ossification from several centres, the beginning of which is shown in the preceding preparation. 6. 34 70. The Sternum of a Child less than 1 year old. In the further progress of the ossification two new portions of bone, or ceuti'es of ossification, have been formed in the inferior angles of the upper piece of the sternum ; and there are six portions in the middle piece, of which the two upper are placed in the middle line, and the four lower symmetrically on each side of it. Besides these several very small portions of bone are irregularly placed in the cartilage. 6. 35 71. The Sternum of a Child about 3 j'cars old, exhibiting one large di.sk- shaped mass of bone in the uppei', and five, of various sizes, in the middle piece.