30 ABNOEMAL CONDITIONS OP THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 3564. A Radial Artery, dividing near its origin into two branclies of nearly- equal size, which pursue an almost parallel course in the forearm. At the wi'ist one of them passes like an ordinary radial artery to the back of the radius; the other remains in front and gives off the superficial palmar branch. A. 88 3565. A Radial Artery, similarly dividing or giving off its superficial palmar branch in the middle third of the forearm. A. 89 3566. A Radial Ai-tery, giving off its superficial palmar branch higher than usual, and then passing to the back of the radius over the extensor tendons of the thumb. A. 90 3567. A similar specimen. The superficial palmar arch is not formed. The deep palmar branch of the radial is very large, and from it and the deep palmar arch large branches proceed to join the digital arteries. A. 91 Presented by W. B. Jackson, Esq. 3568. A Radial Artery, whose terminal branch passes along the palmar surface of the metarcarpal bone of the forefinger, and unites with the digital artery supplying the adjacent margins of that and the second finger. A. 92 3569. A Radial Artery, whose deep palmar branch is of large size, and joins the first digital branch of the superficial palmar arch. A. 93 3570. An anterior Interosseous Artery, passing across the front of the lower end of the radius, and uniting with the radial artery. A. 94 3571. An Ulnar Artery, given off" from the brachial in the middle of the arm, and passing superficially over the muscles on the inner side of the bend of the elbow. The deep palmar branch of the radial artery is unusually large, and, where it joins the corresponding branch of the ulnar, it gives off the digital artery for the opposite sides of the third and fourth fingers. A. 95 3572. Internal Pudic Arteries giving off the arteries of the bulb, at about the junctions of the ischia and ossa p^ibis. From their origins the arteries of the bulb proceed almost transversely across the perineum, and their trunks are an inch in length. A. 97 3572a. Pelvic Organs and Arteries. The right internal pudic artery gives off in addition to its usual branches a large artery, the accessory pudic, which proceeds forwards by the side of the lower part of the bladder, then close along the right side of the prostate gland, anterior to which it passes through the triangular ligament and enters the penis. In the penis this artery takes especially the place of the dorsal artery. The right internal pudic artery takes its usual course, but terminates in the perineal artery. A. 96 3573. An external Iliac Artery, from which the epigasti-ic and obturator arteries are derived by a common trunk. The obturator curves over the outer margin of Gimbernat's ligament to its aperture in the pelvis. A. 98 Similar specimems are in tlie Pathological Catalogue, Series XIX, Nos. 2147, 2148. 3574. A Femoral Artery, from which a large branch, arising in the upper part of the thigh, is continued parallel with the trunk, and, after a course of about seven inches, ends in the popliteal artery. A. 99 3575. A Posterior Tibial Artery, accompanied in its whole coui-se along the leg by a large branch, which is given off' from it near its origin, and which ends, near the ankle joint, in anastomosis with the peroneal artery. A. lUU