215 BOTANICAL SPECIMENS. ANONACEJE. Anona squamosa, L. (Sweet-sop.) Eruit. Note.—Several species of this genus are cultivated for tlieir fruits. Tbe Sour-sop of the West Indies is that of A. muricata. The Sweet-sop is a native of the Malay Islands, but is extensively cultivated in the East and West Indies. The fruit consists of the agglomeration of many originally free carpels. MENISPBRMACE^. Anamirta Cocculus, Wight and Anwtt. {Gocculus Indkus.) Fruit. {Levant Nut.) Note.—Picrotoxin is contained in the kernel ; menispermia in the shell. The greater part of the importation of the fruit is used for the illegal purposes of adulterating beer and ale. Chondrodenron tomentosum, B. et p. {Pareira Brava, Butua.) Root. (In lower case, " Anomalous Woods.") Note.—For fig. of fruit, see P.J., [3], vol. iv, p. 83. For fig. of plant, see Bentley and Trimen, Medical Plants, tab. 11 ; who state tliat the true Pareira Brava is derived from this plant, as proved by Hanbury ; the Pareira Brava of commerce, or " velvet leaf," being the root of Cissampelos Pareira, L. BEBBEKIDACEiS. Beeberis Ltcium, Boyle. Extract of the bark. (Busot.) Fruit. Note.—The extract has been long used in India for ophthalmia. The fruit, " zari9ka " of Persia, is used like raisins. Berberis vulgaris, L. (Barherry.) Root and stem. Note.—The inner bark as well as the roots boiled in an alkaline ley yield a bright yellow dye, used in Poland for colouring leather. It wag formerly supposed to cure jaundice, from the imagined virtues of similitude in colour. Berberis aristata, B.C. Root. Note,—This species is common in North. India, and possesses similar properties to the last. PAP AVERAGES. Papater somniperum, L. (Poppy.) Flower and fruit in section; capsules showing incisions as made for opium in India; capsules attacked by the Blue Titmouse for the seeds. Seeds, two vars. Note.—Floral formula, 2. 4. OO . (±10). The incisions in the tlnripe ovaries for opium are made by three or sis pieces of flattened wire tied together into a kind of scarificator. CRUCIFEE-ffi. Cheiranthus Cheibi, L. (Wallflower.) Section of Flower. Note.—Floral Formula, 4. 4. 2. 4. (2). Obs. 2, 4., signifies two whorls of stamens, which make them " letradynamous," the two (ouler) being shorter t)ian tlie other four. No member of this family is poisonous. Another member is Cochlearia olliciualis, L., " Scurry-grass."