AVKS. 105 602. Sternum of a Black-headed Bunting. 603. Sternum of a Stormy Petrel. 604. Sternum, with the Trachea, of a Whistling Swan. The trachea passes between the branches of the furcula, and then between the two plates of the keel of the sternum, between which it extends through the greater part of the length of the keel. Then suddenly bending on itself, it passes forwards, and, emerging from the keel of the sternum, it ascends between the branches of the furcula, curved here for its passage, and bends backwards over the anterior border of the sternum. 28. 281 605. Pelvis of a Whistling Swan. 28. 282 606. Sections of the Pelvis of a Vulture; showing an extreme modification of the appearance of the vertebral column, through coalition of vertebrsB, which, though coalesced, yet retain traces of their essential separateness. In the longitudinal sections of the sacrum are shown the principal elements of four- teen vertebrae, coalesced to form this apparently single bone. The centram of the first sacral vertebra bears on its lower surface a large bifurcate liypapophy- sis, and at each upper margin an articulating process, or zygapophysis, like those of the thoracic vertebree. This first centrum is also, by its larger size, distinguished from the others, which, successively diminishing in size, and laterally expanded, bear only faint traces of their distinction in the transverse lines that mark their inferior surface, and in the corresponding plates of bone by which they are partitioned within. The laminsB or neurapophyses are almost wholly united in one plate of bone closing the neural canal; but their distinct- ness is indicated by the foramina which gave ])assage to the several pairs of sacral nerves. One long keel-shaped ridge of bone is formed by the united neural spines, or spinous processes ; but its composition of fourteen parts, cor- responding with the other vertebral elements, is shown by the number of thin vertical lamellae of bone by which its interior is partitioned. Rudiments of parapophyses appear in two small elevations on the first two vertebras; and close by them are depressions, with which the heads of the last two movable ribs on each side articulated. From the third to the sixth vertebra, and from the tenth to the fourteenth, rudimental ribs, or pleurapophyses, are anchylosed at their expanded ends to the corresponding centra, and to strong diapo- physes. To the whole extent of this junction of pleurapophyses and diapo- physes is united the elongated ilium, which may be regarded as a second or distal portion of one pleurapophysis, developed beyond the rest, and connected with their distal ends, as well as with that of its own proximal portion. The ischium is united to the distal portion of the ilium, and the os pubis to that of the ischium, whence it curves inwards to complete the pubic arch ; this hsemal arch being probably formed by two haemapophyses, of which the os pubis represents that of a vertebra succeeding the one to which the ischium appertains.