24 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE LIMBS. CLASS VI.—MALFOEMATIONS FROM DISEASE (NOT CONGENITAL). 3514. A Knee Joint from a Leg which -was affected with well-marked Genu Valgum. No change in the ligaments was obsevved on dissection ; they have since contracted from immersion in spirit. The internal condyle is slightly longer than the extei'nal, and consequently appears unduly prominent. The external condyle is flattened, especially along its external edge, and in front is a depression corresponding to the semilunar cartilage; the articular cartilage covering the bone at this spot was of a slightly yellow colour. The internal condyle of the tibia projects somewhat higher than the level of the external. The specimen was taken from the body of a child aged 11, who was killed by an injury to the head. The opposite limb was normal. 3515. The Foot and Part of the Leg of a Girl, aged 16 years, amputated on account of its uselessness and interference with walking. The leg had not been used since the age of 4 years, when, to judge from the history, the patient suffered from an attack of infantile paralysis. The specimen is a typical example of acquired talipes equino varus. The muscles vary much in appearance, some being in an advanced state of fatty degeneration, more particularly the gastrocnemius, soleus, tibialis posticus, and extensor longus digitorum, whilst others, especially the flexor longus digitorum and the peronei, look remai kably healthy. Of the bones, the astragalus was the only one which was in any way altered, its superior articular surface showing an absence of the articular cartilage towards the front, the part which would be separated from the tibia in the position of talipes equinus. The articular sui'faces of the tarsal bones were in many cases partially separated from each other, the cartilage itself being thinned and transparent. See Laiorence Ward Book, vol. ii, p. 402. 3516. Skeleton of the Foot of a Chinese Woman. It is shortened antero- posteriorly. The natural concavity of tlie sole is gi-eatly increased. The bones are compressed and much smaller than their normal size. The toes are doubled down and distorted. A. 200 3517. A similar specimen, in which, however, the soft parts have not been removed. A. 190