249 BOTANICAL SPECIMENS. Allium sativum, L. Bulb, preserved wet. {Garlic.) iVb^e.—Garlic consists of a bulb iu wliicli all the scales are membranous, but a number of buds or small bulbs, which are called " cloves," are developed in the axils of the membranous scales. It keeps best when hung up in a dry place, so that the bulbs do not come in contact with anything. [C. P. S.] Allium ampeloprasum, L. {Leek.) Bulbs. Note.—Ordinary leeks have no bulbs. The specimen is an accidental reversion to the original form. Hyacinthus oeientale, L. {Garden Hyacinth.) Plant in spirits. Note.—This specimen produced its spike of dark purple flowers entirely underground, having been accidentally prevented from rising above it by a heavy tile. It shows that colour is not dependent so much upon light as on the amount of nutriment held in reserve by the plant. It was introduced from South-East Europe about 1580, as Turner (1548) does not mention it, but Gerarde {Serball, 1597) grew both the single and double forms. Ornithogalum pyrenaicum, L. Young shoots (inflorescence). {French Asparagus.) Note.—This is indigenous to southern counties of England, and is collected and sold in Bath under the name of French asparagus. LiLIUM BULBIFERUM, L. Aerial bulbs. Note.—These bulbs are very large, and had grown at the expense of the flowers, which never came to maturity. LiLiuM Kamschatense, Fisch. Bulbs, bread made of bulbs. Note.—These bulbs are used in times of scarcity for food in Siberia and Eamschatka. Fritillaria Thunbergii, Miq. Bulbs. Note.—These bulbs are used for food in times of scarcity in Siberia. Phoemium tenax, L. {Neiv Zealand Flax.) Gum; Fibre. Note.—The fibre of the leaves of this plant is used for many kinds of textile fabrics, but there is great difficulty in freeing it from the gum which is found in the leaf. See an account in Brighter Britain. COLCHICUM AUTUMNALE, L. The corm, preserved wet. The corm, dried and sliced. Seed. Note.—Floral formula, [(3 + 3). 3 + 3]. (3). See floral formula of Crocus for comparison. The capsule differs from that of crocus in being superior and septicidal; the latter is inferior and loeulicidal. Colchiciim blossoms in September, about the same time as Crocus sativus, the flower of which it resembles; but it is distinguished from the crocus by the leaves not appearing with the flower, and by the flower having six stamens, the crocus having three stamens only. The seeds appear in spring with the leaves. The seed slightly resembles blnck mustard seed ; but is distinguished from it by its larger size, by not being pungent, and by being very hard. For micr. section of the corm and fig. of starch, see IJerg., Anat. Atlas, taf. xxiv, fig. 59. The corms lose nearly three-fourths of their weight in drying. They are said to be most active in autumn, and to preserve their qualities better if dried than if sliced. [C. P. S.] AsAQR^A officinalis, Lindl.; Schcenocaulon officinale, a. Gray. Fruit. {Gevadilla Seeds, Sabadilla.) Note.—The seeds are used chiefly for the preparation of veratria. For fig. of plant, see Bentley and Trimen, Med. Plants, tab. 287.