112 SERIES XII. THE OEGANS OF DEGLUTITION: FAUCES, PHARINX, AND (ESOPHAGUS. 674. A Tongue, witli the soft palate and its arches, and the pharynx laid open from behind. 10. 1 675. A Pharynx, with the principal adjacent parts. Fine injection impelled into the right thyroid arteries has filled the small vessels of the right halves of the pharynx, laiynx, and thyroid gland, but has not passed into any vessels on the left side. 10. 3 676. Portion of an Oesophagus, displaying, in separated layers, the outer longi- tudinal, and the inner circular muscular fibres, and the external surface of the mucous membrane. 10. 4 677. Portion of an Oesophagus and Stomach inverted, and showing the longi- tudinal folds and finely-wrinkled surface of the mucous membrane of the lower part of the oesophagus. 10. 5 678. The Tongue, Lingual Bone, and Pharynx of a Tortoise. The tongue is small, hard, thick, nearly covered with orifices of small tubes. The lingual bone presents an elongated median body, and two long cornua. The pharynx is very large and simple. The glottis is widely opened. 10. 10 679. The corresponding organs in a Land Tortoise (Testudo). The tongue is covered with long, soft, filiform papilla-. 10. 11 680. Part of the Oesophagus of a Turtle (Chelone Midas), inverted so as to show the strong recurved and sharp-pointed conical processes with which its inner surface is beset, and which serve to keep back during deglutition the slippery vegetable food on which the animal subsists. 10. 12 681. Part of the Oesophagus of a Boa. In its contracted state its cavity appears less than half an inch in diameter, but it admitted of dilatation to the extent of three or more inches in diameter. 10. 13 682. The Tongue, and part of the Pharynx of an Ostrich (Struthio Camelus), with the aperture of the glottis exposed. The tongue is of simple form, broad and short, deeply wrinkled and covered with thick cviticlc, which is continued, growing thinner as it proceeds, over the wall of the pharynx. In the wall of tiie pharynx are strong, conical, curved, and pointed processes. 10. 7