245 BOTANICAL SPECIMENS. JUNIPEEUS COMMUNIS, L. (Com7iwn Juniper.) Berries. Wood diseased by Podisoma. -ZVo^e.—The fniit is a fleshy gfilbulus. When first formed, it consists of three fleshy bracts nearly separate from each other, with an ovule at the base of each. These bracts afterwards grow together to form the so-called juniper berry. For fig., see Bentley and Trimen, Med. Plants, p. 255. The small catkins of male flowers occur on separate plants. The oil is often adulterated vnth. turpentine, and is then less viscid, and not entirely soluble in alcohol. The pure oil is soluble in that fluid. The common juniper is a native of England, forming low tufts on the South Downs, but shrubby trees on the moors of York and Durham. The wood is liable to the attacks of a dimorphic fungus {Podisoma Juniperi), which forms orange- coloured " horns " issuing from the branches ; the spores from this subsequently attack the Hawthorn, especially the fruits, giving rise to the so-called (JSosstelia lacerata) (sec the specimens of these Fungi.) The berries are a good stomachic. JuNiPERUS Sabina, L. (Savin.) Powdered Savin, Volatile oil. (Oil of Savin.) Note.—Savin differs from juniper in having leaves only half as long, and more spreading than in that plant, and in its different odour. It may be distinguished by its tufted branchlets from the common species of Thuja, which have fan-like, flattened branches. [C. P. S.] JuNiPERUS ViKGiNiANA, L. (Bed Cedar, American Savine.) Wood. Note.—This plant closely resembles savine in appearance and odour, but yields less volatile oil. It appears to differ from savine only in its larger size and more diffuse habit. The wood is the so-caUed " cedar" commonly used for lead pencils. It has the advantage over common cedar of not being attacked by insects. Agathis (Dammaba) austealis, Don. (Kauri Pine.) Resin. (Australian Copal, Australian Dammar, Coire Gum, Kawrie Gum.) Note.—Kauri or cowdie gum is a fossil resin, used as a substitute for copal in mating varnishes. It is readily soluble in eucalyptus oils. It is largely imported into this country from New Zealand, where it is dug up, by the Maories, in the North Island, wliere it is found beneath the turf, by " spearing " for it in places where there are no forests at the present time. In the year 1866, no less than 41,428 cwts. were imported, a large proportion of which was probably again exported to America. It has fetched as much as £120 a ton in London. Common dammar resin is produced in India by Dammara orientalis. [C. P. S.] ToRREYA, sp., Ai-n. (Stinking Teio.) Fruit. Note.—This genus belongs to the Taxaceoe or Yew-tree family, and are small evergreen trees of North America, China, and Japan. They are dioecious. The fruits are drupaceous, one- seeded, with a ruminated albumen. The kernels yield an oil, for culinary purposes. CYCADACE-ffi. Cycas revoluta, Thunh. Antheriferous and ovuliferous scales. Seeds. Note.—Japan sago is said to be made of the starch obtained from the stem of this plant: but it is not imported into England. MONOCOTYLEDONS. OECHIDACE.a:. Orchis latifolia, L. (Marsh Orchis.) Plant. Note.—Floral formula, {3-h3. [1.(3)].} A fine cultivated specimen (in lower case).