79 OSTEOLOGY OF ANIMALS. 323. A Dried Hippocampus. 324. A similar, but smaller specimen. 325. A Pipe Fisli (Fistularia Tabaccaria). 326. A Globe Fisli (Tetrodon). 327. Skeleton of a Flying Gurnard (Dactylopterus). .310 327a. A. Flying Gurnard (Dactylopterus), dried. The great expanse of the pectoral fins on the long and strong fin-rays imitates the structure, and gives, in some measure, the power of the true Flying Fish (Exoc^tus). The lowest pectoral fin-rays are detached, as in the preceding species. 28. 310a 328. Skeleton of a Dory (Zeus Faber). In its general form it presents an example of the "deep" or compressed fish. As in other fish with protractile snouts, the nasal portions of the premaxillary bones are very long, and slide on a groove on the upper part of the skull, extending nearly to the supra-occipital bone. The maxillary or descending portions of the premaxillary bones are attached by ligament to the maxillary bones, and these being similarly attached to the lower jaw, the jaws are both and altogether protruded by the single action which slides forwards the nasal portions of the premaxillary bones. In the lower jaw a large aperture exists between the dentary and articular bones. 28. 311a 328a. Skeleton of a Dolphin (Coryphgena Hippurus). The supra-occipital and frontal bones bear a high elevated crest or spine extending over nearly the whole length of the upper part of the skull. 28. 311 329. Skeleton of a Tench (Tinea vulgaris). 28. 315 330. Skeleton of a Spotted Wrasse (Labrus Trimaculatus). The pharyngeal bones, with their free surfaces covered with strong crushing teeth, are very large and strong, as in all the Labroid family of fishes. 28. 316 331. Skeleton of a Cod (Gadus Morrhua). In the abdominal vertebra the very long and broad parapophyses (transverse processes) may be observed ; they support the air bladder. 28. .317 332. Skeleton of a Plaice (Platessa vulgaris). The characters of its vertebrse, and their appended spines, are illustrated by the description of those of the Turbot. In the ordinary posture of the flat fishes such as this the neural elements of the vertebrae, which in other fish are superior, are directed to the left side of the spine, and the haemal or inferior elements to the right side. There is a cori-esponding disposition of the bones of the head, but it is combined with a want of symmetry, by means of which both orbits are placed in the superior aspect of the head. The want of symmetry is due chiefly to the pre-sphenoid bone being twisted upwards to the neural or left side of the skull; and with this there is an inequality of size in some of the corresponding bones of the skull, the left parietal being smaller than the right, and the single frontal having its right side as it were scooped out to form the boundary of the right orbit. 28. 319 333. Skeleton of a Skate (Raia Batis). It presents the flat and broad skull usual in this family, the incompleteness of its upper part where it is closed by membrane, and the long pyramidal rostrum at its anterior part. Cartilages articulated with this piolongation connect it with the anterior part of the