THE TEETH. 64 110. A similar specimen, witli more complete absorption of tlie alveolar portion of the jaw, and greater obtuseness of its angle. The whole jaw bone is veiy small and slender, but the dental and mental foramina are large. 7. 27 111. A Lower Jaw, exhibiting the same changes in a yet more advanced degree. The last molar tooth on the right side alone remains, but nearly the whole length of its fangs is exposed by the absor^Dtion of the alveolar part of the jaw. Similar absorption on the left side has much reduced the depth of the alveolus of the corresponding tooth. The angle of the jaw can scarcely be discerned; the posterior border of the ascending ramus is continued with a nearly uniform curve into the lower border of the body of the jaw. 7. 28 112. Portion of an Upper Jaw, displaying part of the process for the replacement of a temporary by a permanent incisor tooth. The temporai-y incisor, with its fang nearly absorbed and its alveolus filled up, is connected with the jaw only by the attachment of the gum around its neck. Immediately above it is the osseous capsule, containing the permanent incisor. The section has passed through this tooth and its capsale, and displays in the tooth the pulp cavity, the crown fully formed, the rudimentary fang, and the successive layers of dentine, enamel, and bone forming the crown. The layer of bone thi'ough which the permanent tooth would have to pass in being protruded is about half a line thick. 7. 29 113. The right half of the Upper Jaw of a Child. The temporary incisor and first molar teeth are completely protruded. The capsule of the tempoi-ary canine tooth is obscurely shown from behind : that of the second temporary molar is completely exposed, but not turned downwards. The capsules of the permanent incisor and canine teeth are removed from the cavities and turned down, remaining attached by only the slender cords or gubernacula which connect them with the gum behind the necks of the corresponding temporary teeth. The capsule of the fir.st permanent molar is shown in situ: and part of the very small cavity for the capsule of the first permanent premolar or bicuspid. 7. 30 114. A similar preparation, showing the coi'responding parts in the left half of the Lower Jaw of, probably, the same Child. Here also the capsule of one of the premolar teeth is shown. The capsules of the permanent incisors are of nearly equal size, while in the preceding upper jaw the capsule of the first permanent incisor is fully four times as large as that of the second. 7. 31 115. The left half of the Lower Jaw of a Child. All the deciduous teeth are protruded. The capsules of the permanent incisors are laid open and collapsed: that of the permanent canine is suspended by its gubernaculum ; that of the first permanent molar is opened, and the rudimentary tooth exposed within it. 7. 32 116. The Jaws of a Child, probably about 6 years old, with a complete set of deciduous teeth, and the capsules and rudiments of all the permanent teeth. Bristles are passed from the capsules of the permanent teeth through small foramina in the margin of the alveolar border of the jaw just behind the necks of the deciduous teeth. These foramina, the remains of the communications Avhich existed between the capsules of the several teeth of the deciduous and permanent sets, indicate the parts through which the permanent teeth would be protruded, and the attachments of their several gubernacula. 7. 33 117. The Jaws of a Child of about the same age as the preceding. The same relations of the two sets of teeth are hei-e shown from behind, which, in the preceding specimen, are displayed from the front. 7. 34