10 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OP THE AXIS. the right side are eleven ribs, seven true, two false, and two floating. On the left side there are the same number, but the eleventh and twelfth are partially- fused. A. 164 Presented by Thomas Stocker, Esq. 3445. A Siren Foetus. The lower extremities are contained in a single sheath of integument. The ossa calces are fused together, but the bones of the legs and thighs are separate. The femora are in a position of complete extei-nal rotation, and are articulated with the innominate bones at a point considerably behind the normal position of the acetabulum. In consequence of this, complete extension of the lower extremities on the pelvis is not possible, and this movement is therefore supplemented by preternatural mobility at the junctions of the lumbar vertebrse with each other and the sacrum. There is no anus, the rectum ending in a pouch fdled with meconium. The place of the external genitals is taken by a small papilla of integument, while inside the abdomen are a pair of normal testes. The other viscera were natural. Presented by Dr. David Davies. 3446. A Siren Foetus. The femora are fused into a single bone, which articulates above with an imperfectly formed os innominatum. The fused femora are completely rotated on their vertical axes, so that the single patella is found on the posterior surface of the stunted lower extremity. The bones of the legs aud feet are represented by a small lump of cartilage, at the tip of which is a minute papillary projection, indicating an attempt at the formation of the digits. There are no external or internal genital organs, and the kidneys are absent. The bones of the right upper extremity are normal, but on the left side the radius is absent. The mother was aged twenty-six years, had borne one other healthy child, and said that she had been suddenly frightened six months before parturition. 3447. Skeleton of a Siren Foetus, in which the arches of the lower lumbar vertebra are imperfectly formed, and in place of the sacrum there is a single distorted bone. The ischia are absent or rudimentary, and a single bone, repre- senting the heads of both femora, articulates in the middle line witli both the imperfect acetabula. The two femora are fused in their upper halves and com- pletely rotated on their long axes, so as to be fused by their external surfaces. Their diverging lower halves articulate with the tibite fused into a single short conical bone. Behind and beyond the tibifs a series of small bones represent the fibulfe and feet, but cannot be severally recognized. The cervical vertebrEB are natui-al, with the exception that the left half of the l)ody of the fourtli is absent. The body of the first dorsal vertebra is obliquely placed, the left side being much lower than the right. The right halves of the bodies of the second and third vertebrse appear naturally formed, but on the left side a single half vertebra to which they are both anchylosed takes their place; the laminae corresj^onding to these A'ertebrte are present. The bodies of the fourth and fifth appear natural, except that they are bilobed, and placed obliquely with their right sides lower than their left. The body of the sixth is absent, that of the seventh is bilobed and articulates with the fifth. The bodies of the eighth and ninth are fused on the right side but not on the left, that of the tenth is bilobed, its right side being higher than its left. Only the right halves of the eleventh and twelfth vertebrce are present, the latter being fused to the body of the first lumbar; the laminae of the two last dorsal vertebrae arc present, though fused. The bodies of the lumbar vertebrae are fused into a shapeless mass, and their laminre are not united behind. The sacrum is also represented by an irregular lump of bone. There are twelve ribs on the right side, thirteen on the left, the thirteeuth being apparently a lumbar rib. On the right side the