161 SERIES XXXII. ORGANS OF GENEEATIOK IN THE FEMALE DUEING, OR SHORTLY AFTER, PREGNANCY, WITH SPECIMENS ILLUSTRATING THE DEVELOP- MENT OF THE OVUM, 1178. An Ovary, divided longitudinally, showing a corpus luteum. From a woman at tlie commencement of the second month of pregnancy. 33. 40 1179. An Ovary, from a woman who died in the fifth month of pregnancy. It shows a true corpus luteum. 33. 41 1180. An Ovary, from a woman who died in the eighth month of gestation. A bristle is passed through an aperture in its fibrous covering, into the cavity of a corpus luteum. The cavity is oval, and has two or three short processes extending from it in a stellate manner: it measures nearly three lines in its chief diameter, and is bounded by a very thin white layer. The substance of the corpus luteum surrounding this cavity forms a nearly uniform layer about a line in thickness. The minute injection of the blood vessels show that this layer is much more vascular than any part of the ovary, and its principal vessels appear to pass in lines converging from its circumference towards its centre. 33. 19 1181. An Ovary, in which is a well-formed corpus luteum. 33. 21 1182. An Ovary, with a corpus luteum of unusually large size. It is of broadly oval form, measuring about three-fifths of an inch iu its chief diameter, and projecting on the surface of the ovary. Its outer surface is lobed and crenate : its layer of yellow substance is about two lines thick ; and its cavity is large, flattened, and bounded by a thin, but apparently distinct layer of soft substance of a yellow-ochre colour. No external aperture is visible on the surface of the ovary. 33. 22 1183. Ovaries containing Corpora Lutea of doubtful age, the lower being evidently the more recent. 1184. A large Corpus Luteum, which has become decolorised iu the spirit. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 1185. An Ovary containing a Corpus Luteum, the centre of which is cystic. The surface of the organ is covered by ragged adhesions. 32. 24 1186. An Ovary containing two Corpora Lutea, both of considerable size and cystic in the centre. Only one foetus was in the uterus. 32. 25