BOTANICAL SPECIMENS. 254 LYCOPODIACE^. Ltcopodium clavatum, L. (Clnb-Moss). Spores. (Lycopodium, Vegetable SulpJmr.) Note.—Tlie spores are used for rolling pills in ; as a dusting powder for infants' sores ; for imitation of lightning in theatres, by blowing the powder aci'oss a jet of flanic, and also in fireworks. Tlie spores have a peculiar structure, by which they can be easily distinguished under the microscope from all other substances. For fig. of spores, see Berg., Anat. Atlas, taf. xlix, fig. 132, [0. P. S.] Sargasstjm bacctfer, L. {Gulf Weed.) Note.—This alga forms large floating masses in the centre of the Atlantic, the " Sargasso Sea." The air-vessels are globular, and consist of transformed leaves. EUCHEUMA SPINOSA, J. Ag. Thallus. {Agar Agar.) Note.—This seaweed has been imported into this country under the name of Aqnr Agar, and has been used in the form of gelatine, for dressing silks and other textile fabrics. According to Profes<or Archer, it has also been imported under the name of Ceylon Moss. It belongs to the natural order Sphijerococcoidese. [C. P. S.] PoiiPHTRA LACINUTA, Agardh. Fronds. Note.—This species, as also P. vulgaris, is brought to table in England and Scotland under the name of larer. In Ireland it is called stoke. It is said that the inhabitants of the Western Islands gatlier it in March, and after pounding and stewing it with water, eat it with pepper, vinegar, and butter ; others stew it with leeks or onions. Chondrtjs crispus, Lyngh. Thallus. (Carragheen Moss, Irish Moss.) Note.—Irish moss is often mixed with other species of algje, of which the most frequent are Gigartina mamillosa, J. A., and G-. acicularis, Lamonr. Gr. mamillosa is distinguished by being slightly channelled towards the base, and by liaving the fructification in little elevated or stalked tubercles—-that of C. crispus being immersed in the frond, or scarcely raised above it. Gr. acicularis has a filiform thallus with divaricate branches. All, wlien growing, are of a purplish colour, which changes during drying into a yellowish-green or white. For fig., see Pereira, 3fat. Med., vol. ii, pt. i, pp. 10, 11 ; and Bentley and Trimen, Med. Plants, tab. 305. [C. P. S.] FTJNai. Agaricus campestris, L. {Common Mushroom.) Confluent specimens. Note.— (a) The pileus of one becomes grafted on to that of an adjacent one when very young. If one of them grow more rapidly than the other, it detaclies the latter from the soil, then bears it up inverted on its own sumniit. nourisliing it at tlu' same time, (i) A spore, in this case, has probably fallen on the pileus of anotlier and germinated upon it. POLYPORUS igniarius, Fr. (Eusty-hoop Polyporns.) Note.—Tlic hymeniuum lines the tubes which form the under side of the fungus. Clavaria fusiformis, Soiv. (Spindle-shaped Clavaria.) Note.—The hymeninm clothes the entire surface of the clubs. This species is common in woods. C. amethi/stina is esculent. Geaster fornicatus, Fr. (Vaulting Geaster.) Note.—The ))evidiuni is double, the outer sub-quadrifid, separating into two coats, ronnccted at the lips of the divisions ; mouth conical, plicato-sulcatc.