117 SERIES XIV. THE INTESTINAL CANAL. 706. Portion of Small Intestine, of which the outer longitudinal and the inner circular layers or coats of muscular fibres are separated and displayed. 12. 2 707. Portions of Small Intestine, dried after inflation of the cellular tissue connecting its several coats. 12. 3 707a. A portion of Duodenum inflated and dried. The valvulse conniventes in several instances entirely surround the canal. 12. 54 708. Portions of Jejunum and Ileum inverted. They show the respective characters of the mucous membrane in each of these portions of the intestinal canal. In both it is covered with villi; but these are arranged more closely, and are larger and more prominent, in the jejunum. The mucous membrane of the ileum is smooth, with the exception of a few short and low transverse folds; that of the jejunum is thrown into wide overlapping folds or plaits, named valvulae conniventes, which extend round nearly the whole circum- ference of the canal. 12. 4 709. Portion of Jejunum, displaying the arrangement of valvulee conniventes. The larger folds, which nearly encircle the canal, are connected by smaller longitudinal and oblique folds of the mucous membrane. 12. 5 710. Portion of Jejunum spread open. Many of the valvulse conniventes extend quite round the canal, and in most instances the free margin of one of tbera overlaps the attachment of the next below it. 12. 6 711. Portion of Jejunum, of which the valvulse conniventes are remarkably developed. Besides being very large and close-set, many of them present small pi'ocesses extending from their free margins and surfaces into the cavity of the intestine. 12. 7 712. Portion of Jejunum, in which the solitary glands are very prominent. 12. 8 713. Portion of Cascum, exhibiting an appearance of the orifices of numerous small gland ducts opening on the surface of its mucous membrane. The orifices are especially numerous on the margins of the ileo-cascal valve. 12. 9 714. Portion of Jejunum, displaying, in the bright redness of the mucous mem- brane after the injection of its blood vessels, its great vascularity. The villi are long and turgid. 12. 10