114 SERIES XIII. THE STOMACH. 686. A Stomach inflated and dried, so as to show its natural size and form when fully distended. 11. 1 687. A Stomach, which, after similar inflation, has been divided into two parts by a vertical section from left to right. The oesopliageal opening lies in the posterior section; the pyloric in the anterior. 11. 2 688. The Stomach of a Foetus at full period, inflated and dried. Its fundus (greater or left end) is rather less developed, and the curve, from its greater or inferior boi'der to the pylorus, is more nearly simple, than in the adult human stomach. 11. 3 689. A Stomach. The removal of its upper or lesser arch displays the numerous folds or wrinkles of mucous membrane that proceed tortuously, but in a general longitudinal direction, from the fundus to the pylorus. 11. 4 690. The Stomach of a Child, inverted after the minute injection of the blood vessels of its mucous membrane. 11. 7 691. Foetal Stomach, injected and turned inside out, to show the extreme vascularity of its lining membrane. From tlie Collection of J. E. Farre, Esq., M.D. 692. Portion of the Stomach and Duodenum, showing the narrow and nearly circular oritice of the pylorus. 11. 8 693. A longitudinal section of part of a Stomach and Duodenum, showing the size and form of the pylorus, the gradual thickening of the muscular coat of the stomach traced towards that opening, and the strong band of circular fibres which, like a sphincter, surround it. 11. 9 694. Portion of a Stomach and Duodenum, through which a longitudinal section has been made by the side of the pylorus, so as to show both its opening and the arrangement of the muscular fibres around it. 11. 10 695. Portion of the Stomach of a Child, in which, scattered beneath the mucous membrane of its lesser arch, numerous small bodies, like Peyer's glands, appear. 11. 11 696. The Stomach of a Lobster (Astacus marinus). Its walls support three hard tubercles of calcareous substance. By these, as gastric teeth, the food is broken and divided before passing into the intestines. The two lateral tubercles are moved so as to break the food upon the middle one. 11. 40