BOTANICAL SPECIMEXS. 250 JUNCACE-ffi. Xanthorrh^a ARBOREA, B. Br. (Grass Tree.) Lozenges. Balsamic resin. (Gum Acroides, Botamj Bay Besin.) Note.—-The resin is of a briglit yellow colour, becoming redder, externally, on exposure to air and light, and is known in commerce under the name of gum acroides. It has a fragrant odour when burned, and contains cinnamic acid, together Avith a little benzoic acid. It is remarkable for the large quantity of picric acid it yields when treated with nitric acid. The name acroides is derived, from Acroides resinifera, the name given by Sprengel to the plant yielding the resin. [C. P. S.] Astringent lozenges are made -with this substance. PALMACEiE. El^is Gdineensis, Jacq. (Guinea Oil Balm.) Fruit. Oil. (Balm Oil.) Two specimens. Note.—The oil is obtained from the mesocarp, or tibrous yellow portion, of the fruit by boiling in water. Palm oil melts at about 981° F. It is used in the manuf^icture of soap, candles, and glycerine, and also forms an ingredient in the grease used for railway axles. [C. P. S.] Specimens from Messrs. Price and Go's. Candle and Soap Manufactory. Palm oil as imported, oil acidulated ; palm oil after distillation, the process being to separate the acid from the glycerine; palmitic acid, crystalline and in powder, showing the entire freedom from glycerine ; glycerine, rough as iirst obtained, the same pure. Sperm cake, obtained by hot- pressing the distilled palm oil. Areca Catechu, L. Frait. For fig., see Rist. des Drag., vol. ii, p. 132. Seeds. (Areca, or Betel Nut.) Note.—The seeds sliced are used as a masticatory in India ; for this purpose a slice is powdered over with lime, and wrapped in a leaf of Piper Betle, L. Tlie grated seeds are used as a remedy for tapeworm in dogs, and are given to human beings for the .same purpose in India and China, and now in Britain also. According to Hanbury, areca nuts do not contain any catechin or crystulline matter. Pereira, however, states that areca nut catechu contains numerous large crystals. Hence it appears doubtfvil if the areca nut catechu of Pereira is really obtained from areca catechu. Ai'eca nut catecliu of Pereira is distinguished by occm-ring in flat circular cakes, two or three inches in diameter, and about two-thirds of an inch thick, and is usually covered with glumes of rice, which are calleJpaddy husks. [C. P. S.] Cocos NUCiFERA, L. (Cocoa Nxit Balm.) Fi'nit, germinating. Oil. (Cocoa Nut Oil.) Note.—The fruit is a tryma, the fibrous outer portion of which is used for making matting, Sic, and is known under the name of coir. What is commonly called the cocoa-nut is the endocarp of the fruit, the edible portion is the albumen, and the cocoa-nut milk is the liquor amnios. Tlie embryo is lodged in a small cavity in the albumen near the soft hole in the shell. Cocoa-nut oil fuses at 70° F. It is used for making floating and marine soaps, which form a lather with salt wat«r. [C. P. S.] CoRYPHA cerifeea, Arrud.; Copernicia cerifeea, Mart. Wood. Wax. (Garnauba Wax, Brazilian Wax, Balm Wax.) Note.—The root possesses diiu-etic properties, and has lately been introduced into this country as a s\ibstituto for sarsaparilla. Tlie wax has been used in this country for making candles. Each tree yields about A:\ lbs. of wax. Tlie wax is obtained from the leaves, which are coated with it, by shaking them. The was is said to approach very nearly to becs-wax in its chemical constitution. It melts at 180° F. [C. P. S.] Phcenix dacttlifera, L. (Bate Balm.) Sugar obtained from the fruit. Note.—The crude sugar obtained from this and other palms is known under the name of jaggery. Tlie long leaves of this palm are jn-obably the " branches of palm-trees" mentioned in John xii, 13. [C. P. S.] The dwarf date palm is P. fariiiifera, Rusch.; P. -s-i/lvesfn's, Box').