222 BOTANICAL SPECIMENS. Andira arakoba. (Goa.) Bark, powdered. Note.—Chrysoplianic acid obtained from tliis drug is now used most successfully in psoriasis, ringwomi, and various skin diseases Prep. : Chrysoplianic acid and its ointment. Ses Cliristy, I.e. Ervum Lens, L. ; Lens esculenta, Moench. Seeds entire {European Lentils) and split. Note.—The meal constitutes Revalenta Arahiea. It is one of the most highly nitrogenous of vegetable foods, containing 25 per cent, of nitrogen. It has been long cultivated in the East. It constituted Esau's red pottage. For fig., &c., see Bentley and Triaien, 31ed. Plants, tab. 76. DoLiCHOS, SP., L. (Increase Meal of Jamaica.) MeaL Note.—Several species of Dolichos are distributed over tropical and temperate regions of both hemispheres, and produce edible legumes and pulses. Treas. of Bot. s. v. Arachis hypogea, L. {Ground Nut, Monlcey Nut, Pea Nut.) Legumes. Note.—This plant, like Trifoliura subterraneum, thrusts its fruit underground. The seeds are edible, but chiefly used for their oil, called iiatchung or Nut OU. For fig., see Bentley and Trimen, Med. Plants, tab. 75. [C. P. S.] Cajanus indicds, Spreng. (Bal.) Seeds, " split." Note.—The seeds are much esteemed by the natives of India, who hold them third in rank among leguminous seeds. The leaves rubbed with pepper cleanse the gums, and are also given in toothache. A drink moreover is prepared from them, and administered to patients with the smallpox. COLUTEA ARBORESCENS, L. {Bladder Senna.) Legumes. The leaflets have been occasionally found mixed with senna on the continent, but not in this country. They resemble those of Cassia obovata, but are equal at the base, and not oblique. They are purgative. Indigofera tinctoria, L. {Indigo.) Indigo. Note.—Indigo was known to the ancients, though the use was lost to Europe until the sixteenth century. It was prohibited in England by an edict in Elizabeth's reign, as it could not be fixed. The edict was repealed in the reign of Charles II. For fig. of plant, see Bentley and Trimen, Med. Plants, tab. 72. Indigofera Anil, L. {W. I. Indigo.) Legumes. Note.—This species is larger than /. tinctoria, attaining a height of five or six feet. It is naturalised in Asia and Africa. Pterocarpos santalinus, L. {Bed sandal ivood.) Wood. Note.—The wood is dark red, with black veins, close, and takes a good polish. It is chiefly used by dyers and colour manufacturers. The colour is ajiparently of a I'csinous nature. Abrus PRECATORIUS, Ij. {Indian Liquorice.) Pods and seeds. iVo^c—These seeds are used as a standard of weight in India, called Rati. The weight of the Koh-i-noor diamond was ascertained in this way. Tlic roots arc official in the Indian Pharmacopa'ia as a substitute for liquorice root. (Bentley and Trimen, Med. Plants, tab. 77.)