CASTS AND MODELS. 203 75, 76. Cast of the Feet of the same Man. On each foot there is, on the inner side, a supernumerary metatarsal bone, at the end of which is a cicatrix remaining after the removal of a supernumerary great toe. On each foot, also, the first four toes are united in their whole length. A. 23, 24 77. Cast of the Leg and Foot of one of the daughters of the same man. It shows exactly the same deformities as the last, except in that only two of the toes are united. a. 26 78. Cast of the Hand of the Child from whom the preceding cast was taken. It has a supernumerary little finger; the first three fingers are united in their whole length, and the third and fourth as far as the ends of their first phalanges. The father of the man from whom the casts 78—76 were taken had double thumbs, and six toes on each foot. His wife had no malformation. They had eight children, of whom five were well-formed; but three had super- numerary thumbs, fingers, and toes, and unnatural union of the latter. The man from whom the casts were taken had four sons well-formed and two sons and two daughters with malformations more or less similar to his own, and combined with club foot. The casts 77 and 78 were taken from two of these children. A. 27 The series of casts were presented by Dr. Baly. 79. Cast of a Hand, with a supernumerary thumb. A. 20 Presented by B. Barrow, Esq. ■ 80. Model of a Hand in Wax, with a bifid thumb. 81. Cast of a Man's Hand, in which the first and second fingers are of immense size, and are united to the ends of their first phalanges. The second finger is six inches long, and at its last phalanx is six and a half inches in circumference. It is curved towards the radial side, and nearly covers the third and fourth fingers. A. 28 Presented by T. B. Curling, Esq. 82. Casts of the Forearms and Hands of a Man, nged 22 years, a Fi-ench polisher. The left arm and hand, with the exception of the little finger, is normal in size, and was in due proportion to the rest of the body. The right arm and hand were greatly hypertrophied : the forearm measuring 1|- inches more in its greatest circumference than the left, and ]f inches more in length from the olecranon to the end of the middle finger. The man had a similar disproportion of the lower extremities, but the right leg and foot were not so markedly larger than the left, as was the case in the upper extremities. His eyes were not of the same colour; the right having a yellowish-brown iris, while the left was destitute of pigment, except over a small wedge-shaped piece on the outer side of the eye. His left ear was somewhat larger than the right, and the left side of the tongue was very considerably larger than the right. A. 46 83. Casts of the Feet of a Girl. In the right foot the second toe, and in the left foot the third toe is hypertrophied. The feet themselves are large. 84. Casts of the Hands of the same Girl. In the right, the middle finger is hypertrophied and the growth of the thumb has been arrested ; whilst in the left hand the thumb has become hypertrophied, the fingers being of normal size and shape. 85. Cast of the Foot of a Child; the second toe is hypertrophied.