ABNORMAL COXDITIOXS OF THE AXIS. 15 laminee, symmetrically formed, being about a quarter of an inch apart. In the other, the right lamina is entirely deficient, and the left has rather less than its due length. A. 135 3475. Dorsal and lumbar portions of a Foetal Spine. The spinal canal is wide open behind, the laminse of nearly all the vertebrae being disparted and turned outwards. They are not deficient in size; rather, they are overgrown and expanded at their distal ends. The left half of the ninth dorsal vertebra is wanting. A. 133 3476. The Spinal Column of an Infant at the period of birth, from a case of spina bifida. The lamina are wanting as far up as the cervical region, a. 196 Presented by Mr. Key. 3477. Part of the wall of a Lumbar Spina Bifida. The nerves, having been dissected out, are seen spread over and adherent to its inner surface. a. 189 3478. A Spina Bifida. The spines and laminee of the lower lumbar and sacral vertebrae are deficient. Through the gap thus formed there is a protrusion of the spinal membrane in the form of a sac. The cavities of the sac and of the spinal canal are shown by lateral section ; a bristle is passed into the sub- arachnoid space, the fluid from which distended the sac during life. Two large nerve roots appear to have protruded, and are adherent to the sac wall. a. 127 3479. A Lumbo-Sacral Spina Bifida. The sac contains the termination of the spinal cord and many large nerve trunks. Presented by Dr. Gibson. 3480. Lumbar and Sacral Spine of an infant with a spina bifida. The posterior wall of the cyst has completely sloughed away as the result of treatment. It will be seen that the termination of the spinal cord, together with several of the nerves, pass directly into the cyst. The cyst wall appears to be formed of the integument together with the dura mater, and probably the arachnoid. The pia mater still covers the termination of the cord, and the central canal does not open into the cyst. With the exception of the failure in the arches, the vertebrae appear in other respects to be normal. See Sitwell Ward Book, vol. v. p. 147. 3481. A Sacral Spina Bifida. The sac, which is very thin, communicates by two minute apertures with the cerebro-spinal canal. The bodies of the vertebrae have been removed, and the cord may be seen to be adherent at the point of communication between the sac and the sub-arachnoid space. The central canal of the cord is much dilated, but neither it nor any of the nerves are contained in the sac. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 3482. A Sacral Spina Bifida. The chief deficiency of the laminte appears to be situated at the first sacral vertebra. The sac is opened from behind. Several nerve roots pass out from the spinal canal, and are adherent to the inner surface of the sac. A. 128 3483. A similar specimen of Sacral Spina Bifida, from a child about 6 years old. The spinal canal and sac are laid open from behind, showing the passage of some of the sacral nerve roots from the cord into the sac. Tne spinal cord reaches to the last lumbar vertebra. A. 129 3484. A similar specimen. The spinal cord extends into the sacral portion of the canal. In this, as in all the preceding specimens, the sac is formed by a pro- trusion of both layers of the arachnoid, and the fluid contained in it is the sub-