ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE AXIS. 18 reaching to tlie level of the unibilicns. The skin of the trunk, arms, head, and groins is the seat of an irregularly distributed rash, appearing in patches for the most part of rounded or oval shape, of a slightly reddish-brown tinge, and not raised from the surface, except at the margins, which are serpiginous, and minutely papillated. In all the bones of the extremities the epiphyses are large in proportion to the shafts. The epiphysial cartilage at its junction with the diapliysis presents a layer of tissue evidently differing from hyaline cartilage, and found by microscopical examination to be composed of loose connective tissue. The epiphyses are veiy easily separable from the diaphyses. Lying under the periosteum in many of the bones is a layer of a soft white material, the nature of which it is difficult to decide; portions of similar material may be seen in the centre of the bony shaft of the tibia and the fibula, and in the lower epiphysis of the former bone. The ribs are not beaded, but at their external ends present an oblique fissure, giving an appearance as if the rib was made up of two separate segments which had subsequently become united. All the bones are extremely softened, so as to cut readily ■with a knife ; this condition, however, is probably due to the immersion of the foetus for many years in spirit which had become acid. A microscopic examination does not show any marked abnormality in the minute structure of the bone itself. Each of the ejiiphysial cartilages shows various abnormal changes in the process of development. The cartilage cells are all of about the same size, and are not arranged in rows at the junction of the epiphysis with the shaft; there is no evidence of ossification progressing at this point, and between the bone of the shaft and the cartilage of tlie epiphysis is a well marked layer of connective tissue. This condition was constant in all the bones which were examined. It is not improbable that the white material found beneath the periosteum is a result of the long soaking in acid si^irit, and does not represent any pathological change. 3492c. A Cretinous Foetus, born at term. It is about nine inches in length, and the body is of normal size. The head is fairly natural in shape, but the nose is broad and flat both at the root and tips. A longitudinal section of the skull shows that its cartilaginous base is natural, being neither unduly shortened or prematurely ossified. The ribs are rather short, and their anterior extremities enlarged and nodular. All the limbs are extremely shortened, the upper extremities looking more like pins than arms. On removing the soft parts on the right side, the clavicle is found to be of normal length and shape. The humerus is very short, and consists mainly of the two epiphysial cartilages, each of natural shape and size, the shaft being represented by a small piece of compact bone very little more than a quarter of an inch in length; there is no swelling at the junction of the epiphyses with the diaphyses as in rickets. The radius presents a similar dispi'oportion between the bulk of its epiphyses and diaphyses, the whole bone being but half an inch in length ; at its upper part there is a sharp posterior curve. The ulna is very slightly shorter than the radius, its epiphyses are large, and the shaft is short as in the two bones just described. In the lower extremity the deformity is of a precisely similar nature; the femur is one inch in length, the tibia three quartei-s of an inch, and the fibula rather more than half an inch. In each bone the epiphyses form more than three-fourths of the whole length, but in none of the epiphyses is there any attempt at ossification. The microscopical appearances of the epiphysial cartilages and of flic neighbouring bones were exactly similar to those described in (he ))revious s]ieiMmcn, there being in each bone an ingrowth of connective tissue separating the epiphysial cartilage from the diaphysis. 3492d. Part of the Head, with the legs and forearms of a Foetus, which presents some evidences of cretinism. The head appears to have been about the natural size which is found in recently born children. The palate is most extensively cleft, and tlio nose much deformed. The bones of the forearms are abnormally short, the left radius measuring one inch, the ulna of the same side one inch and