ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE DIGESTIVE ORGANS. 42 3630. A dried Stomach, presenting a similar malformation. In none of these stomachs is there any evidence of new growth or of ulceration. xi. 6 (D.) OF THE INTESTINES. 3631. Malformed Intestine from a Negro. The whole seems to be contained in a cyst, after the fashion of a mesenteric hernia. In the caput coli are the openings of three small intestines. That into which a quill is inserted is the ileum, which has a natural course. The wires are inserted into the two extremities of a very small adventitious intestine, which has both its origin and termination in the caput coli. It is of considerable extent, and is filled with folds of mucous membrane. It makes innumerable convolutions in the sac, and at last termi- nates near the point at which it commenced. From tlie collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 3632. A Ceecum and Vermiform Appendix. The latter instead of being curled up and held in folds by the peritoneum is perfectly straight and tapering like that of one of the feline tribe. 3633. Pouch of Peritoneum, containing nearly all the small intestines. The pouch lay altogether behind the small (gastro-colic) omentum and the colon, which latter was greatly displaced downwards, the small omentum being pro- portionally stretched; the large omentum was much atrophied. The pouch, which is about the size of a greatly distended urinary bladder, is composed of unaltered peritoneum; its mouth was situated at the attachment of the mesentery, reaching from the origin of the left iliac artery upwards to near the pancreas. The contained intestine was natural and undistended. The foramen of Winslow was natural. A. 223 From a woman, cet. 25, who died of diabetes mellitus. Tliere were no abdominal symptoms during life. Case 76, Post Mortem Book, vol. iii, July 20, 1872. CLASS IV.—ARREST OF GROWTH. 3634. The Stomach and Intestines of a Boy about 12 years old, and four feet three inches high. The stomach is of less than usual size; the small intestines, of ordinary calibre, are only two feet long; the large intestines measure four feet. A. 11 Tlie case is described by Mr. Abernetliy, in tlie Philosophical Transactions, vol. Ixxxiii, p. 64. CLASS v.—ARREST OF DEVELOPMENT. (A.) INTESTINAL DIVERTICULA. 3635. A portion of an Ileum, with a large diverticulum, situated two feet ten inches from the ileo-coecal valve.