6 ABNORMAL CONDITIOXS OF THE AXIS. Alimentary Canal.—There are two distinct alimentary canals, with their associated organs, as far as the duodena, which unite to form a common small and large intestine. The right stomach, with the spleen and pancreas attaclied to it, lay in the right pleural cavity as before mentioned. The left stomach, spleen, and pancreas occupy the usual position beneath the diapbragm. The duodena converge and unite beneath the liver, where the single common bile duct joins them. The livers are fused, but the smaller portion, comprising the right half, is attached to the remainder only by a thin band of liver substance : it occupied the right pleural cavity as before noted. Two small pedunculated additional lobes attached to the left half of the liver pass upwards behind the diaphragm into the thoracic cavity. The fundus of the gall bladder is bifid. The Oenito-TJrinary Organs are well developed and not re-duplicated. Nervous System.—There were two distinct and perfect spinal cords, giving oil nerves on either side. See Description by Mr. Eve, Obstetrical Society's Transactions, 1880, p. 74. 3419. Skeletons of Pleuropagous Twins, one of which is considerably larger than the other. The visceral laminse of the thoraces are united, so that only one thoracic cavity exists. The pelves are partly fused, only the left side of the one and the right of the other being fully developed; the remaining halves of each are represented by a mass of soft and partially ossified tissue. To this is attached a single, large, and ill-formed femur, which articulates with a tibia and fibula of unusual size. The foot has two ossa calces and eight toes. The two other lower extremities are normal. A. 2 Obstetrical Society's Transactions for 1880, p. 74. 3420. Skeletons of twin Pleuropagous Females. The ribs on opposite sides of either fcetus are united by a strip of cartilage resembling a sternum: the foetuses being placed side by side. Sub-Class III.—HETEROLOGOUS UNION. (A.) BY IMPACTION. 3421. A Kitten with a headless acardiac parasite impacted between the contiguous halves of the sternum. The body cavities of both autosite and parasite are continuous. A. 5 Sub-Class IV.—DUPLICITY AFFECTING EGGS. 3422. A double Egg from a Hen. Two eggs of ordinary size, but with their membranes imperfectly calcified, are united by an intermediate slender cylinder an inch and a half long. The cylinder is formed of a continuation of the membranes of the two eggs, and appears to contain albumen. a. 6a Presented by Alfred Tylor, Esq, 3423. An imperfect and small Fowl's Egg, which was found within another of ordinary size. It contains little more than albumen, spotted in one place with yellow, as if by a diffused yolk-substance. The shell and its lining membrane are thin, and were broken by the expansion of the contained air during boiling. a. 183 Presented by Mr. 'William Coyto.