68 SERIES viri. ♦ THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. —» (A.) HUMAN OSTEOLOGY. 153. A Human Skeleton. The characters by which it is chiefly distinguished in comparative anatomy are as follows :—(1) the position of the occipital condyles, which is such that, in the erect posture, a vertical line from the centre of gravity of the head would fall between them; (2) in the same posture, the nearly horizontal plane of the articular surfaces of the condyles; (3) the plane of the face being" nearly the same with that of the front of the frontal bone ; (4) the arrangement of the curves of the spine, so that a vertical line drawn from the summit of the column would fall nearly on the centre of its base; (5) the length and pyramidal form of the lumbar portion of the spine; (6) the great breadth of the sacrum in proportion to its length, and its deep arch ; (7) the width and shortness of the pelvis ; (8) the great length of the femur, its direction slightly inwards, and the length and obliquity of its neck; (9) the width of the bones of the knee-joint, and the lengthening of the internal con- dyle of the femur; (10) the great proportionate size and strength of the foot, the large size of the fir-t, or "great," toe and its parallel position to the others, the arch of the sole, and the length, size, and arched form of the os calcis, and the strength of its tuberosity; (11) the expansion of the chest, especially its flatness in front and its great transverse diameter, and its hollows at the sides of the spine ; (12) the length and strength of the clavicle; (13) the outward direction of the glenoid cavity of the scapula; (14) the hemispherical head of the humerus, its adaptations to fi'ee movement, and its shortness in comparison with the femur; (15) the articulations of the radius and ulna for mutual rotation ; (16) the whole construction of the hand, especially its size and strength, and the capacity of the thumb to be forcibly opposed to any or all of the other digits. Presented by Lutlier Holden, Esq. 154. Skull of a European, probably of an Englishman. Its principal distinctive features, as one of the " Caucasian form," are (1) the width and elevation of the forehead, the frontal bone becoming wider, and the whole frontal region more capacious, in the ascent from the orbits to the vertex of the cranium ; (2) the nearly vertical direction of the forehead; (3) the regu- larly and smoothly oval form of the whole cranium ; (4) its capacity in pro- portion to the size of the face; (5) the narrowness of the face, so that the zygomata do not project beyond the lateral boundaries of the skull; (6) the slight projection of the jaws, and the consequently large facial angle; (7) the nearly vertical position of the alveolar processes and of the teeth, constituting, with the preceding feature, the orthognatlious character. 28. 20