138 THE BRAIN AND SPINAL CORD. 930. The lowest part of a Spinal Cord, showing its almost sudden diminution of size before it ends in the filum terminale. ' 22. 11 931. A corresponding portion of Spinal Cord, with the numerous long roots of the lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal nerves by which the cauda equina is formed. 22. 12 932. Brain of a Sea-angler (Lophius Piscatorius). The long optic nerves are seen in the upper portion of the preparation. 22. 32 933. The Brain and Spinal Cord, with the origins of the nerves, of a Skate (Raia batis). The parts are placed with their inferior aspects directed forwards. In the middle, and above, are the optic nerves, diverging from their origins in the pedicles of the anterior cerebral lobes or cerebral hemispheres, the corpora mammillaria, and the optic lobes. At the sides of the optic nerves are the olfactory nerves, proceeding from the outer parts of the cerebral hemispheres. Below the corpora mammillaria the pituitary gland is suspended ; and from above it proceed the third pair of nerves. From the sides of the medulla oblongata the fifth, the auditory, the glossopharyngeal, and the vagal, nerves are shown arising. On the posterior or dorsal aspect of the brain the several parts are shown as in the brain of the Cod; but they are all of larger size, and the cerebellum has two convoluted lobes or hemi- spheres attached to the sides of its middle jjortion. The spinal cord tapers regularly from above downwards, the several pairs of spinal nerves being given off from its sides at gradually increasing distances, and gradually diminishing in size. 22. 29 934. The Brain of a large Shark. The same parts are shown as in the preceding specimen. The chief objects to be noted are the large size, confluence and smoothness of the cerebral hemispheres; the olfactory lobes, beneath and closely attached to the hemispheres, from which a ventricle is continued into them ; the corpora mammillaria, beneath the optic lobes, having between and beneath them the pituitary gland ; the large size of the cerebellum, which is trilobed and transversely laminated, and extends forwards over the optic lobes as well as backwards over the anterior part of the fourth ventricle; and the vagal columns, a series of nodules projecting into the sides of the lateral ventricles, and corresponding with the roots of the vagal nerve. 22. 28 Presented by Mark Kcbbell, Esq. 935. The Brain and the upper part of the Sj^inal Cord of a Cod (Gadus morrhua). From below, proceeding upwards, are shown the optic nerves, Avith the slender olfactory nerves between them, the cerebral hemispheres, the optic lobes (the left being laid open), the tongue-shaped cerebellum projecting backwards over the fourth ventricle, and the spinal cord. The origins of the large trigeminal and pneumogastric nerves from the restiform bodies are also shown. A bristle is passed from the fourth or cerebellar ventricle into the ventricle of the left optic lobe. 22. 25 936. A similar specimen. 22. 26 937. The same organs shown in a longitudinal section. The right half being removed, the central canal in the spinal cord, the fourth ventricle, and the cavity or ventricle in the left optic lobe, are ex2:)osed. 22. 27 Prepared and presented, witli the two preceding speeimens, hy Holmes Coote, Esq.