256 BOTANICAL SPECIMENS. ClADONU EXTENSA, Note.—Characterised by its briglit Tcrmilion-red apothecia. It has been used lite the last species. Sticta pdlmonaria, Ach. (Lungivort, Oak Lungs, Hazel Bag, Hazel Crottles.) Thallus. iVb^e.—This foliaceous lichen is commcfti in this country on trees in damp svibalpine woods, and is readily recognised by its reticulated thallus. In Siberia, in wliich country it appears to be more bitter, it is used as a substitute for hops in brewing. [C. P. S.] ROCCELLA FUCIFORMIS, Ach, and R. tinctoria, D. G. Thallus. Orchella Weed. Litmus, orchil. iVbie.—Roccella fuciformis occurs in tliis country only in the extreme south of England, as in Devon, Cornwall, Isle of Wight, and Jersey ; but not in sufllcicnt quantity for commercial purposes. Roccella tinctoria does not occur in Britain; R. phycopsis has usiiallj' been mistaken for it. Specimens b, c, and d consist chiefly of R. Montagnei, which differs from R. fuciformis in being flaccid. R. phycopsis is readily distinguished by its cylindrical branches, dense habit, and the yellow colour of its point of attachment to the rock. For fig., see Bentley and Trimen, Med. Plants, tab. 301. Orchil is made by mixing the powdered orcheUa weed with m'ine, and exposing it to the ah*. To make litmus, potash, soda, or lime is added. [C. P. S.] Urceolaria calcarea. iVo^e.—This species is not uncommon on rocks, especially calcareous 'ones, in lowland and subalpine districts. In Wales, Shetland, &c., it is used by the peasantry to yield a scarlet dye. Lecanora tartarea. (Om-mdssa.) Note.—This is a common Alpine species, growing on rocks in the Highlands. It yields a beautiful kind of " Orchil," and under the name of " Swedish" or " Tartareous Moss" is largely imported from Norway and Sweden. " Cudbear" was at one time largely made from it in Scotland, and "Litmus" in Holland. Archil is the name of the colouring matter obtained by treatment with ammonia in the form of a liquid or pasty matter. As a powder it is called Cudbear. Parmelta saxatilis. (8feu-laf, ^-c.) Note.—A common lichen, from Spitzbergen to antarctic regions. It is called " Staue-raw " in Scotland, and "fciteu-laf" in Norway and Sweden. It furnishes a dye to peasants of Shetland, and was once used in medicine as an astringent. \