118 THE INTESTINAL gANAL. 715. Portion of Jejunum, inverted and dried after the injection of its principal blood vessels. The arborescent arrangement of the arteries, while, after diverging from the mesentery, they proceed round the intestine, is distinctly shown. 12. 11 716. A similar specimen. 12. ] 2 717. Portion of a Colon, e.xhibiting a similar arrangement of its arteries. Their principal trunks diverge from two lines corresponding with the attachments of the great omentum and the mesocolon. 12. 13 718. Part of a Rectum, with its large and tortuous veins injected from the trunk of the inferior mesenteric vein. 12. 14 719. Portion of Jejunum, of which the veins are partially filled with a milky fluid, like chyle. 12. 15 720. A similar Specimen. 12. 16 These specimens were taken from the body of a middle-aged woman brought for dissection. The veins in the coats of nearly the wliole length of the jejunum and ileum contained a similar milky fluid, whicli could be easily pressed from them, along their converging canals, to the larger branches of the superior mesenteric vein. The blood of the mesenteric vein also could be pressed down and mingled with the chyle-like fluid of the smaller veins. In different parts of the small intestine were four or five white patches, apparently produced by chyle etfused between its coats; but these were in only a few parts, while the veins containing the chyle-like fluid were seen on all parts of the small intestines. The lacteals in the mesentery were not evidently turgid with chyle. Of the mesenteric glands, some appeared healthy, others were changed in structure, and decidedly diseased. (From Mr. Stanley's notes of the examination of the body, March, 1823). 721. The end of an Ileum, with the Cfecum and its Vermiform Appendix. The removal of part of the walls of the caecum displays the ileo-ccecal valve, and the orifice of the appendix. The lanceolate form of the orifice of the valve is shown, as well as its projection into the cavity of the caecum on the edge of a deep transverse fold, and its nearly transverse position with its apex directed upwards and to the left. 12. 17 722. A similar specimen, dried. It shows more distinctly than the former how the two portions of the valve are formed by the projection of the walls of the ileum into the cavity of the c^cum. 12. 18 723. The lower part of the Small Intestine, the Caecum, and part of the Colon from a lad who was run over and killed during digestion. The specimen shows well the " solitary" and agminate glands, both of which are especially numerous and well developed immediately above the ileo-caecal valve. 12. 55 724. An Ileum and Caecum, M-ith the ileo-cffical valve shown in section. The Peyer's and solitary glands of the ileum are well marked. 12. 21 725. The Stomach and Intestine of a Skate (Raia Batis). The stomach presents a large cardiac portion, and a much smaller pyloric portion proceeding from it at an acute angle. The pylorus, with an abrupt bend, leads into a short intestinal canal, within which the mucous membrane is arranged in the form of a spiral valve, the several turns of which are nearly transverse, and lie close together. 12. 47 726. The Duodenum of a Salmon, with its numerous cylindriform " appendices pyloricoe," injected with wax and dried. These appendices, or blind tubular prolongations, liave been regarded as forming the homologue of a pancreas. 12. .50