ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE AXIS. 3 3407. A similar malformation ia a Hare. The head is single, while the trunk and limbs are double. A. 4 3408. A partially double heart, taken, probably, from an example of double monster, in the Sheep. It has two auricles and four ventricles. Each auricle opens into two ventricles. There are two aortse, which are united soon after their origins, and two pulmonary arteries, from each of which a ductus arteriosus is continued. From two of the ventricles an aorta and pulmonary artery arise: from the other two arise two arteries, which are continued into the aortse. A. 6 Sub-Class II.—HOMOLOGOUS UNION. (A.) PROZYGOSIS. 3409. A Monster exhibiting that form of homologous union known as Prozygosis, the bodies cohering by the thoracic and abdominal parietes above the umbilicus, and the beads being fased into one. This single head exhibits signs of partial duplicity behind, where it is much broader than natural; the jaws also are not completely fused. The lower extremities are well formed and of proper size ; the genital organs of both foetuses are female. A. 3 3410. Female Twin Foetuses united by the Thoracic laminae above the umbilicus, and by the sides of the head and neck. The faces are so fused that it appears as though only one was present; there is no median eye, but the right eye of the one foetus and the left of the other are normal in position and appearance; the condition of the ears is similar to that of the eyes. The brain cavity is common, and a large part of the nervous matter appears to have been contained in a cyst at the junction between the occipital and parietal bones. The nasal septum is complete. The buccal cavity, with the tongue, is well developed, and forms a common mouth, in which is contained a mass of tissue, which, apparently, represents the fused maxillary bones of the right side of one fcstus and the left of the other respectively. In this mass are tooth capsules, and attached to it, in an inverted position, is another tongue. There are two larynges, the larger being on the right and communicating with the two posterior lungs, the other being connected to the anterior pair. The thoracic cavity is common, and the four lungs are well developed. Two hearts exist, one being immensely larger than the other, and occupying an anterior position. It consists of six cavities, apparently three auricles and three ventricles. The septum between the normal right and left ventricles is incomplete, and the former also communicates with the additional ventricle which is situated in the septum between the other two. Oue large trunk is the only vessel which is given off from the ventricles, with all three of which it communicates. From it are given off two aortse, one to each foetus, and one pulmonary artery to the anterior pair of lungs. The division between the three auricles is incomplete. The other heart is situated between the posterior pair of lungs, and consists of two cavities, a large inferior vena cava and a vein from the thymus being the only vessels communicating with it. The oesophagi and stomachs are separate, as are also the upper portions of the small intestines, the lower portions being joined and forming a single common tube which subsequently bifurcates to form two coeca; the laige intestines are separate. The livers are mainly fused into one large quadri- lateral mass, there being, in addition, a small separate lobule. The rest of the abdominal viscera are normal. Presented by E. J. Jenkins, Esq. B 2