46 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE URINARY ORGANS, artery existed. The left renal vein passed upwards so as to enter the vena cava nearly in the natural position. The left ureter was normal, but the pelvis of the kidney was dilated. The left supra-renal body was not displaced, but lay in the usual situation. The right kidney and supra-renal body were natural. See Post Mortem Book, vol. iii, p. 233. 3659. The Kidneys and adjacent parts. The right kidney is displaced some tlii'ee inches below its normal site and the hilus is turned forwards. Both organs are apparently healthy. The left supra-renal body lies in its usual position. From a boy, aged 5 years, who died of tubercular meningitis. See St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. sii, p. 252. 3660. The Kidney, Bladder, and Ureter, with part of the Aorta, of a Woman. The kidney lay on the anterior surface of the sacrum; it is of an oval, flattened shape, and appears healthy. The renal artery is derived from the right common iliac, and the i-enal vein enters the corresponding venous trunk. CLASS II.—DUPLICITY. (A.) OF THE KIDNEYS AND THEIR DTTCTS. 3661. Double Ureter, extending from the right kidney to the corresponding side of the Bladder. A. 197 3662. A Kidney, with two Ureters. A. 113 3663. Ureters from the left Kidney coalescing before they reach the Bladder. A. 198 This and the previous preparation were obtained from the body of a man brouglit in for dissection. 3663a. A similar Specimen. The ureters unite about three inches from their single opening into the bladder. a. 114 CLASS IIL—EXCESS OF GROWTH. (A.) OF THE KIDNEY. 3664. A Single Right Kidney. The organ lay on the right side in the usual position. The upper margin was curved somewhat inwards, but did not transgress the mesial line of the body. It was supplied by two renal arteries, but there was only one renal vein. The ureter was rather large, and passed normally to the right side of the fundus of the bladder. There was no trace of left kidney or ureter, or of an opening into the trigone of the bladder on the left side. Both supra-renal bodies were present in their usual positions. The kidney weighed 9 ounces; its length was four and three-quarter inches,