BOTANICAL SPECIMENS. 252 Amoephophallus, sp., Bl. Roots. Note.—The acrid roots of A. campanulatus are used medicinally in boils and ophthalmia. They are caustic, and abound in starch, hence thej are nutritious and eaten as food. CYPERACEiE. Ctpeeus rotondus, L. (Moothoo.) Rhizome. Note.—The tubers are used by perfumers on account of their fragrance. In medicine they are used as tonic and stimulant, and in the treatment of cholera. In the fresh state they are given in infusion as a demulcent in fevers, and in cases of dysentery and diarrhcea. GRAMINACE^. Andropogon citratus, D.G.; Andeopogon schcenanthus, Wall. (Lemon Orans, Sireh of Java.) Volatile oil. (Oil of Verbena, Lemon Grass Oil, Indian Melissa Oil.) Note.—The oil receives its name of oil of verbena from its similarity in odour to the lemon plant, or sweet-scented verbena of the gardens (Lippia citriodora, S. JB. K.). It is imported from C eylon and Singapore. The oil made by Winter, of Ceylon, and Fisher, of Singapore, being esteemed the best. [C. P. S.] An infusion of the fragrant leaves, ■which are bitter and aromatic, is given to childi-en as an excellent stomachic. (Drury.) Triticum sativum, L. (Wheat.) Wheat from Hobart Towu, English Revett's, hard Russian, grain decorti- cated, finest and whitest flour, wheat starch and British gum, granular whole wheat meal. Wheat and barley from the Catacombs of Thebes. Note.—The origin of wheat is imknown, though M. Fabre thinks it may have been produced from JEc/i/ops, a grass of S. Europe. The varieties are innumerable. Kevett's contnins the least amount of gluten, and hard Russian the most. The grain is decorticated by the removal of the outermost coat of the pericarp, wliich (contrary to the usual idea) contains no silica, according to Prof. Church. The gluten is cliieHy contained in large cells beneatli the surface, and which are removed with the bran : the central cells containing mostly starch alone (see fig.). The sample of whole wheat meal is obtained by Dr. Morfit's process, by which the entire grain is finely ground. The finest and whitest flour, having the greatest percentage of starch, is of lea-tf nutritive value. Wheat starch and British gum. The latter is prepared from the former by carefully roasting it at a temperature of 300° F., i'^ then becomes dextrine. It resembles ordinary gum, but is distinguisliable from it by its right-handed rotation of a ray of j^lain polarised light, hence its name, and by its yielding oxalic, not mucic acid, when heated with nitric acid. Semolina, Manna croup. Note.—Semolina and manna croup are gi-anubr preparations of wheat deprived of bran. Wheat yields about 70 per cent, of starch. For fig. of the starch, see Pcrt-ira, Mat. lied., vol. ii, pt. i, frontispiece, fig. 1. Wlient starch is remarkable for the number of small grains found in it. Tlie larger grains are round and lenticular, and appear elliptical when seen sideways. Triticum durum, Kunth, is said to be the species preferred for making macaroni. [C. P. S.] Secale CEREALE, L. Grass. (JSj/e.) Note.—The black bread of Russia and Germany is made from this grain. Its use is said to cause ergotism, on account of the occurrence of ergot more frequently in this grain than in others. It yields about 65 per cent, of starch. For fig. of starch, see Pcreira, Mat. Med.,\o\. ii, pt. i, frontispiece, fig. 4. [C. P. S.]