253 BOTANICAL SPECIMENS. HoLcus Sorghum, Pers. Q-rain. (Indian Millet, Guinea Com, Burra, Jaar, Turlcisli Millet.) 2fote.—This grain is used in this country for feeding poultry. The stems are used in the manufacture of carpet brooms, &c. In many warm countries tliis grain replaces oats. For fig. of plant, see P. J. [1], vol. xi, p. 350. [C. P. S.] Obyza sativa, L. {Bice.) Grain in husk. {Paddy.) Rice Starch. Note.—The rice plant is extensively cultivated in almost all countries of the East, requiring a summer temp, of at least 73°, humidity and heat being necessities. Wild rice is found on the lakes in the Circars and in Travancore, &c. It is boiled in steam, and considered a delicacy. The value of rice as a dietetic depends upon the relatively large amount of starch, that of albuminoids being smaU. Saccharum OFFICINARUM, L. Culm or stem. {Sugar Cane.) Silicious slag. Note.—A kind of vrax appears to be detached from the canes when crushed in the mill. It occurs as a glaucous powder coating the canes, chiefly those of the violet variety. It is fusible at 180° F., dissolves in boiling alcohol, and gelatinizes on cooling. Cane juice contains about 20 per cent, of sugar. " Muscovado" is a term often apphed to raw sugar. " Bastards " is prepared from molasses and the green syrups. The coarser brown sugars often contain mites in large numbers. Molasses is the term applied in commerce to the drainings from raw sugar, and treacle to the thicker syrup which has drained from refined sugar in the moulds. [C. P. S.] Zea Mays, L. Spikes of fruit, in spirit, and dried. Grain. {Indian Corn, Maize.) Hominy, {Prepared meal.) Starch. Oswego. Note.—Maize contains about 67 per cent, of starch. Maize meal has been known under the name of polenta. Most of the " Indian corn flouis " are composed entirely of maize starch. The starch is distinguished from others by being thick and angular. For fig., see Pereira, Mat. Med., vol. ii, pt. i, frontispiece, No. 5. [C. P. S.] Bambura arundinacea, L. {Bamboo.) Portion of stem ; do. carved, as also small dirk case from China, and tea pot from Japan, made from the rhizome. Note.—With the exception of the cocoa-nut and some other palms, the bamboo is the most useful of all the vegetable products of the East. Its strength and lightness render it invaluable for building houses, rafts, &c. Coix Lachryma, L. Grain enveloped in the bony involucre. {Job's Tears.) Note.—The grain is surrounded by a bony " outer glume." This contains the female flower within it. It is a native of East Indies and Japan. The grains are said to possess diuretic and tonic properties. They are also used as beads, and as a substitute for pearl barley. ACOTYLEDONS. FIIilCES. Lastrjia (Nephrodium) FiLix-MAS, Presl.; AsPiDiuJi FiLix-MAS, Swartz. {Male Fern.) Rhizome (lower case.) Ethereal extract. {Oil of Male Fern.) Note.—The rhizomes are distinguished from the similar ones of Athyrium, Filix foemina, Lastrsea Oreopteris and Lastra;a spinulosa, by the section of the leaf-base sliowing eight vasculpr bundles, while in the other ferns named there are only two. The rhizome yields about 8 per cent, of ethereal extract. [C. P. S.]