SERIES III. ABNORMAL COmiTIONS OF THE OSSEOUS AND MUSCULAR SYSTEMS. CLASS I—VARIATION. 3518. An Os Hyoides with the left Styloid Process and the two Stjio-Hyoid Ligaments. The latter are ossified, and articulate at their extremities Avith the bones they connect. 3518a. An Adult Male Skull. On the right side of the base of the skull an unusual conoidal process, three quarters of an inch in length, and half an inch in diameter, extends downwards, and at its extremity curves slightly forwards. It proceeds from the inferior surface of the occipital bone, immediately behind the jugular foramen, midway between the condyle and mastoid process. On the anterior aspect of its distal extremity is a smooth oval surface, by which it articulated with a corresponding* surface on the posterior part of the right transverse process of the atlas. The other parts of the skull are normally formed. A. 147 3519. The first four Cervical VertebrEe of an Adult. The foramina for the passage of the left vertebral artery are much smaller tlian those for the right in the first, third, and fourth vertebree; and in the second no aperture exists on the left side, the two constituent portions of the transverse process being completely f ased. A. 149 3520. An Adult Spine, with thirteen Ribs on each side. The additional ribs are connected with the seventh cervical vertebra, and are formed by its pleurapophyses, or anterior portions of its transverse processes, being ex- ceedingly developed. These were cut off near the spine, so that their length and mode of termination cannot be stated. A. 150 3521. Portions of a Spinal Column. The transverse processes of the seventh cervical vertebrjB are very large, while a distinct cervical rib is attached to that on the right side. A. 150 3522. An Adult Female Thorax. The twelfth rib is deficient on the left side, and rudimental on the right. The left fifth rib is bifurcate ; but the cartilages connected with its two portions are united before their junction with the sternum. A. 151 ANCHYLOSIS OF THE SCAPTJLA TO THE SPINE. 3523. Specimen of Congenital Malformation of the Spinal Column, Thorax, and left Scapular Arch from a Woman aged 31 years. The posterior curve, which is normal in the dorsal region, is replaced by a slight anterior convexity. There is a sharp lateral curve with the convexity to the left in the upper