102 GROUP 11. SAUROPSDA. —♦— CLASS L—REPTILIA. 565, One of the Thoracic Vertebra of a Turtle (Chelone Midas), as an example of the peculiarities of form produced by transverse extension of some of the vertebral elements. The neural arches of the vei'tebra extend over the intervertebral space next below it, and over the anterior half of the next vertebra; and their bases are united in the same manner to both these veitebr*. The neural spine bears a large quadrangular plate of bone, placed transversely over it, and united by serrated suture to similar plates on the vertebrae before and behind, and on the ribs. Each rib articulates with two centra and their intervertebral substance, and bears on its upper surface, or expands so as to form, a plate of bone, united, as already described, to the plate on the neural spine, and by a serrated suture to the similar plates on the ribs preceding and following it. It is by the close junction of these osseous plates on the neural spines and ribs that the " carapace " is formed for the support of the dorsal shell of the turtle, marks of which are impressed on the outer surface of the bones. The distal end of each rib is connected with narrow and longitudinally placed hjemapophyses which, by the junction of their ends with those of the other adjacent vertebra, formed part of a complete ring of bone, placed beneath the outer border of the dorsal shell. With these bones are also connected by ligament two portions of the sternum, or plastron, which, as expanded htemal spines, were joined by serrated suture with other similar portions, to form the osseous plate for the support of the inferior shell. 28. 15 565a. Cervical Vertebrje of a Plesiosaurus. 28. 300a, 300c 565b. Cervical Vertebrae of a Plesiosaurus dolichodeirus. 28. 300b 565c. Vertebra of an Inguanodon. 28. 300d 566. Two Vertebrae of a Boa (Python Sebae). They are chiefly remarkable for the number of articulating surfaces which they present, each having twelve. At each extremity of the body there is such a sui-face, the anterior being concave, the posterior convex ; these form ball-and-socket joints with the corresponding parts of the vertebrae preceding and following. At each extremity also of the ncurapophyses there are two tlat articulating surfaces, which are so arranged that the anterior part of the ncurapophyses of each vertebra may be received within and slide upon the posterior part of the ncurapophyses of the preceding vertebra. Corresponding movements can take place between the projDcr zyga- pophyses, of which each vertebra has four projecting outwards from the sides of the ncurapophyses. Lastly, at the sides of the anterior part of each centrum are two low processes, with articulating surfaces for the ribs or pleurapophyscs. 28. 13