86 MAMMALIA. CLASS II.—DIDELPHIA. (A.) MARSTJPIALIA. 380. Skeleton of a Kangaroo (Macropus). The following characters of the Macropodidge or Kangaroo-family of the Marsupialia are illustrated by this skeleton: (1) The extreme development of the posterior extremities in com- parison with the anterior or with the trunk; (2) the great development of the coccygeal portion of the spine ; (3) the inferior arches and spinous processes of the coccygeal vertebrfe, forming a canal for the passage of the continued trunk of the aorta; (4) the short sacrum, composed in this species of only two vertebrEe; (5) the clavicles; (6) the free capacity of rotation between the radius and ulna; (7) the marsupial bones, long narrow pi'ocesses ascending from the anterior and upper borders of the ossa pubis ; (8) the distinct fibula; (9) the metatarsal bones, of which, in this species, two are very long, strong, and partially united, and two are slender and rudimental; (10) the correspond- ing unequally-developed phalanges. 28. 251 CLASS IIL—MONODELPHIA. (A.) EDENTATA. 381. Skeleton of an Armadillo (Dasypus Conurus). 28. 328 (B.) UNGXJLATA. 382. Skeleton of an Ass (Equus Asinus). The following characters, distinguish- ing the Solidungula, whether as a division of the Pachydermata, or as a separate order, may be observed in this : (1) The small and eai-ly united parietal bones; (2) the long nasal bones ; (3) the large lacrymal bones, each with a deep pit in its orbital portion for the reception of the Harderian gland; (4) the malar bone extended far backwards, and, with the frontal and zygomatic portion of the temporal, completing the ring of the orbit externally; (5) the single lower jaw ; (6) the long and nearly erect spinous processes of the anterior dorsal vertebrae, for the attachment of the ligamentum nucha;; (7) on the bodies of the cervical vertebrse an articulating cavity postei'iorly and convexity anteriorly; (8) the sternum much compressed laterally; (9) the clavicles absent; (10) the ulna having a large olecranon, but its shaft soon becoming thinner and blended with that of the radius; (11) the metacarpus consisting of one large bone and two short styloid appendages (splint-bones) ; (12) the phalanges, a single series of bones ; (13) between the metacarpus and first phalanx, or fetlock, two sesamoid bones (nut-bones) ; (14) between the second and third phalanges (coronary and coffin-bones) one sesamoid, or shuttle- bone; (15) the femur short and provided with a tlurd trochanter; (16) the fibula, a slender appendage to the tibia; (17) the metatarsus and phalanges conformed with the corresponding bones of the anterior extremity. 28. 216