1G8 DE\"ELOPMENT OF THE OVUM. 1278. The Heart of a Fcetal Calf, witli its right auricle laid open. The rena cava inferior opens immediately behind the foramen ovale, so that their passages are directly continuous, and there is no Eustachian valve. Below the foramen ovale is the lai'ge orifice of the coronary vein. 35. 48 1279. Portion of a Foetus in the sixth month, shovdng the nearly vertical position of the stomach. The lobed form of the kidneys, the large size of the supi-a- renal capsules, and the position of the testes, immediately above the inguinal rings, are also shown. 35. 38 SPECIMENS ILLUSTRATING THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE GREAT OMENTUM AND TRANSVERSE COLON. 1280. Eml)7-%jo\. Embryo about an inch long. The stomach is almost vertical, and attached to the posterior wall of the abdomen by a meso-gastrium. The meso- gastrium is fastened to the greater curve of the stomach. The intestines form a simple short loop of the same calibre throughout. Einhryos 2 and 3. Embryos, of the same size, about two inches long. In one embryo the small intestines have been torn off. The stomach is less vertical, and the great omentum can be seen as a delicate streak along the greater curve. The left and transverse portions of the colon are attached to the back of the abdomen by a considerable mesentery. The left colon is almost in the middle line of the body ; the transverse colon is beneath the stomach, quite free, and separated from the great omentum by a wide interval or fossa : the peritoneum which belongs to the under surface of the omentum being continuous with the peritoneum of the upper surface of the meso-colon. The small intestines occupy the right side of the abdomen, the large the left side and upper part. There is no rig'ht colon. 1281. Two Embryos about three inches long. The great omentum has increased in length, and the transverse colon is beneath it, attached to the posterior wall of the abdomen by a mesentery. There is no trace of any adhesion between the transverse meso-colon and the great omentum, but the fossa between them seen in the preceding specimens is not so deep. 1282. Embrijo 1. About four inches long. The fossa between the great omentum and transverse meso-colon has almost disappeai'ed, but is still well marked towards the left. Owing to the disappearance of the fossa the colon no longer has a mesentery when viewed from above, but is almost between the layers of the great omentum. Embryo 2. Five inches long. The fossa betAveen the transverse mcso-colon and the omentum has almost disappeared ; there is still a trace of it towards the left end of the stomach. There is no transverse meso-colon, and the colon is between layers of the great omentum. The caecum has travelled further round the abdomen, and there is a partial right colon. Presented by C. B. Lc ckwood, Esq. Sec Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, vol. xviii, p. 1. 1283. Part of a Foetus, showing especially the deeply lobed surface of the kidneys, the comparatively largo size of the supra-renal capsules, and the position of the testicles. 35. hi 1284. Part of a Foetus. The testicles arc attached by triangular peritoneal folds extending to the posterior wall of the abdomen, in front of the psoas muscles, and just below the kidneys. A bristle is placed under the rig'ht gubcrnaculum testis. 35. 58