217 BOTANICAL SPECIMENS. GUTTIFER^, Garcinia Mangostana, L. (Mangosteen.) Fruit. Note.—This tree is found in the Malay Islands. The succulent rind is nearly a quarter of an inch thick. It contains a very powerful astringent juice, and in wet weather exudes a yeUow gum which is a variety of gamboge. The internal white and juicy pulp has a refreshing and delicious flavour. The Chinese use the bark as a basis for a black dye and for dysentery. Gaecinia Morella, var. pebtcellata, Desrmis. Roll and pipe gamboge. CliTJSIASE^. Mesua fereea, L. Flowers. Note.—They are mixed with aromatics, as white sandal wood, and used for a perfuming ointment. The expressed oil of the seeds is used as an embrocation in rheumatism in India. TERNSTaCEMIACE^. Thea Sinensis, Sims; Camellia Thea, LinTc. (Tea.) Tea in balls and twists for presents ; tea seeds ; Brick Tea ; Lie Tea. Note.—Black and green tea are derived from the same plant. Assam tea is the product of Thea Assamica. (Bentley and Trimen, Med. Plants, 34.) " But it is the same plant as that obtained from China." Smith, Foods, 348. " Tea is a most powerful resjjiratory excitant." Brick Tea is from Tibet; for cup, see Balanophoea. British leaf (Lie) Tea, Patented 1831, confiscated October 11, 1833, consists of Sloe, Willow, Elm, Apple, and Poplar leaves. MALVACE-aS. Malta stlvesteis, L. (Gommon Hallow.) Flowers in section, fruit. iV^ofe.—Moral formula, [3. (5)]. [5. (5xoo/)]. (±10). There is an " cpicalyx " of three stipular bracts adherent to the calyx (compare the Abutilon, s. TBEATOLOGy). The petals adhere to the monadelphous stamens. The latter originate from five papillae, which subdivide into numerous filaments bearing unilocular anthers. Tliis sjaecies is strongly protandi'ous, as shown by the three stages. M. rotundifolia is self-fertilizing. The tincture or infusion of the flowers serves as a test for acids and alkalies like Litmus. The root and herb are sometimes substituted for those of Althaea officinalis. This species, as well as M. rotundifolia, are sometimes used in the form of a decoction in catarrhal and dysenteric complaints, and as poultices or fomentations. (Pereira.) ALTH.a!A OFFICINALIS, L. (Marsh Mallow; Ouimauve, F.) Root (decorticated), syrup of tlie fruit. Note.—The plant may be distinguished from Malvasylvestris by its pale jjink flowers and downy leaves, not cordate at the base. The root resembles Elecampane, but may be readily distinguished by the transverse marks and fibrous structure. For microscopical section of root, see Berg, Anat. Atlas, taf. ii. Its fibrous structure also distinguishes it from Belladonna, with which it has been found mixed. For fig. of plant, see Bentloy and Trimen, Med. Flants, tab. 35. The root contains mucilage, starch, sugar, and asparagin. Althj;a rosea, L. {Hollyhock.) Fruit. Note.—This plant possesses mucilaginous properties like all the Malvaceae. The leaves furnish a blue dye.