ORGANS OF RESPIRATION. 133 882. A similar preparation, after the injection of both sets of blood vessels with red wax. 19. 6 883. A similar preparation of the Pulmonary Arteries and Veins, after a minute injection of the arteries with red, and of the veins with yellow wax. 19. 7 884. A similar preparation. The arteries were injected with red, and the veins with brown wax. 19. 8 885. A Lung, the bronchi of which have been injected with wax. 886. The branchial Lamellae and other Organs of an Oyster. The lamelte are four in number, and of crescentic form. Each consists of a single close-set series of plates, which are severally composed of rows of minute lamellae set on median bars. 19. 19 887. Branchial Apparatus of a Lobster (Astacus Marinus). 19. 23 888. Branchial Apparatus, with the Heart and principal vessels, of a Poulpe (Octopus vulgaris). 19. 24 889. The principal Organs of Circulation and Respiration of a Calamary (Loligo vulgaris). The systemic heart, irregularly lozenge-shaped, is in the median line. From its anterior and posterior angles proceed large arteries, the anterior and the larger posterior aorta; each of its lateral angles receives a branchial vein. At the base of each branchia is a branchial heart, which receives the blood returning by the great veins, and propels it through the branchial circulation. The branchia consist, on each side, of a double series of pinnate laminae, closely arranged along the borders of a median fusiform stem, each branchia bearing upwards of seventy pairs of plates. 19. 18 Prepared by W. S. Savory, Esq. 890. The Head of a Fish, with the operculum, or gill-cover, and other parts removed from its left side, so as to expose the branchite or gills. The branchiaa are composed of narrow, elongated lamellae, in which branches of the branchial arteries are minutely distributed, and the axes of which are made stiff with cartilage. These lamellae are close-set on four branchial osseous or cartilaginous plates, which are attached to the four branchial arches of the hyoid bone. 19. 17 891. The Lungs of a Frog (Rana temporaria), inflated after the injection of the pulmonary arteries. They are simple sacs, of ovate form, and the irregularities of their outer surface represent the cellular or reticulated character of their interior. 19. 14 892. The Lungs of a Jersey Toad, inflated and dried. 19. 15 893. Section of a similar Lung. It is a nearly simple sac, with ridges raised upon its inner surface so as to bound large polygonal parietal cells. 19. 16 894. Section of the Lung of a Turtle (Chelone Midas). The main bronchus, passing along the axis of the lung, gives off on each side numerous large diverging branches, the walls of wliich appear reticular, through the number of apertures by which they communicate with the larger air-cells. These air- cells are subdivided by very delicate tissue into much finer spaces, in which the minute branches of the pulmonary artery are distributed. 19. 10