75 THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM, 274. Bones of the Face, with the Intermaxillary Bone detached, from a Foetus 3'7 months. 275. Palate and Vomer from a Foetus 2'3 months. 276. All the Facial Bones, with the exception of the nasal and lachrymal, from a Foetus 4"3 months. A Superior Maxilla from a Foetus 4'7 months. 277. Bones of the Face, excepting the nasal and lachrymal, of a Foetus aged 4'7 months. 278. Bones of the Face from a Foetus 6*5 months. 279. A similar specimen from a Foetus 6'7 months. 280. A similar specimen from a Foetus 9 months. 281. Structures forming the Face, the Maxillary Lobes, Frontal and Nasal Pro- cesses, ridges for Ethmoid and the Turbinate Cartilages, from a Foetus of four months' growth. 282. The Inferior Maxilla, showing the notched-out extremity (left side) and Cartilage of Meckel, from a Foetus 1'5 months. 283. Antero-posterior section of Skull, showing the parts in the middle line, from a Foetus 3'5 months. 284. Lachrymal bone, in situ, from a Foetus 4'7 months. 285. Superior Maxilla and Premaxilla from a Foetal Pig two inches long. 286. A similar specimen from a Foetal Kangaroo. 287. A similar specimen. Nos. 271-287 illustrate Mr. Callender's paper in the Transactions of iheRoi/al Society iov 1869, vol. 159, pt. i, p. 163, on " The formation and Early Growth of the Bones of the Human Face." 288. Two longitudinal sections of the Skull, with the Spinal Column, Shoulder, and Pelvic Girdles attached. 289. Two similar specimens. The ribs also are left attached to the column. 290. Cervical, Dorsal, and Lumbar Vertebrse from an Adult. The typical cervical vertebra is composed as follows:—Its centrum or body, transversely oval, presents at its lower border a broad descending process, or hypapophysis, answering to that of the cervical vertebra of the Bird. From each side of the body proceeds a " transverse process " composed of three elements: namely, a parapophysis anteriorly, a diapophysis postei-iorly, and a pleura- pophysis externally. The pleurapophysis or cervical rib is bifurcate: one portion, answering to the tubercle of a thoracic rib, being united with the diapophysis; the other, answering to the head of a thoracic rib, being united with the parapophysis. The foramen for the passage of the vertebral artery and vein is thus enclosed by the junction of the three elements, di- par- and pleur-apophysis, together with the first portion, or pedicle, of the neurapojDhysis or lamina. (See the plainer relations of the corresponding parts in the cervical vertebra of the Crocodile.) With the junction of the pedicles and the posterior parts of the diapophyses are connected, on each side, the two zyga- pophyses, oblique or articulating processes; and from the same point proceed the laminae or neurapophyses. The neurapophyses, converging to enclose the neural canal, meet posteriorly at an angle, and bear a bifurcate neural spine or spinous process. The typical dorsal vertebra is composed as follows :—The conditions of the