163 ORGAJJS OF GENERATION IN THE FEMALE. 1201. An Ovum of about the sixth week. The cavity of the ovum is laid open, and the embryo suspended in the liquor amnii by a short, thick, umbilical cord. The amnion, nearly pellucid, is detached from the interior of the chorion. It bears a few very delicate filamentous processes on its external surface, which are probably remains of the " Corps reticule." The outer surface of the chorion is not flocculent; its substance is thicker and firmer, and in a large portion of its extent a placenta is developed. Parts of the maternal decidua remain attached to the exterior of the chorion. 35. 4 Presented and described by Dr. Conquest. 1202. An Embryo in its Membranes two months old. 35. 77 1203. A Foetus and its Membranes about two months after conception, showing the villi of the chorion before they have become vascularised. 35. 78 1204. The Membranes of an Ovum at about the eighth week of gestation. The umbilical vesicle, with its vitellus, is seen at the upper part, and a portion of the umbilical cord below. 35. 93 1205. A Foetus, one inch in length, in its Membranes, at the second month of pregnancy. The amnion, chorion, decidua vera, and part of the decidua reflexa can be distinguished; the umbilical cord measures half an inch. The arms and forearms, the thighs and legs, are differentiated, and the first stage of development of the eyes and ears may be seen. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 1206. An Ovum about the eighth week of pregnancy, showing the membranes and part of the decidua reflexa. 1207. An Ovum at about the eighth week. The amnion is not opened; its outer surface is exposed by the reflection of the chorion and part of the decidua vera and reflexa, and is opaque. 35. 8 1208. A Uterus, with the Foetus enclosed in its Membranes, in the second month of gestation. It measures four inches and three-quarters in length, of which the cervix comprises an inch and a quarter. The front wall has been laid open, and its inner surface can be seen lined by the decidua vera, which is slightly separated at the internal os. Within this the ovum is surrounded' by the villous chorion and the decidua reflexa, the decidua serotina being attached at the fundus uteri. The foetus itself may be seen enclosed in its amniotic sac. 33. 39 1209. A Uterus at about the second month of pregnancy. It measures five inches in length, the cervix being one inch and a quarter. The uterine cavity, which is opened from the anterior surface, is globular, and lined by a thick decidua vera, terminating below at the internal os, and partly peeled up from the uterine wall, a piece of glass rod being placed in the interval. Immediately within the decidua vera is the decidual cavity, which is entirely obliterated at the posterior surface by the union of the decidua serotina and reflexa marking the site of the developing placenta. In the centre is the foetus, nearly two inches long, connected to the maternal structures by an umbilical cord two inches in length, and enclosed in the amniotic bag, which is here seen as a fine transparent membrane. Presented hy Dr. Mattliovvs Duncan. M 2