116 THE STOMACH. crescentic folds projecting into this cavity are shown by the removal of part of its wall; through which also is shown its large valvular aperture of communi- cation with the fourth cavity of the stomach, the abomasum or rennet. In the ruminants, the food, after a first mastication, passes into the rumen; thence, being in portions transferred into the reticulum, it is from it regurgitated through the oesophagus. After a second mastication, it is conveyed through the oesophagus into the psalterium. For the muscular fibres of the groove or canal already referred to as extending between the orifices of the oesophagus and psalterium, being dilated, permit these orifices to lie (as in the prepaiation) far apart, and in this position the oesophagus opens directly into the rumen; but when, in the swallowing of the food masticated a second time, the same fibres contract, they move away from the oesophagus the orifices of the rumen and the reticulum, and bring into direct continuity with it the orifice of the psalterium. From the psalterium the food, having undergone the digestive action of its secretions, passes into the abomasum, where its gastric digestion is completed. Into this cavity, which has a simple elongated oval form, the mi\k of the suckling calf passes directly from the oesophagus, being subjected neither to rumination nor to the digestive action of the psalterium, the plicae of which remain in contact so long as the young animal subsists on milk. 11. 23 703. The Stomach of a Rat (Mus decumanus). The cardiac portion forms more than half the cavity of the stomach, the oesophagus entering at nearly the middle of the upper or lower arch. To the right of the oesophagus the stomach appears encircled witli a line which marks the termination of the thick epithelium covering its cardiac portion. ► 11. 21 704. The Stomach of a Rat (Mus decumanus). The muscular tunic of the pyloric portion terminates by a well-defined border about midway between the two extremities. 11. 42 705. The Stomach of a Squirrel (Sciurus vulgaris). 11. 45