185 ANNULOSA—ANNELIDA. Sub-Kingdom IV.—ANNULOSA. (A.) ANNELIDA. HIRTJDINEA. 1495. Hirudo Medicinalis (Officinal Leech). 1496. Hirudo Medicinalis. The alimentary canal is injected with red size: showing the various diverticula of the canal, and the two caeca, one on each side of the rectum. 1497. Hirudo Medicinalis. Dissected to show the nervous system. The skin of the animal has been opened down the centre of the back, and is fastened to the talc at the sides. The whole of the digestive canal has been removed, and most of the vascular system has also been cut away, together with the segmental organs. A glass probe is passed through the mouth, and lying upon it is the supracesophageal ganglion; from this ganglion can be traced the double gangliated nerve cord. The mesially placed white mass is the muscular " ductus ejaculatorius " connected with the penis, which is visible below it; on either side are situated two white masses—the " vesiculaa seminales "— and the ducts connecting them with the muscular " ductus ejaculatorius." On the right side the fine convoluted duct leading from the " vesicula seminalis " to the first testicle on the same side can be seen. There are eight pairs of testicles ; the right hand one of the last pair is partially destroyed. Situated in the middle line below the penis is the muscular vagina, having the ovaries attached to its upper portion, forming two small club-shaped masses placed one on either side of the nerve chain. Here and there in the lower pai't of the preparation remnants of the vascular system can be seen. 1498. Hirudo Medicinalis. Alimentary canal, showing the several digestive caeca, and the great length of the terminal pair. 1499. Dissection showing reproductive and nervous system of same. The minute ganglia and nerve cord may be seen down the middle of the specimen, while the nine pair of testes, with their ducts, are on each side, terminating above in the spermatheca and penis. 1500. Lumbricus terrestris dissected to show the chief features of its anatomy. Compare the conical upper lip or prostomium with the blunt, posterior extremity. The anus is terminal. The thickened clitellus is seen extending from the thirty-second to the thirty-eighth segment. The phai-ynx, oesophagus, and gizzard are seen at the upper part of the dissection. The sacculated intestine has been in part drawn out to show the nervous and excretory systems. Upon the intestine is the delicate dorsal blood vessel. Lying on each side of the oesophagus are the three pairs of oesophageal glands; one of the large testicular sacs in the eleventh segment has been uncoiled. Along the centre of the ventral surface runs the gangliated nerve cord: a pair of segmental organs or nephridia lying upon each side of it in every segment. TTTBICOLiE. 1501. Serpula. Affixed to the valve of an oyster. The animal is retracted within its tube, but the operculum is not qiiite drawn home, allowing a small portion of the branchiaj to be seen.