MAMMALIA. 87 383. Skeleton of a Red Deer (Cervus Elaplius). The chief characters of the Ruminantia illustrated by this and other specimens are the following : (1) The small and early united parietal bones ; (2) the bony processes on the frontal bones of the horned species; (3) the long nasal bones ; (4) the lacrymal bone, with a deep pit for the Harderian gland ; (5) the extended malar bone, uniting with the frontal to complete the ring of the orbit externally; (6) the large vomer; (7) the intermaxillaries bearing no teeth; (8) the long, slender coronoid processes of the lower jaw, and the small condyles of the same freely moveable upon the shallow glenoid surfaces or cavities; (9) the large inter- maxillary foramina ; (10) the long and strong spinous processes of the lower cervical and upper dorsal vertebrse ; (11) the small scapulae, without acromion; (12) the absent clavicles; (13) the single metacarpal and metatarsal bones, each marked with a median ridge or line, indicating its formation of two united bones, and each having at its sides two slender bones, the rudiments of others corresponding with themselves; (14) in each foot two principal digits, and two smaller " spur" or "dew claws," supjjorted by the rudimental metacarpal and metatarsal bones. . 28. 224 384. Skeleton of a small Musk Deer (Tragulus Kanchil). 28. 223 385. Skeleton of a foetal Lamb (Ovis Aries) 28. 334 386. Skeleton of a Collared Peccari (Dicotjles torquatus). The following are the principal characters of the pachydermata, illnstrated by this: (1) The small and angular occipital foramen; (2) the lowly developed mastoid process ; (3) the single frontal bone; (4) in the Elephant, the large size of the inter- maxillary bones for the support of the tusks ; (5) the lower jaw single by the early union of its two halves; (6) the numerous dorsal vertebrte, and the long spinous processes of the anterior among them ; (7) the clavicles absent; (8) the radius and ulna anchylosed, but not in the Elephant; (9) the meta- carpus and phalanges comprising in some (the Isodactyle) an even number of toes, in others (the Anisodactyle) an odd number; (10) in the Rhinoceros (196) and some others, a strong process from the middle of the femur, like a third trochanter; (11) the large patellee ; (12) the metatarsus and phalanges resembling those of the anterior extremities, and differing, like them, in different genera. 28. 206 (C.) CETACEA. 387. Skeleton of a Porpoise (Phocsena communis). In this and in the suc- ceeding specimen the following characters of the skeletons of Cetacea may be observed: (1) The jaws lengthened ont in the shape of a snout; (2) the cranial bones united by squamous suture; (3) a greater or less deviation from lateral symmetry in the nasal and intermaxillary bones and the nasal orifices, the right being larger than the left ; (4) the large size and exceeding hardness of the tympanic bones; (5) the absence of the mastoid processes; (6) the small, rounded, unsymmetrical nasal bones; (7) the small, thin, and flattened malar bone; (8) the large strong vomer; (9) the postei'ior ribs articulating with the transverse processes alone; (10) the early ossification of the costal cartilages; (11) the large number of false ribs (in this specimen six pairs) ; (12) the short and broad sternum; (13) the broad scapulse; (14) the absent clavicles; (15) the short humeri; (16) the short and flat radii and ulnse, lying immovable on one another, in the same plane with the fin-like carpus and hand ; (17) the carpal bones without pi'ominences ; (18),