4 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE AXIS. (B.) OPISTHOZYGOSIS. 3411. Male Twin Foetuses united by tlie left sides of the lower lumbar vei'tebrse. At this point the spine of each is bent at an angle of 90° towards the ri^ht, so that the pelvis and lower extremities of each foetus are placed directly- opposite to, and in the same straight line with, corresponding portions of the opposite foetus. The union is by bony plates uniting the transverse processes of the vertebrae. The thoraces are separate, the abdominal cavities common. The stomach and greater portions of each small intestine are entirely separate, but just above the ileo-coecal A'alve the latter unite to form a common canal, which again, almost immediately, subdivides into two cceca, the large intestine being normal. The testes ai'e undescended, and lie close to the internal rings. The urachiis of each foetus unites in a common umbilical cord, which contains three arteries and one vein. One foetus is altogether larger than the other. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 3412. Twin Foetuses at the sixth week of intra-uterine life. The abdominal walls are fused below the umbilicus, otherwise each foetus is entirely nonnal. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. (C.) PAKAZYGOSIS. 3413. Twin Thoracopagous Foetuses at the fifth month of intra-uterine life. The visceral laminae of the thoraces are united anteriorly. The adhesion extends from the episternal notch nearly to the umbilici, which are distinct. The bond of union is formed by the junction of the costal cartilages of corresponding sides; in the posterior wall there is a rudimentary sternum. The skeleton and soft parts of both foetuses are otherwise well formed. The two hearts are contained in a common pericardium ; the number and ai-rangement of the blood vessels are normal, but the right heart is displaced to the right side. The lungs and thymus glands are normal. The diaphi-agm is common to both, as also the liver, which is of large size and saddle-shaped, being apparently formed by the union of two livers at the upper and posterior surfaces. The umbilical veins enter the opposite sides of the organ. Each foetus has a normal stomach, from which the intestine passes into a large triangular pouch beneath the liver; from the lower angle of this cavity a common intestine extends for about four inches, there bifurcates, and proceeds to either anus. Aboat seven inches below the bifurcation a well developed coecum is seen, having an extremely long appendix. The other abdominal viscera are normal. The circulation of each foetus was quite distinct and normal. Olstetrical Societi/'s Transactions, 1879, p. 88. 3414. The skeletons of two Thoracopagous Foetuses. Each skeleton is perfect, except at the anterior wall of the chest. Only one thoracic cavity exists. There are two sterna, which are placed, not in the median line, but at the sides of the thoracic cavity. With each sternum are connected the costal cartilages of the corresponding side of each skeleton. The upper piece of each sternum appears double, so as to be nearly equally connected with the upper ribs of both skeletons ; the other pieces of each are normally formed. A. 1. Hydrocephalus, with great enlargement of the cranium, existed in one of the children. The mother was naturally and safely delirercd. Presented by Richard Eyles, Esq. 3415. Female Thoracopagous Twins in the third month of pregnancy. The abdominal walls are united above the umbilici. One foetus is considerably longer than the other. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan.