BOTANICAL SPECIMENS. 248 Iris Geemanica. (Garden Flag.) Starch from rhizome. Iris pseupacoeus, L. (Yellow Flag.) Flower (section). -ZV^o^e.—Floral formula, {[(3 + 3). 3''. (3)}. Crocus sativus, L. (Crocus.) Stigmata. (Say Saffron.) Two specimens. Flower (section). Wote.—Floral formula, {[(3 + 3). 3]. (3)}. Compare the floral foi-mula for Colch'cum, [(3 + 3). 6]. (3). Styles are coherent in crocus, -n'ith petaloid stigmas ; styles are free in colchi- cum, -with simple stigmas. Fruit, a diplotegia in crocus, dehiscing loculicidally ; a capsule in colchicum dehiscing septicidally. Tlie corms of crocus develop new corms on the upper part; while tliat of colchicum is produced at the base of the old one. Saffron is sometimea adulterated with safflower, marigold florets, or crocus stamens, carbonate of calcium, and sul- phate of barium. Safflower, if present, may be recognised when the saffron is put into warm water, by its tubular corolla with syngenesious anthers : marigold petals and crocus staujens by not being tripartite as in the saffron. Carbonate of calcium, if present, may be detected by its efi'ervescence with hydrocliloric acid ; and oil, which is sometimes used to freslien the C'>lour of saffron, by pressTire between blotting-paper. (See Pereira, 3£at. Med.) Cake saffron consist* of the florets of safilower made into thin cakes with gum-water. Cape saffron is Lyperia crocea. For fig. of plant, see Bentley and Trimen, 3Ied. Plants, tab. 274. [C. P. S.] DIOSCOREACEiE. Tamus communis, L. (Black Bryony.) Root, preserved wet. Note.—This plant must not be confounded with white Bryony, which belongs to the Ciicur- bitaceae. White bryony has rough palmate leaves and greenish-white flowers. Black bryony has glossy, smooth, heart-shaped leaves, and minute green flowers. The fresh root, which is very large, is \ised for black eyes and bruises. It is used in the form of pulp, made by scraping the root. It is apt to cause irritation if allowed to get into the eyes. [C. P. S.] The name of the order is derived from the genus Dioscorea, of which D. sativa supplies the well-known tubers called Yams of tropical countries. LILIACE^. Ueginea Scilla, Sieinheil. (Medicinal Squill.) Bulb. Note.—The bitter principle of sqiiill is precipitated by tannin. According to Quekett, powdered squill contains 10 per cent, of raphides. [C. P. S.] SciLLA NUTANS, Sm. (Blue-hell.) Flower (section). iVofe—Floral formula, [3-h 3. 3 + 3]. (3). TULIPA, L. (Tulip.) Flower (section). Note.—FlovfiX formula, 3+3. 3 + 3. (3). Drac^na Draco, L. Portion of stem. Resin (Dragon's blood). Note.—The stem of arborescent Lih'acece is remarkable for a ring of mcristem in which new fibro-vaseuhir bundles are formed. Tl'e resinous exudation called dragon's blood appears at one time to have been regidarly exported from the Canaries. A gigantic tree has long been known in Tencriffe ; it is hollow, and may be ascended by a staircase ; near the gi-ound it was seventy-nine feet in circumference. Fictitious ditto, in globose pieces. Note.—The Sumatran dragon's blood, ])rodueed by Calamus draco, may be distinguislied from the other kinds by containing little shell-like scales, and by giving off, when licated on the point of a knife, irriliiting fumes of benzoic acid. Fictitious dragon's blood dillerB in shape, and in it,? resin-like odour when broken. [C. P. S.]