BOTANICAL SPECIMENS, 232 MYRSINE^. Embelia (Samara, L.) Ribes, Burm. Fruit. Note.—The berries of tliis, one of the common Indian species, are sold to traders, who use them for adidterating black pepper, which they somewhat resemble, and have, moreover, a slight pungency, owing to a resinous substance contained in them. SAPOTACE^. Argania sideeoxtlon, U. et Sch. (Argan tree.) Fruit. Note.—A native of Morocco. The fruit is an egg-shaped or roundish drupe, dotted with white. They are much relished by all ruminating animals, who in chewing the cud eject the hard seeds, from which a valuable oil is extracted, which in Morocco is used as a substitute for oUve oil. The wood is very hard, and so heavy as to sink in water. [C. P. S.] ISONANDRA GUTTA, Hooh. Gutta percha, raw, and in shreds, (Treas. of Bot.) MiMUSOPS Kanki, L. (Buah Soiv.) Fruit. Note.—The tree is extensively cultivated in China and Malabar on account of its acid and esculent fruit. Sai'Ota Achras, Mill. (Sajpodilla plum.) Fruit. Note.—A plant of the West Indies. The bark is astringent and febrifugal; the seeds also are aperient and diuretic. The fruit of this species, as of S. (Lucuma) mammosa, which yields the marmalade fruit, are highly esteemed. Bassia Parkii, Don. (Shea or Butter tree.) Butter. Note.—A native of Africa. The seeds produce Galam butter. The seeds are boiled in water to extract the butter from them. The fatty substance is of a white colour, and agreeable taste, and keeps well, hence it is an important article of commerce in Sierra Leone. STYRACACE^. Sttrax Benzoin, Bryand. {Benzoin.) Resin. Note.—This plant is a native of Sumatra, Borneo, &c. Incisions arc made into the tree, the juice exudes, dries, and the dried mass is removed hy a knife. Each (ree yield.': annually about three pounds of benzoin. Benzoin is employed medicinally in chronic pulmonary disorders, and hy perfumers, and in incense. OLEACEJE. Fraxinus Ornus, L. (Manna Ash.) Flaky manna. Note.—Manna is not now produced in Calabria as an article of commerce. Artificial manna cither contains no niannitc at all, or not more than •10 per cent., while true manna contains 70-80 per cent. Spurious manna is known by its uniform colour, and freedom from the slight impurities, as well as from the peculiar odour and slight bitterness of manna. For f!g. of plant, see Bcnlloy and Trimen, Med. Plants, tab. 170. [C. P. S.]