BOTANICAL SPECBIENS. 251 Hyphene Thebaica. (Down Palm, Oingerbread Tree.) Frait. Note.—This palm is remarkable for having a repeatedly forked stem. Its fruit is said to resemble gingerbread in taste, and the outer portion is eaten by the poorer classes in Egypt. [0. P. S.] Phytelephas macrocaepa, B. et P. {Ivory Plant.) Seeds. (Vegetable Ivory.) Do. carved. Wote.—The seeds consist in large.proportion of a white hard albumen, which, when the fruit is young, forms a clear insipid Huid, which soon becomes mdky and sweet, and then hardens into the substance known as yegetable ivory. Vegetable ivory is used for tops of smelling bottles, . &c. [C. P. S.] Sagus L^yis, Eumph, and other species. (Spineless Sago Palm.) Fruit, sago starch. Sago, prepared. Note.—This species is said to yield most of the sago imported into Europe. Some is, how- ever, obtained from S. Rumphii, Roxb., the prickly sago palm, or malay. The greatest quantity is procured by cutting down the tree as soon as the flower spike appears : a single tree often yielding 600 lbs. Sago is apparently made by two different processes, the starch grains being burst in some samples and not in otliers. Fictitious sago, sold by grocers under the name of pearl tapioca, is made from potato starch. For fig. of sago starch, see Per. Mat. Med., vol. ii, pt. i, frontispiece, figs. 7, 8, 9. It much resembles Tacca starch, but the truncated grains are rather longer than in that starch. [C. P. S.J Ceroxylon Andicola, H. B. (Wax Palm.) Wax, as scraped from the trunk. Note.—The wax forms a white marble-like coating on the trunk of the tree. The tree, when cut down and scraped, yields usually about 25 lbs. The wax is hard and somewhat resinous, and does not seem to become rancid by keeping. It is used in New Granada for making candles. [C. P. S.] Attalea ponifera, Mart. Fruit, entire and polished. (Coquilla Nut.) Fibre of petiole (Piaqaba fibre, in part). Note.—This palm has a wide distribution on the eastern side of S. America. The dilaterl base of the petioles separates into a coarse fringe. It makes excellent cables, and is used lor scavangers' brushes, &c. The fruit is used for knobs of sticks, &c. Attalea Cohune, Mart. Oil. Note.—A native of Honduras. The oil does not appear preferable to cocoa-nut oil for soap, candles, &c. BoRASSus flabelliformis, L. (Palmyra Palm.) Hindoo Book. Note.—This is one of the most useful of palms, and is a native of India and elsewhere. The leaves of this, as of the cjcoa-nut and corj'pha, or talipot palm, are also used for writing. Pliny says that the most ancient way of writing was upon the leaves of palms (lib. xui, cap. 2). They are called Ollahs when prepared for the stylus. ABOIDE^. Arum maculatum, L. (Lords and Ladies, CiicJwopint, WaJce Robin.) Corms, starch prepared from the rhizome. (Portland Arroioroot.) Note.—The rhizome, dried and gi-ated, is used by herbahsts as a remedy for gout. It formerly held a place in the Dubhu Pharmacopoeia. The starch was formerly manufactured at Portland, and is still made there in small quantity, but is not an article of commerce. A peck of roots yields about 3 lbs. of starch. For fig. of the starch, see Peroira, Mat. Med., vol. li, pt. ii, frontispiece, fig. H. [C. P. S.]