gelatine was obtained from them. 6. 10 57 SERIES VL OARTILAQINOUS AND OSSEOUS TISSUES. 40. Pai"t of a Rib, including portions of botti its bone and its cartilage. The con- tinuity of the periosteum and perichondrium, their common investing mem- brane, is shown. 6. 1 41. Two Ribs from which salts of lime and other bases were removed by solution in dilute hydrochloric acid. The remaining animal substance, mingled with the substances insoluble in the hydrochloric acid, retains the original foi-m and size of the bones, but is so soft and flexible that it has been tied in knots without breaking. 6. 2 42. Portion of a Rib from an Egyptian mummy. It was immersed like the preceding specimen in dilute hydi-ochloric acid, and the usual proportion of animal matter remains, pi'cserving the original size and shape of the bone itself and of a quantity of new bone formed in the repair of a fracture. 6. 3 43. The animal matter of several of the bones of a child, retaining their form and size after the removal of their saline constituents. 6. 4 44. Portions of Bones which were boiled for several hours in a solution of potash. The animal matter of the bones was thus dissolved; but its eai'thy and saline matter remains, preserving the original form and size of the bones, but of chalky whiteness, brittle, and easily separated into lamellae, or rubbed into powder. 6. 5 45. The earthy and saline portion of part of a Tibia prepared in the same manner as the preceding specimens. 6. 6 46. Portions of several Bones after the removal of their animal matter by calcination. Their shape and apparent texture are not altered by the process. 6. 7 47. A mass of Sulphate of Lime, precipitated on the addition of sulphuric acid to the solution of chloride of calcium and phosphate of lime obtained by the immersion of bones in dilute hydrochloric acid. 6. 8 48. Portion of a Fibula, after immersion in sulphuric acid. It is very little softened; and the sulphate of lime by which the decomposed carbonate is replaced is deposited in small lumps on the surface of the bone. 6. 9 49. Portions of the Cartilages of a Foetal Skeleton which were boiled for many hours on each of several successive da^'s. They were little clianged: and no