ABNORiMAL CONDITIONS OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 37 the ventricles are almost uniformly thick. The rudiments of the mitral and the tricuspid valves are arranged like a single valve in a ring between the auricular and ventricular cavities. The pulmonary artery is very small, and has no valves. The ductus arteriosus is removed, but there is an opening intlie aorta at the point of its usual junction with the duct. A. 30 3616. A Heart. Both auricles and the right ventricle are greatly dilated ; the left ventricle moderately. There is a large opening in the septum at the unprotected spot between the auricular and ventricular septa. All the cavities of the heart are thus placed in communication with each other. The upper edge of the opening is inverted towards the left auricle. The foramen ovale is closed. The tricuspid valve consists of only two large cusps, the inner of which is attached to the lower margin of the opening described. The mitral orifice is conti-acted; the valve consists of three thickened imperfectly differentiated cusps; the inner sides of the anterior and posterior cusps are attached to the lower margin of the opening. The pulmonary and aortic valves are normal; the pulmonary artery is dilated; the aorta is small. From a young woman, aged 17 yeavs, who died with cyanosis and dyspnoea, which had existed for ten days before her admission. There was a presystohc thrill; systolic, and pre- systolic musical murmurs were heard at the apex. See Post Mortem Book, vol. viii, p. 16 ; and Hope Ward Book, vol. viii, p. 242. 3617. The Heart and Lungs of a Child. At birth the heart was outside the thoracic cavity, in front of the anterior wall of the chest (ectopia cordis). The heart itself indicates a general deficiency of development. The two auricles form one cavity, with scarcely a trace of septum. The septum of the ventx'icles is not complete, the two cavities communicating at their upper part, and the ventricles themselves appear to be imperfectly developed. Thus the heart has but a single cavity. A. 193 Presented by Mr. Edward Daniell. (G.) TRANSPOSITION OF THE AOKTIC AND PULMONARY ARTERIES. 3618. Malformed Heart. The ventricles are modified only in the relative thick- ness of their walls. The right ventricle, which gives rise to the aorta, is more muscular than the left, from which the pulmonary artery arises, but the right valve is tricuspid and the left mitral. The veins also terminate correctly. The foramen ovale is imperfectly closed by a cribriform valve. The ductus ai'teriosus is much contracted, the pulmonary artery considerably dilated. In this child black blood, with the exception of a very little red blood conveyed into the aorta by the narrow ductus arteriosus, was always circulating through the right side of the heart, and thi-ough every part of the body except the lungs, and red blood was always circulating through the left cavities of the heart and the lungs, except the small quantity of black blood which passed through the imperfect foramen ovale. He lived five months, suffering from dyspnoea and frequent cough, pulsation in the epigastrium, excessive coldness of skin, and could only lie upon the right side. He had frequent fits, and was subject to diarrhcBa. The immediate cause of death was an attack of small-pox. The case is fully described by Dr. Farre in his Essay on the Malformation of the Human Heart, and was formerly included in his collection. (H.) ORIGIN OF BOTH THE AORTIC AND THE PtTLMONARY AJITERIES FROM THE RIGHT VENTRICLE, WITH IMPERFECTION OF THE VENTRICULAR SEPTUM. 3619. A Heart exhibiting an imperfection of the ventricular septum, the aorta and pulmonary artery both arising from the right ventz'icle ; the deficiency of