2 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE AXIS. only vessel which supplied the liver with blood, for the purpose either of nutrition or secretion.* " The vena portarum was formed in the usual manner, but terminated in the inferior cava, nearly on a line with the renal veins. The umbilical vein of this subject ended in the hepatic vein. " The liver was of the ordinary size, but had not the usual inclination to the right side of the body ; it was situated in the middle of tlie upper part of the abdomen, and nearly an equal portion of the gland extended into either hypochondrium. "The gall-bladder lay collapsed in its usual situation; it was of a natural structure, but rather smaller than common ; it measured one inch and a half in length, and half an inch in breadth. On opening the bladder we found in it about half a teaspoonful of bile. " The intestines did not contain much alimentary faecal matter : this was, however, as usual, deeply tinged with bile."—Extract from the account of the case related by Mr. Abernethy, in the Philosophical Transactions, vol. Ixxxiii, p. 60, 1793. CLASS II.—DUPLICITY. Sub-Class I.—DICHOTOMY. (A.) ANTERIOR DICHOTOMY. 3402. A Foetal Kitten, showing Anterior Dichotomy involving only the head. The median eyes are united. A. 285 3403. A Chicken, the Head of which is partially subdivided. There are two separate beaks, and the contiguous eyes are blended into one. The body and limbs are normal. Presented by the Eev. G-. Henslow. 3404. The Head of an Anencephalons Foetus, in which the palate has a wide fissure, and at its anterior parts is broadly expanded and divergent, in adapta- tion to Duplicity of the lower jaw and tongue. The outer condyles of the lower jaws are normally articulated: their median or inner condyles, closely approximated, are articulated with a mass of bone projecting between and from the fronts of the divisions of the hard palate. The tongues are of full size and united posteriorly. a. 7 (B.) POSTERIOR DICHOTOMY. 3405. A monstrous Kitten, exhibiting the coudition known as " Posterior Dichotomy." The head and neck are single. Two forelegs rest on the ground, while two others project upwards from the scapular region. Behind this point the bodies are double, four hind legs and two tails being present. A. 208 3406. A monstrous Kitten, exhibiting a similar condition. The head and upper portion of the trunk appear single, and there are but two forelegs. Two imperfectly formed jaws and two tongues are present. The heart lies to the right side. The body below the umbilicus is double, and there are four hind legs and two tails. * This statement refers to the extra-uterine period of the child's life. Before birth the blood of the umbilical vein was, probably, as usual, carried through the liver ; the branches of that vein remain in the liver, and it is nearly certain that the terminations of the hepatic artery pass into connection with them in the usual manner.