ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE LIMBS. 21 3499, Two Supernumerary Little Fingers removed from a Child's Hands. They are malformed, and were attached by narrow pedicles. A. 159 Presented by J. F. Crookes, Esq. 3500. The Hind Leg of a Guanoco with a supernumerary digit. CLASS III.—EXCESS OF GROWTH. 3501. Half the Great Toe of a Girl, aged 10 years, which had been hypertrophied at birth, and continued to preserve its abnormal relation to the other toes during the gradual growth of the child. The increase in size is due to fat and fibrous tissue. The joints are normal; the last phalanx is the only one of the bones which appears to be hypertrophied. The joint-capsules were very loose before removal, so that the joint of the toe could be bent back upon the dorsum of the foot. See Lucas Ward BooTc, vol. v, p. 36. 3502. The three intervening Toes of the left foot. The enlargement which they present was congenital; it is due to an excess of all the structures which enter into their formation. It affected, though in a less degree, all the cor- responding metatarsal bones and the soft parts covering them. Over the ball of the foot there was an enormous cushion of fat. The malformation was the source of so much inconvenience to the patient, who was a sailor, that the parts were amputated. CLASS IV.—AEHEST OF GROWTH. 3503. A Foetus born at full term with failure of development of the lower extremities. The lower limbs are perfect as far down as the knee, but immediately below this joint on the left side, and a few inches further down on the right, the extremities terminate in rounded stumps, which present an appearance very similar to that which might result from a circular amjiutation in this region. A. 182 3504. A Two Mouths Foetus. Immediately above the right knee the thigh presents a marked constriction as though a tight band had encircled it in this situation. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 3505. A Malformed Hand from a new born Child. The palm is shapeless, and the fingers and thumb are represented by small papillae each joined by a very narrow neck to the rest of the hand. This appears to be one of the stages of so called " iutra-uterine amputation." Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan.