THE EYE AND ITS ACCESSORY ORGANS. UG tubular form, bearing the cornea at the end o£ the prolonged sclerotic plates. The muscles of the nictitating membrane are two in number: one of them, called the quadratus nictitantis, or trochlearis, of an unequally four-sided figure, arises from the outer part of the eye-ball, whence its fibres converge towards the optic nerve, by the side of which they terminate in a free, curved, tendinous margin, which is perfoi'ated by a canal for the tendon of the opposite muscle. This, which is called pyramidalis nictitantis, or nictitator, is of a triangular form : its fibres arise from the inner and lower side of the eye-ball, and converge as they pass towards the quadratus, through the loop or pulley of which its cord-like tendon glides. The tendon, winding over the optic nerve, descends and enters a sheath in the lower part of the sclerotica, and then, pass- ing below the cornea, is finally inserted into the lower angle of the free margin of the membrana nictitans, along which it is continued for some distance. By the simultaneous action of these two muscles, the third eyelid, or nictitating membrane, is drawn rapidly and forcibly outwards, and with an oblique in- clination downwards over the forepart of the eye. The tendon of the pyrami- dalis gains the due direction for that office by winding round the optic nerve ; and it is restrained from pressing upon the nerve by the counteracting force of the quadratus. The nictitating membrane returns, on the relaxation of its muscles, by virtue of its own elasticity, to the inner corner of the orbit, where it lies folded up when not in use. 25. 46 Presented by Ricliard Partridge, Esq. 1016. The Eyeball and Membrana Nictitans of a large Norwegian Owl. On the posterior part of the globe the muscles which move the nictitating membrane have been dissected out. 25. 53 1017. The Eyelids of a Horse, including the vertical eyelid, or nictitating mem- brane, and the Harderian gland connected with it. Bristles are passed into the numerous ducts of the lacrymal glands. 25. 43 1018. The Eye of a Horse, witli the veins of the choroid membrane (venas vorticosse) filled with mercury. 25. 23 1019. Portion of the Choroid Membi-ane of a Horse, with its veins similarly injected. 25. 24 1020. The Eyelids and Hardei'ian Gland of a Stag. Bristles are passed into the lacrymal canals and the ducts of the lacrymal gland. 25. 44 1021. The Eyelids of an Ass. The lacrymal canals and nasal duct are filled with mercury. 25. 45 1022. The Eyeball of an Ox, prepared to show the firm and definite sheath of the optic nerve. The sheath blends with the sclerotic coat of the eyeball. 25. 48 1023. The Sclerotic and Cornea of an Ox, showing the greatly increased thick- ness of the former at the back around the entrance of the optic nerve. 25. 49 1024. The Eyeball of an Ox. The conjunctiva has been detached from the globe except immediately ai-ouud the cornea, where it is very firmly attached. 25. 50 1025. Section through the Eyeball of a Sheep, dividing the optic nerve. The nerve becomes narrowed as it enters the sclerotic. The lamina cribrosa is also seen. 25. 51