26 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE OSSEOUS AND MUSCULAR SYSTEMS. dorsal region, corresponding to the absence of tlie right half of the third dorsal vertebra, and a longer and slighter compensatory curve in tlie lower dorsal region. Four and a half of the dorsal vertebrse are missing. Of the two lowest cervical vertebrae which are preserved, the upper is fairly normal, except that the spinal canal is narrowed in its right half, and the left side of the vertebra anchylosed to an irregular process of bone springing from the scapala. The anterior part of the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra is prolonged into a cervical rib, which is united to the first true rib close to its tubercle. The dorsal vertebrae present appear to correspond to the first, second, half the third, fourth, seventh, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth. Of these the following peculiarities may be noted. The first is anchylosed to the superjacent last cervical vertebra. The left half of the body of the second is anchylosed to what appears to be the left half of the body of the third, this again being fused with the left half of the body of the fourth. The four remaining dorsal vertebras are normal. The intercostal spaces are very wide, and the ribs are deficient in number. On the right side there are seven: four true, one false, and two floating ; the second and third of these are fixed posteriorly into a solid mass of bone attached to the first, second, and fourth vertebrse. The remaining ribs are normal, the last two evidently corresponding to the eleventh and twelfth respectively. On the left side there are eight ribs, five true, two false, and one floating. The first two are fused together at their angles, but separated elsewhere. The two next are united from their heads to their tubercles, and are ai'ticulated with the second, the left half of the third, and the fourth vertebrae. The remaining ribs are natural. The sternum is placed obliquely, the sternal notch looking upwards and to the right; its upper end is only three quarters of an inch from the spine, its lower end three inches. The cavity of the thorax is diminished in all its diameters, especially in the antero-posterior; the capacity of the right side being also less than that of the left. The left scapula is much deformed. There is a broad bridge of bone extending from the middle third of the posterior border of the scapula back- wards and upwards to the lamina and spinous process of the sixth cervical vertebra. The transverse axis of the scapula is elongated, whilst the vertical is shortened, and the bone so rotated fQrward that the glenoid cavity looks nearly directly forwards, the plane of it being nearly an inch in front of the left sterno-clavicular articulation. The upper border and spine, instead of being directed nearly horizontally outAvards from the bone, slope downwards and forwards as well. The left clavicle is directed upwards, forwards, and outwards, and presents only a single posterior curve throughout its entire length. The woman from -wliom tliis sppcimen was taken was of average heiglit, and whilst uncovered did not present any noticeable deformity. Owing to tlie extreme wideness of the intercostal spaces the impulse of the heart's apex was much diffused. She died of morbus cordis. Casts are preserved, vol. ii, No. 67. For other instances of deficiencies in the vertebra?, see Nos. 34-73 and 3474. See account by Mr. Willett and Mr. Walsham in vol. Ixiii, p. 257, of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society's Transactions. 3524. A small plate of Bone, which connected the upper and inner border of the left Scapula to the Spines of the upper Dorsal Vertebrae. The edge con- nected with the scapula is cartilaginous. This abnormal condition appears to be due to an overgrowth of part of the epiphysis from which the posterior border of the scapula is developed. A. 2(39 The specimen was successfully removed from a child, a cast of whose trunk is preserved, vol. ii, No. «8. See description of case by Mr. Willett and Mr. Walsham in the Transact ion-': of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society, vol. Ixvi, p. 140.