49 ABNORMAL CONDITIOXS OF THE GENERATIVE ORGANS. (b.) In the Female. utertts ttnicorpoeetrs septus. 3672. A Uterus, from a middle-aged Woman. Its cavity, from its fnndus to the upper part of its cervix, is divided into two parts hj a thick median partition. Bach division of the cavity communicates with its corresponding Fallopian tube. On the exterior of the uterus only a slight depression in the middle of its upper surface marks the interior division. A. 169 UTEETJS XTNICORPOREUS SEPTTTS ET VAGINA DTTPLEX. 3673. A Uterus and Vagina. The uterus, externally single, is divided into two parts by a septum, which extends into the vagina, and nearly reaches the pudenda. Each uterine cavity communicates with a Fallopian tube, but that to the right of the septum is considerably the larger of the two. Presented by W. J. Walsham, Esq. UTERTTS UNICORNIS DEXTER. 3674. Portion of a Uterus whose fundus at the entrance of the right Fallopian tube is enlarged upwards so as to resemble in part the form of uterus met with in the sheep and similar animals; the name of " Unicorn uterus" has been given to this malformation. The left kidney was absent. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. ATRESIA OF OS UTERI. 3675. Section of a Female Pelvis and of the structures contained therein. The uterus is seen lying between the bladder and the rectum, its muscular wall greatly hypertrophied. A shallow fissure indicates the cavity which it con- tained. The uterus terminates below in a vagina which scarcely exceeds an inch in length. A director is passed along a groove marking the course pursued by a trochar in puncturing, during life, the uterine wall, which was here prominent and bulging from the distension of its cavity with retained menstrual discharge. No natural outlet existed for the escape of the contents of the uterus. A. 186 The patient, aged 19 years, died ten days after the operation from an attack of acute peritonitis. The other half of the pelvis is in the Museum of the Eoyal College of Surgeons. ABSENCE OF UTERUS. 3676. The Internal Genital Organs of a Woman in whom no uterus existed. The ovaries are perfect and marked with cicatrices. Only one Fallopian tube exists, and this is not pervious in its whole length. The vagina terminates in a cul-de-sac. A. 168. a The patient was 45 years old, and died with apoplexy. She had been married twenty years ; but her hymen, which had a circular aperture, remained entire. The sexual peculiarities of other parts than the uterus and tubes appeared in no respect wanting; and she had been "regular" within a month or two of her death. Presented by W. F. Barlow, Esq.