BOTANICAL SPECIMENS. 230 Valeriana officinalis, L. {Lesser Valerian.) Root. Note.—This root somewhat resembles serpentary root, but may be distinguished by its odour and by the rootlets being larger and less brittle. For fig. see Goebel und Kunze, pt. ii, taf. xxxvi, fig 1. For micr. section, see Berg., Anaf. Atlas, taf. xvi, fig. 41. Valeriana Phu is known as the greater valerian. [C. P. S.J COffltPOSIT-ffi. Helichrtsum, sp, Gcertn. (Everlastings.) Note.—These are the flower heads of several species of this and other genera from South Africa and Australia. The heads of H. orientate, from South Europe, are largely used for immor- telles. Olis., the bracts of the involucre being coloured and scarious are persistent, and give the characteristic feature. For details of the structui-e of Compositae, see Floral Dissections, pi. t, p. 9. Inula Helenium, L. (Elecampane.) Root. Note.—This root has a peculiar violet-like odour, by which it may readily be distinguished. It is official in the secondary list of the U. S. Pharm. It is an aromatic tonic. In tliis country it is used chiefly as an ingredient in Diapente and other vetermary powders. Inulin replaces starch in the root of this plant and other Compositae. [C. P. S.] Helianthus annuus, L. (Sunflower.) Fruit. Note.—The seeds yield oil. The pith contains nitrate of potash. The oil has also been used to make a kind of soap, called Sunflower t'oap. [C. P. S.j Anthemis nobilis, L. (Roman Chamomile.) Flowerheads. (Single Chamomiles.) Ditto. (Double Chamomiles.) Note.—The single chamomiles of commerce are always more or less double, but that may be recognised by the florets being narrower than those of the wholly double vai-iety. The true single or wild chamomiles are known in commerce as Scotch chamomiles. German chamomiles are the flowerheads of Matricaria Chamomilla, L.; they are distinguished from true chamo- miles by having a hollow conical receptacle and no p dese. The flowerins stem of chamomile bears only one flower ; that of Matricaria Chamomilla bears several. The doulde flowers of Pyrethrum Partlienium, Smith, are very like those of the chamomile, but may be distinguished by having a nearly flat receptacle. See P. J. [2], vol. i, p. 447, for fig., etc. For fig. of plant, see Bentley aud Trimen, Med. Plants, tab. 154, 155. [C. P. S ] Matricaria Chamomilla, L. (Wild Chamomile.) Flowerheads. Note.—This plant is used in Germany as the commercial plant, while Anthemis nobilis is the British drug. It is abundant in all waste places about London and elsewhere, the true chamo- mile being much less common. M. GLABBATA.—This species is used in South Africa. Arnica Montana, L. Rhizome. Note.—Arnica "root" may be distinguished from seqientary and spigelia roots, &c., by having the rootlets attached only on the under side, and rather distant from each other ; also by its peculiar odour. It has been found to be adulterated largely with the root of Geum urbaiium, or avens root, which may bo distinguished by its pale purple mcditidlium, by the rootlets proceeding from all sides of the root, and by its astringent, not acid, taste. See Bentley and Trimen, Med. Plants, tab. 158. [C. P. S.j CiCHORUM Intybus, L. (ChicOTIJ.) Root, nnroasted. Root, roasted, ground. Note.—Chicory may bo detected by its readily colouring cold water, and sinking speedily in it. Under the microscope chicory is known by the numerous pitted and spiral vessels of its tissue, and collce by the absence of these vessels, and the peculiar obliquely marked elongated cells found in its outer coat. For fig. of these see Lancet, January Gth, 1S51, p. 22, fig. 3. For fig. of plant, seo Bentley and Trimen, Med. Plants, tab. 114. [C. P. S.]