BOTANICAL SPECIMENS. 239 aristolochiace^. Aeistolochia sekpentaeia, L. Root. (Virginian Snaheroot.) Note.—This root somewhat resembles in appearance Valerian and Indian pink roots, but may be distinguished from both by its odour and the brittleness of its rootlets. For fig. of plant, see Bentley and Trimen, Med. Plants, tab. 264. Aristolochia, SP., L. Flower (section). iV^oite.—Floral formula, { (3). 0. [6. {G)r_} See Floral Diss., p. 13, pi. vii, Iv. PIPEKACE^. Aetanthe elonqata, Miq.; Piper angustifolium, B. et P. Leaves. (Matico.) Note.—A native of moist forest-land of tropical America. The leaves are from two to eight inches long, veined and tessellated on the upper surface, downy beneath, with an aromatic slightly astringent warm taste, and an agreeable aromatic odour. The term matico is applied to several plants in diiferent parts of South America. A. adunca is distinguished by the leaves not being strongly reticulated, and nearly glabrous beneath. [C. P. S.] Maceopipee (Piper) methtsticum, Forst. (Kava-Jcava.) Root. Note.—The root is called Kava-kava by the Polynesians. It has narcotic properties. They prepare an intoxicating drink by chewing the root, which is first steeped in water, and then allowed to ferment. MONIMIACE^. Peumus Boldus, Mol. (Boldo.) Leaves. Note.—For uses, &c., Bee Christy. liAITEACE^. Peesea gratis sima, Gaertn. f. Frnit. (Avocado, or Alligator Pear.) Note.—This fruit is eaten in the West Indies. The seeds yield an indelible black stain, and are used for marking linen, Oassttha filifoemis, L. Brandies. Note.—This is a parasitic leafless plant, found twisting round the branches of trees in most parts of the peninsula of India. It is put as a seasoning into butter-milk, and is much used by the Brahmins in South India. The whole plant pulverised and mixed with dry ginger and butter is used in the cleaning of inveterate ulcers. Mixed with gingely oU it is employed in strengthening the roots of the hair. The juice of the plant mixed with sugar ia occasionally apphed to inflamed eyes. (Drury, &c.) Laueus nobilis, L. (Sweet Bay, True Bay, or Noble Laurel.) Fruit. (Bay Berries.) Concrete oil. (OiZ o/i?a?/s), and distilled oil. Note.—The leaves possess tonic and febrifuge properties. See P. J. [3], vol. iii, p. 448. The fruit somewhat resembles Cocculus indicus in appearance, but is perfectly oval, and con- tains two loose cotyledons. The bayberry powder, which appears in the eclectic recipes for " composition powder," is not the powder of these berries, but of the root-bark of Myrica cerifera, which is known in North America under the name of bayberry. The common or cherry lam-el of the gardens is Prunus Lauro-Cerasus. The leaves may be distinguished from those of the true laurel by the difference in odour when bruised, and by the garden laurel having serrate leaves, while those of the bay laurel are entire and undulate. The leaves in which Solazzi juice is packed are those of bay laurel. [C. P. S.]