8- ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE AXIS, All the cranial bones are closely joined by sutures. The frontal bones, completely united at their anterior part, and thence projecting, bear at their extremity the long- and deformed nasal bones, on which depends the proboscis- like form of the snout. A. 146 3433. A Male " Cyclopian " Foetus, in which, through absence of the ethmoid bone, both eyes are placed in one orbital cavity, and are mutually compressed. The optic nerves have a common optic foramen. The eyelids also are united so as to form a single wide aperture; there is no external appearance of a nose. The month is small and contracted. A. 143 The naso-frontal process by its absence indicates a yet higher stage in the lack of develop- ment, and shows that not only the ethmoid (as in the preceding specimens) is wanting, but also probably the vomer, nasal, and part of the frontal bones. 3434. A similarly malformed " Cyclopian" Kitten, in which a yet further arrest of development has taken place : the mandible being absent, and the ears approximated just above the hyoid bone. • A. 143a 3435. An Acephalous Human Monster. There is no trace of any attempt at the formation of a head or upper extremities. The lower extremities are large and malformed, and a small portion of intestine may be seen in the abdominal cavity. a. 244 Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. SUB-CLASS IT.—IMPERFECT DEVELOPMENT OF THE BRAIN AND ITS MEMBRANES, WITH OR WITHOUT CORRESPONDING DEFORMITY OF THE CRANIUM. 3436. Part of a Cerebral Dura Mater, deficient in the anterior half of the falx. A. 125 3437. A similar specimen. A. 126 3438. Part of the anterior Lobes of a Cerebrum. The right Olfactory nerve, spread out and flattened, projects slightly on the surface of the brain, lying by the side of the groove which it should have occupied. Its extremity is narrowed and tapering, and contrasts with that of the left nerve, which retains its natural appearance and position. A. 185 From the body of a man who died with valvular disease of the heart. The brain was in other respects natural, nor did any symptoms exist during life to indicate malformation of either of the olfactory nerves. 3439. A Brain, in which the corpus callosum and foi-nix are imperfectly formed. In place of the corpus callosum is a transverse band, or commissure, measuring only an inch and a quarter from its anterior to its posterior margin. In this band the anterior margin, or knee, of the corpus callosum appears well formed, but is partially separated by a tissui-e from the rest of the substance. This remaining substance, representing the body of the corpus callosum, is a very thin layer consisting of transverse and oblique fasciculi of nerve-fibres, which are traced outwards and backwards into the substance of the hemispheres. The posterior margin of the corpus callosum thus imperfectly formed cor- responds yvith the front of the optic thalami, leaving the remainder of those bodies, the corpora quadrigemina, the pineal gland, and the posterior and middle commissures, covered by the velum alone. Of the septum lucidum no trace exists, and of the fornix only the lateral portions. The rest of the brain ap2)cars well formed. A. 139 The brain was taki'n from a girl twenty-one years old, who presented an ordinary condition of mind. The case is related, and the brain more minutely described, by Mr. I'aget in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xxix, p. 54.