148 SERIES XXVII. THE EAE, AND OTHER ORGANS APPERTAININa TO THE SENSE OF HEARING. 1036. The principal parts of the Organ of Hearing, from a human Fa3tns. Proceeding from leit to right are shown:— 1. The auricle, concha, or external ear. 2. The meatus auditorius externus laid open from the front. 3. At the end of the meatus, the membrana tympani, placed obliquely, and closing externally the cavity of the tympanum. 4. The cavity of the tympanum, exposed by the removal of its upper and anterior walls. 5. Within the cavity, the series or chain of the bones of the internal ear, or ossicula auditus, namely, the malleus, with its handle attached to the inner surface of the membi-ana tympani, and its processus gracilis directed forwards towards the fissui-a Glaseri; the incus, articulating with the malleus, and having one process directed backwards to the mastoid cells, and another backwards and inwards to articulate with the orbicular portion of the stapes, the base of which is attached to the membrane of the foramen ovale. The base of the stapes is here raised so as to show the foramen ovale opening from the cavity of the tympanum into that of the vestibule. 6. The cavity of the vestibule; above and behind which are (7) the three semicircular canals, while in front of and rather below it, is (8) the cochlea. 26.1 1037. The fibrous Cartilage of an external Ear. 26. 2 1038. Section of a Right Ear, in which are shown the meatus auditorius externus, the membrane and cavity of the tympanum, parts of the vestibule and semicircular canals, together with parts of the carotid canal through the petrous bone, and of the mastoid cells, in which bristles are placed. The lining of the meatus auditorius externus, immediately before its entrance into the bone, is perforated with numerous orifices of the ducts of ceruminous glands. 26. 3 1039. Section of a Left Ear, displaying, besides the parts shown in the last specimen, the Eustachian tube, which is laid open from the front, and is marked by a bristle passed into it from the cavity of the tympanum. 26. 4 1040. A similar section of a Right Ear. A bristle is passed beneath the chorda tympani nerve, as it proceeds across the handle of the malleus and the membrana tympani. 26. 5 1041. The Auditory and Facial Nerves (portio mollis and portio dura of the seventh pair of cei'ebral nerves) in the internal auditory passage. A bristle is passed under filaments passinar from the trunk of one nerve to that of the other. ^ 23.6