80 OSTEOLOGY OF ANIMALS. lateral fin-rays. These fin-rays, upwards of a hundred in number on each side, extend along the lateral margin of the fish, and are closely connected with the coraco-scapular arch, which forms a kind of girdle suspended from the spines of the anterior abdominal vertebrae and extending round the fore part of tlie body. The coracoid and scapula expand at their outer extremities, and are connected at three points, to each of which is attached a cartilage on which are set the fin-rays. The anterior cartilage is connected with that of the rostrum ; the posterior, with the ventral fin. In the vential fin the rays are not attached directly to the extremities of the pubic arch, but on each side to two inter- mediate cartilages, which may represent a tarsus. 28. 321 334. Skeleton of an Eel (Anguilla). Tlie proportionally large number of vertebrae; their low neural spines; their generally small size, and their distinctness, even in the tail, may be observed. Ventral fins are absent, as in the apodal fish generally. The feebly developed scapular arch is loosely suspended behind the opercular bones. 28. 326a 335. Skeleton of a Pike (Esox Lucius). 28. 333 336. A similar, but much larger specimen. Presented by Dr. Andrew. CLASS II.—AMPHIBIA. 337. Skeleton of a Jersey Toad (Bufo vulgaris). In this and the three following specimens, the chief characters of the Tail-less or Anourous Batrachia may be observed, including (1) the double articular condyles of the imperfectly ossified occipital bone; (2) the lateral occipital bones, or exoccipitals, ascending and converging so as to leave a wide open space between them and the atlas; (3) the para-sphenoid bone large and cruciform; (4) the position of the greater wings of the sphenoid filled by membrane ; (5) the inferior wings, or pterygoid bones, having each one process dii-ected outwards, and united with the supra- maxillary, palatal, and nasal bones, and another lanited with the tympanic bone; (6) frontal bones absent or anchylosed with the parietal; (7) superior maxillary and inter-maxillary bones large and widely arched ; (8) the vertebrte of the trunk very few—in this species only eight; (9) a single sacral vertebra with very broad transverse processes ; (10) the coccygeal style ; (11) ribs not present; (12) sternum short and expanded posteriorly, or in two pieces, articulating respectively with the precoracoids and coracoids; (13) the place of scapula occupied by two bones, supra-scapula and scapula, of which the last, with the coracoid, forms the cavity for articulation with the humerus; (14) ilia very long and narrow, coalescing posteriorly with the small ischiatic and pubic bones, and forming with them a thin disk perforated by the acetabula; (15) the radius and ulna, and the tibia and fibula, united, but presenting grooves marking their division ; (16) os calcis and astragalus long, and almost parallel ; (17) phalanges elongated and numerous. 28. 304 338. Skeleton of a Bull Frog (Rana Mugiens). 28. 348 339. Skeleton of Common Frog.