THE HEART. 127 798. Portion of an Aorta, with its semilunar valves closed. Parts of their surfaces, as ^vell as their free borders, are in contact. 17. 12 799. Portions of Aorta and Pulmonary Artery. The semilunar valves of the aorta are closed as in the preceding specimen ; those of the pulmonary artery are open. 17. 13 800. A Heart, with the coronary arteries and veins injected and dried. 17. 14 801. A Human Heart dissected to show the valves. 17. 23 802. The Tricuspid Valve from a Human Heart. 17. 24 803. The Ventricles of a Human Heart after prolonged boiling. The auricles and vessels were easily detached without dividing any muscular fibres. The anterior cusp of the mitral valve having been removed, the aortic aperture is shown to be continuous with the left auriculo-ventricular : no muscular tissue of the ventricle intervening. The pericardium having been removed, the direction of the superficial fibres of the ventricles is seen. 17. 25 804. The left Ventricle of a Human Heart, with the commencement of the aorta and the lower portion of the left auricle. A vertical section has been made through the posterior wall of the ventricle to show the attachment of the posterior cusp of the mitral valve, and the relation of the anterior cusp of the mitral valve to the posterior wall of the aorta, 17. 26 805. The commencement of the Aorta laid open with the anterior cusp of the mitral valve. The section has been carried through the anterior aortic valve, a portion of which adjacent to the vessel is seen passing over and resting upon the upper border of the left ventricle. Below the semilunar valves the ventricular surface of the anterior cusp of the mitral valve is seen. 17. 27 806. The base of the Ventricles dissected to show the origin of the fibres from the tendinous rings in the auriculo-ventricular orifices. 17. 38 807. Heart of a small Sea-angler (Lophius Piscatorius). The auricle is very thin-walled, and opens into the middle of the posterior part of the cavity of the ventricle, the aperture being guarded by two semilunar valves. Two similar valves are placed between the ventricle and the bulbus arteriosus. The interior surface of the bulbus arteriosus presents numerous longitudinal ridges, raised by bundles of muscular fibres, very like the " musculi pectinati " of a human right auricle. 17. 22 808. The Heart and Aorta of a Shark. The cavity of the single venti-icle is laid open, and the section is continued through the bulbus arteriosus, so as to show its strong muscular walls and its three rows of semilunar valves. The edges of the valves of the lower rows are connected with the valves above tbem by tendinous cords; those of the upper row are free. Immediately behind the aorta is the large single auricle. 17. 21 809. Heart of a Pike (Esox Lucius). 810. Heart of a young Crocodile (Crocodilus Acutus). The septum between the ventricles is incomplete at its base. 17. 34 811. The Heart of a Boa Constrictor (Python Sebee), eight feet long. 17. 35