165 ORGANS OF GENERATION IN THE FEMALE. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 1224. A Uterus, with the Foetus and its Membranes, at about the sixth month of gestation. A portion of the posterior wall of the uterus being removed, the uterine surface of the placenta is exposed. The head of the foetus is upper- most. 33. 4 1225. A Foetus expelled at th.e seventh month with the amnion entire (i.e., in a caul). Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 1226. A Uterus, with the foetus in the normal position, at about the seventh month of gestation. The greater part of the uterine surface of the placenta is shown. 33. 5 1227. A Uterus in advanced pregnancy. Its posterior wall is laid open to show the foetus contained in the membranes. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 1228. The Uterus distended in pregnancy at the ninth, month. 33. 51 Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 1229. A similar specimen of a pregnant uterus at the end of the ninth month. 33. 6 1230. Section of a Uterus at full term witb the placenta adhei'ent. The uterine sinuses are well shown. The woman died in difficult labour three hours after decapitation of the foetus. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 1231. An Impregnated Uterus, dried after the injection of its principal arteries, whose extremely tortuous course is thus shown; the " puerperal" artery maybe seen running along the lateral margins of the organ. 33. 12 1232. An Impregnated Uterus inverted, and showing the arrangement of some of its interior muscular fibres; especially of those that form cii'cles around the entrances of the Fallopian tubes. 33. 7 Presented by Dr. Conquest. 1233. The Cervix Uteri, in the eighth month of pregnancy. Taken from a woman who died of typhus in the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, and on whom Caesarian section was performed immediately after death. The child lived five hours. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 1234. A section of the wall of a parturient Uterus from the Vagina to the Fundus, showing the difference in the thickness between the cervix and the body. The black piece of whalebone is placed at the internal os uteri, opposite the large circular sinus. Taken from a woman who died of haemorrhage when the head only of the child was born. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 1235. The Uterus of a Woman who died a few hours after parturition at the full period. Its interior surface is very rough, especially at the part from which the placenta separated. 33. 13 Presented by Dr. Conquest. 1236. Section of a similar specimen. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 1237. Uterus shortly after delivery.