ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE AXIS. 16 arachnoid or cerebro-spinal. In most of the specimens in which the soft parts ha^e been preserved portions of the cord and of the spinal nerves are contained in the sac. A. 130 3485. Spina Bifida with considerable distortion of the Pelvis and Liimbar Spine. The sac, which is of large size, communicates with the arachnoid cavity, and not with the sub-arachnoid space as in the preceding specimens. The arches of the sacral and lower lumbar vertebrse are deficient posteriorly. Below the abortive lamin® of two of the lumbar vertebrae, just above the attachment of the tumour, is a separate portion of bone of a horseshoe shape partly filling the deficiency. The sacrum and coccyx are exceedingly irregular in form; their whole direction is altered, the upper part of the sacrum lying on the left side of the middle line, the coccyx and lower part of the sacrum pointing towards the right side. The right iliac bone is attached to the sacrum and lumbar vertebrse by fibrous tissne. There were not any nerves in the sac. For notes of case during life, see Lucas Ward Boole, vol. iv, p. VO. 3486. The Sac of a Spina Bifida successfully removed from the upper dorsal region by excision. The fluid in this specimen was contained in the arachnoid sac, and not in the sub-arachnoid space. There were no nerves within the sac. A. 202 Presented by Dr. Wilson. The specimen is fullj described in tlie Pathological Transactions for 1863, vol. xiv, p. 214. 3487. The Sac of a Spina Bifida that was excised. The child recovered. A. 220 Presented by J. Wilson, Esq. SPINA BIFIDA WITH SACRAL CYST. 3488. The lower portion of the Spine of a Child. The laminte of the last lumbar and of the sacral vertebrse are deficient, and a considerable protrusion of the spinal membranes has occurred at this spot. The sac thus formed contains the termination of the Spinal Coi'd, which, together with many large nerve roots, is adlierent to the inner surface of the sac; the lining membrane of the latter is stained with iodine. Situated on the posterior surface of the spina bifida is a coccygeal cyst, the walls of which have become partially adherent to each other, so that there was not more than two drachms of fluid in the cavity. A bristle is passed through an opening by which the two cysts communicated, but which was found blocked up by recent adhesions. From a child, aged 8 months, the subject of a larg;e cyst, which was thought to be a spina bifida. On October 11th ten ounces of fluid were removed by a trocar, and half a drachm of " Morton's fluid" was injected. On November 10th the swelling was found much decreased in size; was again tapped and re-injected witli the same solution. On January 1st three ounces of fluid were drawn oiT, and a druchm of " Morton's fluid " injected. The child immediately became very hvid and died comatose in a few hours. It is most probable that in the first two operations the sacral cyst only, and not the spina bifida, was injected.