BOTANICAL SPECIMENS. 243 (Morese.) Maclura tinctoeia, Eyidl. {Young Fustic.) Wood, sawdust of wood. Note.—A large tree, native of W. Indies and tropical America. The wood is used by d3 er?, who obtain from it shades of yellow, brown, olive, and green. " Old Fustic " is the wood of Mhiis Cotinus. (Artocarpese.) Ficus KEPENS, Eoxl. (Oreepivg Fig.) Dimorphic foliage and fruit. Note.—This plant is much used for covering damp walls in hot-houses, over which it creeps, forming a dense mass of foliage. The leaves in this condition are very small. The flowering shoots are much tliicker, and bear larger leaves. A similar dimorphism is in the common ivy. Ficus Stcomorus, L. (Sycomore Fig.) Wood and Egyptian figure. Note.—This is a large tree of Egypt, much grown for the sate of shelter. The head is often forty yards in diameter. The fruit is sweet and delicate, and eaten by the Egyptians. It is supposed to furnish wood for mummy cases, but it is of inferior quahty. It is the Sycamine tree of the New Testament. Aktocaepus incisa, L. (Bread-fruit.) Fruit. Note.—The fruit is a sorosis or aggregate of several separate fruits, like the pineapple. The tissue is roasted before eaten. The best varieties have no seeds. The tree contains a viscid milky juice, used instead of glue, and for caulking the canoes of the South Sea Islanders, with whom the bread-fruit constitutes the principal article of diet. The history of its introduction into the West Indies is associated with the well known incidents of the mutiny of the "Bounty," under Lieutenant Bligh, who was instructed to procure trees for those Islands. Aetocaepus integeifolia, L. (Jack-fruit.) Note.—This is a native of the Indian Archipelago. It is cultivated in Southern India and al) the warmer parts of Asia. Both the fruit and the roasted seeds are favourite articles of food. The timber makes good furnitm-e. MYRICACE..ffi. Mteica cerifeea, L. (Virginia Candleberry, Wax Myrtle, Waxherry, Bayherry.) Wax. Note.—The powder of the root bark forms a principal ingredient in the favourite powder of the medical botanists or Eclectics of America, viz., composition powder. It is used as a stimulant and astringent for the mucous membrane when in an atonic state. Its powder is excessively irritating to the nostrils, exciting coughing and sneezing, but only for a short time. The wax is used in making ointments. [C. P. S.] CtrPTTLIFERiE. QUERCUS ^GILOPS, L. Acorn cups. Note.—The cupules are used in commerce for tanning, under the name of " Valonia." QuERCUS RoBUR, L.; QuERCUS PEDUNCULATA, Willd. (The Common OaJi.) Fruit, Bark. Note.—Oak bark is somewhat similar in appearance to large specimens of the bark of Ehamnus Frangula ; the latter, however, may be distinguished by its bright reddish colour when the surfuce is scraped. Quercus pedunculata may be easily distinguished from Q. sessiliflora by its elongated pedicels and sessile leaves, those of Q. scssilifiora being much abreviated, but accompanied by leaves with petioles. [C. P. S.] For fig., fee Gocbel and Kunze, pt. i, taf. xsii, figs. 1-4. R 2