231 BOTANICAL SPECIMENS. AsPiLiA LATiFOLiA. Oliv. and Hiern. (Hcemorrhage plant.) Note.—Used in West Africa to stop bleeding both from veins and arteries, by Dr. Eoberls, late President of Liberia. This remarkable drug has not yet been used in this country. Veenonia anthelmintica, Willd. (Purple Flea-hane.) Note.—The seeds are very bitter, and are considered powerfully anthelmintic and diuretic. An infusion is given for coughs, and in cases of flatulency, &c. Drury, Useful Plants of India, s.v. Carthamus tinctorius, L. Florets. (Safflower, Bastard Saffron.) Ditto. (Cake Saffron.) Fruit. Note.—Cake saffron is made of the florets pressed together with mucilage. Carthamus florets may be known from saffron by having syngenesious anthers, and by consisting of corollas, not of styles and stigmas only (of the Crocus). Pink saucers are coloured by this drug, and with powdered talc it constitutes a rouge. C AMP ANUIi ACE^. Campanula latifolia, L. Flowers (sections). Note.—Floral formula, { (5). (5). 5. (3.) }• The flower is protandrous, the pollen grains being caught by the " retractile " hairs on the style before the stigmas are mature. The broad bases of the filament.s form a dome-like chamber, protecting the honey from " unwelcome guests." (Kerner.) Lobelia inflata, L. Herb. iV^o^e.-Floral formula, { (5). [(5). (5a).] (2) }. The herb, and more especially the seeds, of Lobelia inflata are largely used by the Eclectics in America and by herbalists in this country as an emetic and expectorant. The flat capsules readily distinguish it from other drugs similar in appearance. (Bentley and Redwood.) Caustic alkaUes decompose Lobelina. (Bentley and Trimen.) [C. P. S.] Arctostaphylos Uva-Ursi, Spreng. (Bearherry, Upland Cranberry.) Leaves. Note.—The leaves of Vaccinium Vitis Idsea are sometimes mixed with Bearberry leaves, but are distinguished by having crenated revolute margins and by being dotted underneath. Bear- berry leaves are obovate ; box leaves are oval, and have the eijidermis loose and separable on the underside of the leaf. [C. P. S.] Gaultheria procumbens, L. (Wintergreen, Partridge Berry, Checkerherry, Deer- herry, Teaberry, Mountain Tea.) Leaves. Note.—The leaves are used as an astringent in mucous discharges. The volatile oil is remarkable for being a natural salicylate of methyl. The same compound occurs in the bark of Betula lenta, L., and the leaves, &c., of Andromeda Leschenaultii. In American commerce the od has been found adulterated with chloroform and oil of sassafras. For fig. of plant, see Bentley and Trimen, Med. Plants, tab. 164. [C. P. S.] Chimaphila umbellata, Pur.fli.; Chimaphila cortmbosa, Pursli. (Pipsissewa, Wintergreen, Prince's Pine, Ground Holly.) Leaves and shoots. Note.—The leaves were official in the Ph. L. of 1836 and 1851, and are still ofI!cial in the United States Pharmacopoeia. They possess diuretic and tonic j roperties. Sec L'entlov and Trimen, Med. Plants, tab. 165. [C. P. S.]