47 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE URINARY ORGANS, See Sitwell Ward Boole, vol. iv, p. 73. and its widtli three inclies at the largest transverse diameter. The structure of the organ appeared healthy, but the capsule was adherent in several places. The liver was fatty, and weighed 4 lbs.; the spleen, large and pale, bat not waxy, weighed 10| ounces. From a woman, aged 38 years, who died of pulmonary phthisis. 3665, A very large Kidney, weighing 13| ounces. Removed from a man who died of morbus cordis. The other kidney was absent, a small mass of connective-tissue and fat being in its place. A microscopical examination showed that the enlarged kidney is the seat of chronic nephritis. CLASS v.—ARTIEST OF DEVELOPMENT. (A.) OF THE KIDNEY. 3666. A Structure removed from the position usually occupied by the right kidney. It consists chiefly of a plexus of veins and arteries. It terminates below in two blind pouches, resembling ordinary calices. Three principal arteries pass upwards towards the aorta; two of them unite, being slightly dilated at the point of junction, but the third is continued to the supra-renal, of which it is a branch. The renal artery of the right side is absent. The left kidney was hypertrophied, weighing 9 ounces 4 drachms. The sapra-renal capsules were natural in appearance. A. 187 From the body of a man who died after amputation at the thigh. (B.) OE THE BLADDER, EXTROVERSION OF THE BLADDER, 3667. The Pehds of a Female Infant, with the Kidneys, exhibiting an extrover- sion of the Urinary Bladder. A small piece of glass rod is inserted into the mouth of each ureter. At a point corresponding to the orifice of the urethra are two duct-like apertures leading into a normal vagina, posterior to which a piece of blue glass is placed in a cul-de-sac, which corresponds to the normal vaginal orifice; the uterus and ovaries are natural. The posterior wall of the bladder and the openings of the ureters are bulged forwards; the kidneys are normal. During life the rectum was prolapsed. The dissection of the specimen is described by Dr. Champneys in vol. xiii of St. Bartholomew's Sospital Reports. Drawings of the case are preserved, No. 15. Presented by Dr. Champneys. 3668. The Pelvis of a Male Child, aged 18 months, exhibiting an extroversion of the bladder for which an operation was performed some weeks before death, but with- out success. The line of incision still remains, and the portion of integument raised up on the left side of the bladder may be seen, though much contracted. Two black rods are placed in the ureters, two bristles in the vasa deferentia, and the third bristle in the sinus pocularis. There is no symphysis pubis, the two pubic bones being separated by an interval of one inch and a half, and the recti muscles diverging on each side of the extroverted bladder. The innomi- nate bones themselves are normally developed, but the articvilations of the ilia with the sacrum are at a more obtuse angle than usual. The testes, which were normal, have been removed, and the vesiculse seminales are of natural size.