9 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE AXIS. 3440. Brain of a Girl twenty-two years old, who from birth was completely idiotic. It is of extremely small size, measuring only four inches in its greatest length, three and a half inches in its greatest width, and three and a quarter in its greatest depth. But, with this smallness, it observes the usual propor- tions in its several parts; its growth alone seems to be defective. Its convo- lutions are few, but of the normal width. A. 121 3441. The Skull of the same Idiot Girl. The form and size of its cranial portion exactly correspond with those of the brain; its facial portion is com- paratively large and well formed, yet is below the average size. a. 122 3442. Brain of a Man twenty-one years old, idiotic from birth. In its total size it is rather less than that last described. Its weight, in the recent state, was 13oz. 2dr. avoirdupois. It is however distinguished from the brain described in No. 3440 by the imperfect development, as well as imperfect growth, of the cerebrum, which is small in comparison with the cerebellum, and of which the posterior lobes are so diminutive that they do not cover more than the anterior third of the cerebellum. A. 123 3443. The Skull of the same Idiot. It cranial portion exactly corresponds with the brain in size and form ; its facial portion is of average dimensions. It has been described as— " The cranium of a human Idiot, in whom nature may be said to have performed for us the experiment of arresting the development of the brain, almost exactly at the size which it attains in the Chimpanzee, and where the intellectual faculties were scarcely more developed. Yet no anatomist would hesitate in at once referring this cranium to the human species. " A detailed comparison with the cranium of the Chimpanzee or Orang, shows that all those characters are retained in the Idiot's skull which constitute the differential features of the human structure. " The cranial cavity extends downwards below the level of the glenoid articulatory surfaces. The nasal bones are two in number, and prominent. The jaws and teeth exhibit the bimanous characters as strongly as in the most elevated of the human race. The cuspidati do not project beyond tlie contiguous teeth ; and consequently there are no interruptions in the dental series, as in the Orang's, where they are required to lodge the dispT'oportionate crowns of the canine teeth."—Owen, On the Osteology of the Chimpanzee and Orang-Utan, in the Transactions of the Zoological Societi/, vol. i, p. 343. Plates 57 and 58 are from this skull. A. 124 Models of tlie brains of botli these idiots, and a cast of the head and face of the last described, are preserved. Nos. 52-55. Sub-Class III.—POSTERIOR AXIAL ARREST. 3444. Skeleton of a Foetus in which the left lower extremity and the left half of the pelvis are deficient. The spinal canal is open in tlie lumbar and sacral regions, through defect of the vertebral arches; indeed, tliose of the left side of the sacrum and of the last three lumbar vertebras appear never to have been formed. To the posterior part of the right ilium a series of bones are attached, which may represent rudiments of the ilium, ischium, femur, and tibia that are wanting on the left side. One dorsal vertebra (probably the ninth), together with the corresponding rib on each side, is wanting. The bodies of the two next vertebrae are represented on the right side by two halves, but on the left side by a single half. The last dorsal and the lumbar and sacral vertebi'iB are normal, some of the upper dorsal vertebra; are bilobed. On