100 III.—VERTEBRA, LIMBS, AND LIMB ARCHES. GROUP I. IGHTHYOPSIDA. CLASS L—PISCES. 557. The Body or Centrum of one of the Vertebras of a Shark (Cestracion). It is short, cylindriform, and imperfectly ossified at its circumference, four deep depressions marking the parts at which the chief processes were, in the recent state, connected with the body. The terminal surfaces of the body are hollowed out in cones, and are covered with osseous plates marked with concentric circles. The centre of the body is perforated with a small aperture. 28. 1 558. Longitudinal sections of part of the Vertebral Column of the same Shark. By the mutual apposition of the bodies or centra of the vertebrae, cavities are enclosed of biconical form. Within these cavities, and retained by elastic ligaments uniting the bodies of the vertebras, there was, in the recent state, a clear fluid, the remains of the chorda doi-salis, on and around which the vertebral column was developed. 28. 2 559. Transverse section of the Bodies or Csntra of two Vertebrae of the same Shark. The part of each vertebra which is included between the terminal funnel-shaped plates, consists of osseous triangular laminjB, converging from its circumference to its centre. Four large spaces remain between the laminae, two at the upper and two at the lower part of the vertebrae, which corresponded with the bases of the neurapophyses and parapophyses. 28. .3 560. Section of the Body of a Vertebra of another species of Shark (Galeus). Its general cliaracters are similar to those just described, and it shows similar cavities, which corresponded with the bases of the neurapophyses and para- pophyses. But the substance of the body is composed not of converging lamella, but of an irregular, soft, cancellous tissue. The arrangement of four portions converging to the centre marks the usual mode of ossification of the bodies of the vertebrae of fishes; namely, in two portions corresponding Avith the terminal concave plates, and four portions composing the intermediate substance of the body. 28. 4 561. Portions of the Vertebral Column of a Shark (Carcharias). 28. 322 562. Two Vertebrae of a Turbot (Rhombus maximus). The bodies or centra are thin and round, and their opposed surfaces present conical depressions ; but the depression on one is much deeper and more uniform than on the other surface. From the upper part of each of the centra there extend upwards (or to the left as it wo\ild ajipear in the or<linary position of tin's flat fish) two laminae, or neurapophyses, which converge to enclose the canal for the spinal