ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE AXIS. 11 ribs are normally formed, the sixth articulating with a little nodule (which represents that part of the body of the missing vertebra which is external to the neuro-central suture) placed between similar nodules belonging to the fifth and seventh vertebree. On the left side the nodule corresponding to the sixth half is fused with a similar protrusion from the seventh, and the heads of the sixth and seventh ribs are fused; the laminee of the sixth vertebra are normal. On the left side, in addition, the first and second, and the sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth ribs are more or less fused, the twelfth being also united to the lumbar rib. A. 165 3448. A Siren Foetus. The lower extremities are entirely fused into a conical mass, some three or four inches in length, presenting no trace of differentiation into limbs. There are no genital organs. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 3449. A Foetus in which the inferior extremities appear to be wholly wanting. The wrist-joints are deformed, being flexed so that the thumbs are bent upwards towards the radii. A. 189 Sub-Class IY.—DEFECTIVE CLOSURE OF THE THORACIC AND ABDOMINAL CAVITIES. 3450. A Sternum, presenting a median deficiency of ossification, due to failure of development. 3451. Skeleton of a Male Foetus, with fissure of the sternum. The first two ribs of both sides are united by a single portion of cartilage, with which also the clavicles are connected. The cartilages of the remaining ribs on each side are connected with a single narrow slip of cartilage, representing an ill-formed half sternum. In the right arm a single cylindrical bone has taken the place of radius and ulna; and another, united to it by cartilage, represents alone the bones of the hand. A large aperture existed in the front wall of the abdomen, through which the viscera were protruded with a peritoneal sac. A. 163 Presented by William Taylor, Esq. 3452. Congenital Diaphragmatic Hernia. The intestines occupy the left side of the thorax. The child lived for six weeks. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 3453. A Foetus exhibiting a congenital deficiency of the left half of the dia- phragm. Nearly the entire intestinal canal lies in the thorax. 3454. A Male Foetus, at about the third month. A considerable portion of the intestinal canal is contained in a membranous sac in fi-ont of the umbilicus. The lower part of the vertebral canal is open posteriorly, and the left hand is distorted. A. 14 3455. Portion of small Intestine, about two feet in length, and closely con- voluted, which was protruded through the umbilicus of a child born at the full period. This intestine had no covering of peritoneum or abdominal wall • the umbilicus closely surrounded it, where it was continued into the abdomen. A. 16 The child lived forty hours after birth. See Case-Book, No. 167, p. 142. Presented by S. A. Philbrick, Esq.