AVES. 82 CLASS II.—AVES. Sub-Class I.—RATIT^. 351. Skeleton of an Emen (Casuarius Emeu). The characters of the Ratit^ or " Cursores " illustrated by this and the next two specimens are as follows: (1) The union by suture between the palatine bones and the pterygoid or inferior alte of the sphenoid; (2) in the Ostrich, small lateral articulating surfaces on the atlas, in addition to its central articulating cavity; (3) the very long sacrum; the absence of any appended process or plate on the last caudal vertebra; (5) in this species four anterior pairs of false ribs, i.e., on each side in front of the first rib that is connected with the sternum the next succeeding four pleurapophyses are of much larger size, and more like thoracic ribs than their homologues connected with the cervical vertebras are; (6) the appendages of the ribs small, and united with them by movable articulations ; in this species not present in all the ribs; (7) two pairs of posterior false ribs; (8) the sternum short, broad, concave, and without a keel; (9) the furcula absent, or, as in this species, rudimental; (10) the very small rudimental anterior extremities, wanting, in this species, the carpal bones; (11) in the Ostrich the pubic bones united by symphyses; (12) the extreme development of the hinder extremities. 28. 267 352. The greater part of the Bones of an Ostrich (Struthio camelus). 28. 268 353. Apteryx Australis from New Zealand. Sub-Class II.—CARINAT^. 354. Skeleton of a Silver Pheasant (Phasianus nychthemerus). The following characters common to the Alectoi'omorphop, Pei'isteroniorphfe, Pteroclomorphae, and Turnicimorphfe (formerly included under "Gallinte"), are illustrated by this and the following specimen : (1) The long jugal process from the sphenoid bone, uniting, or nearly uniting, with one from the temporal bone, so as to form a foi'amen or deep notch; (2) the short and thick pterygoid bones; (3) the small intermaxillary bones ; (4) the deeply excavated nasal bones; (5) the small lacrymal bones; (6) the narrow palatine bones; (7) the vomer not distinct; (8) a process directed backwards from each angle of the lower jaw. the angular bone being elongated backwards; (9) the deeply-keeled sternum (especially in the Pigeons), and its very deep lateral or posterior notches; (10) the slender furcula, with, generally, a flat process at its angle; (11) the maxillo-palatines are free, and the vomer is pointed in front. 28. 266 Presented bj Benjamin Barrow, Esq. 355. Skeleton of a tame Pigeon (Columba CEnas). 28. 265 356. Skeleton of a Magpie (Corvus Pica). This and the following specimen may illusti-ate the characters of the skeletons common to the Coracomorphas, CypselomorpliDe, Celeomorphae, and some of the Coccygomorphfe, all formerly included under the " Passeres," namely: (1) The projection of the posterior part of the skull behind the occipital foramen and its general smoothness; (2) the long and slender pterygoid bones; (3) the palatine bones narrow and ■wide apart; (4) a large opening in the posterior part of the lower jaw on each