CARTILAGINOUS AND OSSEOUS TISSUES. 60 These are all symmetrically formed, and placed one above the other across the middle line. 6. 36 This series of specimens, while they display a general uniformity in the process of ossification, show that, in different instances, there is some diversity in the plan according to which it is accomplislied in the sternum. 72. Bones of the Pelvis of a Child aboat 3 years old. Tn the os innominatum it will be seen that the crest of the ilium, the tuberosity of the ischium, the symphysis of the os pubis, and portions of cartilage between each of these bones, remain unossified. In the sacrum, the spinous processes, and portions of cartilage between the bodies of the vertebrae and their transverse processes, and a.t the extremities of the latter, are in the same state. The bone already formed is not completely covered with compact tissue: parts of it, especially on the ilium, present a porous surface with close-set minute apertures and fine short grooves. 6. 37 73. The Femur, Tibia, and Fibula of a Foetus, dissected so as to show that the cartilaginous and partly ossified tissue of their walls may be split into longitudinal fibres. 6. 38 74. The Parietal and Frontal Bones of a Foetus, displaying the arrangement of the first formed bone, in fibres radiating from the centre of ossification, and connected by short transverse and oblique intermediate bands. 6. 39 75. The Parietal Bonos of an older Foetus. The radiating fibres of bone are seen, especially at the edges, projecting in a pectinate manner; the central parts of the bones bave become, in the further progress of ossification, thicker and more compact, but the appearance of radiating fibres may be observed on their surfaces. 6. 40 76. A Foetal Parietal Bone, in which the blood vessels are injected. The principal vessels lie parallel to the radiating osseous fibres. 6. 41 77. Parietal Bones of a Foetus, injected. 6. 50 From the Collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 78. A. series of Frontal Bones showing the development of the sinuses. 6. 48 79. Sections of the Femur of a Foetus 8 months old. The walls and medul- lary tissue of the shaft are ossified and well formed. The epiphyses are entirely cartilaginous ; they include, at the upper end of the bone, the head, nect, and great trochanter; at the lower end, the condyles and the trochlea. 6. 42 80. Section of a Femur of a young Child, the blood vessels of which are injected. In the shaft the vessels appear very numerous and uniformly distributed through the medullary tissue. In the epiphyses, especially in the lower one, vessels are shown running in canals from the circumference towards the centre, but wide apart, so that the colour of the cartilage is scarcely altered by the injection. In the centre of the epiphysis the small portion of boue already formed appears bright red from the abundant supply of vessels ramifying in it. 6. 43 81. Sections of a Femur displaying the same facts. 6. 44 82. Section of the lower part of the Femur of a Child about 10 years old. The ossifying process has extended through the greater part of the epiphysis; and the same contrast is shown between the vascularity of the central portion of bone, and the apparent bloodlessness of the remaining cartilage. 6. 45