ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE DIGESTIVE ORGANS. 43 Soe President Ward Book, vol. ix, p. 234. 3636. A similar specimen. The diverticulum was two feet from the ileo-coecal valve. 3637. Portion of an Ileum, with a diverticulum about two inches and a half in length, the remains of an unoblitei-ated omphalo-mesenteric duct. 3638. A similar specimen, but the diverticulum is shorter. (B.) IMPERFORATE ANTTS. 3639. The Rectum of a Child with imperforate anus. The rectum terminated more than half an inch above the anus, and above this point forms a sac about five inches in length and four inches in diameter. A. 16 Presented by Tliomas Warner, Esq. 3640. The Rectum, Bladder, and other parts from a similar case of malformation. The cutaneous and subcutaneous portions of the anus appear well formed, a conical depression from the perineum, with convei^ging folds of skin and mucous membrane, existing as in the natural state. But the space between this depression and the closed termination of the rectum is tilled with cellular tissue in a layer between one and two lines thick. Directly above this layer the rectum is dilated into a large pouch. A. 17 3641. A similar malformation of the Rectum and Anus. A layer of cellular tissue, nearly an inch in depth, intervenes between the anal depression and the closed end of the intestine. A large ruptui-e of the colon, about four inches from the ctecum, was occasioned by the a.ccumulation of faecal matter. A. 19 Presented by William Radnor, Esq. 3642. A similar malformation, in which the anal depression is well formed, and more than half an inch deep; but between it and the dilated termination of the rectum, an interval of nearly an inch deep is filled with cellular tissue. A bristle is placed in an aperture in the end of the rectum, made with a trochar in an attempt to give passage to the f«ces. A. 20 3643. A similar specimen ; but the trochar passed by the side of the rectum, and did not enter it. A. 21 3844. The Pelvic Viscera of a male Child with a similar malformation. The rectum terminates about one and a half inches above the anus, its extremity being completely covered by peritoneum. The anal cul-de-sac is laid open and a piece of glass is passed within an opening in the peritoneum made by a bistoury in an attempt to open a communication with the rectum. On post mortem examination general peritonitis was found. See Senry Ward Book, vol. ii, p. 291. 3645. The Rectum of a Child with Imperforate Anus. The mucous membrane of the lowest part of the bowel has been peeled up in the form of a cul-de-sac to the extent of about an inch and a half, whilst higher up are small blood extravasations in the submucous tissue. At the place where the separation of the mucous membrane stops is a circular aperture in the wall of the rectum (in which is placed a piece of catheter) communicating with the peritoneal cavity.