78 B-OSTEOLOGY OF ANIMALS. I.—SKELETONS. GROUP I. —♦— ICHTHYOPSDA. CLASS I.—PISCES. 322. Skeleton of a Sea Angler (Lophius Piscatorius). The fish derives its name from the three slender dermal spines which are movably articulated with the supra-occipital and frontal bones, and which, covered with integument, and bearing vascular processes at their ends, serve as bait by which smaller fish are attracted to the neighbourhood of its wide-expanded jaws. The vertebral column is of very simple construction; the abdominal vertebrae have no ribs, and only rudiments of parapophyses. " The bodies of these vertebrig interlock at their lower and lateral part by a short angular process fitting into a notch in the next vertebra; the lower border of this notch represents the parapophysis in other fishes; it is obsolete in the anterior abdominal vertelorae ; begins to appear about the middle ones; shows its true character in the tenth ; and elongates, bending downwards, backwards, and forwards, to coalesce with its fellow, and foi-m the htemal arch, at the twelfth or thirteenth vertebra, from which the haemal spine is developed."—(Owen, Lectures on the Comparative Anatomy and Physioloijy of the Vertebrate Animals, part i, p. 62.) Only three dermal spines are placed above the abdominal vertebrae. The opercular bone is very long and large, and bears a slender fin- ray near its articulation with the epitympanic. Exti-emely long branchiostegal or gill-cover rays also are borne on the kerato-hyal bones, and serve to support a lai'ge pouch-like membrane on each side of the head. In the pectoral fins the two carpal bones are peculiarly long, and in shape resemble a radius and ulna. The coracoid bone is of very large size, and the whole member so strong that it may be used eiiectively in springing upon dry ground. The ventral or pelvic fin is suspended from the coracoid bone: each pelvic bone having a cylindiform stem, representing probably an ilium, and a portion which bends inwards towards a kind of symphysis pubis. The six fin-rays diverge from the angle of junction of the two bones. 28. .313