244 BOTANICAL SPECIMENS. QuERCUS TiNCTORiA, WiUd. {Quercitron, or Black Oak) Inner bark. (Black Oak Bark.) Note.—The bark is known in commerce as quercitron bark, and is used as a yellow dye. It is official in the U. S. Pharmacopoeia, and is used externally as an astringent. White oak bark (Q,. alba) is the kind chiefly used in medicine. Both are official in the TJ. S. Pbar- macopceia. [0. P. S.] QuERCUS SUBER, L. (Cork Oak.) Wood and bark. Note.—Cork is tbe much developed epiplilceum of tliis tree. The younger bark of the tree is known under the name of Eurojjean alcornoque bark, and is used in tanning. American alcornoque bark is Byrsonima laurifolia. [C. P. S.] QUEECUS INFECTORU, Gliv. Galls. Note.—This species is a small shrub about six feet liigh. The galls are produced by the puncture of an insect, Cynips gallcB-tinctoria, and are imported from the Levant. They are largely used for the manufacture of ink, and for ihe preparation of tannic and gallic acids. GYMNOSPERMS. Pmus SYLVESTRis, L. (Scotch Fir.) Cones, Pitch, Oil of Turpentine, Libre-fibre. Note.—Pitch is a bituminous fluid obtained from the roots and branches of this and other species by destructive distillation, the trunks being Xised as timber. It is chiefly prepared in Finland, Sweden, and Northern Russia. (Bentley and Trimen, Med. Plant.^, 257 ; Treasnrx/ of jBotayiy, s. v.) Archangel pitch is also produced by Larix Sibircia, Ledeb. Pitch has been used, made into pills with flour, in skin diseases and languid circulation. (Pereira, Mat. Med., vol. ii, pi. i, p. 324). Pitch is the residue in the still after the distillation of wood tar. [C. P. S.] Oil of turpentine is obtained by distiUiug turpentine vrith water. Rectified oil of turpentine is known as spirits of turpentine. Libre-fibre. This is used, mixed with cotton wool coloured brown, for underclothing. It is sent from the Hartz Mountains, and obtained from the leaves. PiNUS SUCCINIFER. Resin. (Amber.) Note.—This is fossil resin from extinct pine trees, the forests of which were located in the site of the Baltic Sea and North Prussia. It was a sub-tropical period, and the insects, &c., often found in amber are all of extinct species, thougli many of the genera are still living. Abies excelsa, D.C. ; Pinus abies, i. (Norivay Spruce, White Deal.) Cone, Oleoresin, (Burgundy Pitch.) Spruce bark, Essence of Spruce, Oil of Spruce, pure Cellulose. Note.—Most of the Burgundy pitch found in commerce is a fictitious article made by melting resin with linseed oil, and colouring with arnatto or palm oil. The genuine article is much more irritating than the fictitious one. Any fat oil may be detected by treating the Burgundy pitch with twice its wciglit of glacial acetic acid, when it forms a turbid mixture. For tig. of plant, see Bcntlcy and 'J'rinicn, Med. Ptaii/.i, tab 262. From the trunk exiidcs a resin called Frankiuccnce, wliich, wlien melted in water and strained, constitutes Burgundy pitch. Thus is concrete American turpentine; Tluis Americanum, from Pinus Australis, formerly described as from Abies excelsa. [C. P. S.] Pure cellulose is the woody fibre as prepared by the Ekman process for paper. The ]mcc is one-fourth that of Esparto grass.