219 BOTANICAL SPECIMENS. LINACEiE. LiNUM USITATISSIMUM, L. (Flax.) Mummy cloth, seed, (Linseed.) Note.—The mummy clotli of Egypt is invariably of flax, and not of cotton as in Peru. That flax was early cultivated in Egypt we learn from Ex. ix, 31. A flax fibre is cylindrical with tapering ends ; a dark line runs down the centre with occasional transverse Hues, corresponding to the internal cavity. The cell wall is greatly thickened as seen in a transverse section. Linseed. The seeds have a mucilaginous oily taste, bvit no odour. " They contain fixed oil {Oleum Lini), and a peculiar mucilage, which appears to be a product of the transformation of starch." Linseed, with the oil expressed, is called oil-cake; this ground to powder forms Unseed meal. LiNTJii CATHAETicuM, L. (Purging Flax.) Herb. Note.—Formerly oif. in the Ph.i:. and Ph.D., and is still used in country districts as a domestic medicine. It is bitter and cathartic. Erttheoxtlon Coca, Lam. (Coca.) Leaves (dried and in spirits), Coca wine. Note.—The parts used are the leaves, the extract from the green leaves, and the elixirs. The preparations made from the green leaves are much superior to those obtained from the dried leaves as imported. Prep. : Extract from green leaves, eUxirs, tincture, and wine. Doses: Solid extract, 6-12 grains; fluid extract, 20-30 minims; elixir, 1-2 fluid ounces; tincture, 1-2 fluid drachms. Wine is made thus: Coca leaves 30 parts; alcohol (60°) 60 parts; macerate twenty-four hours and add white wine 1,000 parts ; macerate ten hours longer, and then strain. It is used by singers, &c. (Christy, I.e., vi, p. 91.) ZYGOPHYLLACEiE. GUAIACUM OFFICINALE, L. (Ligmini vitce.) Section of stem, polislied (below), sawdust. Note.—Guaiacum shavings are sometimes adulterated with shavings of boxwood. This admixture may be detected by niti-ic acid, chloride of lime, or other oxidising agents, which will colour Guaiacum wood greenish-blue, but not boxwood. Observe the radiating character of the fibres of the wood, with light alburnum and dark duramen, Eor microscopic section of wood, see Berg., Anat. Atlas, taf. 27. GERANIACE-ffi (Oxalidese). AvEREHOA BiLiMBi, L. (Blimling.) Fruit. Note.—Cultivated in India. The fruit is very acid, but very pleasant wlien made into syrup, candied, or pickled. It is a native of the Moluccas. RUTACE^. Ptelea teifoliata, L. (ShnMy Trefoil.) Fruit. Note.—A tree from North America, often grown in our shrubberies. The fruits are winged. In Canada the young green shoots are used as an anthelmintic in the form of an infusion. The fridts are bitter and aromatic, and have been used as a substitute for hops. AlYtPELIDE^. ViTis vinifeea, L. (Fine.) Grapes and grape-sugar. Note.—The specimen is remarkable as being an instance of a bunch of grapes which has sprung from the old wood and low down on main stem. They normally appear on shoots wliich arise from the pi-evious year's growth. Grape-sugar or glucose separates from the juice of the grape in drying, as may be seen in " candied" raisins. The gramdation in honey is from the crystallisation of a part of its glucose. It is about half as sweet as cane-sugar (saccharose) or fruit-sugar (hevulosc).