103 SAUROPSIDA. 567. A Cervical Vertebra from a Crocodile. It may be studied as combining nearly all the characters of a typical vertebra in a simple form. Its body or centrum elongated and cylindriform, is concave at its anterior and convex at its posterior extremity. At each side inferiorly the centrum bears a low process, the inferior transverse process or parapophysis; and superiorly, a similar but smaller process or diapophysis, which articulates with a prominence on the base of the neurapophysis. The neurapophyses or arches articulating with the body or centrum converge to enclose the spinal cord. They bear on the middle of the line of their convergence the spinous process or neural spine, and diverging from the extremities of the same line, the articulating processes or zygapophyses. The proximal portion of the pleurapophysis or rib is bifurcate ; one of its divisions articulates with the diapophysis, the other with the parapophysis; and these several parts, together with the body of the vertebra, enclose an elongated aperture, within which the vertebral vessels lie. The distal portion of the pleurapophysis is prolonged backwards and forwards. In the median line of the inferior surface of the body is a slightly elevated ridge or hypapophysis. 28. 10 568. The Fifth Dorsal Vertebra of a Crocodile. The relations of the centrum, the neurapophyses, the neural spine, and the zygapophyses, may be at once recognized by comparison with those of the cervical vertebra. The diapophysis and parapophysis, or superior and inferior transverse processes, are combined in one broad, flat, and elongated process, bifurcate at its extremity. (In the complete skeleton it may be seen that in the successive dorsal vertebrae the parapophysis is placed more and more near to the superior part of the centrum, till, at the fifth, the small eminence that represents it is transferred to the side of the neurapophysis, and united to the diapophysis). At the end of this compound process are two articulating surfaces, to which are adapted those of the rib or pleurapophysis. The ribs arch downwards and inwards, and at their distal extremities ai'e articulated with hsemapophyses, bones corresponding with the human costal cartilages. The heemapophyses converge, and at their extremities are united to a portion of sternum, forming the hsemal spine of this vertebra. 28. 11 569. A Lumbar Vertebra of the same Crocodile. The pleurapophyses or ribs are not present as bones. The haem apophyses form an inferior osseous arch, composing one of those which have been named abdominal ribs, which are represented by the tendinous linese transversee of the human recti abdominis muscles. 28. 12 570. The Scapula and Coracold Bone of a Turtle. 28. 291 571. The Articulated Bones of the anterior extremity of a Turtle. 28. 292 572. Pelvis of a Turtle. 28. 289 Presented by W. J. Bayntin, Esq. 573. A similar specimen. 28. 290