ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE AXIS. 5: 3416. Haman Female T wins from a woman in the second month of pregnancy united hj a thin band attached to the lower part of the middle line of the thoracic wall and the upper part of the abdomen. The mode of union liere seen is the same as that which existed in the " Siamese twins." Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. 3417. Twin Kittens with fusion of the head and thoracic walls. The larg'er foetus is well formed as far forwards as the occipital region, where the right side of the head becomes united to the left side of the head of the smaller foetus, so that the right ear of the one, and the left of the other are joined. There is scarcely any attempt at the formation of a face, but all the limbs are well formed. The smaller foetus is represented by a well formed, hydrocephalic head fixed as above described, two anterior well^ formed limbs, and two hind legs united in nearly their whole extent; there is scarcely any body, the limbs appearing to grow from the thoracic parietes of the larger foetus. A. 19.5 3418. A Pleuropagous, double-headed (Dicephalus, Dibrachius) human Female Monster, born at the full term of gestation. The heads are well developed. The spinal columns diverge, but are distinct throughout, and there are two well developed sacra, placed side by side. The pelvis is completed by an OS inuominatum of the ordinary size on either side ; there is no trace of a mesial lower extremity. The mesial upper extremity jjroduced a hump at the upper part of the back. There is a large, common thoracic cavity, bounded in front by a single sternum, to which the clavicles and ribs were connected in the usual manner. On tlie posterior wall of tlie cavity the interval between the converging spinal columns is filled in by single rib-like bones, articulated to the vertebra; on either side. The right half of tlie diaphragm is deficient, and the corresponding thoracic cavity contains the right stomach, pancreas, spleen, a portion of the liver, and all the small intestines. Organs of Cireulation.—The hearts are fused. That on the left side is nearly normal, but the development of the right heart has been arrested. Two large systemic veins, corresponding to the superior and inferior vense cavce, empty themselves into an extremely large auricular cavity common to both hearts. The common auricle communicates by an opening, inferior and to the left, with the right ventricle of the left heart; the auriculo-ventricular opening is only provided with one large anterior valve ; otherwise the left lieart is in every particular normal. The left auricle, whicli receives only the blood from the left pair of lungs, is separated from the common auricle by a thin perforated septum. The right heart, attached to the right side of the left, consists solely of a single small ventricle with a muscular tube resembling a hulbus aorta leading from it. The ventricle communicates by a large opening, having only one valve, with the common auricle described above. There is an indication of a ventricular septum in the form of a muscular partition, which projects sliglitly i'orwards from the wall of the ventricular cavity. The ventricle comnmnicates above by two small openings with a muscular tube about half- an-inch long, and about the size of a slate pencil. The openings are of unequal size, jjlaced side by side, and are unprovided with valves. Near the middle of the posterior surface of the tube three parallel folds are seen, which appear to be indications of valves. It will be observed from the above description that the right heart presents an extra- ordinary resemblance to that of the fishes (except amphioxus) ; the single auricle and ventricle, the muscular tubs, which may be considered the analogue of the hulbus aorta:, and further, the indications of additional valves, such as are fomid in the aortic bulbs of ganoid and elasmobranch fishes, render the simulation well nigh complete. Blood Vessels.—The arrangement of the pulmonary artery and of the aorta and its branches is perfectly normal on the left side. On the right side the aorta curves to the right, and, after giving off the two carotids and the right subclavian, passes downwards to join the left aorta, thus forming a common aortic trunk. The ductus arteriosus on the right side is an extremely long slender vessel, wliich is given off from the concavity of the aortic arch nearly opposite to the right carotid. No trace of a left subclavian passing to the mesial upper extremity existed. Respiratory Organs.—There are two pairs of contracted lungs, one on either side of each, spinal column; they were not contained in distinct pleural cavities.