218 BOTANICAL SPECIMENS. Hibiscus (Abulhoschus) escdlentus, L. {Okra, Gomho.) Fruit and seeds. Nofe.—A large annual herb with yellow flowers; probahly a native of Africa, but grown in the tropics of both hemispheres, as well as in the Mediterranean regions. OIT. part., HiBlsci CAPsrL.1!. The fresh immature capsules (J. P.). The leaves, roots, and capsides all yield mucilage, termed Grombine. GossYPiTjM HEEBACEUM, L. (Gotton Tree.) Capsules, seeds with cotton, oil expressed from the seeds. Note.—The root bark is off. in the Z7. -S. P., and is used as a safe parturient and emmenagogue. (Wood and BacJie, p. 432,12th ed.) The oil of the seeds is used to adulterate olive oil, to which it imparts its drying quaUty. (P. J. [2], vol. vii, p. 226.) For difference between cotton and linen fibre, see below and s. Linum. For fig. of cotton plant, see Bentley and Trimen, Med. Plants, tab. 37. [C. P. S.] Pereira, Mat. Med., II, pt. II, 556. This species yields Dacca and Nankin cotton. Cotton seed oil. Tliis is used for machinery, and in the preparation of woollen cloth and Morocco leather, and also as a substitute for olive and almond oils in pharmacy, culinary purposes, and soap. The oil cake, after expression, is used for feeding cattle. (P. J. [2], vol. iii, p. 30; [3], vol. ii, p. 867.) Cotton was unknown to the ancient Egyptians, if negative evidence of the mummy cloth being always of flax is trustworthy. In Peru such cloth is always of cotton. The earliest mention of cotton appears to be in the Book of Esther (ch. i, 6), where the word " green " in E.V. is translated " carbason " in the LXX version. A cotton fibre is twisted and ribbon-like, but with thickened ridges, and flattened down the middle. Thespesia populnea, Corr. {Umbrella Tree.) Note.—A tree fifty feet high, growing on the sea shores of both hemispheres. It bears a dense head of foliage, and is hence called the Umbrella tree. The flowers are at first yellow, then purple. The hber-fibre is used for cordage and coffee bags in Demerara, and for cigar envelopes. The wood is used for boats, as being very indestructible, and for gim stocks in Ceylon. The flower buds and unripe fruits yield a yeUow dye, and a red oil is expressed from the seeds. STERCXrLIACE.a:. Steeculia acuminata, Beauv. (Jvola-nut tree.) Seeds. Note.—This tree is a native of tropical Africa, where the " nuts " are highly valued. In Congo (W. Africa) it is known under the name of Makasso. It is the Guru nut of Soudan. It is also used by the natives in diarrhoea and affections of the liver, as well as a beverage. TILIACEiE. Tilia EuROP.a;A, L. {Linden or Lime Tree.) Flowers. Note.—The flowers are still used in France in the form of Tisane and distilled water, as an antisiJasmodic, and for sick-headaches. Tlio flowers, as well as the leaves aiul bark, were formerly off. in this country. Ph. Lond., A.D. 1724, p. 159. Gerarde, Serball, p. 1299, A.D. 1597, says the flowers were used for pains in the head produced by cold. BYTTNERIACE^. Theobroma Cacao, L. {Cocoa or Chocolate.) Fruit and seeds. Note.—This tree is a native of Brazil, and as far north as Mexico ; but is much cultivated in the tropics of both hemispheres. Tlie cocoa seeds are used for the preparation of chocolate and cocoa, and are priiicipully imported from Trinidad and Grenada. Cocoa-nibs arc the roasted embryos ; the seeds having been divested of tlu'ir skins, and broken into small frag- ments, they constitute the purest kind of cocoa. Cacao butter is the concrete oil expressed from tlie seeds, which yield about half their weight of oil. It is chiefly composed of steariue. The alkaloid theobromine is identically the same as thcinc and call'eine.