182 ANNULOIDA—ECHINIDEA, 1458. Palmipes Membranaceus. 1459. Goniaster Templetoni. 1460. Asterias Aurantiaca. (E.) ECHINIDEA. 1461. Echinus Sphajra (common Egg or Sea Urcliin). In tlie Echiniclea the integument contains so much calcareous material that it forms a complete box. In this specimen the oral apparatus with the muscular integument surrounding it has been lost, as have also been the small plates surrounding the anal opening. The rounded tubercles to which the spines are attached and the rows of pores for the passage of the ambulacra are well marked, but the structure of the shell is better seen in the succeeding preparations. 1462. The anterior or oral portion of an Egg Urchin, to which some of the spines are still adherent. In the centre is seen a whitish cone formed by the ends of the five pointed and enamel-like teeth, and immediately suri'ounding them is a ring of muscular integuments, only sparingly scattered with calcareous plates. 1463 and 1464. Apical and oral portions of the shell of the common Echinus. In this specimen, as in the former ones, the quinpartite arrangement of the shell is obvious. The rows of pores, obliquely parallel, through which the ambulacra pass, correspond with the " avenues" of the starfishes. The "avenues" are separated by a double row of " interambulacral plates," which are not perforated. Both sorts of plates, the perforated and imperforate alike, give attachment to the movable spines which have been removed in No. 1461, leaving the rounded tubercles to which they are attached visible. In the oral half. No. 1464, the arrangement of the rows of pores is seen from the inside, and the complicated oral apparatus known as the " lantern of Aristotle" can be seen. The five parts of which it is made up, and the muscles which move them, are shown. In the apical portion. No. 1463 (at the apex), are situated five perforated and somewhat heart-shaped plates surrounding the anus, and between them five smaller plates of somewhat similar appearance. The largest of the five plates in the first row differs in appearance from the rest, and is the " madreporic plate;" by means of it the water vascular system is brought into communication with the external water. The apertures in the other plates of the first row give exit to the genital products, and hence they are known as the " genital plates." The second row of smaller plates are known as the inter-genital plates. 1465. Echinus Miliaris (purple Tipped Egg Urchin). Four specimens of various sizes, from one of which the spines have been rubbed off, showing that the tubercles to which they are attached are lai'ge and prominent in this small species. 1466. Spatangus Purpureus (purple Heart Urchin). The animal is suspended with the anus upwards. In the Spatangidaj the body is not so symmetrical as in the Echiuida) proper. The anal ori6ce is terminal, but the mouth is situated in a somewhat deep dejjression, shielded by a projecting plate. The ambulacra on the doi'sal surface are arranged in a star shape, and those surrounding the mouth have a similar dis})osition.