36 ABNORMAL COXniTIONS OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 3610. A similar specimen, from a Lad, 18 years old. The foramen ovale is wide open. The ductus arteriosus is not preserved. A. 36 Presented by Henry Bateman, Esq. 3611. A Malformed Heai-t. "White directors point to the abnormal conditions. The foramen ovale is patent. The aorta arises from the right and left ventricles. The ductus arteriosus is pervious. The septum ventriculorum is wanting at tlie undefended space where the aorta arises. The pulmonary artery is obliterated as it emerges from the wall of the right ventricle. At this point a round clot, firm and decolorized, fills the extremity of its canal, clinging to its walls and to rudimentary valve cusps. A. 188 Presented by Dr. Baly. 3612. A Malformed Heart, the aorta communicating with both ventricles. The septum ventriculorum is perforated, and the aorta arises over the aperture from both ventricles, but chiefly from the right, which, with its auricle, is larger than the left. The pulmonary artery is imperforate as far as its bifurca- tion. Its branches were supplied with blood in a retrograde course from the aorta through the enlarged ductus arteriosus. Bristles are passed through the aperture in the septum, and from the aorta into the two ventricles. From a feeble female child, 5 weeks old, ■who suffered from cyanosis, coid skin, hurried respiration, and diarrhoea. The case is fully described by Dr. Farre, in his Essay on the Malformation of the Suman Heart, p. 27, and the specimen was formerly in his collection. (E.) IMPERFECT VENTRICXTLAR SEPTtTM, WITH NARROWING OE THE AORTA. 3613. Part of the Heart of a Man, set. 38. The septum between the ventricles is incomplete above, so as to allow of a free communication between their cavities by an opening which will admit three fingers. The foramen ovale is patent, and the aorta much smaller than normal. The whole heart was larger than natural. A. 211 The man enjoyed good health generally, but occasionally became livid, and died suddenly after expectorating a small quantity of blood. 3614. The Heart of a Boy who had cyanosis. It is of very large size, all its cavities being dilated. The walls of the right ventricle are rather thicker than those of the left. An oval aperture, nearly an inch in diameter, exists at the upper part of the ventricular septum, exactly between the orifices of the pulmonary artery and the aorta. The orifice of the pulmonary artery is of natural or rather more than natural size; its valves are well formed, but some eai'thy deposits existed at their base; the orifice of the aorta is rather smaller than natural. In the fossa ovalis there is a small anterior aperture. A. 36a The bov died suddenly with rupture of Iho right auricle just below the entrance of the vena cava inferior, the walls of the auricle being distended to extreme thinness. The condition of the ductus arteriosus does not appear. Presented by Tliomas "Warner, Esq. (F.) GENERAL COMMUNICATION BETWEEN ALL THE CAVITIES. 3615. The Heart of a Child about 3 years old. In phice of the septum of the auricles only a slender cord crosses (heir common cavity; and between the ventricles no rudiment of septum appears. Thus the heart has but a single cavity. Externally it has ucai-ly the natural shape and size, and the walls of