ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE LIMBS. 23 TALIPES. 3609. Skeleton of a Congenital Club-Foot from a young woman. The foot is in the position of talipes equine varus, the greater part of the deformity being caused by an upward and inward displacement of the tarsal bones and the front of the foot at the mid-tarsal joint, the cuboid being partially dislocated from the os calcis, and the tubercle of the scaphoid approximated to the internal malleolus of the tibia. The foot is a little extended at the ankle joint, but the axes of the astragalus and os calcis relatively to that of the bones of the leg are but slightly displaced. The bones on the inner side of the foot are compressed, and not fully developed. 3510. The Skeleton of a Man, about 30 years old, who had a singular deformity of the chest, and talipes varus of both feet. The sternum, though itself well formed, is depressed so as to be within from two to three inches of the dorsal vertebrae. The anterior extremities of the ribs, normally directed in their first course, bend backwards to the level of the sternum, to which they are as usual connected by costal cartilages that pass nearly transversely. The bones of the legs and feet are small, light, and fatty. The chief deformity is, or begins, in the astragalus, the head or anterior part of which is directed inwards, so as to form a right angle with its posterior and upper part. The articular surface of the head of the astragalus is so placed that what is normally its transverse diameter is directed from before backwards. All the bones of the foot are adapted to this inward turning of the head of the astragalus; the long axes of them all (except the os calcis) being directed inwards instead of forwards. The anterior part of the os calcis is dii-ected somewhat inwards, but much less so than that of the astragalus; and the OS cuboides is adapted to the deformity by being displaced to the inferior part of the OS calcis, with which it articulates on an unusual surface. On the left side the chief tendons are left attached to the bones of the foot. A. 162 (In Case C.) Presented by Sir George BuiTows. 3511. Lower Extremities, with distortion of the Feet. Bach foot is turned upwards and backwards, so that its tibial margin is in contact with that part of the leg which corresponds with the posterior and internal margin of the tibia. The feet are thus placed in an extremely exaggerated position of talipes equino varus. A. 161 3512. An Astragalus removed by operation from a foot afiTected with Talipes Equino Varus. The anterior portion of the bone is smaller than natural, and the head twisted so that its articulating surface for the scaphoid looks almost directly inwards. A cast of tliis foot after the operation is preserved, No. 85. For an early condition of Talipes Varus, see specimen No. 1205. ABSENCE OF EADIUS. 3513. The Upper Extremities of an Infant. On the left side the radius is entirely absent, and only three digits are present, the thumb and index finger being deficient. On the right side the radius is only partially developed, being altogether smaller than the ulna, and its shaft pliable and unossified. On the cori'esponding hand the thumb is imperfect, and is represented by a small cutaneous papilla. a. 160 Presented by Dr. Conquest.