134 ORGANS OF RESPIRATION. 895. Section of the Lnng of a Turtle. 19. 28 From the Collection of J. R. Farre, Esq., M.D. 896. Section of the Lung of a Turtle, dried after inflation. The large size and incomplete partition of the air-cells near the surface of the lung are well shown. 19. 11 897. The Organs of Respiration, with the Heart and its large vessels, from a boa (Python). Tlie walls of the trachea are composed, in the anterior and lateral parts, of cartilaginous rings, and posteriorly of fibrous tissue. At its lower part, the trachea, bifurcating, opens at once into the cavities of tbe elongated saccular lungs. The right lung, of which the anterior part alone is preserved, is laid open; its inner surface is beautifully reticulated with small elevated ridges, enclosing spaces of which the walls are again, by smaller ridges, subdivided into air-cavities or cells. The whole of this structure is highly vascular. The left lung is preserved entire. Its anterior third has the same structure and vascularity as that of the right lung; but in its posterior two-thirds the lung is a simple membranous sac, or reservoir for air; and its walls, though presenting traces of the same reticulation as those of its anterior part, are thin, and receive but few and small blood vessels. The right and left aortse, the trunk of the carotid artery given off from the former, and their junction at some distance behind the heart, are shown, as are also the two branches of the pulmonary artery, and their prolongations along the inner margins of the lungs. 19. 12 898. Portion of the Lung of a Boa, showing its reticulated internal surface. 19. 13 899. Larynx, Trachea, and Lungs of a Crocodile (Crocodilus Acutus). The great length of the trachea and the complete circle which its rings form ai'e well seen. 19. 25 900. The Trachea of an Ostrich, with its muscles. 19. 21 901. Section of the Lung of an Ostrich (Struthio Camelus), in part of which the blood vessels are injected. 19. 9 902. The Heart and Lungs of a Cat. 19. 27 903. The Heart and Lungs of a Guinea Pig. 19. 26