12 ABXORMAL COXDIT^ONS OF THE AXIS. 3456. A congenital umbilical Hernia. The lower end of the ileum, the ciEcum, and ascending colon are protruded through the umbilicus, and were contained in a cavity bounded by the extended substance of the umbilical cord. The darkness of tlie walls of the intestine, and the lymph on its surface, indicates that it was strangulated aud inflamed. A. 184 3457. Portion of a Foetus at fall term v/ith ectopia of the abdominal viscera. The hernial sac is formed by the abdominal parietes at and above the umbilicus; it contained the liver and small intestine. A section has been made through the sac to show its contents. 3458. A Foetus at about the eight month of pregnancy. The greater portion of the small intestines is contained in a membranous expansion of the cord. A sixth finger is present on each hand. There is apparent sloughing of a portion of the abdominal wall around the umbilicus. Presented by Dr. Matthews Duncan. Sub-Class V.—DEFECTIVE CLOSURE OF THE AXIAL CANAL OF THE CEREBRO-SPINAL SYSTEM. (A.) ANENCEPHALIA. 3459. The Skull of an Anencephalous Foetus. Its base is complete, but small and flattened; the several bones appearing crowded, and shorter, thicker, and rounder at their edges than in the natural state. The upper part of the skull is very incomplete, and presents a large round central aperture, the margins of which are formed by the edges of the rudiments of the frontal, parietal, and occipital bones. Tliese rudiments consist of little more than narrow slips of bone flatly depressed towards the base of the skull, and so nearly touching it that the hollow which represents the cranial cavity is only about two lines in depth. The orbits also are peculiarly flattened, and their superior walls small and receding. A. 136 3460. Skeleton of an Anencephalous Female Foetus. The defect of the craninni is like that in the last specimen ; but the bones of its upper piirt are even less developed, so that its base projects between and above them. The arches of the vertebrje are separate and everted in nearly the whole length of the vertebral column. In the dorsal portion i-udiments of neural spines are formed along the middle line distinct from the arches. The remainder of the trunk and the limbs of the foetus appear well formed. The dorsal spine is very irregularly malformed, The first dorsal vertebra is normal. The second and third are represented by two distinct halves on the left side, but by a single half on the right side, though it is diflicult to say to w'hich vertebra the latter belongs. The fourth vci'tebra consists of two distinct halves. The fifth is normal, but placed obliquely, so that its left end is con- siderably higher than the right. The right half of the sixth is absent; but the seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth, although bilobed, are otherwise normal. The two last vertebra3 are normal, the upper nine ribs on the left, and the second, thiixl, and fourth on the right side, are fused from their tubercles to their angles. A. 137 3461. A similar specimen of con junction of Anencephalia and complete Spina Bifida in a Female Foetus. The bones of the upper part of the skull arc in this case larger, and the parietal, as well as the frontal bones, meet in a median