190 MOLLUSOOIDA. (II.) TUNICATA. BBANCHIALIA. 1565. Ascidium Mammillatum. A large solitary Ascidian attached to an old shell. The mammillated condition of the external coriaceous test is very evident, together with the two orifices, of which the upper is the branchial or inhalant, the lower the atrial or exhalant. 1566. A similar specimen, from which the upper portion of the test has been removed, and the animal has become detached from the test, and has fallen to the bottom of the bottle. The delicate structure of the inner membrane is visible, and the nucleus or abdominal viscera of the Ascidian is seen through its delicate walls. 1567. Boltenia Pedunculata (a fixed simple Ascidian). The outer test is pro- duced into a long pedicle by which the animal is aflBxed to stones ; occasionally young individuals are found attached to the stem of an older one, giving rise to the idea that the group formed a compound Ascidian. The orifice nearest the stem is the branchial, but as the whole body is pendulous during life, the branchial orifice has the usual position of being above the atrial. 1568. Pyrosoma Atlanticum (a compound free Ascidian). The whole society forms a hollow tube closed at one end. The tube consists of the cartilage-like test, in which the separate individuals or zooids are lodged. The inhalant orifice of each zooid is dii'ected towards the outer surface of the tube, and the exhalant towards the inner surface. Constant currents of water passing in to the hollow portion of the tube and escaping at its open end cause the group of zooids to progress slowly through the water with the closed end of the tube foremost. Each individual zooid can be seen, owing to its whiter colour than the general hue of the compound test. (B.) MOLLUSCA. (I.) ACEPHALA. Class I.—LAMELLIBRANCHIATA. OSTKEID.S:. 1569. The valves of a young specimen of the Common Oyster (Ostrjea Edulis). 1570. Left or upper valve of Anomia Aculeata. It is translucent or nacreous; the inter-articular cartilage remains attached to it. Lower or right valve of the same. It is nearly flat, and deeply notched immediately in front of the articular process. Through this notch passes out the plug by which the animal is attached. 1571. Placunanomia Patelliformis. The right valve is broken away from the articulating process.