CASTS AND MODELS. 201 excepting the superficial blood vessels, which appear somewhat turgid. The sufferings of the mother were so great, that she survived the birth of this monster only two days. Since that time, the parasite has not much increased in size, and, at present, is not much larger than new-born infants usually are ; but the bones are completely formed.—Edinhurgh FJiilosophical Journal, vols, v and vii. Presented by Henry Earle, Esq. 45a. Model of a Human Foetus, apparently acephalous, and in every internal part mis-shapen. This foetus was born with one that was well formed. A. 33 46. A similar specimen. 47. Casts of cases of Cleft Palate and Hare Lip. 48. Cast of an Upper Jaw, showing an anterior median cleft of the palate, which was associated with hair lip. 49. A similar specimen, showing a left anterior median cleft. 50. A similar specimen, showing a cleft extending through the hard and soft palate. 51. Cast of an Ui^per Jaw with a cleft of the palate, upon which the operation for its closure had been performed. Owing to the drawing together and subsequent contraction of the palate, the anterior pillars of the fauces are drawn forward to a level with the posterior molar teeth. 52. Cast of the head of an Idiot Girl, whose skull is preserved in vol. ii, Series I, No. 3440, and described at p. 9. 53. Model of the Brain of the same Idiot. See p. 9. 54. Cast of the Head of the Idiot whose skull is preserved in vol. ii, Series I, No. 3441, and described at p. 9. 55. Cast of the Brain of the same Idiot. See p. 9. 56. Cast of the Head of an Idiot 26 years old, with defective size of brain and skull. 57. Cast of the Brain of an Idiot 20 years old. A large part of the posterior lobe of each cerebral hemisphere is replaced by a cavity filled with fluid. A. 12 58. Cast of the same Brain, with the posterior lobe of the cerebral hemispheres deeply sunken after the evacuation of the fluid. A. 13 Presented, with the preceding, by Haly Holme, Esq. 59. Cast of the Foetus, with ' Sireniform' monstrosity, which is described at p. 10 of this volume. No. 3447. The defectively formed lower limbs are united in a single conical stump, proceeding from a narrow pelvis. The hands also are at right angles with the fore-arms. A. 17 60. Cast of the same Foetus, with the conical stump laid flatly on tlie anterior surface of the abdomen, in the position in which it seemed to have lain in the uterus. A. 18