BOTANICAL SPECDIENS. 236 SOLANUM TUBEROSUM, L. (Potato.) Analysis of lib. of potatoes. Starcli from potatoes, in form of Tapioca, of Sago, and " Bullet; " Dextrine, two varieties, and Sugar from the starch. Casein from diseased tubers. Aerial tubers. Note.—One pound of potatoes contains of non-nitrogenous ingredients: Tissue, 3'2 p.c.; starcli, 15 "5 p.c.; sugar, 3"2 p.c; fat, 0'2 p.c. ; dextrin, 0"4 p.c; of nitrogenons, casein, &c., 1"4 p.c.; mineral: Water, 75 2 p.c.; ash, 0 9 p.c A portion of the whiter varieties of sago of commerce, and the substance known as pearl tapioca, are made of potato starch. Potato starch may be known under the microscope by its large size, and by the granules being irregularly orate in shajie, and sometimes with more than one hilum in each. Ateopa Belladonna, L. (Deadly Nightshade.) Roots and leaves. Flower (section). Note.—Floral formula, (5). [(5). 5]. (2). This root has been found mixed with mallowroot. It may be distinguished by not being fibrous, like that of the Mallow, and by its large meditullium. The roots usually have a portion of the base of the stem attached to them. The leaves may be diftinguished from those of Stramonium by not being toothed in the margin. For fig. of plant, see Bentley and Trimen, Med. Plants, tab. 193. [C. P. S.] Htosctamus NIGER, L. (Heiibane.) Entire plant (lower case) ; Flower (section) ; Fruit and seeds. Note.—Floral formula, (5). f(5).5]. (2). The fruit isapyxis dehiscing by acircumscissilefissure. The radical stalked leaves of the biennial plant are often sold as annual Henbane. In the annual Henbane plants the small radical leaves are withered before the plant blossoms, therefore all the leaves in the annual drug should be without stalks. Henbane leaves may be known in the dried state from Stramonium by the leaves being hairy, not smooth, and from Belladonna by the leaves being toothed in the margin. For fig. of plant, see Bentley and Trimen, Med. Plants, tab. 194. [C. P. S.] ScoPOLiA JAPONiCA, Max. (Japanese Belladonna.) Root. Note.—Dr. A. Langgaard extracted two alkaloids from tliis root, one of which he called "Rotoi'ne," the other " Scopoleine." (See Christy, I.e.) SCROPHULAKIACE^. Digitalis purpurea, L. (Foxglove.) Herb. Seeds. Note.—Floral formula, 5. [(5). 4.] (2). The flower is protandrous in two stages; the longer stamens maturing the anthers first; then the shorter ; lastly the stigmas mature. The leaves which most resemble those of digitalis, and which freqiieutly grow in the same neigh- bourhood, ai-e those of Verbascum nigrum, L., and Inula Conyza, D.C. The leaves of digitalis may be distinguished from those of both these plants by the smaller veins extending into the wing of the petiole. Verbascum thapsus, L., has leaves which are too woolly to bo easily mis- taken for those of foxglove. The seeds have been recommended as a substitute for the leaves, as being more reliable in their action, and less likely to be adulterated than the leaves. The leaves are said to be more active in early autumn than when the plant is in flower. [C. P. S.] LiNARiA VULGARIS, Mill. (Toad-flax.) Flower (section). Note.—Floral formula, 5. [(5.) 4.](2). This differs from Antirrhinum in having the corolla spurred and not saccate; it is saccate in the incipient state of the flower. Antirrhinum majur, L. (Snapdragon.) Flower (section). Monstrous forms (see Teratology.) Note.—Floral formula, (5). [(5). 4.] (2). This differs from Linaria in having the corolla saccate and not spurred.