SERIES XL. CATALOGUE OF BOTANICAL SPECIMENS. —♦— Miscellaneous Collection of Botanical Specimens, chiefly illusteative of Physiological and Economic Botany. Note.—The floral formulse adopted express tlie structirre of the flowers as follows, viz.: the number of parts of each whorl, or the sepals of the calyx, the petals of the corolla, the stamens and the carpels of the pistil, are mdicated successively by the numerals followed by points. The cohesion ( ) and adhesion [ ], as well as the "inferior" ovary | j- will be recognized by the corresponding brackets. Example.—The floral formula of Pisum, or Pea, is [(5). 3+ (2). (9/)+!.] 1. In this flower the calyx has five coherent sepals ; the corolla is composed of three free and two (the " keel" petals) united; the stamens are diadelphous in that nine are coherent by the filaments (9/), while one is free ; both corolla and stamens being perigynous or adherent to the calyx [ ]. Lastly the pistil consists of one free " superior " carpel. The paragraphs followed by TO. P. S.] are quoted from the catalogue of the Museum of the Pharmaceutical Society. Further information, if required, will be found in Drury's Useful Plants of India, Christy's Netv Commercial Plants and Drugs, Treasury of Botany ; and for details of floral structure, Henslow's Floral Dissections. CLASS I.—DICOTYLEDONS. ANGIOSPERMS. KANUNCULACBiE. Ranunculus Ficaeia, L. (FUewort, Lesser Celandine.) Fascicled tuberons roots and aerial corms. Note.—Moral Formula, 3. ±* 8. oo. oo. The club-shaped roots emanate with a bud from the rootstock, and together are propagative. They thus resemble the conical roots of Aconite (which see) and of Orchids (see Eulophia), both of which curry buds above. The aerial axillary corms are usually produced in the absence of flowers, especially in shady places ; in which case the pollen is often arrested. The first English name is in allusion to the supposed virtues of the juice in relieving pain. Gerarde's Eerlall, p. 669. a.d. 1597. * ± signifies that the number varies, and is more or less than 8 in this instance.