34 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEAT. but is very narrow at its orifice. A portion of glass is passed from tlie right ventricle, through the narrovv pulmonary artery, the ductus arteriosus, and the aorta, A. 27 Presented by Henry Bateman, Esq. Case Booh, No. 92, p. 52. 3600. The Heart of a Child 7 weeks old. The right auricle is normal, except in that the foramen ovale is wide open. The right ventricle is extremely small. The orifice of the pulmonary artery is very narrow ; its trunk of more nearly natural size. The ductus arteriosus is closed, or so nearly closed that a bristle could be passed through only part of its length. The left side of the heart and the aorta are of normal shape, but very large. A. 28 (D.) IMPERFECT VENTRICULAR SEPTUM, WITH NARROWING OR CLOSURE OF THE PULMONARY ARTERY. 3601. The Heart of a Person about 16 years old. The rig-ht auricle appears noi'ma], and the foramen ovale is closed. The walls of the right ventricle are thick, and its fleshy columns are so large and numerous that it appears as if divided into two cavities, communicating by narrow orifices indicated by bougies. The part of the right ventricle which leads to the pulmonary artery is very small, and so is that artery at and near its orifice. At the upper part of the ventricular septum is a large, oval, smooth-edged aperture, above which the aorta is so placed that both ventricles alike open into it. The left auricle and ventricle are normal. The aorta is large ; the ductus arteriosus is closed. A. 31 3602. The Heart of a Person 28 years old, malformed like the preceding. The communications between the pulmonary artery and right ventricle is a naiTow channel, just admitting the passage of two poi'tions of fine straw. Earthy matter is deposited at the upper orifice of this channel, and above it the pulmonary artery acquires a nearly normal diameter, but has thin coats. The foramen ovale and ductus arteriosus are not preserved. A. 32 Case Book, No. 78, p. 40. 3603. The Heart of a Male Child, who lived 6 weeks. The pulmonary artery is very much reduced in size, and at its commencement is a simple pouch, no communication whatever existing between it and the right ventricle. The aorta is unusually large, and communicates freely with both ventricles. The ventricular septum is deficient in its upper part. The auricles appear normal, but it is not clear whether any communication between them existed. The ductus arteriosus is not preserved. A. 213 In this case it would appear that the blood could liave reached the lungs only by flowing from t}ie aorta into the pulmonary artery by means of a pervious ductus arteriosus or by the bronchial arteries. 3604. A Malformed Heart from a Child, 15 days old. The upper part of the ventricular septum is absent; the pulmonary artery is imperforate at its origin, BO that both ventricular cavities propelled the blood into the large aorta, which is laid open. The aorta divides into two branches, one of which, the larger, passes to the right, and after giving off the right carotid and subclavian arteries, is continued as the thoi'acic aorta. The left carotid and subclavian arteries are given off close together from the left branch, wliich passed do'MTi- wards to supply the lungs. The child was not cyanotic, and died of chronic hydrocephalus. The case is related in the Olsletrical Society'i Transactions for 1881, p. 179.