35 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 3605. Heart of a Man, ret. 21. The layers of the pericardium are adherent and thickened at two points near the apex. On opening the heart its ventricular pai't is seen to consist of one large cavity, occupying the position of the right ventricle, but extending considerably to left of the middle line, and of a small cavity on the left side, which is little more than an appendix to the large one. The auricles are of the normal pi-oportions and appearance. A well marked muscular ridge separates the insignificant repi'esentative of the left ventricle from the large right ventricle. Below the base of this ridge a transverse section of the heart would include only the right ventricle. The opening between the ventricles is larger than a shilling. Immediately to the left of its upper edge is the orifice of the aorta, and to its right the orifice of the pulmonary artery. The aortic orifice is of the normal size, and has the usual valves. The aorta becomes considerably reduced in calibre at the point of junction of the ductus arteriosus. The ductus arteriosus is closed throughout. It is to be observed that while the aorta opens distinctly into the left ventricle, the opening between the ventricles is so situate that the stream of blood may have passed almost without obstruction into the aorta from the right ventricle. The orifice of the pulmonary artery is without valves, and is bounded by a thickened ring in the centre of a small tract of membrane. This is probably the product of the adhesion of the pulmonary valves. Above the orifice the artery is of normal width, but is slightly narrowed at the junction of the ductus arteriosus. Immediately below it, and close to the edge of the opening in the inter- ventricular septum, the mitral valve opens into the right ventricle. The tricuspid valve opens into the same cavity in front of the mitral and a little above it. The mitral orifice is a very little less wide than normal. Both valves are normal as to their flaps. The vessels on the surface of the heart follow the groove between the actual right and left ventricle, and do not at the upper part of their com-se run independently of it. See St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. xi, p. 225. 3606. The Heart of a Child, 10 years old. The auricles form a single very large cavity, which communicates with the left ventricle alone. A red rod is passed into the opening of the inferior vena cava, and a green one into one of the pulmonary veins. The right ventricle is a small flattened cavity, and communicates with the left ventricle by a circular aperture, little more than a line in diameter, through which is passed a blue rod. The pulmonary artery appears nearly normal, but is slightly narrowed. The left ventricle is very large and strong-walled. The ductus arteriosus is not preserved. a. 29 3607. A Heart, said to be from an Adult, but of small size. The ventricular septum is imperfect, the aorta communicating freely with both ventricles, but more with the right than with the left; the pulmonary artery is much narrowed, and the foramen ovale open. A. 33 3608. The Heart of an Adult of ordinary size. The pulmonary artery appears completely closed by the adhesion of the valves at its narrow orifice, and beyond this closure its trunk is small and thin-walled. Earthy matter is deposited in the valves. The defect in the ventricular septum, and other mal- formations, exist as in the preceding- specimens. The foramen ovale is slightly and obliquely open at the front; the ductus arteriosus is not preserved a. 34 3609. The Heart of a Lad, 16 years old, with an extremely narrow two-valved pulmonary artery, a deficient ventricular septum, and other malformations similar to those in the last preceding specimens. The ductus arteriosus is nearly closed, only a bristle could be passed through it. The foramen ovale is obliquely and slightly open at the front. A. 35 D 2