BOTANICAL SPECIIIENS. 229 COFFEA LIBERICA, Hiem. (Liberian Giant Coffee.) Berries (dried naturally). Seeds, roasted. Note.—In consequence of tlie ravages of tlie coffee-leaf disease, the Liberian coffee has been eagerly sought after, as being at jJresent less liable to be attacked by the Hemileia vastatrix. It is being cultivated in Ceylon, Brazil, Java, &c. The so-called "Liberian Giant Coffee" is adapted to low-lying lands. It grows well near the sea or in moist places. It yields an exceedingly heavy crop of berries of fine flavour and large size ; as much as four tons to the acre have already been obtained from this species of coffee trees in Ceylon. The " Liberian Prolific Coffee " is suitable for higher elevations. It is of very qviick growth, producing berries in eighteen months. The Liberian coffee is hardier in Ceylon in every respect than Coffea arabica, bearing full exposure to the sun much better, and growing more luxuriantly. (Christy.) Cinchona Calisata, Weddell. Bark. (Calisaya Baric, Yellow Cinchona Bark.) Note.—This species grows in the valley forests on the borders of Bolivia and South Peru. This bark is remarkable for the large amount (5-6 per cent.) of quinine which it contains. Cinchona officinalis, B. Bark. (Pale Cinchona Barh; Peruvian or Boxa Bark.) Note.—C. condaminea, Humh. and Boupl. ; C. crispa, Taf.; C. uritusinga, Pav. ; Bonplan- diana. Sow. This tree, under several varieties, is a native of Andes (6,000 to 7,500feet), but is there nearly extinct. Immense plantations exist in Nilgiri Hills, Sikkim, &c., and in Ceylon, Java, and Jamaica. Uncaeia Gambiee, Boxh. (Oamhier, Terra Japoyiica.) Extract of leaves, and roots. Note.—This drug is obtained principally from Malacca, the port of Ehio, on the Island Bintang. about thirty miles from Singapore. The extract is obtained by boiling the leaves, small branches, and pieces of wood in water, evaporating the liquid to an extract. It contains 44'88 per cent, of tannin according to Esenbeik. Randia dumetoeum, Bam. Note.—-This is a hedge plant of India. The fruit is emetic, and used to stupefy fish. RuBiA TiNCTORUM, B. {Madder.) Root, whole and ground. Note.—Madder is obtained from the root of this species, as well as of R. peregrina, indigenous to Britain, and from R. Mungista (Munjcet) of Nepal. The cultivation has decreased since alizarine, the red colouring principle, can be made artificially. Its most remarkable physio- logical effect is that of colouring red the bones ot animals fed upon it. Alizarin, comp. C14HSO4, consists of bright red acicular crystals. It is prepared from madder. See Tire's Bict. of Arts, s. Maddee ; Perkin, Jl. of Soe. of Arts, May 30, 1879. Garaucin. This is produced by the action of sulphuric acid upon madder. It possesses a greater tinctorial power than the original material, and also dyes much brighter colours. See Ure's Diet of Arts, s. Madder. Galium, L. Note.—Floral formula, {obsolete. [(-1). 4]. (2).}. Obs., Rubia only differs from Galium in being pcntamerous. VALERIANE.a;. Naedostachys Jatamansi, B.C. (8pike7iard.) Root. " Sumbul-al-teeb." Note.—This root has an odour like patchouli. It is supposed to be the spikenard of Scripture. In appearance it much rese.-nbles the root of Allium victoriale. In India it is considered of mucii value in epilepsy and hysteria. The tincture is made in the proportion of 5 oz. of tlic root to 2 pints of proof spirit. For fig. sec Hist, des Broij., t. iii, pp. 79-8^!; Ko\!e, J/k/. Med., p. 480. [C. P. S.]