186 ANNULOSA—CRUSTACEA. 1502. Spiral tube formed by a tubicolar annelid. 1503. Calcareous tube formed by annelids on a valve of a pecten. 1504. Tubes of spirorbis, a small tubicolar annelid, on a piece of seaweed. 1505. Arenicola Piscatorum. ERRANTIA. 1506. A group of tubes belonging to annelids of the preceding orders. Projecting from the end of one of the tubes can be seen a portion of a Nereian annelid belonging to the oi'der Errantia. 1507. Nereis. 1508. Aphrodite Hispida (Sea Mouse). 1508a. A similar specimen. 1509. A similar specimen dissected so as to show the strong muscular gizzard. A black bristle is passed into the mouth, and a similar one into the anus. (B.) ARTHROPODA. Class I.—CRUSTACEA. (A.) EPIZOA. 1510. Nicothoe Astaci. Female. From the gills of the common lobster. The large lateral lobes of the ovaries and the elongated ovisacs below them are seen, causing the little crustacean to look as if it possessed wings. (B.) EDRIOPHTHALMIA. 1511. Gammarus Pulex (Fresh water Shrimp or Flea). The sessile eye charac- teristic of the order is very visible. The absence of carapace, and the mobility of the two posterior thoracic segments which also characterise the order, can be recognized. (C.) STOMAPODA. 1512. Phyllosoma. The body consists of two portions, both remarkably flattened. The ccphalo-thorax, which carries the two elongated peduncles of the eyes, is large and oval. The posterior smaller portion bears eight legs, and the caudal region is quite rudimentary. 1513. Squilla Maritima (Common Squill). The antenna) are small, the axis of the ophthalmic and antennatory somites is parallel to that of the body, and each is movable on the other. The carapace is short, but broad transversely, and the thorax bears variously shaped limbs, one pair forming formidable claws with toothed nippers. Attached to the abdominal appendages are the branchios. (D.) CIRRHIPEDIA, 1514. Balanus (Acorn Shell). 1514a. Balanus (Common Acorn Shell). A group attached to i\ piece of rock,