THE STOMACH. 115 697. The Stomacli, termination of oesophagus, and commencement of the intes- tine of a young Crocodile (Crocodilus Acutus), which measured about two feet in length. Between the pylorus and duodenum is a small pouch, somewhat similar to that in the heron. 11. 44 698. Portion of the Proventriculus of the Ostrich (Struthio Camelus), displaying the gastric glands, arranged in a longitudinal band. Each gland is of large size, and presents a wide open orifice, and, at the cut edge of the specimen, a deep sacculated or lobed cavity. The bases of the glands rest on the muscular coat, and, in the upper part of the specimen, are exposed by its removal. 11. 30 699. The lower part of the (Esophagus, with the Proventriculus, Gizzard, and part of the Small Intestine, of a Fowl (Gallus domesticus). The mucous membrane of the lower part of the oesophagus is thin and longitudinally folded, and presents numerous minute orifices of glands. In the proventriculus the mucous membrane becomes gradually much thicker and more vascular, and presents a broad ring of large gastric glands, opening on the summits of vascular papillae. The muscular coat of the proventriculus is also thicker than that of the oesophagus. The cavity of the gizzard is laid open by the division of one of the middle tendons by which its two strong muscles are connected. These muscles are shown with the expansions of the tendons over their outer surfaces. The oesophagus and duodenum open into the upper part of the cavity which the muscles enclose. The flat sides of this cavity are lined with a thick and hard substance, like hard cuticle; its upper and lower parts, over which the tendons lie, are covered with a cuticle of the same kind, but thinner and softer. The mucous membrane of the intestine is very vascular, and covered with long slender villi. 11. 29 700. The Stomach with the CEsophagus and Crop of a Kite (Milvus vulgaris s. ictinus) inverted. The mucous membrane of the upper part of the oesophagus, and of the crop, which is formed by partial dilatation of its wall, appears of nearly simple structure, presenting only a few small apertures like the orifices of gland-ducts. In the lower part of the oesophagus such orifices are much more numerous; and they become more so as the oesophagus approaches the proventriculus, into which it dilates, and ^\hich, with thicker walls, presents a more marked glandular structure. The gizzard, placed beyond the proventri- culus, and sepai'ated from it by a slight constriction, is lined with simple mucous membrane. The pyloric orifice is small and plicated, and the duodenum covered with villi. 11. 28 701. The Stomach of a Heron (Ardea Cinerea) laid open. Its shape is unifoi'm, but the distinction between the glandular and pyloi-ic portions is well defined in the intei'ior by an abrupt change in the mucous membrane. The pyloric orifice leads into a small globular poach, from whicli the duodenum arises. 11. 43 702. The Stomach of a Foetal Calf, as an example of the stomachs of Ruminants. The oesophagus, of comparatively small size, opens into a large cavity, called the rumen or paunch, which presents at its upper part, next to the oesophagus, two large chambers, or recesses from its main cavity, and at its lower part, two of smaller size. At its upper part the rumen opens, with a wide aperture, into a smaller cavity, with a reticular internal suiface, named reticulum, or honey- comb-bag. A portion of the wall being removed from the reticulum, exposes both its opening into the oesophagus and also a muscular groove or cannl, leading from the oesophagus to a third cavity, with a very deeply-plicated internal membrane, named psalterium or manyplies. Several of the deep T 2