ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 32 lunar valves exist in connection with the pulmonary artery. In the septum between two of them is an orifice through which a piece of string is passed. All the other valves are natural. No abnormal heart sounds could be detected during life. 3585. A Pulmonary Artery with four valves. One is of less than the natural size, but of healthy tissue. A. 37 586. A similar specimen, but the additional valve is even smaller. A. 38 3587. Congenital malformation of the Pulmonary Valve. Only two segments exist. The tissue of the valve is quite healthy. The foramen ovale is com- pletely closed, and there is no communication between the ventricles. The tricuspid valve is not so clearly divided into its three segments as usual. The valves on the left side are quite normal. A. 194 3588. A Heart with only two Pulmonary Semilunar Valves. 12-140 3589. Part of a Heart, with an aorta having but two valves. One of the valves has a nodule of indurated tissue near one of its angles; and in both there are small fatty deposits. A. 39 3590. A similar specimen. A. 40 Several examples of aortse having but two valves, and those diseased, are in the Pathological Series. They illustrate the peculiar liability of valves thvis defectively formed to become the seats of later disease ; and are examples of wliat appears to be a general rule, that parts originally misshapen are more liable to disease than are well shaped parts. (B ) A DIVISION OF A CAVITY BY AN" ADVENTITIOUS SEPTUM. 3591. Heart of a Woman, cet. 35. The left auricle is divided as it were into two, the auricular appendix and tlie left portion of the auricle being shut off from the upper and right part by a septum, in which is a button-hole shaped opening. A glass rod has been passed through the latter. All the blood must have passed through this foramen in the course of the circulation ; neither the right nor left cavities of the heart are at all dilated or hypertrophied. The pulmonary and tricuspid valves are both somewhat thickened, and the chordiB tendinesB shortened. The heart is of normal shape and size, and weighed 10^ ounces; but the capacity of the double-chambered left auricle exceeded that of a normal auricle. The same changes are observable in the left cavities. The pulmonary veins about the root of the right lung were of unusual size, but no abnormal disposition was noticed. The pericardium over the left auricle and the root of the large vessels was extensively ecchymosed. 12-117 See Post ATortem Book, vol. i. No. 92; also Pathological Transactions, vol. xix, p. 188. 3592. A Right Auricle partly divided into two cavities by a fold of the endocar- dium.