THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 76 centrum or body, tlie zygapopliyses or articulating processes, the neurapophyses, witli their pedicles and laminae, and the neural spine or neurapophysis, closely correspond with those in the cervical vertebra. But the parapophysis is not developed; and the diapophysis forms a strong clavate transverse process. The pleurapophysis, developed to the full size of a thoracic rib, is articulated moveably with two points; namely, by its tubercle with the extremity of the diapophysis, and by its head with the bodies of this and the next vertebra above. At its distal extremity each rib has a costal cartilage, the homologue of the hffimapophysis, such as is shown in the thoracic vertebra of the Bird, and these h^mapophyses unite with a portion of the sternum, as with their heemal spine, to enclose the great haemal organs. The characters in which the elements of the lumbar vertebra chiefly deviate from those last described are, that the pleurapophysis or rib appears here as the transverse process, having coalesced with the side of the centrum or body, and with the lowly developed diapophysis. The character of the transverse process, as a rib, will be evident by comparing it with the twelfth and eleventh ribs in the entire skeleton. The same comparison will illustrate the characters of the diapophyses in this vertebra. In the eleventh and twelfth dorsal vertebrae the diapophysis presents two processes near its distal extremity: one ascending, named metapophysis; the other descending, named anapophysis. Similar processes may be seen on this lumbar vertebra; but, in consequence of the extreme shortening of the diapophysis, they here appear placed, the superior on the upper and posterior part of the superior zygapophysis or articulating process, and the lower at the junction of the pleurapophysis and rudimental diapophysis. 291. Adult Sacra and Coccyges. The sacrum, an apparently single bone, is composed of the elements of five vertebrfe. The five centra or bodies ai-e distinguished by transverse elevated lines at their junctions anteriorly. The five pairs of neurapophyses are equally distinguishable, though united so as only to leave apertures for the transmission of the posterior branches of the sacral nerves. Four of the pairs of neurapophyses bear neural spines ; the fifth pair do not coalesce, the lower part of the neural canal being here closed by dura mater. Iii front there is a similar union of pleur- di- and zyg-apophyses, room being left for the transmission of the anterior branches of the sacral nerves. 28. 20 292. Antero-posterior section of a Sacrum, showing the medullary canal. 293. An Atlas and Axis, Cervical, Dorsal, and Lumbar Vertebrce, showing their centres of ossification. 294. The Cervical Vertebriie articulated. 295. Adult Human Ribs. 296. Hyoid Bones. 297. The Sternum of an Adult. 298. A similar specimen, but the bone is curved, with the concavity forwards. 299. A Sternum with the ensiform and rib cartilages attached. 300. A similar specimen. 301. The Bones composing the Shoulder Girdle and Upper Extremity articulated.