BOTANICAL SPECIMENS. 216 IsATis TiNCTORiA, L. (Dyers Woad.) Woad in balls, Indigo. Wote.—The leaves are ground into a paste, which is then fermented in heaps, and afterwards made into balls for sale. Its nse as a dye is mentioned by Dioscorides and Pliny. Csesar says the ancient Britons dyed their bodies with it. The itse was superseded by the introduction of Indigo, from a species of Indigofera. A sprig of woad is the emblem of the Dyers' Company. Cameltna satiya, L. (Gold of Pleasure.) Oil. Note.—This plant is cultivated on the Continent, both for its fibre for making brooms, and the oil from the seed. Treas. of Bot., s.t. " In excavating for the railway at Steyning, in Sussex, in 1859, this plant suddenly appeared in great quantities on the embankment. I had not known it in the neighbourhood previously, and it has long since disappeared from the spot." [Geo. Henslow.] Brassica Eapa, L. (Turnip.) Note.-—The specimen (in spirits, in lower case) is remarkable for developing a number of adventitious buds. Such large tap roots, as of turnip, radish, &c., are developed from the radicle, root, and part of the axis of the plumule ; hence the buds at the upper part would issue from the stem, but those at the base from the true root. VIOLAOE^. loNiDiUM, sp. Vent. (False Ipecacuanha.) Rhizome or root ? Note.—The roots of some of the species contain emetin, and may be used instead of Ipeca- cuanha. White Ipecacuanha consists of the roots of /. Ipecacuanha. Another species is I. microphyllum, the roots of which act powerfully as emetics and purgatives. The root of I. sitffruticosum is used in India for diseases of the urinary organs, and the leaves aa external applications. BIXACEJS:. BiXA ORELLANA, L. (Annatto.) Fruit and seeds. Note.—Annatto is made from the coating of reddish pulp which surrounds the seeds. In South America the Caribs paint themselves with it. It is used here for colouring cheese, chocolate, &c., and by the Dutch for colouring butter. Gynocardu odorata, B. Br. (Chauhnugra Oil Tree.) Seed and oil. Note.—Prep. : Oil, capsules, and gynocardic acid. See Christy, I.e., yi, 90, 94. Doses : Oil in capsules, 3 to 10 minims, taken after meals. It is official in the I. P., and used in India as a remedy for leprosy. TAMARISOINE^. Tamaeix Gallica, L. (Tamarisk Galls.) Galls. N'ote.—This small gall grows in great profusion in certain di.stricts in India and in the Medi- terranean, and on tlic northern coast of Africa. It yields n very large percentage of tannic acid. Christy, Nctu Com. Vlants and Drujs, v, 27.