14 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE AXIS. The surface of the projecting brain presented the ordinary convolutions. The pedicle of the mass, supported by the thickened membrane, passed through the anterior fontanelle, which was not much enlarged. On removing the brain from the skull the nerves at the base were found to be normal. The cerebellum was small, and its various parts were not differentiated; it was attached along a considerable extent of the posterior surface of the medulla and the elongated pons varolii. The right half of the cerebrum was fairly large ; the left half was much smaller, but in both a fissure of Sylvius and temporo-sphoenoidal lobe were observed. No trace of the corpus callosum existed; but a narrow band of white sub- stance as large as an optic nerve united the two anterior cerebral lobes. A column of brain substance extended upwards from the pons varolii, appearing in fact to be an abnormal elongation of that structure and the crura cerebri; in passing upwards it gave off on either side a peduncle to the cerebral hemi- spheres, and was then continued into the mass of the brain substance external to the skull. Narrow bands of bi-ain substance passed between the extra- cranial mass and the cerebral hemispheres. Lymph was effused beneath the membranes generally. Judging from the relation of the parts, it appeal's that the extruded mass corresponded to the upper and posterior portions of the hemispheres. A larger portion of it appertained apparently to the left hemisphere, in correspondence with the smaller size of this half of the cerebrum. The patient was a child, who lived four weeks. The tumour was twice punctured, and on one occasion blood, on the other sero-pus, flowed from the canula. The child never cried. A cast of the head is preserved. See Obstetrical Society's Transactions, 1880, p. 131. 34:72. A Sac, formed in the occipital region by profusion of the dura mater through an aperture in the occipital bone similar to those in the sacra shown in the succeeding specimens of spina bifida. With the dura mater a portion of brain, covered with pia mater and arachnoid, is protruded. The aperture in the occipital bone is about two lines in diameter, and situated in the median line below the spine. A. 131 The case is described by Mr. Earle in the Medico - Chirtirgical Transactions, vol. vii, p. 427. (C.) SPINA BIFIDA. 3473. Part of a Foetal Skeleton, from a case of hydrocephalus with spina bifida. Except those of three dorsal and two cervical vertebrae, all the laminae are deformed and disparted like those in No. 3475. The occipital bone also appears to have been similarly defective. The bodies of many of the vertebrjB appear bilobed. The left half of the body of the ninth dorsal vertebra, the left lamina, and left processes of the body are wanting. The eighth and tlie tenth vertebras are approximated to each other on the left side, and their left lamince appear somewhat overgrown. The left ninth rib is absent, and the first and second ribs on the same side are partially fused. The left lamina of the fifth dorsal vertebra is in contact in the middle line with both the fourth and fifth on the right side, and the fourth on the left side is in contact with, though on a lower plane than, the third on the right. A. 134 3474. Two specimens of defect in the formation of the posterior Arch of the first Cervical Vertebra. In one, the deficiency is median, the ends of the