221 BOTANICAL SPECIMENS. Balsamodendron, sp. Kunth. {Myrrh.) Gum-resin. Note.—Various gum-resins called Myrrh are yielded by species of this genus, and known as Turkey, White, E. Indian, African, &c., as well as various sorts of Bdellium. ANACAKDIACEiE. Anacardium OCCIdentale, L. (Cashew Nid Tree.) Fruit (Cashew nuts). Note.—The bark and pericarp of the fruit contain an acid vesicant liquid which forms a durable marking ink. The gum possesses the same properties as Grum Arabic; but is also shglitly astringent. Rhus succedanea, L. (Japan Wax.) Wax. Note.—This wax is the produce of the fruits, and called Japan wax. R. vernicifera is another small Japanese tree, and yields the famous lacquer used for furniture, &c. It exudes from wounds made in the tree, and is at first milky-white, but ultimately black on exposure. PiSTACiA VERA, L. (Pistachio Nuts.) Kernels. Note.—This is a native of West Asia. The nuts are greatly eaten by Turks and Greeks, and in South Europe, either dried like almonds or made into articles of confectionery. (See Bentley, Man. Bot., p. 492.) Mangifera indica, L. (Mango.) Fruit. Note.—This grows abundantly in India, where numerous varieties are cultivated. Most of them have more or less of a turpentine flavour, though the best are said to be delicious. The unripe fruits are used as pickles, for tarts, &c. The fruit contains gallic and citric acids. The seeds of the Mango sometimes possess more than one embryo. Semecarpus Anacardium, L. Seeds. Note.—This is called the Marking-nut tree of India, the unripe fruit being used for a kind of ink. The seeds, called Mallaca beans or Marsh-nuts, are eaten. An oil is prepared from them and used in painting. LEatTMINOS^. Cttisus scoparius, Linh. (Broom.) Flowers (sections). Note.—Floral Formula, [(5). 3+ (2). (5 + 5/)]. 1. Ohs., the style curves in growth, so as to bring the stigma first in contact with the uppermost anthers ; tlien by completing an entire circle touches those of the five shorter stamens. For fig., see Bentley and Trimcn, 3Ied. Plants, No. 70. Gltcyrrhiza glabra, L., and G. echinata, L. (Liqoiirice.) Root. Note.—The Russian liquorice root, stated by Hanbury to be the produce of G. glabra (G. glandulifera, W. K.), may be known by its bitterish taste and longitudinally exfoliated root bark. (See Bentley and Trimen, Med. Plants, tab. 74.) Phtsostigma venenosum, Balf. (Calabar Bean.) Seeds. Note.—¥o\' fig. of plant, see Bentley and Trimen, Med. Plants, fab. 80. [C. P. S.] These seeds are very poisonous, and were employed at Old Calabar as an ordeal; if tliey produced vomiting only, it estabUshed innocence; if the suspected person died, they were guilty.