220 BOTANICxVL SPECBIENS. ViTis GONGYLODES, Balcer. Branches. Note.—On the onward growth of the axis being arrested, two or three internodes commence to swell from about the last unfolded leaf, backwards. They then disarticulate, fall, and germinate into new plants. SAPINDACEJE. AcEK SACCHARiNUM, L. (Sugar or Bird's Eye 2Iaple.) Maple sugar. iVbfe.—It is a native of North America, introduced liere in 1735. The wood is white, but acquires a rosy tinge by exposiire to light. The timber can replace oak. The wood often has spots, whence the name of bird's eye. Sugar is extracted from the sap, which is boiled and ths syrup is run into moulds to form cakes. ILICINEiE, Ilex Paeaguayensis, St. Hil. {Mate or Paraguay Tea.) Leaves and twigs in powder. Note.—Mr. G-eorge Fielding states that mate is used in Brazil in the powdered state as of these specimens, only, but in Paraguay the leaves are employed. It is remarkable for containing theine. Mate is used medicinally as a diuretic and diaphoretic, but its chief use is as a refreshing beverage like tea. The tea is prepared for drinking by putting about a teasi30onful into a gourd with a little sugar; the drinking tube (bombilla) is then inserted, and boiling water poured on the mate. It is rather bitter, but slightly aromatic and restorative. It acts in some degree as an aperient and diuretic. It contains the same alkaloid as tea and coffee, but not their volatile and empyreumatic oils. [C. P. S.] EHAMNACEiE. Rhamnus infectoeius, L. (G-raines d'Avignon, French or Persian Perries.') Fruit. Note.—These berries are used as well as those of R. amygdalinus, and probably other species, to dye morocco leather yellow. R. CATHARTicus, L. {Purging BucTcthorn.) Fruit. Note.—The fruits were formerly in demand as a purgative medicine, and are still employed by rustic practitioners; but on account of the violence of their action they have fallen into disreirate, although Syrup of Buckthorn is included in our Pharmacopceias. The pigment known as sap-green is prepared from the juice of fresh berries with lime. The bark also possesses active jjurgative properties. ZiZYPHUS JuJUBA, L. (Jujube Fruit.) Fruit. Note.—The fruits of several species of this genus have an agreeable flavour. Those of Z. vulgaris are commonly eaten both in a fresh and dried state in the Mediterranean regions. Z. Jujulia, an Indian species, yields an excellent dessert fruit. BXJRSERACE-ffi:. BoswELLiA Carterii, Birdwood. (Luhdn Tree.) Gum resin {Olihanum). Note.—This is tlio true Frankincense or Lubiln tree of limited districts in tropical Arabia and East Africa. During the flowering season tlie delighlful fragrance of the LuliAii trees is wonderfully powerful. For fig. and descriptions sec Boutley and Trimcn, Med. Fl'dits, 58 {rcJJ's.). For figs, of olibanum trees, see Linn. Trans., xxvii, p. 111. [C. P. S.]