BOTANICAL SPECIMENS. 255 MORCHELLA ESCULENTA, L. (Morcl.) Note.—The morel is a native of Britain, occurring in shady woods, but is imported from tlie Continent for sale in Covent Garden Market, &e. It is chiefly used as a flavouring ingredient in cookery. For fig., see Pereira, vol. ii, pt. 1, p. 54, fig. 45. Tliis fungus belongs to the natural order Helvellacei. The deeply folded and pitted surface is clothed with the ascigerous hymenium. Cooke's HandhooTc of Briiish Fungi, p. 655. [C. P. S.] Peziza vesiculosa, Bull. {Bladdery Peziza.) Note.—The interior surface of the "cup" is clothed with the ascigerous hj'menium Common on dung-hills, manure beds, &c. ToBER J5STIVUM,/Sti^/?..; Tuber ciBARiuM,/So?/;. {Trufflp.) Note.—Truffles are chiefly used as a flavouring agent for culinary purposes. Trufiies grow beneath the surface of the ground in beechwood or chalky downs, and are hunted for by dogs or pigs trained for the purpose, which find them by the peculiar odour of tlie fungus. Like many other fungi they have been stated to possess aphrodisiac properties. They belong to tlie natural order Tuberacei. [C. P. S.] The asci are short, saccate, and disposed in sinuous veins ; the sporidia are elliptic and reticulated. It occurs in woods, especially of beech. Claviceps purpurea, Tulasne. Sclerotium. {Ergot of Bye.) Entire and powdered. Ditto in PsAMMA arundinacea and Lolium perenne. Note.—Sclerotium is the name siven to a mycelium when hard and compact. It consists of minute jointed threads compacted together. These threads are called hyphse. The sclerotium is the vegetative organ of the fungus, the reproductive organ of t!ie fungus not being developed until the succeeding spring. For fig. of the fungus, see Pereira, Mat. Med., vol. ii, pt. i, p 105, fig. 68 ; CooTce. British Fungi, p. 772, fig. 369. This fungus belongs to the natural order Sphseriacei. [C. P. S.] Sphjirla Sinensis, Ber'k. Fungus and caterpillar. Note.—This curious fungus is figured in Pereira, Mat. Med., vol. ii, pt. i, p. 52. It is a fungus which grows upon the larva of a niotli, and is said to possess cordial and restorative properties. It is very scarce : old and rotten specimens being worth four times their weight in silver. A similar fungus is found in New Zealand on the larva of Hepiolus virescens. [C. P. S.J PODISOMA JUNIPERI and RfflSTELIA LACERATA. iVo^e.—The first named constitutes the " Teleutospores ; " the sporidia of which attack the Hawthorn and give rise to the latter form of the fungus. See s. Juniperus communis. LICHENES. CliTRARIA ISLANDICA, L. Thallus. {Iceland Moss.) Note.—This foliaccous lichen is indigenous in the north of Britain, and is easily distinguished by its fronds being minutely fringed. None is exported from Iceland. It yields 70 per cent, of liclienin—a substance resembling starch—which swells up in cold water, and turns blue with iodine. Its bitterness may be removed by a solution of carbonate of soda. Treated with sulphuric acid, Iceland moss yields 72 per cent, of glucose. [C. P. S.] Cladonia rangiferina, Eoffm. {Reindeer moss.) Note.—This fruticulose lichen is common in heathy places. It is used in this country chiefly by bird-stutfers fur ornamenting the inside of cases. For fig. of ijlaut, see Pereira Mat. Med., vol. ii, pt. i, p. 21. [C. P. S.] It frequently forms the principal winter food of the reindeer in Lapland. It is nutrient and demulcent. Cladonia ptxidata, {Cup Moss.) Note.—The fruit-bearing "Podetia" form turbinate structures carrying the apothecia in the margin. It contains a considerable amount of gummy or starchy matter, and has been much used as a demulcent in various chest aflections, as whooping cough.