22 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE LIMBS. CLASS v.—ARREST OF DEVELOPMENT. ABSENCE OF THE TIBIA. 3506. Congenitally Deformed Leg and Foot, removed by amputation from a girl 9 years old. The tibia is absent, the fibula is seen to be large, strong, and well formed ; it articulated above v^ith the external condyle of the femur, belovt^, with a large bone representing the os calcis, astragalus, and scaphoid. The cuboid, middle, and external cuneiform bones are well formed, but there is no internal cuneiform. The four outer metatarsal bones are normal, but the first is very small and ill developed, its base articulating almost entirely with the second metatarsal bone. The phalanges are normal. See Lucas Ward Boole, vol. v, p. 286. 3507. Congenital Deformity of the Right Leg and Foot. Removed from an infant 8 months old. The tibia Is absent. The fibula is large, strong, and curved, with the convexity projecting outward and backward; it Is flattened antero-posterlorly. Above, it was loosely attached to, and articulated with, the external condyle of the femur: below, it is connected by means of a mass of cartilage with the OS calcis, and what appears to be the astragalus. The os calcis is well developed. The quadrangular flattened bone which articulates with the anterior half of the upper surface of the os calcis may be presumed from its position to represent the astragalus. Projecting upward from its upper surface is a small mass of cartilage, which may be a rudiment of the epiphysis of the tibia. The scaphoid, cuboid, and cuneiform bones are represented by a mass of cartilage having grooves on its surface, which indicate subdivisions. There are six metatarsal bones and seven toes. The four outer metatarsal bones with their corresponding toes have a normal appearance and arrangement, thus indicating the second metatarsal bone as probably corresponding to the great toe. This bone is large and widened out at its distal end, where there are two articular facets for two well formed toes. The innermost metatarsal bone with its toe would thus appear to be the supernumerary one ; It is attached rather to the inner part of the foot. Before the separation of the soft parts there was a wide interval between the three inner and four outer toes ; all the toes were well formed. The foot was turned Inward and at right angles to the leg. Thei-e were some depressions and linear indentations of the integument of the leg. The child was otherwise well formed, of good size, and healthy. It made a good recovery. See Sittvell Ward Book, vol. v, p. 341. 3508. A Leg, presenting a congenital absence of the Tibia. The fibula, which articulated with the external condyle of the femur, is well formed. The foot is placed in a position of extremely exaggerated equino varus, so that the sole looks directly upwards. The os calcis is well foi-med, and articulates with the lower end of the fibula. The only other tai'sal bones developed are the cuboid and external cuneiform. Three metacarpal bones are present. The extensors and flexors of the existing toes are normal at their insertions, but many of the muscles usually attached to the tibia arise from the fibula. The patella was absent, and the lower end of the femur greatly increased in size, apparently by an overgrowth of the condyle in a lateral direction. Prom a girl aged 12 years, whose hands were also deformed by the absence of the middle digit. With t lie except ion that a sister had a similar condition of the hands, there was no faiuilj- history of any detonnitj. Casts of the leg and hauds are preserved, Kos. 71 and 88.