246 BOTANICAL SPECIMENS. Catasetum tridentatum, and other sp. Flower (male). Note.—This plant is trimorphic ; t,he female was called Monachaiithus viridis; while a hermaphrodite form is Mtjanthus barhatns. Cycnoches Warczewichzi. Note.—Tliis is dimorphic, the male flowers (smallj form a raceme, hut the (larger) female flowers occur singly on the same plant. Vanilla planifolia, Andr. Fruit. (Vanilla Podfi.) Note.—Mexican vanilla is most esteemed. The odorous principle, vanillin, can he made artificially. It is the methylic aldehyde of pyrocatechuic acid. On the Continent vanilla has been used in hysteria, &c.; but its chief use in this country is to flavour chocolate and confec- tionery. For fig. of plant, see Bentley and Trimen, Med. Plants, tab. 272. [C. P. S.] Angej:cum feageans, Auh. Th. (FaJian.) Leaves. Note.—The leaves are used for malving tea in Mauritius, &c. It is imported into France from Reunion, and used for pulmonary complaints. The perfume resembles that of the Tonquin bean. EULOPHIA campesteis, Liyidl. Roots. (Sdlih miiri.) Note.—The tubercular roots of several species of Eulophia furnish salep. Royal salep is supposed to be tlie bulb of a liliaceous plant. For fig., see P. J. [1], vol. xvii, pp. 500, 501. Salep is esteemed in the East as an aphrodisiac, but in this country it is simply used as a demulcent and emollient drink. It is best prepared by mixing 1 drachm of powdered salep with 1| drachms of sjiirits of wine, then adding 4 pint of water suddenly, and boiling the mixtvu-e. [C. P. S.j SCITAMINE^ (Zingiberese). CUBCUMA LONGA, L. (Turmeric.) Rhizome. Note.—The Chinese is most esteemed, but is seldom met with in the European marlieta. Madras turmeric frequently consists entirely of round rhiz:>mes. It is a large kind. Bengal turmeiic is of a deeper tint, and is preferred for dyeing. Java turmeric is usually dusted with its own powder, and is not of a very brilliant colour when broken. The round rhizomes are the central portion or first year's growth, the long rhizomes arc the lateral rhizomes developed afterwards from the central one. For fig. of plant, see Bentley and Trimen, Med. Plants, tab. 269. [C. P. S.] " The substance called Turmeric consists of the old tubers of C. longa, and perhaps of some other species. The powder is used as a mild aromatic, and for other medicinal purposes in India. It enters into the composition of curry powder, and is used as a chemical test for the presence of alkalies, which change its yellow colour to a reddish-bro«n." {Treas. of Pot.) Curcuma angustifolu, Roxb. Starch. (Curcuma Starch, Bast Indian Arroivroot, Tilcor or Tililiar.) Note.—According to Hanbury this sttirch is not known as a special kind in the English market, the East Indian arrowroot of the London drug sales being the starch of a Marunta. Curcuma starch is figured in Pereira, Mat. Med., vol. ii, pt. ii, frontisjjiece, fig. 12. It is distinguished from all other starches (except plantain starch, fig. 2, I. c, which is rarely qidto white) by its flatness, and by having the hilum at the small end. [0. P. S.J Amojium Geana Paeadisi, L. Seeds. (Attare, Malaguetta Pepper or Grains of raradisc.) Note.—"They arc imported from Guinea, and have a warm, slightly camphor-like taste, and arc used Illegally to give a fictitious strength to spirits and beer." {Treas. of Pot.)