156 SERIES XXX. ACCESSOEY OEGAKS OF GENERATION IN THE MALE. 1126. Vesiculse Seminales, with the terminations of the Vasa Deferentia, dried after being filled with mercury. The preparation shows, especially, the outer form of the vesicute, the acutely angular junction of their ducts with the vasa deferentia, the small and gradually decreasing size of the common or ejacula- tory ducts, and the minutely reticular or sacculated construction of the walls of the vesiculse. 31. 1 1127. A vertical section of a similar preparation. The closely convoluted and branching tube of which each vesicula is formed appears in section like a many chambered and sacculated pouch. 31. 2 1128. Sections of Vesicula Seminales and Vasa Deferentia. The mucous mem- brane of the vasa deferentia has a sacculated arrangement, and leaves only a very fine canal within its projecting folds. A similar structure, with apparently finer reticulations, exists in the mucous membrane of the vesiculaj seminales. 31. 3 1129. Vesicula Seminalis and the termination of the Vas Deferens, dried after injection with wax. 31. 4 1130. A Prostate Gland, with the adjacent parts. The vesiculae seminales and vasa defei-entia are dissected from the posterior part of the urinary bladder, and turned downwards, so as to show the posterior or middle lobe of the prostate gland. 31. 6 1131. A vertical antero-posterior section of a Prostate Gland, showing its relations to the portion of the urethra round which it is placed, and the gradual decrease of the thickness of the layer of muscular fibres as one traces it from the neck of the bladder along the prostatic part of the urethra, 31. 7 1132. Prostate Glands from children of the ages of 4 and 10 years. 31. 8 1133. A Penis, with the Prostate and Cowper's Glands. The three lobes of the prostate gland are shown from behind, and bristles are passed along the cjaculatory ducts, traversing the prostate into the urethra at the sides of the caput gallinaginis. Other bristles are passed into the urethra through the long ducts of Cowper's glands. 31. 9 1134. An Urethra laid open, and with bristles passed into the lacunae or orifices of gland ducts on its walls. Fifty-three lacunar are thus indicated ; the greater part of them being on the superior wall of the spongy portion of the urethra, and on the inferior wall of its bulbous and membranous portions. 31. 10 1135. Cast in wax of an Urethra, to show its average length, and the propor- tionate sizes of its several parts. 31. 11