102 CTTA CEM part to the fire, and then apply shellac and sulphur, molted to- gether. This holds firmly. CEMENT, for joining Steam- Pipes.—Boiled linseed oil, litharge, and white lead, mixed up to a pro- per consistence, and applied to each side of a piece of flannel, or linen, and placed between the pieces be- fore they are joined. This will effectually join broken stones, and the seams of a water cistern, &c. CEMENT, for joining Steam Joints.—Sublimed sulphur, 1 oz.; sal-ammoniac, 2 ozs.; fine cast- iron turnings, 1 lb. Mix, and keep dry. When it is to he used, mix with it twenty times its hulk of clean iron turnings or filings, and grind all in a mortar. Mix to a proper consistence with water. CEMENT, for repairing Cop- per Boilers.—Slix powdered lime and ox-blood intimately, and apply while fresh. CEMENT, for mending broken Vessels.—To half a pint of milk put a sufficient quantity of vinegar, in order to curdle it; separate the curd from the whey, and mix the whey with the whites of four eggs, baking the whole well together; when mixed, add a little quick- lime through a sieve until it acquires the consistency of a paste. With this cement broken vessels or cracks can be repaired; it dries quickly, and resists the action of fire and water. CEMENT, JAPANESE.—In- timately mix the best powdered rice flour with a little cold water, then gradually add boiling water until a proper consistence is ac- quired, being careful to keep it well stirred all the time; lastly, it must he boiled for one minute in a clean saucepan. This glue is beautifully white, and nearly trans- parent, for which reason it is well adapted for fancy paper work, which requires a strong and colour- less cement. CEMENT, never yielding.— Calcine oyster shells, pound and sift them through a sieve, and grind them on a fiat smooth stone with a muller till reduced to the finest powder, then take the whites of eggs and form the whole into a paste. With it join the pieces of china or glass, and press them to- gether for six or eight minutes. This cement will stand both heat and water, and will never give way, even if the article should fall to the ground. CEMENT to mend Stones.—Mix ground white lead with as much powdered red lead to make it as thick as putty. Or, mix equal weights of red lead and white lead with boiled linseed oil, to a proper consistence. Effectual, however large the stone. CENTAURY.—See Robinson's Herbal. It is a valuable tonic, promoting digestion, appetite, des- troying fever, and worms. Infuse in warm water, or in brandy. CEPHALIC SNUFF.—Take half an ounce each of rosemary, sage, lilies of the valley, and the tops of sweet marjoram, with a drachm each of asarabacca root, lavender flowers and nutmeg. Reduce the whole to a fine powder, and take it like common snuff for the relief of the head, &c. CERATE, White.—Take of olive oil, J pint; white wax, 4 ozs.; melt them together, and stir till the cerate is quite cold. This is a good soft dressing for blisters, cuts, &c., where the drawing plaster generally employed for that pur- pose is too irritating. Ball. CHALK OINTMENT.—It is good for burns. Powder some chalk, and mix with lard. CHAMPAGNE.—Raisins, 8 lbs.; sugar, 20 lbs.; water, 9 or