THE COLD WATER CURE. 457 the patient from pain, then, the cure by the cold water method is radical! But if to he radical, a cure is sought which is to prevent a return of the disease, in cases of parties exposing themselves to the same influences which originated the disease, then neither this nor any other means of treatment will produce such an effect. As to danger from the cold wa- ter treatment there can be no ac- tive mode of treatment more inno- cent, with reference to its present or future effects, if applied with judgment; hut if not, it may be followed by very dangerous conse- quences. The water used must be cold and fresh, and soft; that is, it must have the quality of dissolving, and therefore must be cold, and with- out any mineral properties. To prove its fitness, linen cloth wash- ed in it must become white, and vegetables dressed in it must be tender. The Sweating Process is the most disagreeable part of the treat- ment ; but it is the most important, and the benefits derived from it compensate for the unpleasantness of its duration. The patient is enclosed, naked, in a large coarse blanket, the legs extended, and the arms kept close to the body; the blanket is then wound round it, as tight as pos- sible, turning; it well under at the feet; over this is placed, and well tucked in a small feather bed, sometimes two; and then a sheet and a counterpane are spread over all; thus, the patient resembles a mummy. Somelimes when per- spiration is difficult, the head, ex- cept the face, is covered. Perspi- ration begins in about 45 minutes, and then the irritation goes off. The patient should lie perspiring at least one hour. The windows in the room must be opened, and a glass of cold water given every half hour, to refresh the patient, and promote perspiration. If there is headache, a damp cloth may be wrapped round the head. This process does not weaken the pa- tient ; he loses neither weight nor strength, but improves in personal appearance, even under several processes. The necessary duration of the process niay be known by profuse perspiration on the patient’s face. The person' should be washed well in warm or tepid water. The sweating process must be used with great care, and the constitution of the patient must be considered. M. Priessnitz, of Silesia, practised and recommended the cold bath immediately afterwards. ‘ Strange as it may appear to many,’ says Dr. Graham, ‘ I consider the deter- mination towards the skin, induced by the perspiring blankets, to be a great advantage, prior to the use of the cold bath; because the in- ternal organs are thereby relieved, and the shock has quite a different effect on them from what it would have if they were not first soothed, and the skin relieved.’ By this process internal diseases are often brought to the surface, • and pass away; the nervous sys- tem is wonderfully strengthened; and skin diseases are annihilated. The sweating contains morbid matter. M. Priessnitz justly re- marks,— Covered and swaddled with clothes, in our darkness we do not see that if the corrupt and dirty matter from daily insensible per- spiration, or from sensible sweat- ing, is not carefully cleared from the skin by washing, it must in- crease and attach itself to the skin, close the pores, and obstruct the ex- cretion so indispensable to health,