H nAi 180 for two or three weeks. Gargle the mouth every morning and night with a teaspoonful of this tincture diluted with an equal quantity of rose-water. The ad- dition of a little tincture of myrrh will render it more effectual as a tonic for the gums. H.—This Letter is often aspira- ted when it should not be, and not Aspirated. Not to be aspirated. Heart Art, skill. Hand And, a conjunc. Hall All, every one. Halter Alter, to change. Hale Ale Ham Am, (to be). Hat At, prep. Hare Are, (to be). HeU Ell, a measure. Hedge Edge. Her Err, to do ivrong. Hill Ill, unwell. Hear Ere, Ear. Hard Ardor. Cowherd Coward. Words in which the h is not as- pirated, or is dropped:— Spelt Pronomced Heir air Herb erb Historian istorian Historical istorical Honest onnest Honour onnur Hour our Humble umbl. Common words in which the h is often wrongly dropped. ^“Pro- nounce THE h STRONGLY :— Horse, house,happy, heaven, head, home, holy, hurt, heat, habit, hos- pital, hostler, humour, &c. Words which are often wrong- ly aspirated :—Angel, amiabie, am, anecdote, animal, appetite, earth, enemy, elegant, eloquent, elephant, ever, image, imitate, infant, opulent, odd, oracle, ora- tory ugly.—Never pronounce these with h, as hanael, hamiable, §c. HADDOCKS, or Whitings, to broil.—Gut and wash them ; dry them; rub a little vinegar over them, to keep the skin on; dust well with flour; rub the gridiron with butter; let the gridiron be very hot; turn the fish two or three times. When served, lay pickles round them, melted butter, or cockle sauce. Rf Another way.—Having cleaned them, put them in a Dutch oven before a quick fire; when the skins rise, take them off; rub egg over them, and strew them with a few bread crumbs, dredge with flour; when you have turned? them, rub butter over them; turn till they are done enough; lay round them cockles, muscles, or red cabbage. Use shrimp sauce, or melted butter, as you please. Rf. HADDOCK, to boil.—The same as for Cod.—Haddocks cured and dried, &c., you may buy cheaper than you can do them. HAIR-BRUSHES AND COMBS, to clean.—Dissolve pot- ash in boiling water, and rub the brush with soap; dip the brush into the solution, and draw it through the comb frequently, taking care to keep the wood dry ! Lastly, rinse the hair in cold water, and dry. HAIR, to dye.—Hair may be changed from a red, gray, or other colour, to a brown or deep black, by a solution of silver. The silver is dissolved in aquafortis, and then largely diluted with water— rain-water is the best. An emi- nent physician says that the hair will assume a darker hue by hav- ing it cut close, and passing a leaden comb through it every morning and evening. HAIR OILS.—Olive oil, 2 ozs.; oil of lavender 1 drachm; otto of