340 QUI QTJI together; boil and clarify them over a clear fire, skimming well; then add 14 lb. of sugar ; cause as much more to be brought to a candy height, and poured in hot; stir the whole till cold; spread it on plates, and cut it into cakes. QUINCE JELLY. Cut in pieces a sufficient quantity of quinces; draw off the juice by boil- ing them in water, in which they ought only to swim, no more. When fully done, drain and have ready clarified sugar, to which put one spoonful to two of the juice; bring the sugar to tha souffle ; add the juice, and finish. When it drops from the skimmer it is enough; take it off, and pot it. QUINCE PUDDING.—Scald the quinces tender; pare thin; scrape off the pulp; mis with sugar very sweet, and add a little ginger and cinnamon. To a pint of cream, put 3 or 4 yolks of eggs, and stir it into the quiuces till they are of a good thickness; butter a dish, pour it in, and bake it. QUINCE SEEDS.—Of these bandoline is made—a cement for the hair; see bandoline, page 43. It is also used as an emollient and sheathing application to crack- ed lips and nipples. QUINCE WINE.—Wipe off the fur, take out the cores of ripe quinces; bruise them and press them, adding to every gallon of juice 2 j- lbs. of fine sugarstir to- gether till dissolved; put it in the cask, and when it has done fer- menting, stop it close ; let it stand six months before it is bottled ; keep it two or three years, and it will be the better. QUINCES, red, to preserve whole.—Core and scald six fine quinces ; drain; and when cold, pare them; take their weight in sugar, and a pint of water to eveiy lb. of sugar; boil it to a syrup, and skim; put in the quinces to stand all night; when red enough, boil them as marmalade with two basinfuls of jelly ; when as soft as a straw can be run through them, put them into glasses; let the liquor boil to a jelly, then pour it over the quinces. QUININE.—It is obtained by frequently boiling the yellow Peru- vian bark (cinchona) in water, acidulated with sulphuric acid. It retains in a concentrated form the tonic and febrifuge properties of the Peruvian bark from which it is obtained; and as a remedy is administered to the same cases. It agrees better with an irritable stomach than the bark. The dose is from one to five grains three or four times a day. It is valuable in ague, given du- ring the intermission. It may be made into a pill, made with con- serve of roses, or mucilage, or in liquid, as water, if previously dis- solved in elixir of vitriol, or dilu- ted sulphuric acid. It is valuable in tic doloureux, St. Vitus’s dance, in mortification, bleedings in dis- charges attended with great debil- ity, as diarrhoeas, dysentery, ob- stinate ulcers, scrofula, &c. To stop intermittent fever, take sulphate of quinine, thirty-two grains ; simple syrup, one pound, mixed. A spoonful to be taken every four or six hours. For in- termittents and debility, dissolve twelve grains of sulphate of qui- nine in half a pint of good Made- ira wine, or infusion of roses, one ounce three times a day. _ The tincture consists of six grains of sulphate of quinine, and spirits of wine, one ounce; take a teaspoon- ful twice or thrice a day. From five to ten grains of quinine, taken two or three times daily, has cured tic doloureux. It has also been successful in head and toothache.