SEA 379 sou course of the day ; and of the lat- ter, a quantity containing about 15 or 20 drops of the nitric acid may be taken every five or six hours. The vitriolic acid, the Peruvian bark, and the red sul- phate of iron, are likewise very valuable remedies in the far ad- vanced stage of this disease. The vapour bath of bitter decoc- tion is very appropriate. A de- coction of sassafras and sarsaparilla is very useful—to he taken freely; add the juice of lemon. Steam affected parts with a decoction of hitter herbs. Let the diet be vege- table, consisting chiefly of milk. Emetics are sometimes necessary; tonics always. SCURVY.—Take 2 ozs. each of field daisies and dandelion roots. Boil in 3 quarts of water down to 1 quart. Take a tea-cupful night and morning. SCURVY.—John Wesley says, “Live on turnips for a month. Or, take tar-water, morning and evening, for three months. Or, 3 spoonfuls of nettle-juice every morning. Or, decoction of burdock. Boil 3 ozs. of the dried root in 2 quarts of water to 3 pints. Take | a pint daily. A decoction of the leaves (boiling 1 leaf 4 minutes in a quart of water), has the same effect. Or, take a cupful of the juice of goose grass in a morning, fasting, for a month ; it is frequently call- ed hariff, or cleavers. I have known many persons cured by it. Or, pound into a pulp, of Seville oranges, sliced, rind and all, and powder sugar, equal quantities. Take a tea-spoonful three or four times a day. Or, squeeze the juice of half a Seville orange into a pint of milk oyer the fire. Sweeten the whey with loaf sugar, and drink it every morning new milk warm. To make any whey, milk should he skimmed after it is boiled. Or, pour 3 quarts of boiling wa- ter on a quart of ground malt; stir them well, and let the mixture stand close covered for four hours; strain it off, and use this as com- mon drink : in hot weather brew this fresh every day. It will hard- ly fail. Or. take morning and evening a spoonful or two of lemon juice and sugar. It is a precious remedy, and well tried. Water and garden cresses, mus- tard, and juice of scurvy grass help in a cold scurvy. When there is a continual salt taste in the mouth, take a pint of lime-water morning and evening.” SCURVY in the Gimis.—Make a strong infusion of sage, and dis- solve in it a little alum. By means of a cloth apply it to the gums. Burnt alum, mixed with honey, and the juice of celandine, is very good for scorbutic gums, and it whitens the teeth. SEA KALE.—Trim and wash it, and tie it in bundles. Boil it well in equal parts of milk and water. It can scarcely be boiled too much. Drain, and serve on toast. SEALING-WAX.—The base of sealing-wax is the best resin, 3 parts; shellac, 2 parts; Venice turpentine, 1 part. Colour with vermilion for the best. Melt the varnish first, and then add the colouring matter.—For black, use the best lamp black.—Other colours may be made by varying the pig- ments, using Venetian red, red lead, or bole ; or mixing vermilion with Venetian red. SEALING-WAX, Blue. Shellac, 2 parts; smalts, 1 part; yellow resin, 2 parts. Powder, and mix carefully with heat. SEA-SICKNESS.—In all or-