454 FAMILY DYEING RECEIPTS. QZt THE NEWEST MODES. ELA FAW BLACK for WORSTED or WOOLLEN.—Water, 3 gallons; bichromate of potass, § oz. Boil the goods in this 40 minutes; then wash in cold water. Then take 3 gallons of water, add 9 ozs. of logwood, 3 ozs. of fustic, and one or two drops of D. O. V. or Double Oil of Vitriol; boil the goods 40 minutes, and wash out in cold wa- ter. This will dye from 1 to 2 lbs. of cloth, or a lady’s dress, if of a dark colour, as brown, claret, &c. iggf All coloured dresses with cotton warps should be previously steeped one hour in sumach li- quor ; and then saddened in 3 gal- lons of clean water, with one cup- ful of nitrate of iron for 30 minutes, then it must be well washed and dyed as first stated. BLACK for SILK.—Dye the same as Black for Worsted; but previously steep the silk in the fol- lowing liquor. Scald 4 ozs. of log- wood, and J oz. of turmeric in a pint of boiling water. Then add 7 pints of cold water. Steep 30 or 40 minutes ; take out, and add 1 oz. of sulphate of iron, (or copper- as) dissolved in hot water; steep the silk 30 minutes longer. BROWN for WORSTED or WOOL.—Water, 3 gallons, bi- chromate of potass, f oz. Boil the goods in this 40 minutes. Wash out in cold water. Then take wa- ter, 3 gallons, 6 ozs. of peachwood, and 2 ozs. of turmeric. Boil the goods in this 40 minutes. Wash out. IMPERIAL BLUE/or SILK, WOOL, and WORSTED.—Wa- ter, 1 gallon; sulphuric acid, a wine-glassful; Imperial Blue, 1 tablespoonful, or more, according to the shade required. Put in the silk, worsted, or wool, and boil 10 minutes. Wash in a weak solu- tion of soap lather. SKY BLUE, for WORSTED and WOOLLEN.—Water, 1 gal- lon ; sulphuric acid, a wine-glass- ful ; glauber salts, or crystals, two table-spoonfuls; liquid extract of indigo, a teaspoonful; boil the goods about 15 minutes. Rinse in cold water. CLARET/or WOOL or WOR- STED.— A short way of dyeing the same. Water, 3 gallons; cudbear, 12 ozs.; logwood, 4 ozs.; old fustic, 4 ozs. ; alum, § oz. Boil the goods in it one hour. Wash. This will dye from 1 to 2 lbs. of material. CRIMSON/or WORSTED or WOOL.—Water, 3 gllons; paste Cochineal, 1 oz.; cream of tartar, 1 oz.; nitrate of tin, a wine-glass- ful. Boil your goods in this one hour. Wash out in cold water. Then in another vessel with 3 gal- lons of warm water, a cupful of ammonia, the whole well mixed. Put in the goods, and work well 15 minutes. For a bluer shade, add more ammonia. Then wash out. FAWN DRAB for SILK.—- Hot water, 1 gallon; Annotta li- quor, a wine-glassful; 2 ozs. each of sumach and. fustic. Add cop- peras liquor, according to the re- quired shade. Wash out.