MO DAN DAM of this tar to a mixture of slaked lime and powdered glass, passed through a flour-sieve, two parts of lime and one of glass, till the mix- ture is like thin plaster. It must he used immediately after being mixed, and no more of it should he mixed than will coat one square foot of wall, as it quickly becomes too hard for use. For a wall mere- ly damp, a coating one eighth of an inch thick is sufficient; but if the wall is wet, there must be a second coat. Plaster made of lime, hair, and plaster of Paris, may after- wards be laid on as a cement. DAMSON DUMPLINGS. — Line a basin with suitable crust, rolled thin, fill with damsons, and sugar, cover it with paste; boil in a cloth for an hour. Sauce ;— melted butter, milk or cream. DAMSON JELLY.—Proceed as in Cherry Jelly, which see. DAMSON PIE.—The same as Cherry Pie, which see. DAMSON PRESERVES. — Cut the damsons into pieces, and put them on the fire, with as much water as will cover them. When they are boiled, and the liquor strong, strain, and add to every pound of the damsons 1 lb. of re- fined sugar. Put one third of it into the liquor, put on the fire, and when it simmers, put in the dam- sons. Give one good boil, and take off for half an hour covered close. Set them on again, and simmer over the fire after turning them. Then put them in a basin, strew all the sugar that was left on them, and pour the hot liquor over them. Cover; let them stand till the next day, and then boil them up again till they are enough. Then put them in pots ; boil the liquor till it jellies, anil pour it upon them when almost cold. Put paper over them, and lie them up close. ^'ur- DAMSON PUDDING.—Four or five table-spoonfuls of flour, three eggs beaten, a pint of milk, made into batter. Stone II lbs. of damsons, put them and 6 o/.s. of sugar into the batter, and boil in a buttered basin for one hour and a half. DAMSON WINE.-Take seven or eight pounds of fruit to a gallon of water. Bruise the damsons, and pour the water boiling upon them. Let it stand two or three days. Draw off the liquor, and to every gallon of liquor, add three pounds of sugar. Barrel, and stop it close. It should be kept several months before using it. DANDELION. This very valuable plant is well known. It is diuretic, tonic, and aperient, and has a direct action in removing obstructions of the liver, kidneys, and other viscera. It is peculiarly valuable in all liver complaints, derangement of the digestive or- gans, and in dropsical affections. Had not this plant been so com- mon and so cheap, it would be prized like gold ! An infusion or decoction may be made of the roots and leaves. But the extract is the best, thus prepared:—Take up the roots in September, clean them; bruise in a mortar, and press out the juice; strain, and put it upon a plate in a warm room to evapo- rate, and render it thick and solid. Dose ; from a scruple to a draehid three times a day. Dandelion has cured liver com- plaints when all other means have failed. “The more dandelion is used, the more certain proof will it affordofitsutility.” Pr.J. Johnson. DANDELION BEER.—Dan- delion root, | lb. to 1 gallon of wa- ter; boil well, and when cooled new milk warm, add 1 lb. sugar, 1 oz. ginger, a lemon, and 1 oz. cream of tartar. Add. a little yeast. It