117 COL COL able, from (lie stimulating effects of tlie salt. The most suitable time for bath- ing is morning; because in the latter part of the day the body be- comes too enfeebled to bear the cold shock. A dose of cayenne, ginger, or any of the pure stimu- lants, taken before the cold bath, will keep up the heat of the body, and promote the reaction and de- termination of blood to the surface, which causes a refreshing glow. Cold bathing is inadmissible in inflammatory diseases, fluxes, dis- eases of the breast, difficult breath- ing, short and dry coughs, preg- nancy, palsy, diseases of the skin, &c. The Cold Bath is injurious in all cases where immediate reac- tion docs not follow its use. If it produces chills, depression, lang- our, headache, and blueness of tiie lips, it should not be used. After leaving the bath, the body .should be rubbed with a flesh-brush, or coarse towels. Cold bathing is never beneficial unless folioweef by a warm glow of the skin. COLD CREAM. — Take the juice of house-leek, a few drops of camphorated spirit; melt sper- maceti, white wax, and olive oil; then beat iD the spirit and juice. Excellent for sore lips. Gu. COLD PUNCH, or COOL CUP.—Loaf sugar, 9 ozs.; rub each lump over a lemon to collect the flavour of the lemon rind; then squeeze the lemon juice over it, and add half a pint of rum or gin, and grated nutmeg. Infuse twenty minutes, and add 3 pints of cold spring water. Add a lump of ice. COLIC.—This is a spasmodic affection of the bowels, especially of the colon. It begins with great pain in the bowels, especially just under the navel, nausea, retching, and vomiting. The pain is of a sharp twisting character, very dis- tressing. This affection is caused by wind, disagreeing food, acrid bile, obstinate costiveness, worms, noxious metallic vapours, &c. Flatulent Colic. Give a tea-cup- ful of the Anti-Spasmodic Tinc- ture, in a cupful of pepper-mint tea; or a teaspoonful of Turkey rhubarb, and one of magnesia, with a pinch of Cayenne pepper; this will often afford relief. Ap- ply fomentations or friction to the abdomen. If the bowels are not operated upon, give castor oil, from half an ounce; add also a simple injection. The Bilious Colic is more severe. It is known from the former by a bitter taste in the mouth, great thirst, fever, vomiting of bilious matter, headache, and great cos- tiveness. The remedies must be the same, but stronger and bris- ker. The Neutralizing Mixture must not be forgotten; give also the Stimulating Injection. COLIC, Bilious.—Drink warm lemonade. I know nothing like it. Or, give a spoonful of sweet oil eveiy hour. This cured one at the point of death.— Wesley. COLIC.—Drink strong Camo- mile and Ginger Tea.—Or, from 30 to 40 drops of Oil of Aniseed.— Or, apply outwardly a bag of hot oats, or bran.—Or, steep the legs in hot water.—Or, take as much Daffy’s Elixir as will purge. Very effectual. Wesley. COLIC Ball for Horses.—Pow- dered opium, half a drachm; Cas- tile soap and camphor, of each 2 drachms; of cayenne pepper, 1 drachm ; ginger, 1 drachm. Make into a ball with liquorice powder and treacle. If the horse is con- stipated as well, add to the ball 5 or 6 drops of croton oil. COLLEGE PUDDING. — Grate the crumb of a two-penny