191 HAM HAM day for a fortnight. This is for a ham weighing 10 lbs. HAMS, to keep. — The most effectual way is to tie them closely in cotton or canvass bags. Hang in a dry, cool, and well ventilated room when bagged. HAM AND EGGS FRIED.— Cut thin slices, place in the pan, and fry carefully. Do not burn. When done, break the eggs into the fat; pepper slightly; keep them whole; do not turn them. Ham Rashers may be served with spinach, and poached eggs. HAMS, to cook.-Scrape it clean. Do not put into cold nor boiling water. Let the water become warm; then put the ham in. Simmer or boil lightly for five or six hours; take out, and shave the rind off. Rub granulated su- gar into the whole surface of the ham, so long as it can be made to receive it. Place the ham in a baking-dish with a bottle of cham- pagne or prime cider. Baste occa- sionally with the juice, and let it bake an hour in a gentle heat. A slice from a nicely cured ham thus cooked is enough to animate the ribs of death.—American Receipt. Or, having taken off the rind, strew bread crumbs or raspings over it, so as to cover it; set it be- fore the fire, or in the oven till the bread is crisp and brown. Gar- nish with carrots, parsley, &c. The water should simmer all the time, and never boil fast. HAM EXTRACT.-Cut away from a ham all the skin and fat; then take the meat from the bone and put it into a large saucepan, having plenty of water; add two large carrots, and three onions sliced, a handful of sweet basil and parsley, three cloves, and a table- spoonful of mushroom powder; stew over the fire for an hour, then take out the bone, and put in the meat. Set the saucepan, well covered, on a slow fire, for two hours: stir the ingredients well, taste the flavour, and judge of the thickness. Stew till the liquor, when cold, is a very stiff jelly. It must be put through a sieve, to clear it from the vegetables and meat. A table-spoonful of this extract is sufficient to flavour a tureenful of winter pea or carrot soup, and a tea-spoonful in melted butter makes an admirable sauce for a roast fowl. To keep it some time, add salt. HAM and CHICKEN PAT- TIES.—Mince finely 1| lb. of cold boiled or roasted chicken, and 1 lb. of lean ham. Put some good gravy to the minced meat, (see Gravy) with a little cayenne, or white pepper, grated lemon peel, and a squeeze of lemon. Stir till hot. Fill the moulds lined with paste, cover with crust, and bake. Ham and Veal Patties may be made the same way. Some mix a little cream with it. HAM PIE.—Slice cold boiled ham half inch thick; make a good crust; cover the dish, and put a layer of ham ; clean a young fowl; put pepper and salt in the belly, and rub a little outside ; lay the fowl on the ham ; boil eggs, put in the yolks, cover all with ham; put on pepper, and cover with crust. Bake, and when done, fill with rich beef gravy. HAM POTTED.—Take 2 lbs. of cold lean ham; 1 lb. of cold roast veal. Cut, and pound very fine, adding 12 ozs. of butter, ground mace, nutmeg, and a little cayenne pepper. Pot, and cover with butter.—Chicken may be potted with ham in the same way. HAM SAUCE.—When a ham is almost done with, pick the re- maining meat from the bone ; beat the meat and bone to a mash with