PEA PEA 293 gar, 13 lbs.; honey, 3 lbs.; white tartar, in tine powder, 2 ozs.; 30 or 40 pcachos; then ferment without the peaches, and add a gallon of brandy. Put into the vat; and the day after, (before the peaches are put in) take the stones from them ; break them and the kernels; then put them and the pulp into the vat, and proceed with the general process. PEACH and APRICOT WINE.—Pare and stone peaches and nectarines; slice thin, and pour upon them 1| gallons of wa- ter, and a quart of sherry; sim- mer the whole gently till the fruit becomes soft; pour the liquid in- to another vessel containing more peaches sliced, to stand 12 hours. Strain out the whole of the liquid, and put into a cask to fei’mcnt. Add 1-i lb. of sugar to each gallon. Boil 1 oz. of cloves in a quart of sherry wine; add to the whole. To give it a peculiar flavour boil oz. of mace, and oz. of nutmegs in a quart of. sherry, and pour it into the wine when fermenting; it should be poured in hot. PEACHES in Brandy. See Apricot, page 26. PEACHES, to dry. The same as Apricots, page 26. PEACH JELLY. The same as Apricot Jelly, page 26. PEACHES, to preserve. The same as Apricots, page 25. PEARL POWDER.—Dissolve bismuth in nitro muriatic acid, and gradually add cold distilled water, and upon it a beautiful white powder will be precipitated. PEARL WATER,/or the face. —Put £ lb. of the best Windsor soap, scraped very fine, into a gal- lon of boiling water. Stir it well for some time, and let it cool. Add a pint of rectified spirit of wine, and § oz. oil of rosemary. Stir well. The Italians call this compound Tincture of Pearls. It is a good cosmetic, and will remove freckles. PEARS, Baked.—These need not be of a fine sort; but some taste better than others, and often those that are least fit to eat raw. Wipe, but do not pare, and lay them on tin plates, and bake them in a slow oven. When enough to bear it, flatten them with a silver spoon. When done through, put them on a dish. They should be baked three or four times gently. PEARS, Jargonelle, to preserve. —Pare them very thin, and sim- mer in thin syrup ; let them lie a day or two. Make the syrup richer, and simmer again; and repeat this till they are clear; then drain, and dry them in the sun or a cool oven a very little time. They may be kept in syrup and dried as wanted, which makes them more moist and rich. PEAR JELLY.—The large stew pears, previously stewed in the oven with a little water make good jelly. Or take jargonelle, or Erench pears, and boil them to a pulp; then boil gently over the fire with as much sugar as there is pulp for about twenty minutes, till it is moderately thick. Put in jars, and cover close. Gu. PEARS, Stewed. — Pare and halve, or quarter, large pears, ac- cording to their size; throw them into water, as the skin is taken off before they are divided, to prevent their turning black. Pack them round a stew-pan, and sprinkle as much sugar over as will make them sweet, and add lemon peel, a clove or two, and some allspice cracked ; cover them with water. Cover them close, and stew three or four hours; when tender, take them out, and pour the liquor over them. The stone pears may be done in the oven with sugar only.