13 ALE AIE and the last at night, when the fit is over. The dose should be often repeated,_ to prevent a return of the complaint. Or, when the fit is on, take an egg beaten up in a glass of brandy, and go to bed immediately. Hu. AIR.-—Impure air is highly charged with noxious gases. It is the chief cause of influenza, cholera, and fevers.—In crowded assemblies, the atmosphere soon becomes injurious. It is compu- ted that a man destroys the vital portion of a gallon of air per min- ute. Fish cannot live in impure water. Man cannot live health- fully in an impure atmosphere. Hence houses, chapels, churches, prisons, assembly rooms, &c. ought to be well ventilated.—Persons in- habiting towns should often walk into the country, for the purpose of obtaining pure air.—Pure air is essential to good health ; and just in proportion as the air we breathe becomes impure, the system be- comes unhealthy. If fresh air be necessary for those in health, it is still more so for the sick who often lose their lives for want of it. The notion that sick people must be kept very hot is so common, that one can scarcely enter the room of the sick, without being ready to faint, on account of the hot suffo- cating smell. How this must af- fect the sick any one may judge. No medicine is so beneficial and reviving to the sick as fresh air, if it be administered prudently.— The atmosphere of a sick room may be greatly purified and fresh- ened by sprinkling the floor fre- quently with vinegar, or any strong vegetable acid. Air:—To purify.—Powdered nitre and oil of vitriol, six drachms each. Mix, by adding one drachm of vitriol at a time. The vessel must be placed on some hot sub- stance, and the mixture stirred with a glass rod. Place in differ- ent parts of the room. This is excellent to prevent infection from Typhus and other fevers. Air :—Country superior to Town jLir.—“ If you examine,” says M. Pouchet, ‘‘the bodies of animals, which live in our towns, and in our houses, you will be astonished at the enormous quantity of starch contained in their respiratory or- gans. In birds you will find it even in the middle of their bones. Particles of soot, filaments of the different kinds of textures of which our clothes are made, are also found there in great abundance. But the farther the animal lives from a town, the more scarce be- come these bodies. In animals and buds living in the midst of forests, you will scarcely find any at all of them; in their case the respiratory apparatus is, on the contrary, filled with a large quan- tity of vegetable debris cldorophyl- Ice, &c. I have found in the lungs of man the same atmospheric cor- puscles as in animals. I found two persons who died in one of our Hospitals—a man and a woman— and whose lungs I inspected, a notable quantity of fecula, normal, or after pacification, particles of silica, and fragments of glass; fragments of painted wood of a beautiful red colour; debris of clothes, and a larva; of a miorosco- pic arachnis still alive.” ALABASTER, to clean.—Soap well and wash with hot water. If stained, apply fullers earth, pipe -clay, or whiting, for three or four hours, then wash off. If very dirty and stained, first wash with aquafortis diluted with water. ALE, FINE WELSH, to brew. —Pour fourty-two gallons of water hot, but not quite boiling on eight bushels of malt, cover and let it