378 SCU SOU if it is mixed with the pulverized hark of the root of bay-berry, and a little sweet oil. First, cleanse the tumour well with soap and wa- ter ; then apply the poultice. The extract of clover is very good for this purpose. It is made by boil- ing down the flour in water, and evaporating the liquid. Iodine has been highly recom- mended by many English and French physicians, as a specific remedy for scrofula ; and, for the very favourable results I have witnessed, in a great variety of cases, I am disposed to consider it to possess antiscrofulous proper- ties. The best preparation is the spirituous solution termed the Tincture of Iodine, which may be administered twice a day, in the dose of three to fifteen drops, in a wine-glassful of a decoction of marsh-mallow roots, or of Peru- vian bark, if the patient be in a debilitated stage. “ Devonport’s Syrup of iodide of quinine and iron is a ternary com- pound of marked efficacy, in cases of scrofula, and of bloodlessness, fancmnia.J It is borne well by the stomach, and not possessing the nauseous qualities of its con- stituents, is admirably adapted for children.”—Dr. Graham. The scrofulous patient must have a nourishing diet, plenty of exercise, and abundance of fresh pure air. SCROFULA, OR KING’S EVIL.—Take as much cream of tartar as lies on a shilling every morning and evening.—Or, drink for six weeks half a pint of strong decoction of devil’s bit. Or, make a leaf of dried burdock into a pint of tea; take half a pint twice a day for four months. I have known this cure hundreds. Wesley. SCURVY.—This disease arises from a depraved state of the blood, which induces general debility, and a corruption of all the fluid’s. It is characterized by extreme diminution of vitality, such as a very pale and bloated complexion, spongy gums, livid spots on the skin, offensive breath, swelling of the legs, foul ulcers, foetid urine, weakness, &c. This disease arises from the want of fresh provisions, and a due quantity of vegetables; probably assisted by the prevalency of cold and moisture, and also such other causes as depress the nervous en- ergy, as indolence, confinement, neglect of cleanliness, much labour and fatigue, sadness, despondency, &c. A preternatural saline state of the fluids is assigned by Dr. Cullen as its proximate cause. The reason that salted meat is so productive of scurvy is, because it is drained of its nutritious juices, which run off in brine, its fibres being at the same time hardened, and rendered more difficult of di- gestion. Treatment.—Abstain from salt as much as possible. A diet of fresh vegetables, and a beverage • strongly impregnated with the juice of lemons, oranges, and the sub-acid fruits, are more efficacious in the cure of this disease than the most powerful anti-scorbutic med- icines. The essences of malt and spruce have likewise been found of great service, probably from the quantity of fixed air they contain. When lemon or orange-juice can- not be obtained, nitre dissolved in vinegar, in the proportion of an oz. of the former to a quart of the lat- ter, has been found to afford the best substitute ; water acidulated with the nitric acid, is, perhaps, not less efficacious: from 1 to 2 ozs. or more of the former may be given three or lour times in tho