PIL pil 311 in a slow oven, half an hour before it is served that it may he properly dried. Turkey instead of fowl makes a richer dish. PILLS, Antibilious.—Take of compound extract of colocynth, two scruples; extract of jalap, one scruple; calomel, one scruple; ex- tract of scammony, one scruple; oil of cloves, ten drops. Mix and make into twenty pills. One or two is sufficient for a dose. PILLS, Aperient.—Take four drachms of Castile soap, and the same quantity of soccotrine aloes, make it into pills with a sufficient quantity of ^yrup. Two or three may be taken when costive. PILLS, Aperient.—Take four drachms of the extract of jalap, the same quantity of vitriolated tartar, and form it into pills with syrup of ginger; five of these pills is suf- ficient for a purge, hut, to keep the body gently open, one may he ta- ken night and morning. PILLS, Useful Aperient.— Take of compound rhubarb pill a drachm and one scruple, of pow- dered ipecacuanha, six grains, and of extract of hyoscyamus one scruple. Mix and beat into a mass, and divide into twenty-four pills. Take one, or two, or, if of a very costive habit, three at bed-time. For persons requiring a more pow- erful purge, the same formula, with ten grains of compound ex- tract of colocynth, will form a good purgative pill. The mass receiv- ing this addition must be divided into 30 instead of 24 pills. PILLS for a Bad Cough.— Compound ipecacuanha powder, half a drachm ; fresh dried squills, ten grains; sulphate of ammonia- cum, ten grains ; sulphate of quin- ine, six grains; treacle, sufficient quantity to make a mass. Divide into twelve pills ; one to be taken night and morning. PILL, Composing.—Take of pu- rified opium, ten grains; Castile soap, half a drachm. Beat them together, and form the whole into twenty pills. When a quieting draught will not sit on the stomach, one, two, or three of these pills may be taken as occasion requires. PILLS, Female.—Take of aloes, one drachm ; calomel, one scruple. Make into twenty pills. One or two is sufficient for a dose. PILL, Foetid.—Assafoetida, half an ounce; simple syrup sufficient to form it into pills. In hysteric complaints, three or four pills may be taken twice or thrice a day; they also keep the body open; a proper quantity of rhubarb, aloes, or jalap, may occasionally be added to the above mass. PILLS, for Jaundice.—Take of Castile soap, soccotrine aloes, and rhubarb, of each one drachm. Make them into pills with a suffi- cient quantity of syrup and muci- lage. Three or four may be taken daily; and now and then a vomit of ipecacuanha. PILL, Furging.—Soccotrine Aloes and Castile Soap, each 2 drachms; simple syrup sufficient to make them into pills. For keeping the body gently open, one may be taken night and morning. They are deobstruent and sto- machic. When Aloetic purges are improp- er, take Extract of Jalap, and Vi- triolated Tartar, of each 2 drachms; Syrup of Ginger, sufficient to make them into pills. Take as above. PILLS for Spitting of Blood.— Take of powdered alum five grains; powdered nutmegs, five grains; ex- tract of gentian, two grains; mix, and divide into two pills. PILLS, Squill.—Take powder of dried squills, a drachm and a half; gum ammoniac and carda- mom seeds in powder, of each three