BIS 60 BIS rose water, add tlie flour and bake them long or round. BISCUITS OF FRUIT.— Take fruit of any kind, scald it, and to the pulp, put an equal quantity of the finest sugar, beat it an hour or two, then place in little white paper forms, dry in a cool oven, turn the next day, and in a few days box them. BISCUITS, Orange Heart.— Put three quarters of a pound of powderd sugar into a basin, and thirty yolks of eggs; take seven preserved orange peels pounded very fine; add a handful of sweet and half a handful of bitter almonds pounded fine, and then mixed with a little orange flower water. Then put four eggs into the basin with the other ingredients, mixing them well, and beating until a fine froth arises. Then add half a pound of sifted flour to mix with the batter very lightly. Butter the moulds, till them and sift a little powdered sugar over the top. Place in a quick oven, and empty the tins while hot. BISCUITS, PIC NIC.—Into a pound of flour, work very small two ounces of butter, mix well with half a salt-spoonful of the finest carbonate of soda, two ounces of sug'ar, mix these thoroughly with the flour, and make up the paste with a few spoonfuls of milk, not more than quarter of a pint. Knead it very smooth and roll it quarter of an inch thick. BISCUIT POWDER.—Dry your biscuits in a slow oven, roll them, and grind them with a rolling-pin on a clean board, till reduced to powder. Sift it through a close hair sieve, and it is fit for use. BISCUITS, Bice.—Six ounces of fine sugar, half a pound of ground rice, six ounces of butter, six ounces of flour, and mix it into a paste with two eggs. Add a little lemon juice. Be careful in the baking. BISCUITS, Richmond.—Flour, 2 lbs.; Butter, a lb, two eggs, and milk sufficient to make a thick paste; a little sugar, and a few currants. Make the biscuits round, and half an ounce in weight. Bake in a quick oven; they will be brown in a minute or two. Pre- viously steep the currants in hot water. Season if you like with cinnamon, &c. BISCUITS, Seed.—Flour, 1 lb; sugar, 4 ozs; carraway seeds, as many as you like; half a tea- spoonful of carbonate of soda; with milk and cream, or buttermilk, mix well, roll thin, and with the top of a wine-glass cut them out, and bake quickly. BISCUITS, Spice.—Take three pounds of flour and three pounds of sweet almonds cut in half; add three ounces of cinnamon and mace pounded, and one pound of fine sugar. Mix. Take three pounds of loaf sugar, boil slightly in some water, and mix with the other in- gredients, and pound to the con- sistency of paste, heat the oven very hot, cover a plate with three sheets of clean paper. Roll the paste to a form like a large rolling- pin, place it on the paper, and press it down, letting it bulge slightly in the middle. When baked, and, while hot, cut into slices across, about the eighth of an inch in thickness, in the form of a rusk. BISCUITS, Spicy. Pound candied lemon in a mortar with some orange-flowers crisped; add two spoonfuls of apricot marma- lade, four ounces of loaf sugar, and the yolks of four eggs. Mix well, and rub it through a sieve; then add the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth, and put the bis-