296 PAS PAT pieces; dredge it with a little flour left for that purpose; roll it up tight; then roll it out again; do so again until all the \ lb. of but- ter and flour is done; cut into square pieces, and make the tarts; it requires a quicker oven than crisp paste. PASTE, rich puff— Puffs may be made of any sort of fruit, but it should beprepared first with sugar. Weigh an equal quantity of but- ter with as much fine flour as you judge necessary; mix a little of the former with the latter, and wet it with as little water as will make into a stiff paste. Roll it out, and put all the butter over it in slices, turn in the ends and roll it thin; do this twice, and touch it no more than can be avoided. The butter may be added at twice; and to those who are not accustomed to make paste it may be better to do so. A quicker oven than for short crust. PASTE, less rich.—Weigh a pound of flour, and a quarter of a pound of butter,rub them together, and mix into a paste with a little water, and an egg well beaten—of the former as little as will suffice, or the paste will be tough. Roll, and fold it three or four times. Rub extremely fine in one pound of dried flour six ounces of butter, and a spoonful of white sugar; work up the whole into a stiff paste with as little hot water as possible. PASTE, without butter for family pies.—Cut some slices of beef suet very thin; put some flour on the table; lay the suet upon it; roll it with a rolling-pin till it is quite soft; rub it very fine into some flour, and mix it with cold water. It is much bet- ter done this way than chopped, and makes a very good crust for any pie that is to be eaten hot, or for fruit puddings. PASTILES, for perfuming sick rooms.—Powder and mix gum benzoin, 8 ozs.; gum storax, 4 ozs.; frankincense, 8 ozs.; fine charcoal, 1 lb. Add tincture of benzoin, 3 ozs.; essence of ambergris, 1 oz.; essence of musk, \ oz.; 1 oz. of almond oil, and 2 ozs. of clear syrup; mix into a stiff paste, and form into pastiles of a conical form dry in the heat of the sun. PATTIES, to make. — Raise them of an oval form, and bake them as for custards; cut some long narrow bits of paste, and bake them on a dusting box, but not too round as they are for handles; fill the patties, when quite hot, with the meat; set the handles across the patties; they will look like baskets; if the walls of the patties have been nicely pinched when they were raised, five will be a dish. PATTIES, to make fine.—Slice turkey, lamb, with the fat, chicken, loin of veal, or sirloin of beef, pars- ley, thyme, and lemon-peel shred; pound it very fine; season with pepper, and salt; make a fine puff paste; roll it into thin square sheets; put the forcemeat in the middle; cover close all around, and set the paste even; just before they go into the oven, wash them over with the yolk of an egg; bake 20 minutes in a quick oven; have ready white gravy, seasoned with pepper, salt, and shalot, and thick- ened with cream or butter. When baked, make a hole in the top of each, and pour in some gravy, but not so as to run out. PATTIES, common.—Take the kidney part of a very fat loin of veal; chop the kidney, veal, and fat, very small, all together; sea- son with mace, pepper, and salt, to your taste; raise little patties