444 Will Will WEEDS and WORMS, to destroy.—Sprinkle the walks with salt, and then water it. Observe not to throw the salt upon the box ed°*m°\ WELSH PUDDING.—Melt \ lb. of butter gently; beat it with the yolks of eight, and whites of four eggs; mix in 6 ozs. of loaf sugar, and the rind of a lemon gra- ted. _ Put a paste into a dish for turning out, and pour the above in, and bake it. WELSH RABBIT, or RARE- BIT.—See page 343. WEN, to cure.—Take a lime- stone and slake it in soap lees; then mix it with a little soap. Spread it as a plaster, and apply it to the wen, and often anoint it with the lees in which the lime was slaked. It will sink and destroy the wen. WHIPPED CREAM.—To one quart of good cream, put a few drops of bergamot water, a little orange flower water, and § lb. of sugar. When it is dissolved, whip the cream to a froth, and take it up with a skimmer; drain on a sieve, and if for icing, let it settle half an hour before you put it into cups or glasses. Use that which drops into the dish under the sieve, to make it froth the better, adding two whites of eggs. Coloured powdered sug-ar may, if you like, be sprinkled at the top of each. WHITE GLOVES, to dye a good purple.—Boil 4 ozs. of log- wood, and 2 ozs. of roche alum, in 3 pints of soft water till half wasted. Strain and cool. Then with a brush rub the gloves over, and when dry, repeat it. When dry, rub off the loose dye with a coarse cloth; beat -up the white of an egg, and with a sponge rub it over the leather. WHITE SAUCE.—See Sauce. WHITE SOUP. Take a knuckle of veal, a fowl, and a shank of ham; put them into a pan with 6 quarts of water; add k lb. of rice, two anchovies, some peppercorns, sweet herbs, two onions, and a head of celery ; stew the whole till strong enough, and strain. The next day skim it carefully, and pour it into a stew- pan ; put in | lb. of sweet almonds beaten fine; boil 15 minutes, and strain. WHITE SOUP,—Take a scrag of mutton, a knuckle of veal after- cutting off as much meat as will make collops, two shank-bones of mutton, and £ lb. of fine lean ba- con, sweet herbs, lemon-peel, three onions, three blades of mace, and a dessert-spoonful of white pepper; boil all in three quarts of water, till the meat falls to pieces. Next day take off the fat, clear the jelly from the sediment, and put it into a sauce-pan. If macaroni is used, add it soon enough to get tender, after soaking in cold water. Ver- micelli may be added after the thickening, as it requires less time to do. Have ready the following: —Blanch £ lb. of sweet almonds, and beat them to a paste, with a spoonful of water to prevent their oiling; mince a large slice of dress- ed veal or chicken, and beat with it a piece of stale white bread; add a pint of thick cream, a bit of fresh lemon-peel, and a blade of mace, in the finest powder. Boil it a few minutes; add to it a pint of soup, and strain and pulp it through a coarse sieve: put this thickening to the rest, and boil for half an hour. WHITES, or, Leucorrhcea, {Fluor Albus j—This disease is peculiar to females. It is indicated by a morbid secretion of mucous from the passage leading to the womb, termed vagina. It varies, in appearance, consistence, and quantity, in different persons.