POR POR 324 the same ; as for instance, suppose a player begins by laying down the eight of clubs, then the seven in some other hand forms the stop. Whenever clubs are led after that from any lower card, the holder may Bafely play it in order to clear his hand. PORK, to choose.—Pinch the lean, and if young, it will break. If the rind is tough, thick, and cannot easily be impressed by the linger, it is old. .A thin rmd is a merit in all pork. When fiesli, the flesh will be smooth and cool; if clammy, it is tainted. What is called measley pork is very un- wholesome ; and may be known by the fat being full of kernels, which in good pork is never the case. Pork fed at still-houses does not answer for curing any way, the fat being spongy. Dairy-fed pork is the best. PORK, to harhacue a leu Put down the leg to a good tire ; into the dripping pan, put two bottles of port wine; baste the pork with it all the time of roast- ing. When enough, take up what is left in the pan; put to it two anchovies, the yolks of three eggs, boiled hard, and pounded tine, with a l lb. of butter, and halt a lemon, a bunch of sweet herbs, a tea-spoonful of lemon pickle, g spoonful of ketchup, and one of tarragon vinegar; boil them a few minutes; then draw the pork, and cut the skin down from the bottom of the shank in rows an inch broad; raise every other row, and roll it to the shank; strain the sauce, and pour it boiling hot. PORK, Chine of.—Salt three days before cooking. Wash it well; score the skin, and roast with sage and onions finely shred. Serve with apple sauce.—The chine is often sent to the table boiled. „ , PORK, to collar.-Bone a breast or spring of pork; season it with plenty of thyme, parsley, and sage; roll it hard ; put in a cloth, tie both ends, and boil it ; then press it; when cold, take it out of the cloth, and keep it. in its own PORK, as Lamb.—Kill ayonng o- of four or five months old; ft up the fore-quarter for roast- g as you do lamb, and truss the mnk close. The other parts will nke delicate pickled pork, or eaks, pies, &c. PORK, Leg of to boil—-Salt it ght or ten days; when it is to ? dressed, weigh it; let it lie alf an hour in cold water to make white; allow a quarter of an our for every pound, and half an -J