RAT 350 RAT RATAFIA CAKES. — Sweet almonds, £ lb.; the same of bitter: blanch and b eat them fine in orange, rose, or clear water, to keep them from oiling: sift 1 lb. of fine su- gar, and mix it with the almonds ; have ready the whites of 4 eggs: mix them lightly with the almonds and sugar; put it into a preserv- ing pan; set it over a moderate fire, and stir it quick one way, till pretty hot; when a little cool, make it into small rolls, and cut it in thin cakes; dip your hands in flour, and shake them on it; give each a slight tap with the finger; put them on sugar papers, and sift fine sugar over them just as you put them into the oven, which should be slow. RATAFIA CREAM. — Boil three or four laurel, peach, or nec- tarine leaves, in a full pint of cream ; strain it; and when cold, add the yolks of three eggs beaten and strained, sugar, and a large spoonful of brandy stirred quick into it. Scald till thick, stirring it all the time. RATAFIA DROPS.—Blanch and beat in a mortar 4 ozs. of bit- ter, and 2 ozs. of sweet almonds, with a little of 1 lb. of sugar sifted, and add the remainder of the sugar and the whites of two eggs, making a paste; of which put little balls, the size of a nutmeg, on wafer- paper, and bake gently upon tin PlRATAFIA of CHERRIES— Upon 3 lbs of ripe cherries, put a lb. of raspberries; bruise them to- gether, and put through a sieve the next day, to mix with as much brandy and 1 lb. of sugar for each pint of liquor; you may also put the stones and kernels, pounded, into a vessel to infuse in a warm place about six weeks; strain as usual. Ratafia of currants, &c., may be made in the same manner. RATAFIA PUDDING. Cream, 1 pint; the same of milk flavoured with bitter almonds, (blanched and bruised,) cinnamon, lemon peel, and two bay leaves; sugar to your taste; add a little salt. When boiled, strain it upon the crumb of two French rolls. Butter the mould, and put into it i lb. of ratafia cakes. Beat up 3 eggs, and mix them with the bread and milk. Pour these ingredients into a mould, and boil an hour. Serve with wine sauce. N. B. The ratafia cake may be divided. The above also will make two pud- dings. RATS, to destroy— Mix pow- dered nux vomica, with oatmeal, crumbs of cheese, and a quantity of lard. For a few nights omit the nux vomica till they become fa- miliar with the other food. Or, add, instead of nux vomica, pow- dered phosphorus. Mix with a piece of wood, that the rats may not scent your hands. Place it beyond the reach of other animals. The addition of a little oil of am- ber attracts the rats.-—Or, cut cork into very fine bits, and fry them with lard and cheese crumbs. When cold, add oil of amber to en- tice them.—Or, take oil of amber, ox-gall, and powdered phosphorus, in equal parts, add oatmeal suffi- cient to form a paste, which make into little balls, and lay them near the places visited by rats. Sur- round the balls with vessels full of water. The smell of the oil at- tracts the rats; they greedily de- vour the balls, which make them thirsty, and they kill themselves with drinking the water. The asphodel is useful in driving away rats and mice, which have such an antipathy to this plant, that if their holes be stopped up with it they will rather die than pass.