ART ARR 28 ARROW-ROOT BLANC- MANGE.—Put two tablespoon- fuls of arrow-root to a quart of milk, and a pinob of salt. Scald the milk, sweeten it, and stir in the arrow-root, which must first be wet up with some of the milk. Boil up once. Orange-water, rose- waler, or lemon-peel may be used to flavour it. Pour into moulds to cool. A. N. ARROW-ROOT CUSTARD. —Arrow-root, one tablespoonful; milk, 1 pint; sugar, 1 tablespoon- ful, and one egg. Mix the arrow- root with a little of the milk, cold; when the milk boils, slir in the arrow-root, egg, and sugar, pre- viously well beaten together. Let it scald, and pour into cups to cool. To flavour it, boil a little ground cinnamon in the milk. A. N. ARROW-ROOT JELLY. — To a dessert-spoonful of the pow- der, add as much cold wateras will make it into a paste, then pour on half a pint of boiling water, stir it briskly and boil it a few minutes, when it will become a clear smooth jelly; a little sugar and sherry wine may be added for debilitated adults ; but for infants, a drop or two of essence of carraway seeds or cinnamon is preferable, wine being very liable to become acid in the stomachs of infants, and to disorder the bowels. Fresh milk, either alone or diluted with water, may be substituted for the water. T) r T?pppp ARROW-ROOT and TAPI- OCA GRUELS.—Make a thin paste as before, and put into boil- ing water, adding sugar, salt, nut- meg, and a little lemon-juice. Tapioca may be soaked 10 hours in twice the quantity of water; then add milk and water. Boil till it is soft. Flavour the same as Arrow-root. A. N. ARROW-ROOT PUDDING. —Take 2 tea-cupfuls of arrow-root, and mix it with half a pint of cold milk. Boil another half pint of milk, flavouring it with cinna- mon, nutmeg, or lemon-peel. Stir the arrow-root and milk into the boiling milk. When cold, add the yolks of 3 eggs beaten into 3 ozs. of sugar. Then add the whites beat to a stiff froth, and bake in a buttered dish an hour. Ornament the tops with sweetmeats, or citron sliced. A. 21. ARROW-ROOT PUDDING, as used in a West Indian family. - Two table-spoonfuls of arrow-root, one egg beaten, yolk and white to- gether ; sweeten to taste, add any seasoning agreeable; a pint of milk; mix well together, boil, put in a shape, when cold and stiff, turn out. Sauce, melted butter, and wine, cold. This preparation is very suitable for invalids, who often take a dislike to it, prepared in the or- dinary way, if medicinally ordered. ARROW-ROOT, to make for Invalids.-Put into a saucepan half a pint of wafer, grated nutmeg, and fine sugar, boil up once, then mix into by degrees a dessertspoon- ful of Arrow-root, previously rub- bed smooth, with two spoonfuls of cold water. A glass of sherry, or a table spoonful of brandy, may be added when the patient has no tendency to inflammatory action. ARTICHOKES, to dress.— Trim a few of the outside leaves off, and cut the stalk even. If young, half an hour will boil them. They are better for being gathered two or three days tiflst. Serve them with melted butter, in as many small cups as there are artichokes, to help with each. Hu. ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS.— If dried, they must be soaked, then stewed in weak gravy, and served with or without forcemeat in each.