RTJC 410 sue improvement are manifest, give Peruvian bark in port wine, adding water if too strong; or give the Restorative Wine Bitters, adding a J oz. of the red oxide of iron. Give the aperients now and then, especially the Dyspeptic Pill, page 150. The subcarbonate of iron, 2 drachms for a dose, is a most val- uable remedy. It may be given in a little syrup, beer, or porter. Dr. Reece says, “When the symptoms are abated, cold bathing every morning, if it does not alarm the mind, will prove of great advantage; and with the use of the muriated tincture of steel, in the dose of 10 or 15 drops, in a glass of cold valerian and camomile tea, will probably complete the cure : if the patient have not suffi- cient resolution to go into the cold bath, cold water may be applied every morning to the head. The diet should be regulated ac- cording to the strength of the patient: if plethoric, a low diet should be observed, and wine and stimulants avoided; on the contra- ry, if the body be much debilitated, a nutritious diet should be employ- ed ; but even in this case, wine and stimulants should be allowed with great caution.” STYE.—It is a sm all boil which projects from the eyelid, much in- flamed, and very painful. Apply a poultice of linseed meal, or bread and milk, and take at the same time an aperient. If the stye is ripe, puncture it, and then apply spermaceti ointment. . SUCKING PIG, to roast. Get it when just killed : this is of great advantage. Let it be scald- ed. Put some sage, crumbs of bread, salt, and pepper, into the belly, and sew it up. Observe to skewer the legs back, or the under part will not crisp. Lay it to a brisk tire till dry; then rub the pig with butter in every part. Dredge flour over it; scrape off the flour with a blunt knife, rub it well with a buttered cloth, and take on the head while at the fire. Then take it up, cut it down the back and belly, lay it into the dish, and chop quickly the sage and bread very fine, and mix plenty of fane melted butter and a little flour. Put the sauce into the dish afl er the pig has been split down the back, and garnished with the ears and the two jaws. Many now serve a sucking pig whole. Pour the gravy into the sauce; and gar* nish with lemon or bread sauce and currants. SUCKING PIG, baked.—Pre- pare in the same way as for roast- ing, and rub it over with white of egg, which has been slightly beat- en. Baste it well with butter. SUCCEDANEUM for filing Decayed Teeth.-Tinfoil and quick- silver. Melt together in a conve- nient vessel, and take a small quantity, knead it in the palm of the hand, and apply it directly.