GAR GAR 176 out on beds sloping to the south- west, and fenced round to drain oil water. Hoe and clear tho ground about turnips. Cabbage for collards in November, and German greens may be planted early in the month. October.—Sow magazan beans, and frame peas on a warm south- ern border; lay into the ground purple and white brocoli, within a few inches of their lower leaves, letting their heads face the north; transplant cauliflowers and purple brocoli under frames and hand- glasses ; cabbages, garlic, lettuces, and shalots, under frames. November.—Force scakale, rhu- barb, and asparagus; take up endive, brocoli, and cauliflower, and lay them flat in dry ground ; transplant suckers taken from the- roots of the pear and codling plum, and prepare them for budding and grafting different fruits upon. December.—Celery should now be earthed up, and in so careful a manner as not to require the oper- ation again; force asparagus, also rhubarb, and seakale; lay in as early as possible this month the brocoli, purple, and white. General Hints, Operating on the soil.—Trenching should al- ways follow draining, or the latter will act but partially. Unless the ground be stirred pretty deep- ly, half the effect of draining will be lost. Both must be done in the autumn or early part of the winter, and the ground will then be in a good state, for cropping in spring. Manuring may be done in early winter when the ground is somewhat frozen, as the material can then be wheeled on with greater ease, and the grounds and paths will be less cut up. Light.—Want of light is often the real cause of evils which are ascribed to want of air, though both combined may occasionally be acting. Light may, however, bo prejudicial to plants in certain stages, as after fresh planting or potting, when it stimulates them more than their crippled roots will bear. Dull weather is, there- fore, best both for potting and planting, and a little shade after either process may often be bene- ficial. GARGLE.—A gargle of yeast and milk is good for a sore throat. Also a decoction of Cohosh has the same effect Sage and Hys- sop, 1 oz. each. Infuse in 1 quart of water. Cool, strain, and add 1 drachm of borax. Good for thrush, quinsy, or sore throat. GARGLE, Cooling. — Nitre, 2 drachms ; honey, 4 drachms; rose water, 6 ozs. -Mix. . Gargle for Sore Throat.—De- coction of bark, 7 ozs. ; tincture of myrrh, 2 drachms; purified nitre, 3 drachms. Mix. This will dis- perse tumefied gland, or common sore throat. A little nitre alone put into the mouth now and then, and swallowing the saliva, often prevents or cures throat affections. Gargle for putrid Sore Throat.— Decoction of bark, 6 ozs. ; diluted vitriolic acid, 1 drachm; honey of roses, or yeast, 1 oz. Mix with the same quantity of port wine. Use oft. Or, Cayenne pepper, 2 drachms; tincture of myrrh, 2 drachms; water, half a pint; vinegar, 1 oz. Mix. At first using, it may be diluted. GARLIC SAUCE.-Pound two cloves of garlic with fresh butter the size of a nutmeg, rub it through a double hair-sieve, and stir into it half a pint of beef gravy, or melt- ed butter, or it may be mado with garlic vinegar. GARLIC VTNEGAR. — Peel and chop 2 ozs. of garlic; pour up-