ELE 153 ELB with a little cream which has cooled ; thicken it oyer the fire,— without boiling:, ELDER FLOWERS.—They are alterative and cooling. The in- fusion is recommended for erysipe- las, fever, gout, &c. As an exter- nal application, it is very useful in inflammations and painful swell- ings. ELDER BUDS to pickle.—Put the buds into a strong brine for nine days, stirring well; then boil them in the water slowly, covered with vine leaves, till they are quite green; drain. Then pour over them in jars hot vinegar in which has been boiled mace, ginger, cloves, cayenne, &c. ELDER FLOWER OINT- MENT.—Very cooling and heal- ing. It is made by simmering the fresh flowers in butter or good lard, with one eighth the proportionate quantity of spermaceti. ELDER FLOWER WATER. —To a £ oz. of elder flowers put 3 pints of boiling water; infuse for two hours, and strain. A good wash for sunburn and freckles.— But the distilled water is the best. Steep a peck of the flowers in two quarts ot water all night; put in a cold still, and let the water come cold off the still, and it will be very clear. Cork well; it will keep a year. ELDER FLOWER WINE.— Spring water, 6 gallons; sugar, 12 lbs.; raisins, chopped, 6 lbs.; boil these one hour. When this liquor is cold, put into it h peck of elder flowers, and the next day the juice of three lemons, and four spoonfuls of good yeast. Cover for two days. Strain; to every gallon of wine, put a half pint of brandy. Bung lor six months. A splendid wine, equal to Fronlignau. ELDER RAISIN WINE.— To every gallon of water, put 6 lbs. of Malaga raisins, chopped small; pour the water upon them boiling hot; let it stand 9 days, stirring well. Put the elderberries in a moderate oven all night; strain them through a coarse cloth, and to every gallon of liquor add 1 quart of juice; mix well; toast a slice of bread, and spread yeast on both sides; put it in, and ferment a day or two. Barrel it, bung close, and let it stand from 6 to 12 months. Brandy may be added, ad libitum. ELDER WINE.—Put the ber- ries into a jar, and put them all night in a slow oven; then mix one quart of the juice with three quarts of water ; add 4 lbs. of su- gar, a little ginger and cloves; boil three quarters of an hour, and when cool ferment it with yeast, spread upon toast, and let it work two days, then put it into the cask, and bung lightly till the fermenta- tion is over. Another.—To every quart of berries, put two quarts of water; bqil half an hour; run the liquor, and break the fruit through a hair sieve; to every quart of juice, put nearly 1 lb. of sugar. Boil 15 min- utes with Jamacia pepper, cloves, and ginger. Pour into a tub, and ferment with toast and yeast. After fermentation, put a quart of brandy to eight gallons, and barrel it; bung well for a few months ; then bottle off. In America they flavour elder wine with hops, which renders it a more wholesome beverage—about 1 oz. of hops to every gallon of wine. ELECAMPANE.—This plant is tonic, astringent, diuretic, and expectorant. It is good in colds, coughs, pulmonary irritation, consumption, and indegestion. It may be given in powder, decoction, or infusion. ELECTUARY foe COUGH.