STR 40? STO with great benefit:—Parsley seeds, powdered, joz. ; castile soap, 1 oz.; oil of juniper, 30 drops ; solidified copaiba, 1 oz. Form into pills. Take two per day. Drink at the same time a solution of saleratus. Many persons have been bene- fited by a decoction of the wild carrot. Injections, and the vapour bath are very useful. When the patient finds it difficult to make water, let him lie on his back for a while, by which the stone may be thrown to the posterior part of the body, and enable him to make water by turning on one or the other side. The diuretic pills should be taken frequently. Dr. Morris, of Canada, has found that an injection of castor oil has great effect in relieving sufferings caused by a stone in the bladder, and as the pain and irritation from this cause are often very great, we recommend it to the notice of those labouring under the affliction. Dr. Morris, being afflicted with the stone, tried the experiment on his own person. “1 first rid myself of the con- tents of my bladder; then with a large syringe I injected through a small leaden tube, reaching to the sphincter, 2 ozs. of cold drawn castor oil, and I cannot express my feelings caused by the change which took place upon its intro- duction, for it seemed as if a new lower half had been given me. The relief continuing, I went to bed, and can safely say, that I had not known, for sometime pre- vious, the pleasure of a sound and uninterrupted sleep. Latterly I never awoke without a wish to make water, and the morning fol- lowing was the first exception to it. When I did obey the call, I took care, finding that the oil came last, to leave as much within the bladder as I could. After this the bladder was con- stantly supplied with 2 or 3 ozs. of castor oil, and under this treatment every symptom of irritation vanish- ed, and during two months no one symptom re-appeared to remind him of the existence of the calcu- lous concretion. STONE.—Beat onions into a pulp and apply them as a poultice to the back, or to the groin. It gives speedy ease in the most rack- ing pain. Or, take morning and evening a tea-spoonful of onions, calcined in a fire shovel into white ashes, in sherry wine. An oz. will often dissolve the stone. Or, drink largely of water impregnated with fixed air. Those who have not a convenient apparatus, may substitute the following method : Dissolve 16 grains of salt of tartar in 6 spoonfuls of water, to which add as much water acidulated with oil of vitriol as will neutralise the salt. They are to be gradually mixed with each other, so as to prevent the effervescence or dissi- pation of the fixed air as much as possible. Or, boil an oz. of com- mon thistle-root, and 4 drachms of liquorice in a pint of water. Drink of it every morning. Or, take a decoction, or juice, or syrup of ground ivy, morning and evening. Wesley. STONE-WORK, to preserve. —Give one coating of a saturated solution of carbonate of potash, and another coat of muriate of lime (or chloride of calcium). STOVES, the bright bars of, to polish.—Clear from dirt, and then dip a piece of hat felt, or cloth, in- to a composition of soft soap and emery; polish with fine glass pa- per, or rotton stone. STRANGURY. - A frequent disposition to make water, attend- ed with smarting pain, heat, diffi- culty in voiding it: and a great