LEM LEM 228 white ; put puff paste in the dish; pour in the pudding, and bake half an hour. LEMON PUFFS.—Beat and sift 1 lb. of refined sugar; put it into a bowl, with the juice of two lemons, and mix them together; beat the white of an egg to a high froth; put it into the howl; put in 3 eggs with two rinds of lemon grated; mix it well up, and throw sugar on the buttered papers; drop on the puffs in small drops, and bake them in a moderately heated oven. LEMON TARTS. — Pare the rinds of four lemons, and boil ten- der in two waters, and beat fine. Add to it 4 ozs. of blanched al- monds, cut thin, 4 ozs. of lump sugar, the juice of the lemons, and a little grated peel. Simmer to a syrup. When cold, turn into a shallow tin tart dish, lined with a rich thin puff paste, and lay bars of the same over, and hake care- fully. LEMON WATER.—Put two slices of lemon, thinly pared, into a tea-pot, a little bit of the peel, and sugar, or a table-spoonful of cap- illaire; pour in a pint of boiling water, and stop it close two hours. LEMON WHEY.—Pour into boiling milk as much lemon juice as will make a small quantity quite clear; dilute with hot water to an agreeable sharp acid, and sweeten as you like. Ru. LEMON WINE.-Take 6 large lemons; pare off the rind thin; squeeze out the juice; steep the rind in the juice; and put to it a quart of brandy ; let it stand close- ly covered three days; then squeeze 6 lemons more, and mix 2 quarts of spring water, and as much su- gar as will sweeten the whole; • boil the water, lemons, and sugar together ; when cold, add a quart of sherry, the other lemons, and some brandy ; mix them together; and run it through a flannel bag; let it stand two or three months. Bottle, cork well, and keep in a cool place. LEMONADE.—Hot water, 2 quarts; 2 lemons, sliced; \ lb. of sugar; -J oz. of gum arabic. Strain through a flannel bag, and bottle off. LEMONADE, to be made the day before wanted,-Rare 24 lemons thin, put 8 of the rinds into 3 quarts of hot water, and cover for four hours. Rub some fine sugar on the lemons to attract the essence, and put it into a bowl, into which squeeze the juice of the lemons. To it add 1J lb. of fine sugar, then put the water to the above. Some persons add boiling milk, 2 or 3 quarts, and strain; but this is op- tional. LEMONADE, concentrated.— Take 2 lbs. of loaf sugar, break it up, and pour on it a pint of cold water; let it heat gradually, until it boils and is converted into syrup; add, while hot, 1 drachm of essence of lemon, and \ ounce of citric acid; a tablespoonful of this, add- ed to a tumbler of water, makes a very pleasant drink. LEMONADE, Delicious Milk. —Pour a pint of boiling water on six or eight ounces of loaf sugar, add a quarter of a pint of lemon juice, and half the quantity of good sherry wine, and a table-spoonful of brandy to keep it. Then add three quarters of a pint of cold milk, and strain the whole, to make it nice and clear. This is an American receipt, and is much valued in that country. LEMONADE, like jelly.—Paro two Seville oranges and six lemons thin, and steep them four hours in a quart of hot water. Boil 1 j lb. of loaf sugar in three pints of wa- ter, and skim it. Add the two