BRE BEE 75 American method. Powder rotten stone, and put it into a pint of water, intimately mix, and add a teaspoonful of sulphuric acid. Apply, then rub off, and polish with the finest whiting. Or, wash in a hot solution of alum, and when dry polish with Tripoli powder. BRASS WORK, to clean.—Rub the article first with fine emery powder and oil, using a piece of ; felt; then rub the article well with Bath brick, and lastly with fine I whiting. Then rub well with wash-leather alone. This plan c answers well. A. N. BRASS ORNAMENTS.—Di- lute one part of sulphuric acid with three parts of water. Apply it to the article; and then pol- ish with rotten stone and whiting. Or, rub them with pow- dered sal ammoniac moistened with water, first heating the arti- cle ; then rub fine rotten stone, or tropoli. Rub with a piece of felt hat, and good wash leather to fin- ish with. BRAWN.—Clean a pig’s head, and rub it over with salt, and a little saltpetre, and let it lie two or three days; then boil it until the bones will leave the meat; season with salt and pepper, and lay the meat hot in a mould, and press and weight it down for a few hours. Boil another hour, cover- ing. Be sure and cut the tongue, and lay the slices in the middle, as it much improves the flavour. BREAD, Making ancl Baking. Currants should be well washed, dried, and set before the fire. If damp they will make cakes or pud- heavy. Before they are added, dredge them with dry flour, and a shake given to them which causes the cakes, &c., that they are put to, to be lighter. Eggs should be well beaten, whites and yolks apart, and always strained. Sugar should be rubbed to a powder on a clean board, and sift- ed through a fine hair sieve. Lemon-peel should be pared thin, and with a little sugar beaten to a paste, and then mixed with a little wine, or cream, so as to divide easily among the other ingredi- ents. After all the articles are put into the pan, they should be very well beaten, as the lightness of the cake depends on their being well incorporated. Whether black or white plum- cakes, they require less butter and eggs for having yeast, and eat equally light and rich. If the leaven be only of flour, milk and water, and yeast, it becomes tough- er, and is less easily divided, than if the butter be first put with those ingredients, and the dough set to rise by the fire. The heat of the oven is of great importance for cakes, especially those that are large. If not pretty quick, the batter will not rise. Should you fear its catching by being too quick, put some paper over the cake to prevent its being burnt. If not long enough lighted to have a body of heat, or if it is become slack, the cake will be heavy/ To know when it is soak- ed, take a broad-bladed knife that is very bright, and plunge it into the centre, draw it instantly out, and if the least stickiness adheres, put the cake immediately in, and close the oven. If the heat was sufficient to raise, but not to soak, 1 have had fresh fuel quickly put in, and kept the cakes hot till the oven was tit to finish the soaking, and they turned out well. But those who bake ought to be careful that no - mistake occur from negligence when largo cakes are to be baked.