CRU CUC 135 served, too many should not lie on each other, as it destroys the crisp- ness, and makes them soft. CRUMPETS, Scotch.—Milk, 1 int; two or three eggs; a little utter; four table-spoonfuls of yeast, salt; as much oatmeal, or unsifted flour, as will make a bat- ter. Melt the butter in the milk made hot; and when the batter is just warm, beat the eggs, and mix them well in. Let it stand to rise. Butter them, and serve hot. CRUSHES. — Take 1 lb. of flour, and | lb. of butter, rubbed in; mix with cold water, and a little yeast; stamp it with a but- ter print, and lay the paste on the mould; lay on tins, to bake a fine brown. CRUST, a short one.—Make 2 ozs. of pounded and sifted white su- gar diy; mix it with 1 lb. of flour well dried ; rub into it 3 or 4 ozs. of butter, so tine as not to be seen —into some cream put the yolks of two eggs, beaten, and mix the above into a smooth paste ; roll it thin, and bake it in a slow oven. CRUST FOR APPLE PIES, &c.—Rub 6 ozs. of butter in 9 of flour, mix it into a stiffish paste, with as little water as possible, beat it well, and roll it thin ; bake it in a moderate oven. CRUST for RAISED MEAT PIES, &c.—Boil water with a little fine lard, and an equal quan- tity of fresh dripping, or of butter. While hot, mix this with as much flour as you will want, making the paste as stiff as you can to be smooth, which is to be made by good kneading and beating it with the rolling pin. When quite smooth, put a lump into a cloth to soak till nearly cold. _ Those who are not clever at rai- sing crust, may roll the paste of a proper thickness, and cut out the top and bottom of the pie, then a long piece of the sides. _ Cement the bottom to the sides with egg, bringing the former rather further out, and pinching both together; put egg between the paste to make it adhere at the sides. Fill your pie and put on the cover, and pinch it and the side-crust together. The same way of uniting the paste is to be observed if the sides are pressed into a tin form, in which the paste must be baked, after it shall be filled and covered; but the tin should be buttered, and carefully taken off when done enough; and as the form makes the sides of too light a colour, the paste should be put into the oven again for 15 minutes. With a feather, put egg over as at first. CRUST, for Sweet Pastry.— Work \ lb. lightly of butter into 1 lb. of flour, breaking it small; add salt, 2 ozs. of finely powdered sugar, and sufficient milk to make it into a smooth paste. Bake slow- ly, and keep it pale. CRUST FOR TARTS.—Beat an egg till quite thin, have ready 10 ozs. of butter, melted without being oiled; when cold mix the egg with it and stir it into 1 lb. of flour well dried; make the paste very thin, line the patty pans quickly; as you put them in the oven, brush them over with water, and sift sugar over them. CUCUMBERS, for immediate use.—Slice, sprinkle with salt; let them stand several hours, drain, and then put to them sliced onions, vinegar to cover them, with salt, pepper, &c. Cayenne pepper and ground mustard render them wholesome. CUCUMBERS, to pickle in slices.—Cut into slices; sprinkle salt over them, and lay with them sliced onions; let them stand twen- ty-four hours; then drain them ; boil two quarts of vinegar, with