2.50 MEN MEN or some preternatural resistance in their extremities; from too full lmbit of body, from impoverish- ment of the blood, and from great physical debility. Ibis retention produces many distressing symptoms; as, head- ache, flushings in the face, pain in the back and stomach, costive- ness, furred tongue, failure of appetite, longing to eat chalk, lime, &c. The face loses its vivid colour, and becomes of a yellowish hue ; sometimes there is bleeding from the nose and stomach; the skin becomes pale and flaccid; and the feet, and sometimes part of the body, is affected with dropsical swelling. The breathing is hur- ried by any quick or laborious motion of the body, which some- times occasions palpitation and fainting. A head-ache- often oc- curs, but more certainly pains in the back, loins, and haunches. Treatment.--The strength of the system should be restored by exer- cise. Iron should be combined with some laxative medicine. If there is much pain, take the Dia- phoretic Powder, page 143. Also infusions of pennyroyal,or of tansy, or blood-root, motherwort, &c. Bathe the feet occasionally in warm water, and rub well with a coarse flannel. If there is consti- pation, take aperient medicines; page 20 and 21. Powdered mad- der root has been recommended, say half a drachm to be taken three or four times a day in treacle or honey, drinking freely of penny- royal tea. Repeat, and increase the dose, if necessary. Or it may be administered thus:—Take ex- tract of madder, 2 drachms, muri- ated tincture of steel, 40 drops, bitter tincture, 2 drachms, mint- water, 8 ozs. Mix. Three table- spoonfuls to be taken three times a day. Or, give a vapour bath of a de- coction of bitter herbs. Or in bed apply the hot brick covered with a cloth dipped in vinegar and water. Give bitter tonics. Steam- ing in a sitz-bath of bitter herbs till perspiration is produced, is very useful; also fomenting the abdomen, and applying herbs as a warm poultice. If the stomach is deranged, give an emetic, and a dose of mandrake, and aperients as before stated. When the men- strual flux begins, it should be promoted by the use of the hip or sitz-bath. Take the Dyspeptic Pill, and the Restorative Bitters. Keep the feet always warm and dry; avoid a cold damp atmos- phere ; and when the weather per- mits, take plenty of open-air exer- cise. Let the diet be light and nourishing. Do not use any pro- motive medicines in retention of the menses until there is an effort or struggle of nature to effect it, which may be known by the peri- odical pains, pressing down upon the hips. Painful Menstruation. — The pains are severe—in some cases extremely severe. The remedial measures are nearly the same as the preceding. On account of the pain, stillness, quiet of mind, and soothing remedies are render- ed indispensable. Adopt the reme- dies prescribed for the retention of the menses; and take now and then from 10 to 20 drops of lauda- num in a little Hollands gin dilu- ted with pennyroyal tea. Let the patient lie in bed. Apply hot fo- mentations to the lower part of the back; and if the pain is excessive, flannels dipped in hot water, wrung out, and sprinkled with spirits of turpentine. Sponge the body well with tepid salt and water every morning, and apply friction with a flesh bt ush, or coarse to W(J. Reg-