AGIt 12 AGU placed, five inches in depth, and six in width. Glue on it at the extremities of the top two pieces of oak about half an inch high and a quarter of an inch thick, to serve as bridges for the strings, and within-side of each end glue two pieces of beech, about an inch square, and of length equal to the width of the box, which is to hold the pegs. Into one of these bridges fix as many pegs (like those of a violin) as there are to be strings, and into the other fasten as many small brass pins, to which attach one end of the strings. Then string the instrument with first- fiddle strings, fixing one end of them and twisting the other round the opposite peg. These strings, which should not be drawn tight, must be tuned in unison. To procure a proper passage for the wind, a thin board, supported by four pegs, is placed over the strings at about three inches distant from the sounding board. Place the instrument in the window partly open; and, to increase the force of the current of air, open the door of the room or an opposite window. When the wind blows, the strings produce a pleasing admixture of all the notes of the diatonic scale, in the most delightful harmonic combinations. AGRICULTURE.—The first principles of agriculture are these: make and keep the land perfectly dry and free from weeds. Make and keep the soil which is too ad- hesive, or too loose, of such a fri- able nature as will make it receive, retain, and transmit moisture, and thus fit it to produce the most luxuriant state of vegetation. Re- store to the soil as a manure, in a state of decay, tho produce after it has been consumed by sheep or other stock. Never manure nny land till every-weed is extermina- ted,for weeds grow most luxuriant- ly in the soil to which they are na- tural; if any are left they will outgrow the plant cultivated, and take up the greatest quantity of manure laid on the land. AGRIMONY.—See Robinson's Herbal. It is useful in coughs and bowel complaints—In decoc- tion. It is a most valuable plant, having very many medical virtues. AGUE.—The cause is debility; frequently marsh miasma, or the effluvia arising from stagnant wa- ter in pools, or on marshy ground. On the attack, the patient should be placed between blankets, and partake freely of water-gruel or barley-water. From 20 to 30 drops of laudanum, or more, should be given just before the commence- ment of the ague fit. The nails turn blue just before the fit begins. The fit may be moderated also by taking 1 scruple of the carbonate of Ammonia, 8 grains compound powder of Ipecacuanha, mint-wa- ter, 11- ounce. Peruvian Bark, or Sulphate of Quinine, is an effica- cious remedy. An emetic before taking it is necessary; about 20 grains of Ipecacuanha powder; then take a small dose of Salts and Senna, and the Peruvian bark in powder; an ounce will make eight doses, one of which should be taken every hour or two. Or, instead of the Peruvian bark, take from 2 to 4 grains of Quinine, with 1 grain of extract of Gentian, made into pills. When the disease is arrested, continue the use of the pill, taking two per day for a few weeks. Ague. — Take 30 grains of Snake-root, 40 of wormwood, k ounce of Peruvian Bark powdered^ and half a pint of Port Wine. Put the whole into a bottle, and shake it well together; divide it into four equal quantities, and take it the first in the morning,