2°0 PAN PAN idating Liniment. Dr. Beach re- commends the following injection: —cayenne pepper, 1 teaspoonful; lobelia, 2 teaspoonfuls; boiling water, 1 pint. Let it infuse; stir well, in order to get the strength out as soon as possible ; sweeten with treacle; add half a pint of milk, and a gill of sweet oil. Give it warm ; as much as the patient can bear; this will excite action in the bowels, and promote evacu- ations. Salt and water will make a very good injection. If constipation should prevail, coarse, or brown bread, should be eaten, or aperients should be taken, page 20, 21, or a dose of castor oil; followed by the continual use of the Restorative Bitters, introdu- cing the peroxide of iron, say } oz. to a pint of the bitters. Also take a Nervous Pill; and occasionally the Alterative Syrup. See Ad- denda. Let the diet be simple, light, and spare. Take abundant exercise in the open air, when the weather permits. PALSY, Infusion for.—Take horse radish, mustard seed bruised, of each, 4 ozs.; outer rind of orange peel, 1 oz.; infuse in two quarts of boiling water in a close vessel for 24 hours. In paralytic affec- tions, a tea-cupful of this warm stimulant may be taken three or four times a day. PANADA, or bread, ar biscuit jelly.—Set a little water on the lire; when it boils, take off, and add a glass of sherry, sugar, a lit- tle grated nutmeg and lemon-peel. At the same time grate some crumbs of bread. Put the crumbs in, and let it boil fast; when of a proper thickness to drink,takeit off. PANADA. Another Method. —Put to the water a bit of lemon- peel ; mix the crumbs in, and when nearly boiled enough, add some lemon or orange syrup. Ob- serve to boil all tho ingredients; for if they be added afterward, the panada will break, and not jelly. PANADA, Chicken.—Page 108. PANCAKES, General Direc- tions for making.—Clean the pan well before you fry the pancakes; put a little lard into it, and when hot wipe it out with a clean cloth; then put in more lard or butter, and fry the pancakes of a nice light brown, and drain them thoroughly from the fat. They should bo eaten hot, and sugar strewed upon them. PANCAKES to make.-A. quart of milk ; beat in 6 or 8 eggs, leav- ing half the whites out; mix, till the batter is of a fine thickness. The flour must be first mixed with a little milk ; add the rest by de- grees, also two spoonfuls of beaten ginger, a glass of brandy, and a little salt; stir all together ; pour into the pan, (as above directed) a ladleful of batter, sufficient to make a pancake, moving the pan round, that the batter may be all over the pan ; shake the pan, and when one side is enough, toss it over quickly. When both sides are done, put it upon a dish before the fire to keep hot. Sprinkle over it a little sugar. PANCAKES, American.—Mix a pint of cream, five spoonfuls of fine flour, seven yolks and four whites of eggs, and a very little salt; fry them very thin in fresh butter, and between each strew su- gar and cinnamon. PANCAKES, Common.—Make a light batter of eggs, flour and milk. Fry in a small pan, in hot dripping or lard. Salt, nutmeg, or ginger, may be added. Sugar and lemon should be served to eat with them. If eggs are scarce, make the batter of flour, and small beer, ginger, &c., or clean snow, with flour, and a little milk.