ROM ROS 361 ress is to be placed, the whole eing secured by an oil silk cap. The application is to be renewed twice a day ; first well washing the parts with soap and water; the surface of the scalp is to be carefully searched, in order to de- tect any small favous pustules that may have appeared. These must be pricked with a pin, the matter removed, and the surface covered with the oil. This evolution of pustules is successive, so that the hair must be kept short in the vi- cinity, that their advent may be watched. This application secures the rapid abortion of the pustules; but when the scalp is too tender to bear it, it should be mixed with other less irritating oils of which empyrheumatic oil of juniper is one of the best. ROLLS, Excellent—Warm 1 oz. of butter in half a pint of milk, put it to a spoonful and a half of yeast of small beer, and a little salt. Put 2 lbs. of flour into a pan, and mix in the above. Let it rise an hour; knead it well; make into seven rolls, and bake in a quick oven. If made in cakes three inches thick, sliced and buttered, they re- semble Sally Lunns as made at Bath. The foregoing receipt, with the addition of a little saffron boiled in half a tea-cupful of milk, makes them remarkably good. ROMAN CEMENT.—Roman Cement, M. Berthier says, consists of common chalk and clay—one part clay, and two and a half parts of chalk, set almost instantly. Another.-Mix a bushel of slaked lime with 3J lbs of green copperas, half a bushel of fine gravel sand, and 15 gallons of water. Dissolve the copperas in hot water, and stir frequently. It must be mixed the tame day it is used. ROOMS, to fumigate for sick persons.—Put a table-spoonful of salt in a glass cup, and add, at four different times, a dessert spoonful of vitriolic acid. The vapour will come in contact with the malig- nant miasmata, and destroy them. ROOMS, to take the smell of paint from.—Place vessels of wate'r combined with a little vitriolic acid in a newly painted room ; it will absorb the effluvia in three days. ROSES.—Put some powdered charcoal around the roots of your roses. It will improve their colour. ROSES, Cream of.—Oil of sweet almonds, 1 lb.; spermaceti and white wax, of each 1 oz.; rose water, 1 pint, Malta rose or neroli essence. Put the oil, spermaceti, and wax into a well-glazed pipkin, over a clear fire, and when melted, our in the rose water gradually, eating till the compound becomes like pomatum. Add the essences, and pot the mixture; cover well with bladder. R.OSES, Infusion of.—Take of red roses dried, § an 0Z- . boiling water, a quart; oil of vitriol, f a drachm; loaf sugar, 1 oz. Infuse the roses in the water for 4 hours, in an unglazed earthen vessel; then pour in the acid, strain the liquor, and add to it the sugar. In an excessive flow of the menses, vomiting of blood, and other haemorrhages, a tea-cupful of this gentle astringent infusion may be taken every three or four hours. It likewise makes an ex- ceedingly good gargle. ROSE CAKE.—Boil 2 lbs. of sugar in a tea-cupful of water, over a slow fire, until you perceive it begins to candy on the sides of the pan, or has reached the degree of blown; take off, and add 12 drops of the oil or otto of roses. Colour with prepared cochineal. Mix all