301 PEP PER tables, and jmlse. Boil a small quantity of rice with the whole. PEPPER WATER, Spiritu- ous Jamaica.—Take of Jamaica pepper water, half a pound ; proof spirit, three gallons ; water, two gallons. Distil off three gal- lons. This is an agreeable cordial, and may supply the use of the Aromatic Water. PEPPERMINT, Candied.-Boil 3 lbs of raw sugar in a pint of wa- ter, till the sugar begins to candy round the side, then take your pan off the fire, and drop 16 drops of the oil of peppermint therein; pour it out into little round hoops made of tin ; or butter a large piece of paper, and lay it on the stone with a square frame on paper; and pour the sugar on the paper, and it will become all over beautifully spotted, and then with a knife, cut it into what size or shape you please. PEPPERMINT DROPS. — Sift finely powdered loaf sugar into lemon juice, sufficient to make it of a proper consistence; gently dry it over the fire a few minutes ; take off, and add about 20 drops of oil of peppermint for every pound of sugar. Drop them from the point of a knife upon buttered paper. Another.—Mix 1 lb. of sifted loaf sugar with the whites of 3 eggs; add 10 or 15 drops of the oil of peppermint, beat, and mix well. Drop as before directed. PEPPERMINT, Mentha Pi- perita.—This plant is perennial. It flowers in August and Septem- ber. The leaves have a strong and agreeable smell', and a pun- gent aromatic taste. It is stimu- lant, diaphoretic, antispasmodic, and anti-emetic. Its stimulating property is very volatile, produc- ing in the mouth a peculiar sen- sation of coldness. It is very use- ful in spasms, flatulency, colic, cramps of the stomach. The oil may be taken two or three drops in a cupful of water, or cold tea. PEPPERMINT LOZENGES —Dissolve \ oz. of isinglass, and 1 oz. of gum arabic, in a quart of boiling water, and let it stand till cold. Grate 7 lbs. of loaf sugar, and sift it through a fine sieve; then add 50 drops of the oil of pep- permint. Mix all together pretty stiff. Lay part of the sugar on a fine marble stone, roll it thin, and cut it with a tin mould of the size of the lozenges. PEPPERMINT WATER.— Cut full grown peppermint into short lengths ; fill your still with it, and put it half full of water. When it nearly boils, and the still begins to drop, if your fire be too hot, decrease the heat, to keep it from boiling over, or the water will be muddy. The slower the still drops, the water will be the clearer and stronger, hut do not spend it too far; the next day bottle it; let it be uncorked a few days to take off the fire of the still. PERCH, to boil.—Put them in- to cold water, boil them carefully and serve with melted butter and soy. Perch is a most delicate fish. They may be either fried or stew- ed, but in stewing they do not preserve so good a flavour. PERCH, to fry.—Scale gut, and well wash; then dry them, and lay them separately on a board before the fire, after dusting some flour over them. Fry them of a fine colour with fresh dripping; Serve with crimp parsley, and plain butter. PERCH, to fry.—Clean and scale them, and slit the sides in several places; marinate them about an hour in the juice of a lemon, with pepper, salt, sprigs of parsley, a clove of garlic, and a