POL POI 321 poison, tlie quantity taken, and the peculiarities of the individual. In almost all cases, copious vomit- ing should be excited as soon as possible by tickling the throat, and by emetics, such especially as sulphate of zinc, or ipecacuanha ■with emetic tartar; the former, however, in ten-grain doses dissol- ved in a little warm water, and repeated every ten or fifteen min- utes till it freely operates, is gen- erally most effectual. The use of the stomach-pump should also be resorted to. The vomiting should be kept up, and the stomach wash- ed out with bland albuminous or mucilaginous fluids, such as milk, flour and water, or thin paste, &c.; sometimes sugar and water. The following is a short sum- mary of the antidotes resorted to in reference to particular poisons. They should, of course, be admin- istered as speedily as possible. Emetic in cases of Poison. Two table-spoonfuls of made mus- tard in a pint of warm water ; if taken immediately, this is a cer- tain remedy, instantly producing violent vomiting. Also administer large draughts of warm milk or water, mixed with oil, melted but- ter, or lard. 1. Arsenic.—Lime water, chalk and water, and the hydrated ses- qui-oxide of iron, have each been strongly recommended; the last is decidedly the best. 2. For Mineral Adds, or Acetic and Oxalic Acid.— For this form of poison, give quickly large draughts of chalk, whiting, magnesia, soap and water, about as thick as cream; followed by albuminous diluents, such as milk, and white of egg mixed with .water. Or, if these cannot be procured at once, warm water; and promote vomiting by ticklhm the throat. ° 3. Alkalies, Soda, Potash, Am- monia, etc.—Vinegar, or any mild acid and water, or even very di- lute mineral acids, such as water acidulated by them; olive oil, al- mond oil. 4. Corrosive sublimate.—White of egg and water; milk and cream; decoction of cinchona; infusion of galls. 5. Sulphate of Copper and other poisons.—Sugar and water; white of egg and water. 6. Antimonial poisons.—Warm milk, gruel, and barley-water; in- fusion of galls ; decoction of cin- chona. 7. Nitrate of Silver.—Copious draughts of warm salt and water. 8. Sulphate of Zinc.—Solution of carbonate of soda in water, with milk, and mucilaginous or farina- ceous liquids. 9. Acetate of Lead.—Emetics, solution of sulphate of soda in wa- ter, milk, white of egg and water. 10. Opium and its preparations. —Emetics, strong coffee; dashing cold water upon the face and breast; preventing torpor by for- ced exercise. 11. Prussic Acid.—Ammoniacal stimulants cautiously applied to the nose; ammonia, or sal-volatile in repeated small doses of solution of chlorine in water ; small doses of chloride of lime in water. 12. Strychnia and vegetable al- kaloids.—Infusion of gall nuts; decoction of cinchona ; emetics. POKE WEED.—An American plant. It is valuable. The root is emetic, cathartic, and rather narcotic. The leaves and roots powdered, may be applied with great advantage, as a poultice in cancerous and malignant ulcer, ringworm, scrofulous abscesses, &c. POLISHED IRONS, to pre- serve from rust.— Mix copal var- nish with as much olive oil as will u