RAT 34-5 RAB per, salt, a little mace, and nutmeg, oil finely powdered, and a little cayenne; put the rabbits, slices of bam, or of bacon, forcemeat balls, and hard eggs, by turns in layers ; if it is to be baked in a dish, put a little water, but none, if in a raised crust. By the time it returns from the oven, have ready a gravy of knuckle of veal, or a bit of the scrag, with some shank bones of mutton, seasoned with herbs, onions, mace, and white pepper; if it is to be eaten hot, mushrooms, &c. may be added ; but not, if to be eaten cold. If it be made in a dish, put as much gravy as will fill it; but in raised crust, the gravy must be nicely strained, and then put in as cold as jelly. To make jelly clear, give it a boil with the whites of two eggs, after taking away the meat, and run it through a sieve. RABBIT SKINS, to cure.— Lay the skin on a smooth board, the fur side undermost, and fasten it down with tinned tacks. Wash it over first with a solution of salt; then dissolve 2| ozs. o! alum in a pmt of warm water, and with a sponge dipped in this solution, moisten the surface all over: re- peat this every now and then for three days : when the skin is quite dry, take out the tacks, and roll- ing it loosely the long way, the hair inside, draw it quickly back- wards and forwards through a large smooth ring, until it is quite 8oit, then roll it in th© contrary ■way of the skin, and repeat the operation. Skins prepared thus are useful for many domestic pur- poses. RABBIT SOUP. - Cut two rabbits into joints, and flour and fry them lightly; add three or lour onions fried brown. Pour on these three or four quarts of boil- ing water, a little salt, and parsley. Add to it also good broth, and but- ter, or lard, three carrots, three shalots, and a pinch of cayenne; thicken with rice flour, or boiled pearl barley, a little before the soup is done; boil five hours. Put toasted bread in the tureen, and pour the soup upon it. RADISH PODS, to pickle.— Make a pickle with cold spring water and bay salt, strong enough to bear an egg ; put the pods in, and lay a board upon them to keep them under water ; let them stand ten days; drain them in a sieve, and dry them; take as much of the best vinegar as will cover them ; boil it, and put the pods in a j ar with ginger, mace, cloves, and cayenne pepper ; pour on the vin- egar boiling hot; cover them with a cloth, doubled four times; let them stand two days ; when cold, repeat three or four times. Add as much mustard seed and horse radish as you please. RAISDD CRUST, for meat pies, Jowls, §c.—Boil water with a little fine lard, and an equal quan- tity of fresh dripping, or of butter, but not much of either. While liot, mix this with as much flour as you will want, making the paste as stiff as you can to be smooth, which you will make by good kneading- and beating it with a rolling pin. _ When quite smooth, put a lump into a cloth, or under a pan, to soak till nearly cold. Those who have not a good hand at raising crust may do thus : Roll the paste of a proper thickness, and cut out the top and bottom of the pie, then a long piece for the sides. Cement the bottom to the sides with egg, bringing the for- mer rather further out, and pinch- ing both together; put egg between the edges of the paste, to make it adhere at the sides. Kill your pie and put on the cover, and pinch it