HER HIC 107 carraway seeds, sweet flag1, fennel, garlic, horehound, hyssop, laven- der, master wort (the root), mint, mustard seed, pennyroyal, horse radish, rue, wormwood. Decoctions of the above are made t by pouring boiling water on them. A little should be taken in the morning fasting. For purging the boivels.—Class 1. The powerful are the following : common dock, hellebore, (white), in doses not exceeding four grains ; black hellebore, from two to five grains; marshmallow leaf decoc- tion, and mountain flax. Class 2. more moderate; buck- thorn berry, broom, and dandelion. For worms.—Bear’s-foot, cow- hage, camomile, garlicAfern root, savin, and wormwood. * Astringents, which serve to cor- rect excessive discharges. Log- wood, red roses, sage, and tormen- til root. Carminatives, or those herbs which allay pain, or dispel wind from the stomach ; aniseed, cara- way seed, peppermint, spearmint, ginger, and dill root. Demulcents ; those herbs which soften, or which lesson acrimony, or the effects of stimulus on the solids; as, colt’s-foot, liver-wort, mallows, liquorice root, comfrey, icc. Diaphoretics, or those whieh promote perspiration; burdock, centaury, bay tree, betony, balm, germander, lovage, and rue. Tonics, or those which give strength and vigour to the body; bistort, balm, bog-bean, camomile, centaury (lesser), logwood, gen- tian, southernwood, tansy, tor- mentil, valerian, and wormwood. To heal ulcers.—Adder’s tongue, agrimony, archangel, arse-smart, cuckoo pint, blue bottle, burdock, bryony, soapwort, celandine, cen- taury, chickweed, cinquefoil, com- frey root, mugwort, cudweed, dog grass, water dock, figwort, flax- weed, foxglove, glass wort, ground ivy, ground pine, tormentil, tansy, bugle, scurvy grass, and night- shade. Either made into ointments with hog’ s-lard, or washes made of them, and daily applied to the parts. To purify the blood.—Agrimony, borage, burdock (sea,) chickweed, chervil, fennel, fir tree, fumitory, garden cresses, wild water cresses, ground pine, hops, maiden hair, sorrel, and tansy. Made into decoctions with hot water, and taken every morning. HERRINGS, fresh, to broil, or roast.—Scale, gut, and wash ; cut off the heads; steep them in salt and vinegar ten minutes; dust them with flour, and broil them over or before the fire, or in the oven. Serve with melted butter and parsley. Herrings are nice jarred, and done in the oven, with pepper, cloves, salt, a little vinegar, a few bay leaves, and a little butter. HERRINGS, fresh, to fry.— Slice small onions, and lay in the pan with the herrings ; add a lit- tle butter, and fry them. Perhaps it is better to fry the onions separ- ately with a little parsley, and butter, or drip. HERRINGS, to pot.—Clean, cut off the heads, and lay them close in an earthen pot. Strew a little salt between every layer; put in cloves, mace, whole pepper, cayenne, and nutmeg ; fill up the jar with vinegar, water, and a quarter of a pint of sherry, cover, tie down; bake in an oven, and when cold pot it for use.—A few anchovies and bay leaves inter- mixed will improve the flavour much. HICCUP.—One drop of chemi- cal oil of carraway on a small