SAL SAL 366 SALLY LUNN’S Tea Cakes. These cakes are made as follows :—Put into a pan one pint of warm milk and a quarter of a pint of thick small beer yeast, with hour sufficient to make a batter; cover it, and let it stand about two hours; then add 2 ozs. of lump sugar dissolved in a quarter of a pint of warm milk (or four eggs) and a J lb. of butter rubbed into the flour ; then make a dough as for French rolls ; let it stand half an hour. Then m ake up the cakes, and put them on tins, and when they have stood to rise, bake them in a quick oven. Care should be taken never to put the yeast to the water or milk too hot or too cold; in summer it should be luke- warm, and in winteralittle warmer, and in very cold weather warmer still. SALMAGUNDY is a beautiful small dish, if in nice shape, and if the colour of the ingredients are varied. For this purpose chop separately the white part of cold chicken or veal, yolks of eggs boil- ed hard, the whites of eggs; pars- ley, half a dozen anchovies, beet- root, red pickled cabbage, ham, and grated tongue, or any thing well flavoured, and of a good colour. Some people like a small propor- tion of onion, but it may be better omitted. A saucer, large tea-cup, or any other base, must be put in- to a small dish; then make rows round it wide at bottom, and grow- ing smaller towards the top; choosing such of the ingredients for each row as will most vary the colours. At the top a little sprig of curled parsley may be stuck in; or without any thing on the dish, the salmagundy may be laid in rows, or put into the half-whites of eggs, which may be made to stand upright by cutting off a bit at the round end. In the latter case, each lialf-egg has but one ingredient. Butter and parsley may be put as garnish between. SALMON, to choose.—If new, the flesh is of a line red (the gills particularly), the scales bright, and the whole fish stiff. When just killed, there is a whitenes be- tween the flakes, which gives great firmness; by keeping, this melts down, and the fish is more rich. The Thames salmon bears the highest price ; that caught in the Severn is next in goodness, and is even preferred by some. Small heads, and thick in the neck, are best. SALMON, to boil. Clean it carefully, boil it gently with salt and a little horse radish ; take it out of the water as soon as done. Let the water be warm if the fish be split. If underdone it is very unwholesome. Serve with shrimp, lobster, or anchovy sauce, and fen- nel and butter. SALMON, to broil.—Cut slices an inch thick, and season with pepper and salt; lay each slice in half a sheet of white paper well buttered, twist the ends of the pa- per, and broil the slices ovor a slow fire six or eight minutes. Serve in the paper with anchovy-sauce. SALMON, collared.—Split such a part of the fish as may be suffi- cient to make a handsome roll, wash and wipe it, and having mix- ed salt, white pepper, pounded mace, and Jamaica pepper, in quantity to season it very high, rub it inside and out well. Then roll it tight and bandage it, put as much water and one third vinegar as will cover it, with bay-leaves, salt, and both sorts of pepper. Cover close, and simmer till done enough. Drain and boil quick the liquor, and put on when cold. Serve with fennel. It is an ele- gant dish, and extremely good.