358 RTC ETC Ions of cold spring water. Infuse for 4 days, stirring oft. Then press tho pulp and strain off the liquor. Put the liquor into a tub, and to every gallon of the liquor add 2 lbs. of fine sugar, stirring till the sugar is dissolved. Let it stand 3 or 4 days till the fermen- tation stops. Skim it well; put it into a cask, but do not stop it, as it will ferment again. When the fermentation ceases, add more loaf sugar to sweeten it, and stop it close. In two months it will he fit to bottle. Add a little brandy. It improves with age. RHUBARB WINE, (medici- nal.)— Sliced rhubarb, 21 ozs.; lesser cardamon seeds, bruised and husked, \ oz.; saffron, 2 drachms ; sherry wine, 1 pint; proof spirit, half a pint. Digest for 10 days, and strain. RICE, buttered—Wash and pick some rice, drain, and put it with some new milk, just enough to swell it, over the fire; when tender, pour off the milk, and add a bit of butter, a little sugar, and pounded cinnamon. Shake it, do not burn, and serve. RICE, to eat with curry.--Wash and strain the rice; just cover it with boiling water; add salt; stir well, and boil quickly. When suf- ficiently swelled, drain off the wa- ter, and pour the rice on the shal- low end of a sieve. Put it before a fire till it separates and dries. Serve without sauce. RICE CAKE.—Ground rice and sifted white sugar, of each, 8 ozs.; essence of almonds, 8 drops; five eggs beaten well; the rind of a lemon grated, a little nutmeg, or cinnamon, and 2 ozs. of butter. Mix all well together. Bake as a whole cake, or drop upon a but- tered tin. Put upon the top but- tered white paper. RICE CAUDLE.—When the water boils, pour into' it ground rice mixed with a little cold wa- ter ; when of a proper consistence, add sugar, lemon-peel, and cinna- mon, and a glass of brandy to a quart. Boil all smooth. Another.—Soak some Carolina rice in water an hour, strain it, and put two spoonfuls of tho rice into a pint ana a quarter of milk; sim- mer till it will pulp through a sieve, then put the pulp and milk into a saucepan, with a bruised clove and a bit of white sugar. Simmer ten minutes; if too thick, add a spoonful or two of milk, and serve with a thin toast. RICE CHEESECAKES.—See page 104. RICE CUSTARDS.—Boil 3 pints of new milk with a bit of lemon-peel, cinnamon, and 3 bay leaves ; sweeten: then mix a large spoonful of rice flour into a cup of cold milk, very smooth; mix it with the yolks of 4 eggs well beaten. Take a basin of the boiling milk, and mix with the cold that has the rice in it; add the remainder of the boiling milk; stir it one way till it boils; pour immediately into a pan; stir till cool, and add a spoon- ful of brandy, or orange-flower wa- ter. RICE FLUMMERY. Boil with a pint of new milk, a bit of lemon-peel, and cinnamon; mix with a little cold milk, as much rice-flour as will make the whole of a good consistence, sweeten, and add a spoonful of peach-water, or a bitter almond beaten; boil it, ob- serving it does not bum; pour it into a shape or pint-basin, taking out the spice. When cold, turn the flummery into a dish, and serve with cream, milk, or custard round; or put a tea-cupful of cream into half a pint of new milk, a glass of white wine, half a lemon squeezed, and sugar.