BEA 47 BEA BAY-BERRY.—The American kind of this plant is the best. It is very astringent and stimulant, and is judged to be the most valu- able and astringent medicine ever discovered. As a stimulant it is very powerful, and preferred by some to cayenne, and other stimu- lants. It removes canker, or mor- bific matter from the mucous membranes of the stomach and bowels. It is a wonderful clean- ser. In cold phlegmatic systems, it generates heat, and it is some- times combined with cayenne in all cases of cold clamminess, where there is much morbific matter in the system; in such cases it may be given strong and frequently. Being an alterative it is a good remedy for bowel complaints, and effects a radical change in the se- cretions. The bark is the strong- est. The powdered leaves, or the bark of the root, make an excel- lent poultice for ulcers, cancerous and scrofulous sores, &c. BEANS, to dress.—Boil tender, with a bunch of parsley, chopped to serve with them. Bacon or pickled pork must be served to eat with, but not boiled with them. BEANS, FRENCH, to boil.— Cut the ends of your beans off, then cut them slantways: put them in strong salt and water as you do them ; let them stand an hour; boil them in a large quan- tity of water, with a handful of salt in it, they will be a fine green; when you dish them up pour on them molted butter. Rf. BEANS, FRENCH, a la Rou- lette.—Choose the beans small and tender; clean them, and take out the fibers, and throw them into fresh water; cut them all to one size ; put them upon a hot fire, in a pot or stew pan, with water, find a handful of salt; let them be well done and very green; throw them into cold water, drain, and put them into a stewpan with a bit of butter, cut onions in little dice, do them white in butter, dust in a lit- tle flour, let them cook a little without browning; add a spoonful of soup; mix it well with hashed parsley and scallions; salt and pepper; when done enough put in the beans, give them a boil; thick- en the sauce with two or three yolks of eggs; finish with the juice of a lemon and butter. Beau. BEANS, FRENCH, to pre- serve for Winter.—Pick them young, and throw into a little wooden keg a layer of them three inches deep; then sprinkle them with salt,' put another layer of beans, and do the same as high as you think proper, alternately with salt, but not too much of this. Lay over them a plate, or cover of wood, that will go into the keg, and put a heavy stone on it. A pickle will rise from the beans and salt. If they are too salt, the soaking and boiling will not be sufficient to make them pleasant to the taste. Bu. BEANS, Bagmet of.—Boil your beans, so that the skins will slip off, take about a quart, season them with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; then flour them, and have ready some butter in a stewpan, throw in some beans; fry them of a fine brown, then drain them from the fat, and lay them in your dish; nave ready a quarter of a pound of butter melted, and half a pint of the blanched beans boiled, beat in a mortar, with a very little pepper, salt, and nutmeg: then by de- grees, mix them to the butter. Hu. BEANS, FRENCH.—String, andcut them into four or eight; the last looks best. Lay them in salt and water, and when the sauce-pan boils put them in with some salt. As soon as they are done, serve