I 303 PIK PIK wing-s, and put them in the centre of the pie ; and over them a hole made in the crust, three feet nicely- cleaned, to show what pie it is. PIGEONS, to stew.—Take care that they are quite fresh, and care- fully cropped, drawn, and washed, then soak them half an hour. In the mean time cut a hard white cabbage in slices (as if for pickling) into water; drain it, and then boil it in milk and water; drain it again, and lay some of it at the bottom of a stewpan. Put the pigeons upon it, but first season them well with pepper and salt, and cover them with the remain- der of the cabbage. Add a little broth, and stew gently till the pigeons are tender; put among them two or three spoonfuls of cream, and a piece of butter and flour for thickening. After a boil or two, serve the birds in the nnd- dle. and the cabbage placed round ^Another way.—Stew the birds in a good brown gravy, either stuff- ed or not; and seasoned high with spice and mushrooms fresh, and a little ketchup. PIKE, to balce.—Scale it, and open as near the throat as you can, then stuff it with the follow- j,,• grated bread, herbs, ancho- vies, oysters, suet, salt, pepper, mace, half a pint of cream, four yolks of eggs; mix all over the fire till it thickens, then put it in- to the fish, and sew it up; butter should be put over it in little bits, bake it. Serve sauce of gravy, butter, and anchovy. If in serving the pike, the back and belly are slit up, and each slice gently drawn downwaids, there will be fewer bones given. PIKE, to fricassee.—'Clean, cut into large pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with mushrooms, butter, 12 small onions,half boiled, a little parsley, green shalots, two cloves, thyme, and a bay- leaf; soak all together some time; add a pint of sherry, some broth, salt, and whole pepper; boil briskly ; reduce the same; take out the fagot, and make a liaison with cream, eggs, and a little nutmeg; adding a lemon squeeze, if the wine does not make it tart enough. PIKE, to roast a.—Gut a large pike, and lard it with eel and ba- con ; then take thyme, savory, salt, mace, nutmeg, some crumbs of bread, beef suet, and parsley, all shred very fine, mix them with raw eggs, and put in the belly of the pike, sew up the belly, dissolve three anchovies in butter, to baste it with; put two laths on each side the pike, and tie it to the spit; melt butter thick, for sauce. Gar- nish with lemon. PIKELETS, on CRUMPETS —See Crumpets, page 134.—Take 3 lbs. of flour, two eggs, and a pint of milk; whisk the milk and the ecrgs well together; then add the flour, a little salt, and two table- spoonfuls of new bran; stir them well together, and let them rise; when the bakestone is hot, pour the batter upon it, either in hoops ■ made on purpose or without; wheni ready to turn they will appear r full of holes on the top side ; turn l them, and bake them a fine brown. PILES.—An enlargement ot the veins at the lower termination of the intestines, frecpently cab- ins: g-reat pain, bleeding, and diffi- cult evacuation. The tumours are seated sometimes externally, ana sometimes within the verge of the anus, for the most part attended with a discharge of blood ’> these are called bleeding piles. When no blood is discharged, they are termed blind piles ; and, when th« discharge is only scrum, WMti- piles.