EGG EGG 151 lemon, 50 drops; essence of berga- mot, 50 drops ; essence of rosemary, 50 drops; lesser cardamons, 2 drachms. Distil, or macerate and filter. EAU DIVINE.—Spirit of wine, 1 quart; essence of lemons, and essence of bergamot, each. £ dr. Distil in a batli heat; add 1 lb. of sugar, dissolved in two quarts of water, and 4 ozs. of orange flower water. EAU SUCRE.—Dissolve fine loaf sugar in boiling water; add a little cinnamon, or ginger, &c. EBONY, Imitation of.—Wash the wood over several times with a strong decoction of logwood, and then with a solution of copperas. When dry, polish with Furniture Paste. EELS, to step.-Clean them well. Cut in pieces two or three inches long, and fry till quarter cooked. Put thin slices of butter into the stew-pan, then the fish, with salt, pepper, a little shred lemon-peel, mace, cloves, and nutmeg; a gill of sherry wine, with marjoram, thyme, savory, and an onion partly boiled, and chopped. Stew gently till tender; take them out, and put an anchovy into the sauce; thicken with the yolk of an egg, or butter rolled in flour. Boil, and pour on the eels. EELS, to boil.—Remove the gut, skin, blood, and heads; dry them well; and boil in salt ancl water. Serve with parsley sauce. EELS, to 5ro?7.—Skin, gut, and clean well; rub them with the yolk of an egg; strew over them bread crumbs, chopped parsley, sage, pepper, and salt; baste them well with butter in the dripping- pan, roast or broil them on a grid- iron, or in a dutch oven. EEL PIE. — Skin and wash clean, cut in pieces 11 inch long, season them with pepper, salt, and sage rubbed small, mace, bread crumbs and parsley. Place the fish in a pie-dish; (if you have any veal stock it will improve them.) Cover with a light paste, and bake for an hour. Before send- ing it to table, make an opening at the top, and pour in a tea-cup- ful of veal stock in which a glass of sherry and the juice of a lemon have been mixed. The pie may be made plainer by omitting some of the articles. EEL SOUP.—A pound of eels will make a pint of good soup.— To every pound of eels, put a quart of water, three blades of mace, cayenne, an onion, and sweet herbs, as lemon thyme, and win ter savoiy, and a little parsley ; boil till half the liquor is wasted, skimming well. When boiling, cover close. Strain, toast some bread; cut it small, and pour the soup over it boiling. A piece of carrot may be put in to brown it.—A rich sour). EFFERVESCING BEVER- AGES.—These may be made by taking any fruit syrup, as apricot, cherry, raspberry, &c., &c. About half a pint, filtered; add half an oz. of tartaric acid, and a little brandy, to keep it, bottle and cork well. To half a tumbler of water, put two tablespoonfuls of syrup, and nearly half a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, stir well, and drink while effervescing. EGGS.—In making bread, con- fectionery, &c., the eggs should be added, if possible, after all the other articles are well mixed. By this method, two eggs will enrich the cake and make it as light as three eggs used at the first. EGGS, to have in winter.—To cause hens to lay all winter, give them flesh meat to supply the place of insects which they eat in summer. Let them have a suf- ficiency of fresh water, and shelter-