354 RIIE RUE full of tlie camphorated mixture. The Diaphoretic Powder is very useful in this disease; also an ape- rient of senna, manna, and cream of tartar, in solution. Use the Rheumatic liquid, except in case of great debility. In such cases, the camphorated spirit, combined with tincture of aconite and oil of hemlock. This is an excellent ru- befacient. Apply it two or three times a-day. It always reduces the swelling and mitigates the pain. The Alterative Syrup is very ef- fectual in the cure of rheumatism. Chronic Rheumatism.• This sometimes succeeds the acute. It is not so painful, but it abides longer. The period of acute rheu- matism seldom exceeds 40 days; after which, if the pain continue, it may be pronounced chronic. The joints most surrounded by muscles, and the parts ipost re- quired for bodily exertion, as the hip and the loins, are commonly the seats of this complaint. When it affects the hip joint, it is called Sciatica, and when situated in the loins, Lumbago. Treatment—Keep the evacua- tions and secretions regular, as di- rected under acute rheumatism. Take the Diaphoretic Powder con- stantly on going to bed. Apply to the body the Rheumatic Liquid. Take the following The sarsaparilla root, sliced and bruised, 6 ozs.; sassafras, shavings of guiac wood, liquorice root, of each 1 oz.; mezereon, 3 drachms; distilled water, 10 pints. Macerate for 6 hours ; then boil down to 5 pints; adding the mezereon and sassafras a few minutes before taking off. Strain for use. A pint nearly should be taken every day. Alkalies are very useful, lake I oz. of bicarbonate of soda, and put it into a pint of pure water. Dose,—a table-spoonful two or three times a-day. The vapour bath is also very serviceable, after which rub the body well with the Stimulating Liniment. It is a good thing to envelop the joints in carded cotton, covered with oiled silk, or gutta percha sheeting: this acts as a vapour bath, by ex- cluding the air. White mustard seed taken inwardly may be tried; also, a decoction of Peruvian bark, sassafras, and gum guiac. Bitters and mild purgatives render great benefit. Friction by the flesh brush, electricity, or galvanism, should be tried. The warm baths of Buxton and Matlock are of es- sential service. The Miscellaneous remedies are invaluable. RHEUMATISM.—-To those who dwell in damp districts, or damp houses, and are hence sub- ject to rheumatism, coughs, colds, &c., the free use of Lemon Juice, (when strained, and where it does not disagree with the stomach) is a most effectual preventive as well as a remedy. I have found the regular use of a wine-glassful or two a day so to strengthen a very delicate constitution, liable to cold on the slightest occasions, that in a short time it defied not only damp, but every inclemency, and all exposure. , A Correspondent of the Medical Circular vouches for the relief he has experienced in the liberal use of lime (fresh lemon) juice, while labouring under the paroxysms of rheumatism. By repeated indul- gence in the above simple acid, for the space of three days, avoiding all stimulating liquids, the most confirmed rheumatism will, he says relax, and the tone of the muscular and nervous system will be restor- ed to its usual character. The fact was first established by the circum- stance of the Jews being, as a general body, scarcely ever affected