PAS PAS 295 ing, say, half a cupful of flour in •water, to the consistence of pud- ding batter; add half a teaspoon- ful of powdered alum ; put it on the fire, and stir till it boils. A little powdered corrosive sub- limate will cause it to keep long, and a few drops of any of the es- sential oils will prevent mouldi- ness. The addition of a l;ttle sugar, or powdered resin, makes it more adhesive. PASTE and PIES, General Directions.—The most important thing in all kinds of pastry is the proper heat of the oven. Praised pies should have a quick oven, and well closed up, or the pie will fall in at the sides; it should not have any water put in till the mi- nute it goes to the oven ; it makes the crust sad, and may cause the pie to run. Light paste requires a moderate oven, but not too slow; it will make it sad, and a quick oven will soon burn it, and not give it time to rise. Tarts that are iced require a slow oven, or the icing will brown, and the paste not be nearly baked. This sort of tarts ought to be made of sugar paste, and rolled very thin. PASTE foe BIRDS.—lib. of unsifted flour; 2 ozs. of butter ; 4 ozs. of sugar; three hard-boiled eggs, cut up very small. Put them into a sancepan, over a slow fire, and stir till it becomes crum- bly. Do not let it be burned. When this is ready, put a pint of cracked hempseed to the mixture, and mix well together. When it is baking, add a pennyworth of saffron, and mix it with the rest. If kept in a dry place, it will keep for months. Another.— Mix well together 3 lbs. of powdered or ground split- peas, 1| lb. of fine crumbs of bread, and coarse sugar; the yolks of six eggs, and 6 ozs. of unsalted but- ter. Put one-third of the mix- ture at a time, in a frying-pan, over a gentle fire, and stir it until it is just browned. When the other two parts are thus done, and all are cold, add to the whole mass, 6 ozs. of maw seed, with 6 ozs. of good bruised hemp seed, separated from the husks. Mix all together. It is an excellent food for all sing- ing birds. PASTE, to lceep a year.—Dis- solve in cold water, 2 ozs. of glue, and 1 oz. of alum. Mix intimate- ly with flour, and then boil. When nearly cool, stir in two teaspoon- fuls of oil of cloves, or lavender. Make it into a pint of paste. Keep in a well covered vessel. PASTE, for Custards. — Put | lb. of butter in a pan of water ; take 2 lbs. of flour, with as much water as will make it into a good paste; work it well; and when cooled a little, raise the custard; put a paper round the inside of them, and when they are half baked, fill them. When you make any kind of dripping paste, boil it four or five times in plenty of wa- ter to take off the strength ; when you make a cold crust with suet, shred it fine; pour part of it into the flour; then make it into a paste, and roll it out as before. PASTE, for meat, or savoury pies.—Sift 2 lbs of fine flour to l'j lb. of good salt butter, which break into small pieces; rub gently to- gether the flour and butter, and mix up with yolks of three eggs well beat up, adding nearly a pint of spring water; roll the paste out and double it in folds three times, and it is ready. PASTE, for Tarts.—Take 1 lb. of fine flour; beat the white of an egg to a strong froth; mix with it as much water as will make it into a stiff paste; roll it out very thin; lay 3 ozs. of butter in thin