RHE RHE 356 for, and for Lumbago or Strains— 4 oz. spirits of turpentine, h, oz. of strongest camphorated spirit, 1 raw egg, half pint of best vinegar. Well mix the whole, and keep it closely corked. To be rubbed in three or four times a day. For •rheumatism in the head, or face- ache, rub all over the back of the head and neck, as well as the part which is the immediate seat of pain. RHEUMATISM, Embrocation for.—Olive oil, 2 ozs.; water of ammonia, 2 drachms ; oil of rose- mary, 10 drops; oil of cloves, 5 drops. Mix, and keep tightly corked. RHEUMATIC DECOCTION .—Virginian snake root, I drachm; sarsaparilla in powder, 6 drachms; burdook seed, 2 drachms; poke root, 2 drachms; wine-pine bark, 2 drachms; cayenne pepper, | drachm. Powder them, and add 3 quarts of water. Boil down to 2 quarts. A cupful two or three times a day. It is most valuable in chronic rheumatism. RHEUMATIC DROPS.—Ex- tract of sarsaparilla, 2 drachms; gum camphor, h drachm ; lauda- num, 1 scruple; spirit of wine, 1 oz. Mix and macerate 24 hours. Take from 20 to 50 drops three times a day. RHEUMATIC GOUT, Draught for.—Camphorated, mix- ture, seven drachms ; infusion of rhubarb, five drachms; tincture of henbane, half a drachm; sub- carbonate of potass, ten grains. Mix for a draught; take two or three a day, particularly the last thing at night.—It is a most excel- lent remedy. RHEUMATIC LINIMENT.- Take sassafras oil, 2 ozs.; tincture of prickly ash, 1 oz. ; tincture of cayenne, 1 oz.; hemlock oil, 1 oz. Mix, and rub well in. A few ap- plications will relieve, if not cure. Another.—Tincture of cayenne, oil of turpentine, olive oil, hemlock oil, gum camphor, sassafras oil, tincture of prickly ash, of each, 1 oz.; powdered capsicum, or cay- enne, I oz.; spirit of wine, 2 quarts ; vinegar, 1 quart; ammo- nia, I quart; add 2 ozs. of gum camphor. Mix ; put in a vessel, and stir occasionally till mixed and dissolved. This is a magic liniment, soon giving ease in rheu- matic pains, gout, neuralgia, sprains, &c., &c. It is worth much gold. It seldom or never fails. RHEUMATIC LIQUID. Sarsaparilla, powdered, 2 ozs.; cayenne pepper, 1 oz.; gum myrrh, | oz.; brandy, or Hollands gin, 2 quarts. Let it stand a few days. A teaspoonful in tea, or water sweetened. This is excellent for rheumatism, gout, &c. RHEUMATIC LIQUID, for External application. See Rheu- matism, Embrocation for.' Or, Rheumatic Liniment. Or, Rheumatic Pains, in the bones and joints. RHEUMATIC MIXTURE.— Saltpetre, sulphur, powdered mus- tard, Turkey rhubarb, sarsaparilla powder, of each, \ oz.; powdered gum guiacum, j oz. Mix. Take a teaspoonful every other night for three nights; then omit three nights, in a wine-glassful of cold waiei. , RHEUMATIC PAINS, in the bones and joints.—Take opodeldoc, one ounce'; tincture of cantharides, three drachms ; spirits of sal am- nioniac, three drachms; rectified oil of amber, three drachms. This forms a liniment, wherewith fre- quently to rub the painful part. Wrap up in fine, soft flannel, and keep warm. Or, take friar’s bnlsam and tinc- ture of myrrh, of each, one ounce,