PEA PEA 141 is very good for the liver and di- gestion. Aroung nettles, balm, or any other herb may be treated the same way. DANDELION COFFEE.— Good colonial coffee, 3 parts ; hard extract of dandelion, 1 part; chic- ory, 1 part. Reduce them to coarse powder, and mix, and grind them together. Good for digestion and affections of the liver. PEAFNESS.-Fox-glove leaves well bruised ; mix the juice with double the quantity of brandy. Keep for use. Prop one drop in- to the ear once a day, and place in the ear constantly a piece of cotton saturated with it. Or, clean the ear well out with warm water, dry it, and then soak cotton in glycerine, and put it into the ear, moving it backwards and forwards, to lubricate it thoroughly Or, syringe the ears well with warm milk and oil; then take opodeldoc, and oil of almonds, of each, a oz., and apply with cotton wool. Or, till a clean stone bottle with hot water; lay the ear on the bot- tle as hot as it can be borne, so that the steam may ascend into it every night when going to bed, for five or ten minutes. Or, take fine black wool, dip it in Camphorated Oil, and put it in- to the ear; as it dries, dip it again ; and keep it moistened in the ear for two or three weeks. Be electrified through the ear.— —Or, put a little salt in the ear mixed with sweet oil. Or, three drops of onion juice at lying down, keeping it in with wool. Or, mix brandy and sweet oil; dip black wool in this and put it into the ear. When it grows dry, wash it well in brandy; dip it and put it in again.—If attended with headache, peel a clove of garlic, dip it in honey. Apply it.with black wool. Previously drop into the ear a few drops of the juice.— A mixture of ten drops of spirit of turpentine with 1 oz. of almond oil, using black wool, will tend to the cure of deafness arising from diseased ceraminous glands.—If deafness arises from wax, syringe the ear with warm water, applying the night before a little glycerine. DEAFNESS CURED BY ETHER.—A poor French gover- ness, Madlle Cleret, has succeeded in partially curing several persons afflicted with deafness and loss of speech. The French Academy have awarded the Monthyon Prize for the discovery, which has been proved innocuous. The method consists in introducing sulphuric ether into the aural conduit, in doses of two to eight drops a day for twenty days, when the applica- tion is suspended for a short time, and again commenced. A gunner’s mate, aged 51, had been attacked six months before with acute rheu- matism, which became chronic and complicated, with deafness in the left ear, and difficulty of hearing in the right one. There was fre- quent singing in both ears, and the deafness increased or diminish- ed with the rheumatic pains. At the first, a few drops of ether were instilled into both his ears, when he immediately experienced a feeling of expansion within, with a slight pain, and from that mo- ment he could distinguish sounds less confusedly. On the following morning he declared he could hear with his right ear quite as well as before his illness; the installation was therefore only repeated in the loft ear, and on the fourth day he declared himself quite cured. An- other case, similar to this, is report- od by Dr. Berlemont, of Joncourt; and Dr. Coursier, of Honnecourt’ announces that he has been treat-