217 LAC KNI of tlie tincture from one to two draclinis. KISSES.—Boil the same as barley sugar, and flavour with lemon juice and a few drops of es- sence of lemon ; after which let it boil a little. Drop it on a slab, nearly the size of a shilling. When cold, put them into sifted white sugar in a dish; shake them, and fold them singly in papers, with mottoes, if you like. Another.—Beat the whites of five eggs till they stand alone. Mix gradually with this 1| lb. of the finest sifted white sugar, and 15 drops of essence of lemon; beat the whole well. Lay a sheet of stiff writing paper at the bottom of a baking tin; drop upon it at equal distances, a small teaspoon- ful of stiff raspberry, currant, ap- ricot, or pine apple jelly, and then cover the same over with the white of egg and sugar. Do it so evenly that the kisses may be quite smooth and compact. Place in cool oven, and when coloured, take out, and place the flat parts of each to- gether. Put lightly on a sieve, and dry in a cool oven. KITCHEN PEPPER.—Mix in the finest powder one ounce of ginger; of cinnamon, cayenne pep- per, black pepper, nutmeg, and Jamaica pepper, half an ounce each; ten cloves, and six ounces of salt. Keep it in a bottle; it is an agreeable addition to any brown sauces or soups. KITCHENER’S RELISH.— Cayenne pepper, ginger, black pep- per, and salt, of each 1 oz.; ground allspice, 1 j oz.; horseradish and shalots, 1 oz. each, well minced; walnut pickle, and mushroom ketchup, 1 pint each. Add ground mace and cloves, J oz. each. In- fuse for 15 davs. KNIFE BOARD. —Cover a smooth board with thick buff lea- ther on both sides. For one side melt sufficient mutton suet; apply it hot to the leather, and sprinkle it with fine emery and bath brick, smoothing it down with a knife. Use the other side for polishing off, using three parts of powdered char- coal, and one part oi Bath brick, or rotten-stone. ^/,{- To clean steel forks, fill a small oyster barrel with fine gravel, brick-dust, or sand, mixed with a little hay or moss: make it damp, press it well down, and always keep it damp. By running the prongs of the forks a few times into this, they will be cleaned and polished. To polish between the prongs have a small stick shaped like a knife, covered with leather, and use emery powder. Emery' powder might be mixed with the sand in the barrel to render it more efficient in knife cleaning. KNIVES, HANDLES OF, to fasten.—Melt resin, add brick-dust and mix well together. This is a very good cement for this and other purposes. Shellac, and prepared chalk, intimately mixed, answer well. Heat the part to be inserted, and fill the aperture with the mix- ture. Press it in. KRINGLES. — Beat well the yolks of eight, and whites of two eggs, and mix with 5 ozs. of but- ter warmed ; with this knead 1 lb. of flour, and 5 ozs. of sugar to a paste. Roll into thick biscuits, prick and bake them on tin plates. LACE, White, to wash.—Wash it the same way as Chintz. See Chintz. LACQUER fou BRASS. — Seed-lac, 6 ozs.; arnher, or copal, well ground, 2 ozs.; dragon’s blood, 40 grains; extract of red sandal wood, 30 grains ; saffron, 36 grains; pounded glass, 4 ozs. ; pure alcohol, 40 ozs. Expose the