NIG 270 NEU ljo sweetened. Cancers, it lias been said, have yielded to the juice of nettles, as much as four ounces having been taken in a day.—See Robinson's Herbal. NETTLE BEER. — Take a peck or more of nettle tops, and 4 lbs. of malt, and boil in two gal- lons of water, with 2 ozs of hops ; 4 ozs. of sarsaparilla, 1J lb. of su- gar, and 2 oz. of ginger ; strain, and when nearly cold, add a little yeast. Bottle while in a state of fermentation. Most valuable—a pleasant beverage—and a wonder- ful purifier of the blood. NETTLE RASH.—So called from its resemblance to that pro- duced by the stinging of nettles. The skin is raised, and whitish on the top ; it is attended with itch- ing and tingling. It is a very mild disease, and seldom requires much medicine. The following remedies have been recommended: An equal proportion of oil, vine- gar, and spirit of wine, applied to the skin, will afford temporary re- lief for the itching. Take, at the same time, 6 grains of magnesia in a glass of lime water three times a day. Or rub the part well with parsley. But it is best to give the Vapour Bath of bitter decoction, and apply to the part the Stimulating Lini- ment, and an aperient, page 20, 21. Or apply tincture of lobelia and tincture of myrrh, mixed, to the skin. Sponge the body every morning in salt and water. Weak camphorated spirit is a good rube- facient in this disease. An emetic sometimes effectually dislodges the disease. NEURALGIA, on TIC DOL- OUREUX.—Put half a drachm of sal-ammonia in an ounce of camphor water. Take a teaspoon- ful at a dose, and repeat the dose several times at intervals of five minutes, if the pain bo not relieved at once. This medicine has gen- erally cured. Or, take extract of valerian, 2 ozs. ; henbane, 1| oz.; aconite, | oz. Mix well, and with oil of lav- ender, form into pills. Take one or two every four hours. It acts like a charm on neuralgia, and all nervous disorders. Or, apply bruised horse radish to the part af- fected. Chloroform has recently been applied to parts affected with neuralgia. Indeed it is made a patent medicine for “Tic.” A piece of lint should be soaked in it, and applied; cover it with flannel. NEUTRALIZING MIX- TURE. — Powdered rhubarb, 3 scruples; saleratus, or crude bi- carbonate of potash, 3 scruples; powdered peppermint plant, 3 scruples; boiling water, j pint; decoction of aniseeds, i pint. Mix. Strain, sweeten with sugar, and add three table-spoonfuls of brandy. Take one or two table-spoonfuls as oft as the symptoms require it. For children a less dose. Very valuable in cholera, bowel complaints of children, laxity of the bowels, flux, &c. An infallible remedy. NIBBLE CAKES.—Make a good puff paste; roll thick; cut into lozenges about the size of the palm of the hand; brush it over with beaten yolks of eggs and strew macaroni drops powder over them, with a little powder of orange flowers, and lemon peel chopped very fine; stick bits of scalded sweet almonds in the paste pointed upwards; cover them with paper in the oven, to keep them of a palish colour. NIGHTMARE. — The com- plaint always happens during dis- turbed sleep. It comes on with a sense of great weight on the chest, and a dreaming of something very