42 BAL BAL quently hereditary. Those who perspire much about the head are generally bald. If the hair falls off after fever, shaving a few times will tend to promote the growth. Keeping the head closely wrapped prevents the growth of hair. A drachm of the Tincture of Can- tharides mixed with an ounce of lard, is a good application. An infusion of the Asarum Europeum Asarabacca, (see Robinson’s Her- bal) may be used as a lotion for the scalp. Rub the bald part frequently with the juice of an onion till it looks red.—Or, water, 1 pint; pearlash, half an ounce; onion juice, 1 gill; rum, half a gill; oil of rosemary, 20 drops. Rub the head hard with a rough linen towel dipped in the mixture.—Or, take 4 ounces of castor oil, 8 ounces best rum, 30 drops oil of lavender, ap- ply occasionally to the head, sha- king the bottle well.—Or, beef marrow, well washed, melted, and strained, half a pound; tincture of cantharides, one ounce; oil of bergamot, 12 drops.—Wash the head frequently with warm water and Windsor soap; or with a de- coction of rosemary and southern- wood. BALDNESS.—Rub the part morning and evening with onions, till it is red, and afterwards with honey.—Or wash it with a decoc- tion of boxwood.—Or electrify it daily.— Wesley. BALDNESS.—Infuse for a few days, 1 drachm of powdered can- tharides. in 1 ounce of proof spirit; beef marrow, half pound, soak in several waters, lastly in weak salt and water; melt, strain, and mix, adding 10 or 12 drops of oil of ber- gamot, or lavender. BALM.—It is diaphoretic. It makes an excellent drink in colds, fevers, and influenza. See Rob- inson's Ilerhal. BALM OF GILEAD, Decoc- tion of, and Tincture of.—These form excellent remedies for cough, asthma, wheezing, &c. Populus balsomefera, or balsorn poplar, be- longs to America; but it may bo obtained by applying to the Medi- cal Botanists. For the decoction, simmer 1 ounce of the buds in a quart of soft water, down to half a pint. Take a wine glassful or more, when the cough is trouble- some.—For the Tincture, infuse 2 ounces of the buds in a quart of good rum, and 4 ounces of sugar. Digest for four days. Take two or three tea-spoonfuls at a time. It greatly relieves cough, pains in the chest, and other pulmonary affections. BALMONY. An American plant. It is a good tonic, anti- bilious and stimulant. It is very bitter, and purgative. Henee it may be used in constipation, indi- gestion, loss of appetite, and gen- eral debility, with great effect; also in complaints of the liver, and in jaundice. It is a good anthelmen- tic, soon ridding children of worms. Take in a weak infusion; and in powder from four to eight grains. BALM TEA.—Balm leaves, I ounce, fine sugar, 1 spoonful, lem- on juice, 1 ounce, infused in a pint of boiling water, for twenty min- utes. This forms a useful drink in colds, or fevers. (SeeRobinson’s Herbal, under Balm. Or it may be made just like com- mon tea, without the lemon. Let the patient drink it frequently, es- pecially the last thing at night, and keep himself warm during the perspiration. BALM WINE—Tako 40 lbs. of sugar, and 9 gallons of water, boil it gently two hours, skim it well, and put it into a tub to cool.