SIL 384 SKA renovate the colours, rinse in clean warm water. For blue and purple, use a little soda or pearlash. For crimson, maroon, scarlet, or bright yellow, add half a tea-spoonful of sulphuric acid ; but never use the acid for brown, fawn, or orange. For olive green add a little verdi- gris ; and for light green, Persian berry and indigo. For carnation, pink, or rose, add a little lemon juice. Roll in a coarse cloth and wring. SILK, BLACK, to clean. Steep a few hours in cold water. Then put a quarter of a pint of the Blade Reviver in half a gallon of water, and a cupful of ox-gall. Make hot, and sponge the silk. Dry, and smooth with an iron. (See Black Reviver.) Rusty black silk may be cleaned in the same way. Some persons clean black silk by rubbing it with a flannel dipped in gin. SILK, stained.—We often find that lemon-juice, vinegar, oil of vitriol, and other sharp corrosives, stain dyed garments. Sometimes by adding a little pearlash to a soap lather, and passing the silks through these, the faded colour will be restored. Pearlash and warm water will sometimes do alone, but it is the most efficacious method to use the soap lather and pearlash together. SILK, to remove grease from.— Take French chalk, finely scraped, and put it on the grease-spot, holding it near the fire, or over a warm iron reversed, or on a water- plate in which is boiling water. This will cause the grease to melt, and the French chalk will absorb it, and it may then be brushed or rubbed off. If any grease remains, proceed as before, until it is all ex- tracted. The French chalk is a fine soluble powder of a dry ab- sorbent quality, acting upon silks as Fuller’s earth does upon wool- lens. SILKS, to renovate.—Sponge faded silks with warm water, soap, and bran. Then rub them with a dry cloth on a dresser or table; next, iron them on the inside with a smoothing iron. Old black silks maybe renovated by sponging with spirits. Iron on the right side, hut with thin paper on the silk. SILVER PLATE, to clean.— Dissolve alum in a strong ley; skim it carefully, and mix it up with soap, and wash the silver with it, using a linen rag. Then, when dry, rub with wash-leather and impalpable whiting. SIRLOIN OF BEEF. See Beef. SKATE, to choose. If good, they are very white and thick. If too fresh they eat tough, but must not be kept above two days. SKATE, to boil.—Clean well, and cut into long narrow pieces; put into boiling water with a little salt in it. Boil 15 minutes, and take it out; and after adding a lit- tle vinegar to the water, boil again till enough. When taken up, drain. Serve while hot, and pom- over it cockle, shrimp, or muscle sauce. Lay over it oyster patties. Garnish with horse-radish. SKATE, to crimp. Cut into long strips, crossways. Boil them quickly for about 10 minutes. Drain, and serve hot, with butter and anchovy. SKATE, to fricassee.—Prepare it the same as soles and flounders; put into a saucepan ; to every lb. of fish put a quarter of a pint of water, a little beaten mace, and a grated nutmeg, sweet herbs, and salt; cover close, and boil 15 minutes. Take out the herbs, and ut in a pint of cream, a piece of utter rolled in flour, and a glass of sherry. Shake the pan all the