GRA 184 of water. Two table-spoonfuls to be taken every morning fasting, followed by a cup of tea. Or, Rhubarb, saltpetre, milk of sul- phur, mustard, of each, § an oz.; powdered coriander seed, powdered gum guiacum, of each £ an oz. Mix; take a tea-spoonful every other night in a wine-glassful of weak peppermint water. Meadow-saffron, or colchicum, is said to exert a wonderful influ- ence over gouty affections:—Cal- cined magnesia, 16grains; vinegar or wine of meadow-saffron, 1 drachm ; mix with 3 table-spoon- fuls of peppermint water for a draught. Of the wine alone, (colchicum) take 30 or 40 drops for several days. Pain arising from inflammation may be relieved by saturating a piece of lint in spirits of wine and camphor, applied to the part and covered with oiled silk. Or steam the part several times a-day over the vapour of bitter herbs, after which rub with the tincture of cayenne; in severe pain, add a little opium. Occasionally apply a poultice of bran and vinegar. If gout of the stomach arises from indigestible food, take an emetic. On recovery, sponge the body every morning with cold salt and water, drying well and using the flesh brush freely. Take also exercise in the open air freely. The food must be plain—be spar- ing of malt liquors—promote the evacuations—be sparing of animal food,avoiding it at supper—use un- sifted flour, and vegetables, cooling fruits—milk preparations—tea and coffee should not be taken strong. GRAPES, to prevent dropping off.—Make a circular incision in the wood, cutting a ring of bark, about the breadth of the twelfth of an inch. The wood acquires greater size about the incision,, GRA and the operation accelerates the maturity, and also of the fruit. G RAPES, to' pickle. —Lay grapes not too ripe, in a stone jar; then a layer of vine leayes, alter- nately till the jar is full. Then take 2 quarts of water, common salt, § lb. and bay salt, £ lb.; boil 30 minutes; skim; take off to settle; pour the liquor, milk warm, upon the grapes, and lay plenty of vine leaves upon the top; cover close; stand two days; then drain, and dry the grapes. Put in flat bottomed stone jars with vine leaves in layers, and plenty on the top. Boil a quart of hard water, and 1 lb. of white sugar 15 min- utes ; skim well, and add 3 blades of mace, a nutmeg, and two quarts of the best vinegar; when cold, pour upon the grapes. Tie up with bladders. GRAPES, to preserve.—Into an air-tight cask put a layer of bran dried in an oven; upon this place a layer of grapes, well dried, and not quite ripe, and so on alter- nately till the barrel is filled; end with bran, and close air-tight; they will keep 9 or 10 months. To restore them to their original freshness, cut the end of each bunch stalk, and put into wine, like flowers. Or, Bunches of grapes may be pre- served through winter by inserting the end of the stem in a potato. The bunches should be laid on dry straw, and turned occasionally. Or they may be kept in layers of Cotton, as the Americans do. GRAPES, to preserve in bran- dy.—Take close bunches of grapes, not too ripe; put them into a jar with 4 ozs. of sugar candy, and fill the jar with brandy. Tie close with bladder. Morello cherries are done the same way. GRAPE JAM.—Stew grapes to a soft pulp, and strain. To I