RES 352 REN the other ingredients previously powdered and mixed. RED HERRINGS, to dress.— Choose those that are large and moist; cut them open and pour some boiling small beer over them to soak half an hour; drain them dry, and make them just hot through before the fire; rub some cold butter over them. Egg sauce, or buttered eggs, or mashed pota- toes should be served up with them. REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS.—An infant should be registered within six weeks after birth. No fee is payable; but after 42 days a fee of 7s. 6d. is chargeable. REGISTRATION OF DEATHS .—Notice should be given of deaths to the district reg- istrar. Let this be done early, that the undertaker may have a certifi- cate to give the minister who per- forms the funeral service. RED CEMENT.—Black resin, five parts; yellow wax, one part. Melt, and stir in gradually red ochre, or Yenetia red in fine dry powder. This cement must be melted before using, and also the glass, china, &c. must be made hot before it is applied. RED INK.—The finest Brazil wood, 6 ozs.; cochineal powdered, 1 oz.; alum, § oz.; best vinegar, 1 pint; water, a cupful. Boil slowly in a brass pan for one hour. Put the cochineal in when throe- fourths boiled. Add 1 oz. of gum arabic. , RENNET, for curdling cheese, to prepare.—Take the stomach of a calf as soon as it is killed, and scour inside and out with salt, after it is cleared of the curd always found in it. Let it drain a few hours; then sew it up with two good handfuls of salt in it, or stretch it on a stick well salted, or keep it in the salt wet, and soak a bit, which will do over and over again bv adding’fresh water. RESIN OINTMENT.—Yel- low wax, 3 ozs.; white resin, 6 ozs.; hog’s lard, 8 ozs. Melt together slowly, stirring till it is intimately mixed. It is very good for burns and scalds, for dressing blisters, when a discharge must be kept up for a few days; it has a stimulat- ing influence. RESPIRATION.—It is not every person that knows how to breathe. Our artificial modes of living, sedentary habits, cramped attitudes, the constraint of clo- thing, weaken and compress the respiratory organs, and. hinder their development. The breath is shortened, and life is shortened in consequence. Animals breathe with the whole body. "Well-de- veloped persons in full health breathe in the same way. The vivifying air goes to the bottom of the lungs, and the entire system seems to swell and undulate, and sink again at the flow and ebb of the aerial tide; but the seamstress over her sewing, the editor over his desk, the sloth who sits on a curve of his spinal column, the young lady whose waist is com- passed by the smallest possible girdle, use only the top of the lungs in respiration, wearing out that portion of them, while the lower portion is left to decay for want of proper exercise. Consumption is most commonly the result of im- perfect respiration; and many other evils point back to the same cause. The throat becomes dis- eased, and the voice weak and hol- low, so that utterance is painful to both speaker and hearer. Let every person wlio reads this, watch himself, and see whether respira- tion is deep and full, or shallow and short. If the latter, this is what he must do : correct his atti-