YEA YEA 430 wise medicated. Heat a couple of bricks nearly red hot, and put one of them into the vessel under the chair. Then pour about 3 pints of boiling water into the vessel, with a gill of strong vinegar. Be careful not to pour it upon the brick, but down the sides of the vessel. Close up, and the patient will soon be immersed in vapour. Change the brick when cool. If the patient be too hot, lift up the blanket a little to admit the cold air, which will lower the temperature. During the bath, drink freely of balm, cat- nep, or pennyroyal tea. When out, dry well, and apply friction, with a flesh brush, or with rough towels dipped in vinegar and water. The benefits arising from the vapour bath are immense. VARNISH, for Furniture.— Melt one part of virgin white wax in eight parts of oil of petroleum, lay a slight coat of this mixture, while warm, on the wood, with a badger’s brush, and after a little time polish it with a woollen cloth. VARNISH, for Straiv Eats.— Mix the best ivory black, shellac, and spirits of wine, or turpentine. Apply it before the fire with a soft sponge or brush. Some persons instead of the above dissolve black sealing wax in spirits of wine. VARNISH FOR VIOLINS. —Spirits of wine, one quart; mastic three ounces, and \ pint of turpen- tine ; put together in a vessel, and keep in a very warm place, fre- quently stirring or shaking it, till all is dissolved. Then strain.— This varnish may be used for fur- niture. VARNISH,for IFood Patterns. —Shellac, \ lb. ; spirit of wine, 1-J pint. Put into a bottle, and when wanted for use, mix with a little lamp black, the thickness of cream, and varnish the pattern, rubbing it into the grain of the w'ood, until friction produces a polish. This varnish makes a smooth surface on the pattern, rendering it easy to draw from the sand, and it fills up all pores in the wood, by which a cleaner and smoother casting is produced. VEAL, to choose.—The flesh of a bull-calf is firmest, but not so white. The fillet of the cow-calf is generally preferred for the ud- der. The whitest is not the most juicy, having been made so by fre- quent bleeding, and having had whitening to lick. Choose the meat of which the kidney is well cover- ed with white thick fat. If the bloody vein in the shoulder looks blue, or of a bright red, it is newly killed; but any other colour shows it stale. The other parts should be diy and white; if clammy or spotted, the meat is stale and bad.