YEA 451 wou previously been infused half a tea- spoonful of cayenne pepper.—This recipe is valuable, it will cause all hinds of worms to flee before it.— Dose, for a child six years old a teaspoonful four times a day. It may be given in well sweetened coffee. WOKMWO OD.-See Robinson's Herbal. It is a valuable plant, but very bitter, It is used in stomach complaints, promoting-' di- gestion and appetite by its stimu- lating and tonic properties. It strengthens the membranes of the intestines. It is often given in intermittent fevers successfully, and it is a powerful expellant of worms; hence its name. The dose of the powder is from one scruple to a drachm. The in- fusion is made by adding J oz. of powder to a pint of water. WOUNDS.—See Bruises. WOUNDS.—Apply juice or powder of yarrow. Or, bind leaves of ground-ivy upon it. Or, wood-betony bruised. This quick- ly heals even cut veins and sin- ews, and draws out thorns or splinters.— Wesley. WOUNDS, to prevent from mortifying.—Sprinkle sugar upon them, or powdered blood-root. WOUNDS, Putrid. Wash them morning and evening with warm decoction of agrimony. If they heal too soon, and a matter gathers underneath, apply a poul- tice of the leaves pounded, chang- ing them once a-day till well. Or, apply a carrot poultice; but if a gangrene comes on, apply a wheat flour poultice (after it has been by the-fire till it begins to fer- ment) nearly cold. It will not fail. WOUNDS, to staunch the bleed- ing of.—Where it can be done, take a bandage, handkerchief, or garter, and put it round the limb betwixt the wound and the heart, and tie it tight. It will answer the purpose of a tourniquet, and stop the bleeding till effectual re- lief can be given. In many cases, it might save life. Or take a pledget of lint, and form it into a little ball, and press it upon the mouth of any bleediDg vein or artery. Apply lint and small compresses saturated with salt and water, and bind them on the wound, to suppress the bleed- ing. In dressing, bring the lips of the wound together, and keep them so by means of adhesive plaster, com- presses, and a bandage. Wounds thus dressed may heal without suppuration. Frequently wet the dressings with diluted brandy and salt. Let the dressings remain two or three days. If suppuration takes place, remove the adhesive plaster, &c., and apply a bread poultice, or the slippery elm bark poultice ; afterwards apply the salve or plaster. In case of proud flesh appearing, sprinkle sugar, or powdered bloodroot up>on the wound; or apply as a lotion of the diluted solution of chloride of soda, or of chloride of lime—that is, in proportion of 1 oz. of the solution to a pint of water.—Or use a few grains of the vegetable caustic. YARROW.—This plant is well known. The infusion taken in- wardly, and applied outwardly as a wash, is good for piles, and sores. It is excellent for flux, looseness, and nervous melancholy. The powder is recommended for colic, ague, whites; and it is very useful in colds. It restrains the involuntary discharge of urine in children.—See Robinson's Herbal. YEAST, to make.-Thicken two quarts of water, with tine flour about three spoonfuL, boil half an hour, sweeten with near half a pound of brown sugar; when near