RHU RI-IU 857 spirits of turpentine, two ounces, and good old strong ale dregs, three ounces; mix all of them well together, and bathe the afflict- ed part with the same. Or, take a raw egg well beaten, half a pint of brandy; 1}- oz. of turpentine; 1- oz. of spirits of wine, and 1 oz. of camphor; and a table spoonful of salt. Put them into a wine bottle, and shake well. This liniment is to be well rubbed on the affected parts three or four times a day. It has often effected a cure in a few days. RHEUMATIC PILL.—Gum guiacum, £ drachm; compound powder of ipecacuanha, drachm ; confection of opium, 10 grains ; mix, and divide into 20 pills. Take two on going to bed. RHEUMATIC POWDER.— Ipecacuanha powder, and purified opium, of each, 1 part; sulphate of potass, 8 parts ; triturate them together to a tine powder. Be very careful to reduce the opium, and intimately mix with the rest. This powder is recommended by Dr. Dover as an effectual remedy for rheumatism. The dose is from two to five grains, repeated. Avoid much drinking after taking it, or it might act as an emetic. RHUBARB.--It is a mild pur- gative, operating without violence and irritation. It is a suitable aperient for females and children. It is astringent, and increases the tone of the stomach and intestines, and is very useful in diarrhoea, and disorders proceeding from lax- ity. It is given chiefly in powddr, and operates more powerfully as a purgative in this form than any other. The dose for an adult is about a scruple, or rather more. RHUBARB, Compound Fills of. —Rhubarb, in powder, 1 oz.; so- cotrine aloes, 6 drachms ; myrrh a oz.; oil of peppermint, £ a drachm; make into a mass with syrup of orange peel. This is a gentle aperient. Four may be taken night and morning. RHUBARB PIE. — Strip off the skin of the tender stalks of the plant; stew till soft, and sweeten; add a little ginger, and grated lemon peel; put it into a baking dish, and cover with paste. Clip two or three holes in the top, to allow evaporation. RHUBARB POWDER, for Diarrhoea. — Powdered rhubarb, and columba, of each, 3 grains. To be taken every three hours. Or, take a bolus of 3 grains of powder; opiate confection, 6 grains. To be taken evei’y four hours. RHUBARB TARTS. — Take rhubarb stalks which grow: in the garden, peel them, and cut them into small pieces. Then do in every respect as in making a goose- berry tart. RHUBARB, Tincture of. Rhubarb, two ounces and a half; lesser cardamom seeds, half an ounce ; brandy, two pints ; digest for a week, and strain. Or, in- fuse the above ingredients in a pint of Lisbon wine, adding to it two ounces of proof spirits. If an ounce of gentian root and a drachm of Virginia snake root be added, it will make the bitter tincture of rhubarb. All these tinctures are stomachics and corroborants, as well as purgatives. In weakness of the stomach, indigestion, laxity of the intestines, fluxes, and colicky complaints, they are of great ser- vice. The dose is from half a spoonful to three or four spoonfuls or more. RHUBARB WINE, (beverage) . Take the stems of full grown rhubarb, and bruise them in a mortar to a pulp. Put the pulp into a tub, and to every 10 lbs. weight of the stems, add two gal-