192 HAR HAR the rolling-pin,-put it into a sauce- pan with three spoonfuls of gravy, set it over a slow fire, and stir it all the time; when it has been on some time, put to it a small bun- dle of sweet herbs, some pepper, and half a pint of veal gravy, and stew over a gentle fire; when it has tho flavour of the herbs, strain. A little of this is an improvement to all gravies. HAM TOAST,-Ham, | lb., minced fine; the yolks of two eggs; cream, two table-spoonfuls; sea- son with salt, and a very little cayenne. Boil all together. Pour it upon toast; cover with fine bread, and brown it nicely. HANDS, to whiten.—Take a wineglassful of eau de Cologne, half a cupful of lemon-juice, scrape two cakes of Windsor soap to a powder; mix well, then add a tea-spoonful of sulphuric acid. Mould it, and let it harden. HARE, broiled.—The flavour of broiled hare is very fine. The legs and shoulders must be sea- soned first, rubbed with cold but- ter, and served very hot. HARE, to jug.—Cut it up; season with pepper, salt, allspice, pounded mace, and nutmeg. Put it into a jar with an onion, a clove or two, a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of coarse beef, or good beef steak, and the bones of the hare at the top. Tie the jar down with bladder or strong paper. Put in- to a saucepan up to the neck. Keep the water boiling four hours. The jar will also do well in an oven in two or three hours. When it is to be served, boil the gravy up with a piece of butter and flour. Add a little stock gravy, and a glass or two of port wine. Pour it over the hare. A little bacon is an improvement. HAB.E, to pot.—Season and bake with butter; when cold beat the meat in a mortar with some nice cold ham, a little parsley, thyme, &c. If not high enough, add salt, mace, pepper, a little but- ter melted in a spoonful of gravy that came from the hare. Pot, and cover with butter. HARE, roasted.—After skin- ning, wash well. Stuff with bread 1 crumbs, the liver half boiled, an anchovy, or bacon, parsley, grated i lemon-peel, nutmeg, salt, cayenne, the yolks of three eggs, and a lit- tle lemon-thyme. Fasten all tight. Boil half an hour. Take out and: roast it for one hour or more. Baste it with milk till half done, then with butter. Do not place too near the fire. Serve with rich gravy, melted butter, and currant jelly sauce. The gravy may be improved by ketchup, port wine, and a little flour. HARE SOUP.—Cut the hare into pieces, and 1J lb. of good beef; put into a jar with 3 blades of mace, two large onions, three an- chovies, a little bacon or ham, a bunch of sweet herbs, cayenne, and a pint of port wine. Stew in the oven three hours; strain into a stew-pan ; put in^ lb. of French barley, or the crumbs of two penny: rolls, ready boiled; scald the fiver, rub it through a sieve into the: soup; place on the fire till near boiling. Put toasted bread in the tureen, and pour the soup upon it. HARE, Stewed.—Cut to pieces; put into a stew-pan, with mace, pepper, an onion stuck with cloves, an anchovy, 1 lb. of beef, \ lb. of bacon, sweet herbs, salt, nutmeg; cover with water; stew till the hare is tender; strain the sauce into a clean pan, and put in the hare again with the sauce; take butter the size of a walnut, rolled in flour, a table-spoonful of ket- chup, and two of red wine. Stew till it is thick and smooth.