227 LEM LEM LEMON MARMALADE. — Rasp the lemons, cut out the pulp, then boil the rinds very tender, and beat fine in a marble mortar. Boil three pounds of loaf sugar in a pint of water, skim it, and add a pound of the rind; boil fast till the syrup is very thick, but stir it carefully : then put a pint of the pulp and juice, the seeds having been removed, and a pint of apple liquor; boil all gently until well jellied, which it will be in about half an hour. Put it into small pots. Orange Marmalade may be done in the same way. LEMON MINCE PIES. — Squeeze a large lemon, boil the outside till tender enough to beat to a mash, add to it three large apples chopped, and 4 ozs. of suet; currants, § lb.; sugar, 4 ozs.; put the juice of the lemon and candied fruit, as for other pies. Make a short crust, and fill the patty pans as usual. LEMON-PEEL CREAM.— Boil a pint of cream; when half cold, put in the yolks of 4 eggs; stir till cold; put on the fire with 4 ozs. of loaf sugar, a tea-spoonful of grated lemon-peel; stir till hot; take off the fire; when it is cold, put it into sweetmeat glasses. Lay paste-knots or lemon-peel, cut like long straws, over the tops of the glasses. LEMON SYRUP.—Put 1J lb. of loaf sugar to each pint of juice; add some of the peel; boil 10 min- utes ; then strain and cork it. It makes a fine beverage diluted, and is useful to flavour pies and pud- dings. American. LEMON SYRUP, Common.— Citric acid, 2 ozs.; loaf sugar to syrup it; rub the sugar on 4 lem- ons to extract the oil. Add a wine-glassful of brandy to keep it, and also a little cinnamon. Water, sufficient for the purpose. A. N. LEMON PICKLE. They should be small, with a thick rind; rub them -with flannel; slit them half down in four quarters, but not through to the pulp : fill the slits with salt hard pressed in, set them upright in a pan three days until the salt melts; turn them thrice a day in their own liquid, until tender; make enough pickle to cover them, of vinegar, the brine of the lemons, Jamaica pepper, and ginger; boil, and skim; when cold, put it to tlie lemons with 2 ozs. of mustard-seed, and three cloves of garlic to six lemons. Jar it, and cover closely. LEMON PUDDING. — Beat the yolks of four eggs; add 4 ozs. of white sugar, the rind of a lemon being rubbed with some lumps of it to take the essence; then peel, and beat it in a mortar with 4 or 5 ozs. of butter warmed. Put a crust into a shallow dish, nick the edges, and put the above into it. When served, turn the pudding out of the dish. Another.—Cut off the rind of three lemons ; boil tender; pound them; and boil 1 lb. of nice bis- cuits in a quart of milk and cream; mix the lemon rind with them. Beat 12 yolks and 6 whites of eggs: melt £ lb. of fresh butter, and put in | lb. of sugar, and a little orange flower water. Mix all together; put it over the fire; stir till thick, and then squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. Put puff paste round the dish, and pour in the pudding. Cut candied sweetmeats, and strew them over. Bake about 45 minutes. Another.—Blanch and beat 8 ozs. of Jordan almonds with orange flower water; add h lb. of butter, the yolks of 8 or 10 eggs, the juice of a large lemon, and half the rind grated; work them in a mortar till