INK 209 INK Nurses ought never to conceal any accident befalling a child. All violent impressions on the senses and bodies of children should be avoided. It is injurious to toss them about rapidly and violently in their arms. Loud crying, or shouting in their ears, presenting glittering objects to their view, and sudden and too great a degree of light; such practices are very injurious. INFECTION, to prevent. Sprinkle a room, &c. with a solu- tion of chloride of lime ; or sprinkle dissolved camphor in spirits of wine upon your handkerchief; it may be diluted with acetic acid. Or, smoke this mixture:—To- bacco, 4 ozs.; cascarilla bark, £ oz.; unbumt coffee, ground, 1 oz.; mix, and smoke occasionally. INFECTION, to prevent.—See Disinfectants. INFLAMMATION of the Bow- els. See Intestines, Diarrhoea, Bowels. INFLUENZA.—See Catarrh. INK.—This will keep for very many years. Boil 4 ozs. of log- wood chips in a gallon of water for 15 minutes, and pour it boiling hot upon 12 ozs. of galls coarsely powdered. Stir during four or five days. Pour off the liquor clear, and add to it 4 ozs. each of copper- as and gum arabic. To prevent moulding, add bruised cloves, or oil of cloves. Another.—Water, 1 quart; best Aleppo galls in coarse powder, 4 ozs., and 1 oz. each of rasped log- wood, green vitriol or copperas, and gum arabic. Stir or shake four or five times a day, for 12 or 14 days, when it will be fit for use. Vinegar instead of water makes a deeper coloured ink, but it is not fit for steel pens. Another Receipt for a Gallon.— Aleppo galls, 1 lb., slightly brui- sed; rain-water, 1 gallon, nearly boiling. Let them stand mixed together for 14 days. Then add 4 ozs. of green copperas; 4 ozs. of logwood chips ; 1 oz. each of alum and sugar-candy, and 4 ozs. of gum arabic. Cover over, and agitate for 14 days in a warm place. Strain, and bottle, pouring a little brandy on the top of the ink in each bottle. INK, invisible.—See Sympa- thetic Ink. INK, Permanent.—Best galls, and logwood,’ each 6 ozs.; copper- as, 3 ozs.; gum arabic, 14 oz.; pomegranate bark, 1 oz. (sold by druggists); rain water, cold, 3 pints ; cloves, 2 or 3 ozs. Stir for several times a day for 2 or 3 weeks. INK, to erase.—Press a little emery paper over the finger, and rub out the ink-spot, or writing, or wrong figure. This method is better than that of the erasing knife. INK, to prevent moulding.— Put a few cloves into each bottle. Or add to the ink before boil- ing, spirits of wine and oil of cloves. INK, to take out of marble.— Unslaked lime, and strong soap ley ; make it thick, and lay it on with a painter’s brush; let it re- main on a week, wash it off, and apply again, and wash it off with soft soap and water. INK POWDER. — Copperas, four ounces ; nutgalls, powdered, six ounces; common salt, three quarters of an ounce; powdered gum arabic, one ounce and a half. Mix and keep dry. A small quantity of this powder, stirred up with a table-spoonful or two of hot water, will make good ink, ready for use in a few minutes, and wiil keep good for years in any climate. INK SPOTS, to remove.—Ap- ply a solution of salts of lemon, or wet with strong acetic acid. Or, apply a solution of muriate of N