246 MEA MEA ration of tho skin in the form of scales. But the other symptoms sometimes remain for a considera- ble time, and require care, warmth, and appropriate medicine. In the malignant measles, the eruption appears more early, and all the symptoms, just described, in an aggravated form. The mouth and throat assume appearances. The mouth and throat appear as if they were ulcerated, and the fe- ver is of a typhus kind, and symp- toms of putrescency appear; also petichiae, or purple, livid spots, a pain in the head and eyes, difficult respiration, no expectoration with the cough, an inflammatory affec- tion of the lungs, feeble, but rapid pulse, delirium, and oft a violent looseness; these are very unfa- vourable symptoms. Such as die of the measles, generally expire about the ninth or tenth day from the first attack.—The most favour- able symptoms are a moderate looseness, a moist skin, and a plentiful discharge of urine. This disease is very infectious, often prevails epidemically, how- ever; and the constitution that has been once under its influence is seldom, or never liable to a second attack, especially if the first attack was a mild one. Treatment.—At the commence- ment of the disease, no animal food must be taken, the patient must be confined to a low spare diet, as gruel, sago, &c., and for common drink, barley-water, acid- ulated with lemon-juce. The bed- room should be kept moderately cool, regulating the temperature thereof by the feelings, guarding against any sudden change, and es- pecially exposure to cold draughts. When the attack is of a mild character, little medicine is wanted. Perhaps the less we interfere with the efforts of nature the better. It would be extreme folly to deplete the system by active treatment. In mild cases nature, a little assist- ed, generally effects a cure. But when the symptoms are of a ster- ner character, active means must be used. Place the feet in warm water, in which dissolve a little of carbonate of soda, two or three times a day. Give a mild emetic, (as the Emetic Mixture, page 155) Give also the Aperient for Chil- dren, page 20. Should the fever be very high, give the following Febrifuge MixtureSubcarbon- ate of potash, 2 drachms ; purified nitre, 30 grains; camphor mix- ture, 6 ozs.; mix in a strong in- fusion of saffron. This mixture is designed to determine the eruption to the surface. Or, the follow- ing infusion will be very effective, and it should be given as soon as possible after the emetic ;—Saffron, two parts ; Virginia snake-root, 1 part; infuse rapidly, or make a tea; sweeten and give warm, as much as the stomach will bear. If the eruption is slow in appear- ing, or only partially appears, or recedes, give the Sudorific Drops, warm milk sweetened, or strong balm tea with a little saffron infu- sed. A bottle of hot water or a hot brick wrapped in a cloth, sat- urated with vinegar and water, or a vapour bath made of the decoc- tion of bitter herbs, will be found most efficient. When the eruption is prominent, little more medicine is required. A little of the Com- position Powder may be given oc- casionally. Sponge the body from the first, now and then, with warm ley water and a little carbonate of soda. Wash the eyes with very weak brandy and water; or with slippery elm bark and a solution of borax. If the cough is severe, attended with impeded breathing, apply a