BEE BEE 50 Onions roasted and then stewed with the gravy are a great im- provement. A tea-cupful of vine- gar should he stewed with the beef. BEEF, Brisket of, to stew.— Put the pait that has the hard fat into a stew pot, with a small quantity of water, let it boil up. and skim it thoroughly; then add carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and a few pepper-corns. Stew till extremely tender; then take out the flat bones, and remove all the fat from the soup. Either serve that and the meat in a tureen; or the soup alone, and the meat on a dish, garnished with some vege- tables. The following sauce is much admired, served with the beef:—Take half a pintof thesoup, and mix it with a spoonful of ket- chup, a glass of port wine, a tea- spoonful of made mustard, a little flour, a bit of butter, and salt; boil all together a few minutes, then pour it round the meat. Chop capers, walnuts, red cabbage, pickled cucumbers, and chives or parsley, small, and put in separate heaps over it. BEEP’ BROTH. Put two pounds of lean beef, one pound of scrag of veal, one pound of scrag of mutton, sweet herbs, and ten pepper-corns, into a nice tin sauce- pan, with live quarts of water; simmer to three quarts; and clear from the fat when cold. Add one onion if approved. Soup and broth made of different meats, are more supporting as well as better flavoured. To remove the fat, take it off, when cold, as clean as possible; and if there be still any remain- ing, lay a bit of clean blotting or cap-paper on the broth when in the basin, and it will take up every particle. BEEF-COLLOP. — Cut thin » slices of beef from the rump, or any other tender part, and divide them into pieces three inches long; beat them with the blade of a knife, and flour them. Fry the collops quick in butter two min- utes ; then lay them into a small stew-pan, and cover them with a pint of gravy ; add a bit of butter rubbed in flour, pepper, salt, the least bit of shalot slired as fine as possible, half a walnut, four small pickled cucumbers, and a teaspoon- ful of capers cut small. Take care that it does not boil; and serve the stew in a very hot covered dish. BEEF, to collar.—Choose the thin end of the flank of fine mellow beef, but not too fat; lay it into a dish with salt and saltpetre, turn and rub it every day for a week and keep it cool. Then take out every bone and gristle, remove the skin of the inside part, and cover it thick with the following season- ing cut small: a large handful of parsley, the same of sage, some thyme, marjoram, and pennyroyal, pepper, salt, and allspice. Roll the meat up as tight as possible, and bind it, then boil it gently for seven or eight hours. A cloth must be put round before the tape. Put the beef under a good weight while hot, without undoing it: the shape will then be oval. Part of a breast of veal rolled in with the beef, looks and eats very well. BEEF, to cure.—Take 28 lbs. of good beef and rub it thoroughly with salt and saltpetre; then make a pickle of 4 ozs. of bay salt, j oz. of saltpetre, and 4 ozs. of coarse sugar, and 50 ozs. of common salt. Rub this well in every day for 3 or 4 weeks. Take out and roll in bran or sawdust and hang it in a wood smoke for six or 8 days. Hang in a diy place near the chim- ney for a week; then keep it by covering it with bran.