3G0 BIC RIN pint of milk till thick, then put the size of an egg of butter, and near half a pint of thick cream, and give it one boil. When cold, mix four yolks and two whites of eggs well beaten, sugar and nut- meg to taste; and add grated lemon and a little cinnamon. Butter little cups, and fill three parts full, putting at the bottom some orange or citron. Bake three quarters of an hour in a slowish oven. Serve the moment before to he eaten, with sweet sauce in the dish, or a boat. BICE WHITE POT.—Boil 1 lb. of rice in 2 quarts of new milk, till it is tender and thick; beat it in a mortar with j lb. of sweet al- monds blanched; then boil two quarts of cream, with a few crumbs of white bread, and a little mace. Mix all together with 8 eggs, a little rose water, and sweeten to your taste. Cut some candied orange, and citron peels, thin, and lay it in when in the oven—a slow oven. BICE and APPLE, Soufle of. —Blanch Carolina rice; strain, and boil it in milk with lemon- peel, and a bit of cinnamon. Boil till the rice is dry. Cool, and raise a rim three inches high round the dish, having egged the dish, where it is put, to make it stick: then egg the rice all over; fill the dish half way up with a marmalade of apples; beat the whites of 4 eggs to a fine froth, and put them over the marmalade; sift fine sugar over it, and put it in the oven. BICE and WHEAT BBEAD. —Simmer 1 lb. of rice in two quarts of water till it becomes perfectly soft; when it is of a proper warmth mix it extremely well with 4 lbs. of flour, and yeast and salt as for other bread; of yeast about four large spoonfuls; knead it extreme- ly w©ll \ then set it to rise before the fire. Some of the flour should he reserved to make up the loaves. If the rice should require more water, it must be added, as some rice swells more than others. BING GOLD.-Melt together of Spanish copper six pennyweights and twelve grains; fine silver, three pennyweights and sixteen grains to one ounce, five penny- weights of gold coin. This is worth about £3 per ounce. BING WOBMS. — Dissolve borax in water, and apply till it produces redness, and a painful sensation. Discontinue a day or two, and ultimately it will effect a cure. BING WOBM. Wash the head with soft soap every morning, and apply this lotion every night; —one drachm of sub-carbonate of soda, dissolved in half a pint of vinegar. BING WOBMS.—Apply rot- ten apples, or pounded garlic. Or, rub them with the juice of house-leek. Or, wash them with Hungary-water camphorated. Or twice a-day with oil of sweet almonds and oil of tartar mixed.— Wesley. BING WOBMS.—To one part of sulphuric acid, add 16 to 20 parts of water. Use a brush or feather, and apply it to the parts night and morning. A few dressings will generally cure. If the solution is too strong, dilute it with more wa- ter ; and if the irritation is exces- sive, rub on a little oil or other softening applicant; but always avoid soap. Dr. Chapelle adopts the follow- ing plan:—The hairs are to be cut short, the creamy fluid let out of the pustules, and the crusts re- moved by linseed poultices. The denuded surface is then to be covered with a thin layer of oil of naphtha, over which a flannel com-