LA.M 219 LAM To fricassee, Take the marrow out of the small bladders, and pre- pare a cream thus—a little flour, an egg, a chestnut pounded, rasped lemon, sugar and cream; make small paste cases; place the fry in them, and put them a moment into the oven. Boil the cream a moment before filling the bladders with it, and baste them over with eggs and cream. v LAMB’S HEAD owiHINGE. —This part is best from a house- lamb ; but any, if soaked in cold water, will be white. Boil the head separately till very tender. Have ready the liver and lights, three parts boiled and cut small; stew them in a little of the water in which they were boiled, season and thicken with flour and butter, and serve the mince round the head. LAMB, LEG OF.—Should be boiled in a cloth to look as white as possible. The loin fried in steaks and served round, garnished with dried or fried parsley ; spinach to eat with it; or dressed separately, or roasted. LAMB, LEG op, to boil.—Steep it half an hour in cold soft water, a cupful of vinegar, and a hand- ful of salt having been mixed with the water; flour a thin white cloth, and wrap the leg in it, and boil it; add a bundle of sx^cet herbs. It will require boiling 1| hour. Serve with spinach, or French beans. Garnish with pars- ley, and thin slices of lemon. LAMB, Lee/ of, to force.—Slit the leg on the wrong side, and take out as much meat as possible, without cutting or cracking the outward skin. Pound this meat well with an equal weight of fresh suet; add 12 large oysters, and two anchovies boned, with salt, black pepper, mace, and nutmeg, and a little thyme and parsley, finely shred; beat all well together, and mix it up with the yolks of three eggs. Having filled the skin tight with this stufling, sew it up very close. Fry the remain- der of the stuffing to garnish the loin of lamb, which is to be fricasseed as chickens are done. Tie the stuffed leg with packthread to the spit, and roast. In the fricassee of lamb, add a little oyster liquor, and fried oyster. LAMB, a nice dish of.—Take the best end of a neck of lamb, cut it into steaks, and chop each bone so short as to make the steaks al- most round. Egg and strew with crumbs, herbs and seasoning; fry them of the finest brown: mash some potatoes with a little butter and cream, and put them into the middle of the dish raised high. Then place the edge of one steak on another with the small bone up- ward, all round the potatoes. LAMB PASTY. — Bone the lamb, cut it into square pieces ; season with salt, pepper, cloves, mace, nutmeg, and minced thyme; lay in some beef suet, and the lamb upon it, making a high border a- about it; then turn over the paste close, and bake it. Wheh it is enough, put in some claret, sugar, vinegar, and the yolks of eggs, beaten together. To have the sauce only savoury, and not sweet, letx.it be gravy only, or the baking of Bones in claret. LAMB PIE.—Make a good puff paste; cut the meat into pieces ; it is best from the loin, neck, or breast; some prefer the leg; light- ly season with pepper, salt, mace, cloves, and nutmeg finely ground ; place in the crust, with a few sweetbreads seasoned like the meat, (and, if you like, some oysters and forcemeat balls, hard yolks of eggs, and the tops of asparagus, first boiled green). Butter all orer the pie, put on the lid, and place in a