CON 124 COP This has cured in a desperate case. Tried. Or every morning, cut a little turf of fresh earth, and lay- ing down, breathe in the hole for a quarter of an hour. Or, take in for a quarter of an hour, morning and evening, the steam of white resin and bees’ wax boiling on a hot fire shovel. This has cured one who was in the third stage of a consumption. Or, take morning and evening atea-spoonfulof white resin powdered and mixed with honey. This cured one in less than a month, who was near death. Or, drink thrice a-day two spoon- fuls of j uice of water-cresses. This has cured a deep consumption. In the last stage, suck a healthy wo- man daily. This has cured my father. For diet, use milk and apples, or water gniel made with fine flour. Drink cider-whey, bar- ley water, sharpened with lemon- juice, or apple water. So long as the tickling cough continues, chow well, and swallow a mouthful or two of a biscuit or crust of bread twice a-day. If you cannot swal- low it spit it out. This will al- ways shorten the fit, and would often prevent a consumption. John Wesley. CONSUMPTION, Useful drink for.—Coltsfoot, two ounces; hore- hound, rue, of each one ounce ; and blood-root, three drachms. Boil in three quarts of water dowu to two quarts. Strain, and to the liquor, add of figs and sugar, of each four ounces, and boil fifteen minutes. Take a wine-glassful three or four times a day. CONVULSIONS, in Children. —They originate in some derange- ment or irritation of the bowels, stomach, brain, or from teething. Give an aperient, as magnesia and rhubarb, and a warm bathat about 90”, and apply to the head linen dipped in the water. The follow- ing powder is useful:—Rhubarb in powder, 8 grains; super-sulph- ate of potash, 12 grains. Mix. Give also a little syrup of poppies. If aperients cannot be taken, give a mild injection; as a little epsorn salts in barley gruel, with a little butter; or a weak solution of salt and water, with a few drops of oil, or butter. Convulsions often arise from over-feeding; this must be avoid- ed. If indigestible food has been taken, give an emetic,—the wine of ipecacuanha; or if the patient cannot be sufficiently roused from sleep, so as to take the emetic, tickle the back part of the mouth with a feather to produce the effect. If the convulsions are obstinate, apply friction along the spine, when in the bath; or out of it, rub the spine with an anodyne composed of 10 drops of laudanum, 10 drops of oil, and 6 drops of tincture of cayenne. Mustard plasters may be applied a minute or two to the legs and feet. If convulsions are caused by teething, the gums must be lanced a little. COOL TANKARD.—Mild ale, 1 quart; port, or sherry wine, 1 glassful; the same of brandy; one of capiiaire; the juice of a lemon; a little of the peel pared thin, with 5 oz. of cream of tartar. Strain it. COPPER, to detect in Pickles or Tea.—Into a beer glass put a portion of the pickles or tea; add a little liquid ammonia, with near- ly as much water; stir well, and if the liquid become blue, it indi- cates the presence of copper. COPPER OR BRASS PANS. Always put away dry, or they will generate verdigris, which is very poisonous.—If tinged with dye, clean with oil of vitriol and water, and a little fine sand. Wipe quite dry. COPYING INK.—Powdered