PAR TAR 292 of tho drops the oil should on no account be used, as it will under many circumstances prove explo- sive. The genuine parafino or pe- troleum will not burn except upon a wick. PARCHMENT GLUE. Steep 1 lb. of parchment cuttings in a gallon of water in which has been dissolved 1 oz. of borax, and a little gum Arabic. Then strain the liquid well. Boil to the thick- ness required. PARCHMENT, to prepare for painting.—Take 1| yard of list- ing, and roll it up very tight in a circular form; then take some finely powdered white pumice stone; put the listing in it, and rub it over the parchment. This simple plan answers the best of any. If you wish it to take water colours, without sinking, choose that which is not spongy or soft, and use alum water with the col- ours, when you mix them for use. PAREGORIC ELIXIR.-Take flowers of benzoin, half an ounce ; opium, two drachms. Infuse in one pound of the volatile aromatic spirit, four or five days, frequently shaking the bottle; afterwards strain the elixir. It eases pain, allays tickling coughs, relieves difficult breathing, and is useful in many disorders of children, par- ticularly the hooping cough. The dose to an adult is from fifty to sixty drops. PARMESAN AND CAULI- FLOWER.—Boil a cauliflower, drain it on a sieve, and cut the stalks so that the flower will stand upright about two inches above the dish. Put it into a stew-pan, with a little white sauce, let .it stew till done enough, which will be but a few minutes ; then dish it with the sauce round and put Parmesan grated over it. Brown it with a salamander. PARKIN, Superb.— Oatmeal, 3 lbs.; flour, 1 lb.; butter, 1 lb.; treacle, 4 lbs.; ginger, 1 oz.; su- gar, 1 lb.; 2 teaspoonfuls of car- bonate of soda in a gill of beer.— The butter to be rubbed into the flour. All the ingredients to be mixed the previous evening, and baked in a moderate oven the fol- lowing morning. Do not forget to add a wineglass, or two, of the best rum. This parkin is a luxury. PARSNIPS, to fricassee.—Boil in milk till they are soft, then cut them lengthways into bits two or three inches long, and simmer in a white sauce, made of two spoon- fuls of broth, a bit of mace, half a cupful of cream, a bit of butter, and some flour, pepper and salt. PARSNIPS, to mash. — Boil them tender, scrape, then mash them in a stew-pan with a little cream, a good piece of butter, and pepper and salt. PARSNIPS, to ste\v. — Boil them tender; scrape, and cut into slices; put them into a saucepan with cream enough: for sauce, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a little salt; shake the saucepan often: when the cream boils, pour them into the dish. PARTRIDGES, to choose.—In autumn they are in season. If young, the bill is of a dark colour, and the logs yellowish ; if fresh the vent will be firm ; but this part will look greenish if stalo; if old the bills are white, and the legs blue.