BEE 49 BEE BEEF. Hind-Quarter. 1. Sirloin. 2. Rump. 3. Edge-Bone. 4. Buttock. 5. Mouse-Buttock. 6. Veiny Piece. BEEF, to choose.—If tire flesh of ox-beef is yonng, it will have a fine smooth open grain, be of a good red, and look tender. The fat should look white rather than yellow; for when that is of a deep colour, the meat is seldom good: beef fed by oil-cakes is in general so, and the flesh is flabby. The grain of cow-beef is closer, and the fat whiter, than that of ox-beef; but the lean is not of so bright a red. The grain of bull-beef is closer still, the fat hard and skin- ny, the lean of a deep red, and a stronger scent. Ox-beef is the re- verse. Ox-beef is the richest and largest, but in small families, and to some tastes, heifer-beef is better, if finely fed. In old meat there is a streak of horn in the ribs of beef: the harder this is, the older ; and the flesh is not finely flavoured. BEEF a-la-modc.—Choose a piece of thick flank of a fine heifer or ox. Cut into long slices some fat bacon, but quite free from yel- low ; let each bit be near an inch 13. Shoulder, or Leg of Mutton Piece. 14. Brisket. 15. Clod., 16. Neck, or Sticking- Piece. 17. Shin. 18. Cheek. thick: dip them into vinegar, and then into a seasoning ready pre- pared of salt, black pepper, allspice, and one clove, all in fine powder, with parsley, chives, thyme, sa- vory and knotted marjoram, shred as small as possible, and well m ixed. With a sharp knife make holes deep enough to let in the larding; then rub the beef over with the seasoning, and bind it up tight with tape. Set it in a well-tinned pot over a fire, or rather, stove; three or four onions must be fried brown and put to the beef, with two or three carrots, one turnip, a head or two of celery, and a small quantity of water; let it simmer gently ten or twelve hours, or till extremely tender, turning the meat twio8. Put the gravy into a pan, remove the fat, keep the beef covered, put them together, and add a gla^s of port wine. Take off the tape, and servo with the vegetables; or you may strain them off, and send them up cut into dice for garnish. D 7. Thick Flank. 8. Thin Flank. 9. Leg. 10. Fore Rib; 5 Ribs. Fore-Quarter. 11. Middle Rib; 4 Ribs 12. Chuck; 3 Ribs. I: