BUG BUB 83 —Grate J lb. each of stale brown bread, currants, shred suet, sugar, and nutmeg; mix the whole with 4 eggs, and two spoonfuls of cream, boil in a cloth, or basin, three or four hours. ' Hu. BROWN OINTMENT.—Ex- tract of henbane, 1 drachm; yel- low wax, J oz.; red precipitate, 2| drachms ; pure zinc powdered, l| drachm ; fresh butter, 3 ozs. Melt and mix, and add U drachm of camphor dissolved in olive oil. This ointment is good for ring- worm, all cutaneous eruptions, for ulcers, sore lips, itch, chronic oph- thalmia. &c. BRUISE.-Apply treacle spread on brown paper.—-Or, a plaster of chopped parsley mixed with butter. Or, electrify the part. To prevent swelling, apply a cloth Sve or six times doubled, dipped n cold water, and redipped when it grows warm. Wesley. BRUISES.—Cover with linen, wet with vinegar and wormwood Poiled together. Put a small bit )f lard on the surface, and apply lightly warm. In very bad cases i leech or two will expedite the :ure. BRUISES, Embrocation for.— ■’our upon two ounces of carbonate f ammonia, (smelling salts) as nuch distilled vinegar as will dis- olve it; then add a pint and half f common rectified spirit, and hake the whole together in a bot- le. It is a good remedy for sprains nd bruises. BRUSSELS SPROUTS. ’lace in toiling water for fifteen linutes, then add sufficient salt, nd boil ten minutes more. Drain aem well, and serve with melted utter. BUBBLE AND SQUEAK.— ut cold boiled or roast beef into ices ^squeeze and chop some cab- ige that has been dressed; put both together into a frying pan, with a little butter, pepper and salt, if requisite; fry them for a few minutes; when done, raise the cabbage high in the middle of a dish, and put slices of beef round, fat and lean alternately. Hu. BUBBLE AND SQUEAK.— Cold roast veal, cut into tit bits, with the flower (only) of a cauli- flower, and cut small; warm in a frying-pan with a quarter pint of cream, and seasoned with salt and cayenne pepper. It is a delightful dish. BUCHU LEAVES.—They are diuretic and tonic, and a most valuable remedy in rheumatism, irritable bladder, gravel, stricture, &c. They are given in infusion and tincture. Infuse half an ounce of leaves in half a pint of boiling water, for three or four hours. A wine-glassful for a dose two or three times a day; or from one drachm to half an ounce of the tincture. BUCKBEAN.— See Robinson’s Herbal. It is a valuable herb in scurvy, hypochondria, ague, rheu- matism, eruptions, &c. The leaves in infusion. BUCKTHORN. — See Robin- son’s Herbal. The plant is pur- gative, and celebrated in dropsies, rheumatism, and gout. BUGS. — Persons who travel often meet with these vermin, and are sadly bitten by them. To pre- vent this, let your shirt, or night shirt, be washed as ordinarily, well wrung, and then dipped in a solu- tion of alum, or in a solution of camphor, and then dried. A sure preventive. BUG POISON.—The spirit of tar is a powerful remedy, applied by means of a brush ; or a mixture of soft soap and arsenic; chloride of lime is a very good wash.— Bugs have become so general a <