NOR 272 OAT NITRE, Sweet Spirit of Nitre. —This is employed as a diuretic, antispasmodic, diaphoretic, and re- frigerant in inflammatory affec- tions. It is a good and useful diuretic in dropsies, especially in some of the mild forms of the com- plaint, as in dropsy following scar- latina. It is given with squills, acetate or nitrate of potash, freely diluted with barley water. As a carminative and antispasmodic it is combined with the same quan- tity of spirit of lavender, and is useful in relieving flatulency and sickness. As a diaphoretic or sweating draught, in febrile com- plaints, it should he given with twenty or thirty drops of antimo- nial wine, and a tea-spoonful of liquid acetate of ammonia. The usual dose of spirits of nitre is from half a tea-spoonful to two or three tea-spoonfuls diluted with water. NITRE DROPS. — Nitre, 3 ounces; sugar, 1 pound; water, to mix. Add a few drops of essence of lemon, or oil of cassia. NITRE LOZENGES.—1. Ni- trate of potash (pure), 4 part's; white sugar, 26 parts. Powder tine, and mix with mucilage. For sore throat, &c. 2. Nitre, 4 ouneps; sugar, 16 ounces; and essence of lemon, 2 ounces. Mix with mucilage. NOISE IN THE EARS.— Drop in juice of onions. NORFOLK DUMPLINGS.— Milk, half a pint, 2 eggs, salt; make them into a thick batter with flour; l’oll into balls, and drop them into a pan of boiling water; from 15 to 30 minutes will boil them. Eat while hot with a little sugar, butter or treacle. NORFOLK PUDDING PUFFS.—Mix three eggs, three table-spoonfuls of flour, half a pint of cream, and two table-spoonfuls of orange-flower or rose-water; sweeten to taste; put the batter in large deep custard cups, half full; set them in the oven; when tho puff rises to the top of the cups, they are done. NOSE, Bleeding at the.—See Bleeding at the Nose, page 67. NOTTINGHAM PUDDING. —Peel six good apples; take out the cores with the point of a small knife, leaving the apples whole; fill up the place of the core with sugar; place them in a pie dish, and pour over them a nice light batter, prepared as for batter pud- ding. Bake an hour. NUTMEG, Essence of.—Dis- solve \ oz. of the essential oil of nutmeg in £ pint of spirit of wine. Bottle and cork well. It is very valuable to cooks and confectioners. NUTRITIOUS DIATETIC. —Pulverize equal quantities of sago and best cocoa; mix, and stir a table-spoonful in a pint of milk, to which add a pint of boil- ing water. Boil for a few minutes, frequently stirring. Add sugar according to taste. It is very suit- able for invalids and children. OAK, to stain a mahogany col- our.—Boil together Brazil wood and Roman alum; and before using it, add a little potash. A suitable varnish for wood, thus tinged, may be made by dissolving amber in oil of turpentine, mixed with a small portion of linseed oil. OAK WAINSCOT, to give a fine gloss to.--If the wainscot be greasy, wash with warm beer; then boil two quarts of strong beer, bees’ wax about the size of a walnut, and a table-spoonful of sugar. Apply it all over with a large brush, and when dry, rub till bright. OATMEAL MILK.-Mix a pint of milk and water (two-thirds