CRI CRT 132 CREAM FOR THE HAIR. —Lard, two parts ; oil of almonds, one part. Melt and scent with jessamine or bergamot. CREAM, Italian.—One quart of good cream, and a quart of new- milk, the grated rind of two or three lemons, and strain the juice; take also eight ounces of fine su- gar powdered, a little ground cinna- mon, and three grains of salt. Boil till the milk is reduced one-third ; then take five or six eggs thickened with a little fine flour, well beaten, and gradually add to the milk, stirring well; strain through a fine sieve into the dish for the ta- ble ; place it in a hot bath on the hob till the cream is set. Grate a little nutmeg over the top, and brown. CREAM PUDDING.—Cream, 1 pint; the yolks of seven eggs, seven table-spoonfuls of flour, 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, salt, and a small bit of soda. Rub the cream with the eggs and flour; add the rest, the milk last, just before baking, and pour the whole into the pudding dish. Serve with sauce of wine, sugar, butter fla- voured as you like. CREAM AND SNOW.—Make a rich boiled custard, and put it in the bottom of a dish; take the whites of eight eggs, beat with rose water, and a spoonful of fine sugar, till it be a strong froth; put some milk and water into a stew-pan; when it boils, take the froth off the eggs, and lay it on the milk and water; boil up once; take off carefully, and lay it on the custard. CRIBBAGE is considered to be the next most scientific game to whist. It is played by four or two partners, with a whole pack of cards, and is termed five, six, or eight-card cribbage, according to the number dealt to each person; but five-card cribbage is the usual game. The parties cut for deal, and he that cuts the lowest card, deals out five cards to each player, one at a time; each player then lays out one card for crib, which always be- longs to the dealer: one opponent then cuts the cards, and the dealer takes the uppermost card, and lays it face upwards on the four cards composing the crib. If it should happen to be a knave it counts two to the dealer; the card thus turned up is included in the counting, by both parties, when counting their hands; the crib is counted by the dealer alone. For every two cards of one sort that can be made, the person play- ing the second, that is, making the pair, counts two. Should the third player play another card the same as the two former, it is called a Pair Royal, and counts six. And should the last player also possess a similar card to the pre- vious three, it is called a double Pair Royal, and scores twelve. Any four cards, of any suits, reckon a double Pah- Royal, either in hand or in crib; such as four deuces, kings, sevens, nines, in short four of any number or de- scription. Same with pair royals and pairs. All sequences count of any suits, according to the number. All flushes count, that is, your hand being composed of any four cards of the same suit. If you hold the knave of the suit turned up, you score one for his nob, as it is termed. Should you hold four hearts, clubs, or any other suit, in your hand, and the turn-up card is of the same suit, you count a flush of five. Pair-hand Cribbage is more gen- erally played than four-hand, from