PIQ 314 P7Q Sixieme, or six cards of a suit in V sequence, and counts for sixteen points; there are three sorts of sixiemes, viz., sixieme major from ace, sixieme from the king, and sixieme minor, from the queen. Septieme, seven of the same suit in sequence, counting seventeen points ; there are two of them, one from the ace, the other from the king. Threes, three of any kind from aces to tens, count three. Talon or Slock.—'This is the name given to the eight cards re- maining, after twelve each dealt. Tierce, or sequences of three count three points ; there are six kinds of tierces, from tierce-major, of ace, king, and queen, down to tierce-minor, of nine, eight, and seven. In this game there are three chances, viz., the repique, the pique, and the capot, all of which may be made in one deal; for in- stance, suppose one player has four tierce-majors, his point good, and he elder hand, he begins by count- ing three for his point and twelve for his four tierce-majors, making fifteen; fourteen for the four aces, fourteen for kings, and fourteen for queens, with sixty for the re- pique, making in all one hundred and seventeen; thirteen in playing, make one hundred and thirty, and forty for the capot, which is one hundred and seventy. To pique your adversary you must he elder hand; for if younger he counts one for the first card he plays, and then you having count- ed twenty-nine in hand^ even if you then take the first trick, will not warrant you in taking sixty, but only thirty. The Carte Blanche precedes every thing; then follow the point, the huitiemes, the septiemes, the sixiemes, the quints, the quarts, and the tierces; then the four aces, kings, queens, knaves, or tens; then the three aces, kings, queens, knaves, or tens; then the points gained in play ; and lastly, the ten for winning the cards, or forty for the capot. After sorting your cards, the first thing to be consid- ered is whether you have a Carte Blanche ; if so, let your opponent discard; and then, when he is going to take in, lay your cards upon the table, counting them one after another. The players, having examined their hands, the elder takes not more than five cards, which seem the least useful, and laying them aside, takes the same number from the talon, the younger may lay out three, and take three from the talon. In discarding, the first intention of the most skilful players is, to gain the cards and to have the points, which most commonly en- gages them to keep in that suit of which they have the most cards, or that which is their strongest; for it is convenient to prefer some- times forty-one in one suit, to forty-four in another, in which a quint is not made; sometimes even having a quint, it is more advan- tageous to hold the forty-one, where if one card only is taken it, may make it a quint-major, gain the point or the cards, which could not have been done by holding the forty-four, at least without an ex- traordinary take in. Also endeavour in laying out, to get a quartoze, each of which counts fourteen ; the fourteen aces hinder the counting fourteen kings, &c.; and by that authority you may count a lesser quartoze, as of tens, though your adversary may have fourteen hy kings, &c.; be- cause the stronger suit annuls the weaker; and also in want of a les-