SAL 363 chop it small; bruise the body, and mix it well with the butter; pour it over the salmon ; make a good crust; put on the lid, and bake it well. SALT, to prepare for the table. —Dry it in a Dutch oven before the fire. Then place it upon clean, smoot h, stiff paper, and roll it with a rolling-pin. SALT, to save manure.—Dis- solve common salt in water; sprinkle the same over the manure heap, and the volatile parts of the ammonia will become fixed salts, from their having united with the muriatic acid of the common salt, and the soda' thus liberated from the salt will quickly absorb car- bonic acid, forming carbonate of soda; thus you will retain with your manure the ammonia that would otherwise fly away, and you have also a new and important agent introduced, viz., the carbon- ate of soda, which is a powerful solvent of all vegetable fibre. SALT COD, to dress.—Soak the cod all night in 2 parts water, and 1 part vinegar. Boil, and break into flakes on the dish; pour over it boiled parsnips, beaten in a mortar, and then boil up with cream, and a large piece of butter rolled in a bit of flour. It may be served with egg-sauce instead of parsnip, or boiled and served with- out flaking with the usual sauce. All Salt Fish may be done in a similar way. Pour egg-sauce over it, or parsnips, boiled and beaten fine with butter and cream. SALTS OF LEMONS.—Take equal parts of cream of tartar and citric acid, powdered very fine, and mix together. This forms the salts of lemons as sold at the drug- gist’s shops in small oval boxes at Is. each, printed directions for using which may be had of any druggist. SAN SALVE, family. Take the root of yellow dock and dandelion, equal parts; add a good proportion of celandine and plaintain. Ex- tract the juices by steeping or pressing. Strain carefully and simmer the liquid with sweet cream, or fresh butter and mutton tallow, or you may take sweet oil and mutton tallow. Simmer to- gether until no appearance of the liquid remains. Before it is quite cold, put it into boxes as you may desire. This is one of the most soothing and healing preparations for bums, scalds, cuts, and sores of every description that can be produced. SALVE, for all wounds.—Take 1 lb. of hog’s lard, 3 ozs. of white lead, 3 ozs. of red lead, 3 ozs. of bees’ wax, 2 ozs. of black rosin, and 4 ozs. of common turpentine; all these ingredients must be put together in a pan, and boil three quarters of an hour ; the turpen- tine to be put in just before it is done enough, and give it a gentle boil afterwards. This is am excel- lent cure for burns, sores, or ulcers, as it first draws, then heals after- ward ; it is excellent for all wounds. SAMPHIRE.—Put green sam- phire in a pan, throw salt over it, and cover with spring water. After laying 24 hours, put into a jar with a handful of salt, and cover it with the best vinegar. Put over a gentle fire in a sauce- pan till it is just crisp and green; do not let it be soft, for it would then be spoiled. Put into pickling jars, and cover close. SANDARAC VARNISH, for cut-paper ivorhs, dressing boxes, <jc. —Gum sandarac, 6 ozs. jgumelemi, 4 ozs.; spirits of wine, 2 lbs. The soft resins must be pounded with the dry bodies ; the camphor is to be added in pieces. SANDWICH. Butter and