BAC BAL 41 both fine; two pounds of coarse sugar, and a quarter of a peck of common salt. Lay your pork in something that will hold thepickle, and rub it well with the above in- gredients. Lay the skinny side downwards, and baste it every day with the pickle for a fortnight. Then hang it on a wood-smoko, and afterwards hang it in a dry place, but not in a hot place. Ob- serve, that all bams and bacon should hang clear from every thing, and not .touch the wall. Take care to wipe off the old salt before you put it into the pickle, and never keep bacon or hams in a hot kitchen, or in a room exposed to the rays of the sun, as all these matters contribute to make them rusty. Far. BACON,to cure as inWiltshire. —Sprinkle each flitch with salt, and let the blood drain off for twenty-four hours; then mix a pound and a half of coarse sugar, the same quantity of bay-salt, nearly half a pound of saltpetre, and a pound of common salt. B,ub this mixture well into the bacon, turning it every day for a month, then hang it to dry, and afterwards smoke it ten days. This quantity of salts is sufficient for the whole hog. BACON, to choose.—If the rind is thin, the fat firm and of a red tinge, the lean tender, and of a good colour, and adhering to the bone, you may concludo it good and not old. If there are yellow streaks in it, it is going, if not al- ready, rusty. Fu. BACON, Excellent. — Divide the hog, and take the chine out; it is common to remove the spare- ribs, but the bacon will be preser- ved bettor from being rusty if they are left in. Suit the bacon six days, then drain it from that first pickle; mix as much salt as you I judge proper with eight ounces of bay-salt, three ounces of saltpetre, and a pound of coarse sugar, to each hog, but first cut off the hams. Hub the salts well in, and turn it every day for a month. Drain, and smoke it a few days ; or dry without, by hangingin thekitchen, not near the fire. BAD SMELLS.—When a per- son is so much affected by a pungent smell, as to cast him down, in- stantly convey him to a place where there is fresh air, dash cold water upon his head, face, and chest. Then let a person press upon his breast bone, and push his bowels up to his chest, and sud- denly let them go, producing the same action as breathing, which must be continued some minutes. Rub the chest and limbs with brandy or ammonia, mixed with oil, as a stimulant. Hold ammonia, or strong smelling salts to the nose, tickle the throat to cause sickness. If cold, put him to bed, put bottles of hot water to his feet, thighs, and arm-pits; and if possible, get some brandy,_ or other spirit, and water, down his throat; or put him into a warm bath, and use the flesh brush while in it. BAKING POWDER.—Take 6 oz. carbonate of soda, 4 oz. tart- aric acid, 2 oz. sugar (very finely sifted,) 1 oz. salt. Mix well to- gether, and after the flour has been made into dough (with water for bread, or milk for rolls,) add one teaspoonful of the powder to every pound of flour, and knead it well. By this powder hot rolls may be had to breakfast every morning, as its action is so rapid. Keep the powder in a well corked-bottle. BALDNESS.— The cause of baldness is defect in the hair fol- licles, from which the hair is de- veloped. Sometimes it is the result of disease; and it is fre-