CAU CAY 100 is in a vertical line with the but- tock, both in feet. Multiply the square of the girt, expressed in feet, by live times the length, and divide the product by 21; the quo- tient is the weight, nearly, of the four quarters, in stones of 14 lbs. avoirdupoise. For example, if the girt be 61 feet, and the length 5| feet, we shall have 6| multiplied by 6| equal to 42 j-, and 5J multi- plied by 5 equal to 26J ; then 42J multiplied by 26J is equal to 1,109 l-16th, and this divided by 21, gives 52 4-5ths stones nearly, or 52 stones lllbs. It is to be observed, however, that in very fat cattle the four quarters will be about one- twentieth more, while in those in a very lean state they will be one- twentieth less than the weight ob- tained by the rule. The four- quarters are little more than half the weight of the living animal; the skin weighing about the eigh- teenth part, and the tallow about the twelfth part of the whole. CAULIFLOWERS, to boil.— Strip the leaves which you do not intend to use, and put the cauli- flowers into salt and water some time to force out snails, worms, &c. Boil them twelve minutes on a drainer in plenty of water, then add salt, and boil five or six mi- nutes longer. Skim well while boiling. Take out, and drain. Serve with melted butter, or a sauce made of butter, cream, pep- per, and salt. CAULIFLOWER, to fry.— Wash as before. Boil twenty or thirty minutes; cut it into small portions, and cool. Dip the por- tions twice into a batter made of flour, milk, and egg, and fry them in butter. Serve with gravy. CAULIFLOWER, with Par- mesan.—Prepare the cauliflower as before, and cut the stalk, so that the flower will stand upright two inches above the dish. Put it into a stew-pan with a little white sauce; stew till done enough, a few minutes; then dish it with the sauce round, and grate parme- san over it. Brown it with a salamander. CAULIFLOWERS, to pickle. —Take tho best and firmest cauli- flowers. Separate the flowers into small parts, spread them on a dish, sprinkle salt over them for a few days. Then put them in jars, and pour boiling salt and water upon them, and let them stand all night; then drain them on a hair sieve, and jar them again, and fill up with the best vinegar, in which you have simmered mace, long pepper, white pepper-corns, &c. CAULIFLOWER, withQueen's Sauce.—Make the sauce with a bit of ham, fillet of veal, cut into small dice, a little butter, chopped pars- ley, shallots, and a clove of garlick; soak this for a time on the fire ; then add a few spoonfuls of jelly broth, and half a pint of cream ; pour part off into the table-dish ; place the cauliflower therein, boil- ed properly, and the remainder of the sauce over it; garnish with bread crumbs, and colour it in the oven with a little butter on it. CAULIFLOWER, with white Sauce.—Parboil it; then cut into nice pieces, and lay them in a stew-pan with a little broth, a bit of mace, salt, pepper; simmer half an hour; then add a little cream, butter, and flour; shake; simmer a few minutes; serve. CAYENNE, good Soluble.—All cooks acknowledge the supremacy of Cayenne among the peppers. It is thus made:—Infuse 1 oz. of genuine Cayenne in boiling water, enough to cover it; let it stand on the hob for a couple of hours, and then pour the liquor through a fine sieve upon 1 oss. of salt in a