VEA VEA 432 sley, thyme, knotted marjoram, pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg grated ; then put them into papers folded over, and broil them ; and serve in a boat of melted-hutter, with a little mushroom-ketchup. VEAL CUTLETS.—Another way.—Prepare as above, and fry them; lay them into a dish, and keep them hot; dredge a little flour, and put a bit of butter into the pan; brown it, then pour some boiling water into it, and boil quick: season with pepper, salt, and ketchup, and pour over them. Another way.-Prepare as before, and dress the cutlets in a Dutch- oven ; pour over them melted but- ter and mushrooms. VEAL, Fillet of.—Veal requires a good bright lire for roasting. Before cooking, stuff with a force- meat, composed of 2 ozs. of finely- powdered bread crumbs, half a lemon-peel chopped fine, half a teaspoonful of salt, and the same quantity of mixed mace and Cay- enne pepper, powdered, parsley, and some sweet herbs; break an egg, and mix all well together. Baste your joint with fresh butter, and. send it to table well browned. A nice bit of bacon should be serv- ed with the fillet of veal, unless ham is provided. YEAL, Fricandeau of — Cut a large piece from the fat side of the leg, about nine inches long, and half as thick and broad; beat it with the rolling-pin; take off the skin, and trim off the rough edges. Lard the top and sides; and coyer it with fat bacon, and then with white paper. Lay it into the stew- pan with any pieces of undressed veal or mutton, four onions, a car- rot sliced, a faggot of sweet herbs, four blades of mace, four bay- leaves, a pint of good veal or mut- ton broth, and four or five ounces of lean ham or gammon. Cover the pan close, and let it stew slow- ly three hours; then take up the meat, remove all the fat from the gravy, and boil it quick to a glaze. Keep the fricandeau quite hot, and then glaze it; and serve with the remainder of the glaze in the dish, and sorrel-sauce in a sauce-tureen. Another.—With a sharp knife cut the lean part of a large neck from the best end, scooping it from the bones the length of your hand, and prepare it the same way as in the last receipt: three or four bones only will be necessary, and they will make the gravy; but if the prime part of the leg is cut off, it spoils the whole. VEAL GRAVY.—Put in the stewpan bits of lard, then a few thin slices of ham, a few bits of butter, then slices of fillet of veal, sliced onions, carrots, parsnips, cel- ery, a few cloves, upon the meat, and two spoonfuls of broth; set it on the fire till the veal throws out its juice; then put it on a stronger fire till the meat catches to the bottom of the pan, and is brought to a proper colour; then add a suf- ficient quantity of light broth, and simmer it upon a slow fire till the meat is well done. A little thyme and mushrooms may be added. Skim and sift it clear for use. VEAL HAM, to make.—Cut a leg of veal like a ham. Mix a pint of bay salt, 2 ozs. of saltpetre, and 1 lb. of common salt, with 1 oz. of cinnamon and juniper ber- ries, and rub the ham with it. Lay it in a hollow tray with its face downwards; baste it every day with the pickle for a fort- night, and hang it in wood smoke for another fortnight. It may be either boiled or roasted. VEAL, Haricot of—Take the best end of a small neck; cut the bones short, but leave it whole: then put it into a stewpan just cov-