275 OLI OLD OINTMENT, for Eruptions.— Simmer ox-marrow over the tire, add a little salt, and a tea-spoonful of brandy. Strain. When cold, rub the part atfected. OINTMENT OF LEAD. Take of olive oil half a pint; white wax, two ounces ; sugar of lead three drachms. Let the sugar of lead, reduced into a fine powder, be rubbed with some part of the oil, and added to the other ingre- dients, previously melted together, stirring them till quite cold. This cooling astringent ointment may be used in all cases where the in- tention is to dry and skin over the part, in scalding, &c. OLD AGE, to live to.—“I am now an old man. I have seen near a century. Do you want to know how to grow old slowly and happily p I will tell you. Always eat slowly — masticate well. Get as much out-door ex- ercise as you can. Pure air! it has lengthened my life. But avoid exposure to harsh winds, and wet weather. Go to your occupation smiling. Keep a good and kind nature, and a soft temper every where. By being good to others, you get a good name; and the happy influence upon the mind of a good name, extends itself to the body. Cultivate a good memory, and to do this you must be com- municative ; repeat what you have read; talk about it. Dr. John- son’s great memory was owing to his communicativeness. If you desire to be old, and comfortable with it, do not sivalloiv a EASE; i. e. ardent spirits, which rasp the constitution to death. Avoid as much as possible yeneicy—that your vitality may hold out.” Dr. Muerin. OLDBURY PUDDING.-Beat well four eggs ; flour and butter a pint basin; pour in the eggs, and fill up with new milk previously boiled, with two laurel leaves, and when cold beat them together; put a white paper over the basin ; cover with a cloth, and boil twenty minutes. Serve with wine and but- ter sauce.—A little rice flour, or arrow-root incorporated with the milk will make it more nutritious ; add the squeeze of a lemon. OLIO OF MEAT.—Take ham, and any cold meat on hand, with a little lard; add broth, three or four onions, carrots, celery, and a green cabbage, first scalded in boil- ing water ; boil on a slow fire till the meat is done, garnish the bot- tom of the dish with toasted bread, and soak it with some of the broth; put upon it the ham and meat; add broth to keep it of a thick sub- stance.—Cold fowl, or goose, add- ed, is a great improvement. OLIO OF RABBITS. Cut two rabbits into large pieces ; lard them through with large pieces of bacon, seasoned with salt, pepper, and spices; put them into a stew- pan with a good slice of ham, but- ter, sweet herbs, two cloves, a bay leaf, a little green basil, and half a clove of garliclc; simmer a little; put into a larger stewpan upon slices of fillet of veal; cover with ihin slices of lard; soak about half an hour over a slow fire, and add a glass of sherry; put the rabbits into the tureen ; add some good gravy to the liquid; give them a boiling together; skim and sift the sauce; add a lemon squeeze, and serve it upon the meat. OLIVE BRONZE DIP.— Nitric acid, 1 oz.; muriatic acid, 2 oz.; add titanium or palladium ; when the metal is dissolved add 2 gallons of pure soft water to each pint of the solution. OLIVE PIE.—Cut a fillet of veal in thin slices; rub them over