MUT mut m round on the rice, the narrow ends towards the middle, and the kid- neys between. Garnish wi th hard eggs cut in half, the white being left on ; or with different .coloured pickles. MUTTON SAUSAGES.-Take a pound of the rawest part of a leg of mutton that has been either roasted or boiled ; chop the same very small, and season it with pep- per, salt, mace, and nutmeg ; add to it six ounces of beef suet, some sweet herbs, two anchovies, and a pint of oysters, all chopped very small; a quarter of a pound of grated bread, and some of the an- chovy liquor, and the yolks and whites of two eggs well beaten. Put it all, when well mixed, into a little pot; and use it by rolling it into balls, or sausage-shape, and frying. If approved, a little sha- lot may be added, or garlic, which is a great improvement. MUTTON, Saddle of, to roast. —Let it he well kept first. Raise the skin, and then skewer it on again ; take it off a quarter of an hour before serving it, sprinkle it with some salt, baste it, and dredge it well with flour. The rump should he split, and skewered back on each side. The joint may be large or small according to the company; it is the most elegant if the latter. Being broad it re- quires a high and strong fire. MUTTON, Shoulder of, to boil with Oi/sters.—Hang it some days, then salt it well for two days ; hone it, and sprinkle it with pepper and a bit of mace pounded : lay some oysters over it, and roll the meat up tight and tie it. Stew it in a small quantity of water, with an onion and a few pepper-corns, till quite tender. Have ready a little good gravy and some oysters stewed in it; thicken this with Hour and butter, and pour over the mutton when the tape is taken off'. The stew- pan should he kept closely covered. MUTTON, to roll a Loin of.— Hang the mutton till tender : hone it; and lay a seasoning of pepper, allspice, mace, nutmeg, and a few cloves, all in fine powder, over it. Next day prepare a stuffing as for hare; beat the meat and cover it with the stuffing ; roll it up tight, and tie it. Half bake it in a slow’ oven ; let it grow cold ; tako off the fat, and put the gravy into a stew-pan ; flour the meat, and put it in likewise; stew it till almost ready; and add a glass of port wine, some ketchup, and anchovy, and a little lemon-pickle, half an hour before serving; serve it in the gravy, and with jelly-sauce. A few fresh mushrooms are a great improvement; hut if to eat like hare do not use these, nor the lem- on pickle. MUTTON, Basque of.—Take the caul of a leg of veal; lay it in a copper dish, the size of a small punch bowl; take the lean of a leg of mutton that has been kept a week; chop it very small; take half its weight in beef marrow, the crumbs of a penny loaf, the 3Tolks of four eggs, two anchovies, half a pint of port wine, the rind of half a lemon grated; mix it ■like sausage meat, and lay it in your caul in the inside of your dish; close up the caul, and bake in a quick oven ; when you take out, turn the dish upside down, and turn the whole out; pour over it brown gravy, and send it up with venison sauce. MUTTON, French stealcs of a neck of.—Cut off most of the fat of a prime neck of mutton; cut the steaks two inches thick ; make a large hole through the middle of the fleshy part of every steak wilh a knife, and stuff it with pepper,