131 CEE CEE is done, take from tlie oven, and ice ir. It is best served cold. CRANE SBILL.—It is a tine plant. It strengthens the stomach and bowels, restraining all exces- sive evacuations, and preventing- internal mortification. In bowel complaints, and fluxes, it is of great use. A decoction of the root forms a valuable gargle in quinsy, sore mouth and throat. For bleeding wounds it is a sovereign styptic. The root bruised and saturated with cold water should be applied to the wound. Dose. Powdered root, from twelve grains. Decoction, Boil an ounce in a pint of water; a table-spoonful. CRAYONS.—Take shellac, 6 parts; spirits, 4 parts ; turpentine, 2 parts ; colour, 12 parts; pale clay, 12 parts. Mix. CREAM, Almond.—Beat 4 ozs. of blanched sweet almonds, and a few bitter, with a teaspoonful of water, to prevent oiling. Put a paste to a quart of cream, and the juice of three lemons sweetened; beat it to a froth, which take off; then fill glasses with the liquor and froth. Ru. CREAM, an excellent.—Whip up three quarters of a pint of rich cream to a strong froth, with fine- ly scraped lemon peel, a squeeze of the juice, half a glass of sweet wine, and sugar to taste; lay it in a form, and next day put it on a dish, and ornament with light puff-paste biscuits, the length of a finger, and about two thick, over which sugar may be strewed, or a little glaze with isinglass. Or, use macaroons, to line the edges of the dish. CREAM — Brandy Cream. — Boil 12 blanched and 12 bitter almonds, pounded, in a little milk. When cold, add the yolks of five eggs well beaten in a little cream ; add sugar, and quarter of a pint of brandy. Mix well, and pour to it a quart of thin cream: gently simmer on the fire till it thickens ; do not let it boil. Pour into cups or low glasses. A ratafia drop may be added to each. CREAM CAKES.—Beat the whites of 9 eggs to a stiff froth and keep it up ; grate the rinds of two lemons to each white of egg. Sprinkle in a spoonful of fine sugar, lay a wet sheet of paper on a tin, and drop it on in little lumps, a little distance from each other. Sift sugar over them. When put in the oven the froth will rise. As soon as coloured, they are baked; take out, and put two bottoms to- gether ; put on a sieve, and dry in a slow-oven. CREAM CHEESE.—Put five quarts of the last milking of a cow, called “strippingsinto a pan with two spoonfuls of rennet. When the curd is come, strike it down with the skimmer to break it. Let it stand two hours; spread a cheese cloth on a sieve and drain upon it; break the curd a little with your hand; put it into a vat with a 2 lb. weight upon it. After standing 12 hours bind a fillet round. Turn every day till dry ; cover with green leaves, and let them gradually ripen on a pewter plate. CREAM COOKIES.-One tea- cupful of cream turned.; § lb. of sugar; one or two eggs, a tea- spoonful of carbonate of soda dis- solved ; sufficient flour to make into dough. Add spices and seeds if you like. CREAM, Saclc.—Boil a pint of raw cream, tho yolk of an egg well beaten, two or three spoonfuls of white wine, sugar, and lemon- peel; stir it over a gentle fire, till it be as thick as rich cream, and afterwards till cold ; then serve it in glasses, with dry toast. Ru.