SME SMA 391 is dissolved. Gutta - percha has been tried, but has not answered, on account of its non-elasticity. Should any of the solution, from some cause, be torn off, apply the solution as before. SMALL POX, Fitting in. Dr. George recommends the use of parpared calamine, for the exclu- sion of the atmospheric air. In a very severe case, which occurred in my practice, in which the face and throat were frightfully swollen I dressed one half of it with cala- mine powder, and the other half I pencilled over, using a flat hair pencil, with sweet oil and the white of an egg, in equal parts well mix- ed, three or four times a day. No solution of india-rubber or any other substance, would have an- swered the purpose better; and its application was certainly at- tended with more comfort than that of the use of the powder. But it is not only the pittingwhich is prevented by the calamine, but the rescuing of the patient from a state of suffering bordering upon misery. He recommends the following treatment to the public. Firstly, from the commencement of the disease I would cover the whole body, face and all, with the cala- mine, shaken through a common pepper-box, taking care that the powder does not remain in masses. The inflammation on each pustule is by these applications much lessoned, a point of great conse- quence. Secondly, sprinkle about 1 ounce of powdered camphor every two or three nights between the under sheet and blanket, the whole length of the body, putting more about the shoulders and neck. The re- lief obtain by this, few would credit until they had had experience. Thirdly, in the advanced stage of the disease, should hardened in- crustations have formed, they may be removed, and without much pain too; for in one case I remo- ved every portion of the cuticle from the whole face, forehead, and even eyelids, applied the calamine, and in a few days the cuticle was r eformed without a blemish. SMALL POX, in Sheep.—The medicines which have been used in the case of the Allington flock have been very simple, consisting chiefly of the nitrate of potass, dis- solved in the water which is placed in the troughs until a subsidence of the fever takes place, after which sulphate of iron has been substi- tuted. When diarrhoea has come on—as it not unfrequently does in the latter stage of the malady, more particularly if the disease be- comes confluent—opium is resort- ed to as a valuable agent to arrest the attack, which, if not arrested, speedily becomes fatal. SMELLING BOTTLE.—Take an equal quantity of sal-ammoniac, and unslaked lime. Pound in a mortar each separately. Mix and put into a bottle, adding 10 drops of liquid ammonia, 6 of oil of ber- gamot, and 3 of otto of roses. Cork well. SMELTS, to choose.—If good, they have a fine silvery hue, and a refreshing smell, like cucumbers newly cut. They are caught in the Thames and other large rivers. SMELTS, to dress with savoury jelly. Clean, and season them with mace and salt, and lay them in a pot with butter over them; tie down with paper, and bake them half an hour. Take out, and when cool, lay them separately to drain. When quite cold, pour cold jelly over them, and they will look like living fish. SMELTS, to fry.—They should not be washed more than is neces-