TOM 417 TOB the above way, chemical vessels made of copper or brass may be easily and perfectly tinned. Tinning Process.—The articles to be tinned are first covered with diluted sulphuric acid, and when quite cleaned in warm water, are dipped in a solution of muriatic acid, copper, and zinc, and then plunged into a tin bath, to which a small quantity of zinc has been added. When the tinning is fin- ished, the articles are taken out and plunged into boiling water. The operation is completed by placing them in a very warm sand bath. This process softens iron. TINNING COPPER.—First clean the copper with sandstone ; then heat and rub it over with sal-ammoniac. The tin, mixed with powdered resin, is then placed on the copper, which is made so hot as to melt the tin, and to allow of its being spread over the surface, with a bit of tow. TOAST AND CHEESE.—Cut a slice of bread half an inch thick; toast it slightly on both sides, so as just to brown it. Cut a slice of good Cheshire cheese an inch thick; place upon the toasted bread in a cheese toaster to toast. Season with salt, pepper, and mustard.— Or, the cheese may be mixed with butter, yolk of egg, well mixed, browned in a Dutch oven spread upon toast. TOAST and WATER.—Take a thin slice of bread, and toast it on both sides, until it is browned all over, not burnt; put it into a jug, and pour water over it from the tea kettle. Let the water be in a boiling state. Cover the iu»- and let it cool. TOBACCO, British Herb.— This is made of coltsfoot and plan- tain leaves, with a smaller portion of sage, thyme, eyebright, rose- mary, wood betony, and yarrow. TOFFY. — Butter, ozs.; sugar, 1 lb.; melt and stir over the fire till it comes to the crackled de- gree. The addition of a little lemon juice greatly improves it. Some add ginger. A nice toffy may be made as above, not boiled so much, by the addition of well strained jelly, as apricot, currant, raspberry, strawberry, &c. Ever ton Toffy requires more but- ter. Some mix with the above Toffy blanched Almonds. TOFFY.—To 1 lb. of raw sugar add 2 ozs. of butter. When boiled to the crackled degree, grain it, and pour it out in square tins, either oiled or buttered. TOLU LOZENGES. They are good for Coughs.—Powdered sugar, 5 ozs.; cream of tartar J oz.; tincture of balsam of tolu, H drachm. Mix well, and form into lozenges with 10 drops of lauda- num, and a solution of gum arabic TOMATO SAUCE.—Take 12 tomatoes, very red and ripe; take off the stalks, take out the seeds, and press out the water. Put the expressed tomatoes into a stewpan with 1| oz. of butter, a bay leaf, and a little thyme; put it upon a moderate fire; stir it into a pulp; put into it a good cullis, or the top of broth, which will be better. Rub it through a search, and put it in- to a stewpan with two spoonfuls of cullis; put in a little salt and cay- enne. Another.—Proceed as above with the seeds and water. Put them into a stewpan, with salt and cay- enne, and three table-spoonfuls of beef gravy. Set them on a slow stove for an hour, or till properly melted. Strain, and add a little good stock, and simmer a few minutes. TOMATOES, stewed. — Pour boiling wafer over 12 peeled toma- toes ; cut them into a stew-pun, AA