PIIE PER 302 bay leaf; then drain, and roll them in flour, to fry of a good brown colour; serve with fried parsley. PERFUME, against moths.— One oz. each of cinnamon, cloves, nutmegs, carraway seeds, mace, camphor, and two ounces of orris root.—Place in little bags. PERFUME for GLOVES and HANDKERCHIEFS. Ambergris, 1 drachm; civet, 1 drachm; oil of lavender, 3 drachms; oil of bergamot, 3 drachms; cam- phor, J oz.; spirit of wine. | pint. Cork and shake well for 10 days; filter, and bottle. PERFUME, to prevent infec- tion.—Take gum benjamin, storax, and galbanum, § oz. each ; pow- der them with 'oil of myrrh, and burn them on a hot plate or shovel. PERFUMED POWDER, for boxes and drawers.—Mix 1 oz. each of the following :—orris pow- der, coriander, cloves, cinnamon, roseleaves, lavender flowers, musk, a oz.; camphor, 1 oz. Put into small bags for use. PERMANENT INK, for •marking linen. — Take half an ounce of vermilion, and a drachm of salt of steel; let them be levi- gated -with linseed oil to the thick- ness or limpidity required for the occasion. This has not only a very good appearance, but will be found to resist the effects of acids, as well as all alkaline leys. It may be made of other colours by substituting the proper articles in- stead of vermilion. PERRY.—It is made from pears in the same way as cider is made. The best pears for this purpose are such as are adapted for eating, and the redder they are the better. The pears must be ^PERSIAN MEAT CAKES. —Take the fat and sinews from the meat of a leg of mutton; beat in a marble mortar with pepper, salt, and the juice of onions, and sweet herbs. Make them all into flat cakes, and keep them pressed between two dishes for 12 hours,; then fry them with butter, and serve them with the same. PERSPIRATION, to restrain. —Spring water, 2 ozs.; diluted sulphuric acid, 40 drops; com- pound spirits of lavender, 2 drachms; take a table-spoonful twice a day. PERUVIAN BARK. See Robinson's Herbal on this valuable plant. PEWTER, to clean.—Scour it with fine Calais sand in a solution of potass, or soda, with a little oil of tartar. Dry and polish with whiting. PHEASANT, to choose.—The cock bird is accounted best, except when the hen is with egg. U young he has short, blunt, ci round spurs; but ii old they art long and sharp. PHEASANT, to roast.— Roasv them as turkey ; and serve with i fine gravy (into which put a ven small bit of garlic), and bread, sauce. When cold, they may hi made into excellent patties, bu their flavour should not be over powered by lemon.