178 GIN GIN the}’ will be white, hard and brittle. Colour with a little saffron. GINGER, Syrup of.—Macerate 11 oz. of beaten ginger in a quart of boiling water, closely covered for twenty-four hours ; then strain the infusion, make it into a syrup by adding at least two parts of fine loaf sugar, dissolved and boil- ed up in a hot water bath. • GINGER, Tincture of.—Gin- ger, 1 oz.; proof spirits,. 1 pint. Digest in a gentle heat seven days, and strain. A good stimulant, and expellant of wind ; used as a corrective to purgative draughts. GINGER BEER, Cheap.—Su- gar, 1 lb.; boiling water, 1 gallon ; ginger, J oz., and a lemon sliced thin. Stir till all is mixed. Cool, and add a table-spoonful of yeast. Let it stand 20 hours, then strain, bottle, and tie down the corks. Will be prime in a few days. Another Receipt.—To every gal- lon of spring water, add 1 oz. of sliced white ginger, and 1 lb. of white sugar, or lj lb., if you like. Boil nearly an hour. Then add b oz.of lemon juice to every gallon; strain, cool, and add yeast, 1 table- spoonful or rather more to a gallon. In 48 hours, add a little isinglass, and the white of one or two eggs. Put into the cask, and let it stand 24 hours longer. Bottle and cork well. Another Receipt.—Ginger 3 ozs.; sugar, 4 lbs.; cream of tartar, b oz.; essence of lemon, f oz.; the jjjice and peel of two lemons; bran- dy, f pint; yeast, quarter of a pint; w'ater, 4 gallons. Bruise the su- gar and ginger; boil 25 minutes; pour it boiling upon the lemon, tartar, essence, &c. Stir well; nearly cool, and add the yeast; let it work three days, skimming well; then strain into a cask; add the brandy; bung down close ; and iu a fortnight, draw off, and bottle. Receipt for six gallons.—Bruised ginger, 8 ozs.; cream of tartar, 6 ozs.; loaf sugar, 6 lbs.; water, 6 gallons; three unpeeled lemons sliced. As soon as the water boils pour it on the ingredients, and stir well. Add a small portion of yeast. Some prefer the addition of 1 lb. of honey. After fermentation, strain, and bottle. Or strain, and bottle, without previously adding yeast. GINGER BEER, Common.— Brown Sugar or Treacle, lflb., Water, H gallon, 1 oz. of Ginger, ground, and a lemon, if preferred. Boil, and then add yeast. Ginger Beer instantly made.— Sugar, If lb. ; bruised ginger, If oz. ; water, 1 quart. Boil down to a syrup. When cool, strain, and add the juice of a lemon, or f oz. of citric acid, and a little brandy. Keep this always by you in a bottle. It is to be used along with Carbonate of Soda and Tartaric Acid. First dissolve in water a quarter of a tea-spoonful of Tartaric Acid, into which put Ginger Syrup according to- taste; then dissolve half a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda in water; unite the two mixtures, and you will have a grateful beverage. Another, quickly made.—Dis- solve 4 ozs. of candied ginger in 2f gallons of boiling water, add 2 lbs. of sugar ; add f oz. of citric acid, powdered when nearly cold, and two table-spoonfuls of veast. GINGER BEER POWDERS For the whitepaper ;—Loaf sugar, powdered, 2 drachms; ginger pow- dered, 6 or 7 grains; carbonate of soda, 26 grains. Mix well. For blue paper;—Citric Acid, 30 grains, or tartaric acid, 28 grains (vwhicli you please). Dissolve each powder in nearly half a tumbler of water, and mix together. GINGER BISCUITS.-Grated