169 row FOW successively with increased force over the painful parts for about a quarter of an hour. Repeat, the application several times, or until the patient is able to walk. This is a simple remedy for a very com- mon casualty, and can be perfor- med by the most inexperienced. FORCEMEAT.—Take a pound of fresh lean veal, and the same weight of beef suet, and a bit of bacon or ham; shred all together ; beat it in a mortar very fine; then season it with sweet herbs, pepper, salt, cloves, mace, and nutmegs; add the yolks of two or three eggs well beaten. A few oysters may be added ; or marrow, if the force- meat is intended to be rich. This may be made into balls about the size of a walnut. Hu. Another, to force Fowls or Meat.—Shred a little ham, some cold veal, or fowl, or beef-suet; a small quantity of onion, parsley, a little lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, or pounded mace, and white pepper, or Cayenne, and bread crumbs. Pound it in a mortar, and bind it with one or two eggs beaten and strained. FOUL AIR IN WELLS.—To remove the gas before a descent is made into any well, a quantity of burned but unslacked lime should be thrown down. This, when it comes in contact with whatever water is below, sets free a great amount of heat in the water and lime, which rushes upward, carry- ing all the deleterious gases with . it; after which descent may be made with safety. The lime also absorbs the carbonic acid in the well. FOWLS, to boil.—Truss as in page 170. Put in a pan of cold water; cover; skim; boil slowly twenty minutes; take off, cover close, and the heat of the water will stew them enough in half an hour; it keeps the skin whole, white, and plump. Pour over them white sauce. FOWLS, to dress cold.—Peel off all the skin, and pull the flesh off the bones in large pieces; dredge with flour; fry it a nice brown in butter; toss it up in a rich gravy, well seasoned; thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour; be- fore serving; squeeze in the juice of a lemon. FOWLS, to fatten.—Mix a lit- tle unsifted flour, ground rice, scalded with milk; add a little butter and coarse sugar, and a lit- tle chopped meat. Make it thick, and feed them several times a-day. This soon fattens them. Give them also now and then barley meal and water mixed thin. FOWL, to hash.—Cut up the fowl as for eating; put it into a stew-pan with half a pint of gravy, a tea-spoonful of lemon pickle, a little mushroom ketchup, a slice of lemon, and a chopped shalot or two. Thicken with .our and but- ter; before it is dished, add a table-spoonful of thick cream; lay sippets round the dish, and serve. FOWL, JRoasted.—When the fowl is about half done, skewer pieces of fat bacon to it. It serves for larding, aud saves time and trouble for the same. The bacon will serve to garnish the dish. Make a gravy of the necks and gizzards; strain, and put in a spoonful of browning. Serve with egg sauce. FOWLS, to roast ala Servante. —Prepare a fowl for roasting, and make a forcemeat with the liver, parsley, shalots, butter, pepper, salt, and basil. Stuff' the fowl with this; roast it, wrapped in slices of lard and paper. When three parts done, take off the lard and paper; baste it all over with the yolks of eggs beaten up with