EAU < 150 DYS digo. Wash out. If not bloomy enough, pass it through a weak solution of Archil. Buff; use annotta, ground down, and boiled in water, with potass added, to give the requisite colour. Boil and stir it well ten or twelve minutes. Wash out. Brown ; Saffron, or Persian Berry liquor, and soda, or bichromate of potass. —Black. ; logwood and copperas, or shumac and copperas, or galls, logwood, and copperas.—Green ; Persian Berry liquor, and extract of Indigo; or quercitron bark, ex- tract of indigo, and alum.- Grey ; by diluting down the black dye.——Lilac ; logwood, first dipping the article in a weak solution of alum;—or use archil. Pink ; from safflower and al- um ; or brazil wood, and querci- tron bark, or Persian berry liquor. Purple ; from archil, or log- wood and roche alum. Scar- let ; Cochineal and Persian berry liquor. Or dye in a soap lather with Annotta, boiling hot, for an orange bottom. Wash the article; then dye with Cochineal and a little Nitrate of tin. Red ; from Brazil wood and madder.—Nan- keen from annatto and pearl ash. Orange ; from Brazil wood and quercitron bark, or young fus- tic, or Persian berry liquor, and alum. Lavender; Extract of Indigo, alum, a little Plum liquor. The shade may be altered by decreasing the indigo. Blue Black; Steep in Nitrate of Iron for about one hour; then wash, make a soap lather, and add log- wood liquor; dip the article into the liquor. DYSPEPSIA. See Indigestion. Pure water, 6 ozs.; carbonate of ammonia, 2 drachms; syrup of orange peel, 1 oz. Mix. DYSPEPTIC PILL. — Colo- cynth, Castile Soap, Gamboge, of each 2 ozs.; Socotrine Aloes, 4 ozs.; Oil of Cloves, 2 drachms; Extract of Gentian, 4 ozs. Mix and form into pills. Most valuable for indigestion, and cleansing the stomach, and giving it tone. EAR-ACHE.—Place in the ear cotton wool moistened with sweet oil and laudanum. A flannel bag of salt, or camomile flowers, made very hot and applied to the ear at bed-time, will often give relief.— Or, wet a rag with laudanum, and cover the ear with it. A bag of hops, a roasted onion, and harts- horn and oil, are household reme- dies. If it arises from heat, fre- quently apply wet cloths.—If from cold, boil rue, or rosemary, and steam the ear through a funnel. EAR-ACHE. — Rub the ear hard for a quarter of an hour.— Tried. Or, be electrified. Or, put in a roasted fig, or onion, as hot as may be. Or, blow the smoke of tobacco strongly into it. But if the ear-ache is caused by an inflammation of the uvula, it is cured in two or three hours by re- ceiving into the mouth the steam of bruised hemp-seed boiled in wa- ter.— Wesley. EAR-ACHE, from Worms.— Drop in warm milk, which brings them out. Or, juice of worm- wood, which kills them. EAR-ACHE, Indian Cure for. —Take a piece of the lean of mut- ton, the size of a large walnut, put it into the fire and burn it for some time till it is reduced almost to a cinder; then put it into a piece of clean rag, and squeeze it until some moisture is expressed, which must be dropped into the ear as hot as the patient can bear it. EAU DE COLOGNE.—Alco- hol, 1 gallon; neroli, 50 drops; essence of cedrat, 50 drops; essence of orango, 50 drops; essence of