QUI 339 QUE Surinam : by it he cured the ma- lignant fevers peculiar to that country. For gold he disclosed his remedy to Mr. Rolander, a Swede, who introduced it into Europe. It is now chiefly brought from the West Indies. It is much used by brewers. It is one of the most powerful of the bitter tonics, tending to the narcotic. It is a good remedy for indigestion, in- vigorating the digestive organs, with little excitement of the circu- lation, or increase of animal heat: it is very bitter, but it has no smell. Its narcotic principle, though slight, is proved by its de- struction of flies. The infusion of it is made by pouring a pint of boiling water upon 2 scruples of the chips or raspings. Orange peel renders it more grateful to the stomach. QUEEN CAKES.—Mix 1 lb. of dried flour, the same of sifted sugar, and of washed clean cur- rants. Wash 1 lb. of butter in rose water, beat it well, then mix with it eight eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, and put in the dry ingredients by degrees; beat the whole an hour; butter little tins, teacups, or saucers, and bake the batter in, filling only half. Sift a little fine sugar over just as you put it into the oven. Another way— Beat 8 ozs. of butter, and mix with two well beaten eggs, strained ; mix 8 ozs. of dried flour, and the same of lump sugar, and the grated rind of a lemon ; then add the whole together, and beat full half an hour with a silver spoon. Butter small patty-pans, half fill, and bake twenty minutes in a quick oven. Another.—Take 1 lb. of flour, seven eggs, and 1 lb. of lump sugar, grated fine ; beat your eggs well, then put the sugar to the eggs, beat them well together, take a J lb. of butter beat to a cream, whisk up all together, then add the flour, and stir well. Do not whisk the flour in it, it will make them tough. QUEEN’S CULLIS.—Prepare a stewpan with slices from a fillet of veal, a few bits of ham, and roots ; simmer it on a slow fire, without catching at the bottom, and add some good broth—good coloured. A fowl may be added to it to increase its strength; simmer it; pound one or two breasts of fowl, with half a handful of sweet almonds, scalded, a few hard yolks of eggs, and bread crumbs soaked in broth ; mix altogether in a mor- tar ; strain, rubbing it hard with a wooden spoon ; add a little cream to make it whiter. QUEEN’S DROPS.—Soften, and work with the hand, till like cream, as directed for Queen’s Cakes, \ lb. of fresh butter; put to it 8 ozs. of sifted loaf sugar, c"'d beat them together for a minute; break in four eggs, and beat for two minutes ; then lightly mix in f lb. of good flour, 4 ozs. of nicely washed currants, and half a tea- spoonful of powdered cinnamon. When well mixed, make it into drops the size of a walnut, upon paper on iron plates, and bake them in a hot oven. QUICK MADE PUDDING.— Flour and suet, J lb. each, four eggs, a pint of new milk, a little mace and nutmeg, j- lb. of raisins, ditto of currants; mix well, and boil three quarters of an hour with the cover of the pot on, or it will require longer. QUICKSILVER.—Tallow will take it up ;—vinegar kills it. As a medicine it is injurious. It is mercury in a peculiar state. It is poison. QUINCE CAKES.—Mix the syrup of quinces and raspberries