53 BEE BEE drawn clear, add also some butter and flour. If to be served white boil them in milk, and stew them in a fricas- see sauce; adding cream, butter, flour, and mushroom powder, and a little pounded mace. BEEF, to Pot.-Take two pounds of lean beef, rub it with saltpetre, and let it lie one night; then salt with common salt, and cover it with water four days in a small pan. Dry it with a cloth and sea- son with black pepper; lay it into as small a pan as will hold it, cover it with coarse paste, and bake it five hours in a very cool oven. Put no liquor in. When cold, pick out the strings and fat; beat the meat very fine with a quarter of a pound of fine butter just warm, but not oiled, and as much of the gravy as will make it into a paste; put it into very small pots, and cover them with melted butter. Another way.—Take beef that has been dressed, either boiled or roasted ; beat it in a mortar with some pepper, salt, a few cloves, grated nutmeg, and a little fine butter, just warm. This eats as well, but the colour is not so fine. It is a good way for using the remains of a large joint. BEEF, to Roast.—Beef may be roasted before the fire, though this method is not now so common. It is mostly roasted in the oven. If before the fire, it is a good plan to put a little salt and water in the dripping-pan; baste the meat a little with it; 'let it dry; then dust it well with flour; baste it with good butter, to give the meat a better colour. Place at a pro- per distance from the fire, and baste it oiten ; let the thickest part of the beef have the most fire. If you allow it to scorch, it makes the meat hard, and prevents the heat from penetrating to the centre; besides it will appear enough when it is only about half done. When the steam draws near the fire it is a sign of its being enough. Never salt your meat much before you lay it to the fire, as salting brings out the gravy, and forms brine. This caution applies to beef for immediate eating. If you roast in the oven, have it hot before you put iu the beef; keep the oven door open five or six minutes after putting the beef in, to get rid of the steam. Baste it occasionally. A. N. BEEF, Corned.—Make the fol- lowing pickle Water, 2 gallons; salt, 21 lbs.; treacle, j lb.; sugar, 1 lb.; saltpetre, H ozs.; pearlash, 5 oz. Boil all together; skim, and pour the pickle on about 25 lbs. of beef. Let it stay in a few days. Boil in plenty of water when cooked to remove the salt, and eat with it plenty of vegetables. It is nice to eat cold, and makes excellent sandwiches. Gu. BEEF, Rolled. Plang three ribs three or four days; take out the bones from the whole length, sprinkle it with salt, roll the meat tight, and roast it. Nothing can look nicer. The above done with spices, &c., and baked as hunters’ beef is excellent. BEEF, Rolled to equal Hare.— Take the inside of a large sirloin, soak it in a glass of port wine and a glass of vinegar mixed, for forty- eight hours; have ready a very fine stuffing, and bind it up tight. Roast it on a hanging spit; and baste it with a glass of port wine, the same quantity of vinegar, and a tea-spoonful of pounded allspice. Larding it improves the look and flavour; serve with a rich gravy in the dish; currant-jelly and melted butter in tureens!