POT 327 POS POSSET, cold.—Take \ pint each of milk and cream ; the juice of half a lemon, and the rind gra- ted into it. Sweeten the cream and wine; put the latter into a basin, and pour the cream and milk into the basin, and stir them together well. POSTAGE, Rates of.—From all parts of the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands, and the Isle of Man, if prepaid, and not exceed- ing—half an oz. Id.; one oz. 2d.; 1| oz. 3d.; 2 ozs. 4d., and so on, adding a penny for each \ oz. No parcel will be permitted to pass through the post if more than two feet long; and in provincial Post Offices, all letters or packets must be prepaid with stamps, or be sent unpaid, as money prepayment is not permitted. BOOK POST. —On every packet not exceeding 4 ozs. Id.; from 4 to 8 ozs. 2d.; from 8 to 12 ozs. 3d.; from 12 ozs. to 1 lb. 4d.; from 1 lb. to 1J lb. 5d.; from 1£ lb. to 1| lb. 6d.; from 1| lb. to If lb. 7d.; from If lb. to 2 lbs. 8d.—and Id. for every addi- tional f lb. Every book packet must be open at the ends. POST OFFICE SAYINGS BANKS.-By 24 Vic. cap. 14, deposits of one shilling, or of any number of shillings, will be recei- ved from any depositor at the Post Office Savings Banks, provided the deposits of such depositor in any year ending the 31st day of De- cember do not exceed £30, and provided the total amount stand- ing in such depositor’s name in the books of the Postmaster- General do not exceed £150, ex- clusive of interest. Interest will he allowed at the rate of £2 10s. per cent, per annum, being at the rate of one halfpenny per calendar month for every complete pound. When the principal and interest amount to the sum of £200, all interest will cease, so long as the same funds continue £200. A depositor in any legally estab- lished Savings Bank may transfer his account to the Post Office Savings Bank, by simply applying to the managers of the Savings Bank for a certificate of the amount of his deposits, and the amount of such certificate will be entered to his credit by the Post Office Savings Bank as so much cash. In the same way an account may be transferred from the Post Office Savings Bank to any other legally established Savings Bank. POTAGE, Barley.—Take 1 lb. of pearl barley; cleanse it well from husks; put it into a quart of milk to steep, and boil it a little; when it is well boiled, put in a quart of cream, 1 oz. of salt, some mace, and cinnamon ; when suffi- ciently thick, sweeten with loaf sugar, and serve. POTASH, Bicarbonate.—In in- digestion, attended with acidity, the result of disordered gastric secretion, the bicarbonate of potash is a valuable remedy, neutralizing very effectually the acid. The dose is from 10 to 20 grains given in simple solution in water, or it may be sweetened. POTASH DROPS.—Liquor of potash, 10 drops ; infusion of lin- seed, 1 pint; spirits of sweet nitre, 2 oz. Mix, and take two table- spoonfuls every three hours. A sure cure for the gravel. POTASS2E LIQUOR.—This is a solution of potash. In indi- gestion, acid eructations, heart- bum, &c., it may be taken with great benefit. It neutralizes the acid, and counteracts the morbid tendency of the stomach to acid secretion. Dose—10 drops, grad- ually increased to 40. It should be greatly diluted. Take it with a bitter decoction.