BEE 56 BEE ■water as you think proper. Get it to the proper colour. It should be frequently skimmed, and at last strained. BEEF HASH.—Take the bones of the joint to be hashed, break them small; then stew them in very little water, with two onions, pepper, salt, a few sweet herbs, and a little butter; then add somo slices of underdone beef with fat. If you like, add gravy, ketchup, and a glass of sherry. Put it into a small stew-pan with a little wa- ter, an onion, pepper, and salt. Simmer it till hot through, and serve with dried parsley. BEEF, HASHED, American. —Put nearly a pint of boiling wa- ter into a small saucepan, and make a thin paste with a dessert spoonful of flour, and a table- spoonful of cold water. Stir it in, and boil three minutes. Add half a teaspoonful of black pepper, and one of salt. Gently simmer 10 minutes. Cut the beef into half- inch pieces, and add as many pieces of boiled potatoes and turnips, and two or three ounces of butter, and, if you like, a table-spoonful of to- mato ketchup. Simmer again 5 or 10 minutes; add gravy, port wine, and lemon juice, if you like. BEEF-HEART. Wash it carefully ; stuff as hare; roast, and serve with rich gravy, and currant- jelly sauce. Hash with the same, and port wine. BEEF, SIRLOIN, to force.— Split it; cut off the skin and fat; bone it; chop the meat tine with beaten mace, shalots, an anchovy, half a pint of port, pepper and salt; lay the bones, fat, and skin on; skewer and pepper it well. Serve with sauce made of port wine, sha- lot, anchovy, and horseradish. Rf BEEF-STEAKS AND OYS- TER SAUCE.—Strain the liquor from the oysters, and throw them into cold water to take off the grit; simmer the liquor with mace and lemon-peel; put tho oysters in, stew a few minutes, add a little cream, and butter rubbed in flour; boil up once; and have rump- steaks, well-seasoned, and broiled, ready for throwing the oyster- sauce over, when you serve. BEEF-STEAKS, Fried.—Cut your steaks as for broiling; put them into a stewpan, with butter; set them over a slow tire, turning them till the butter becomes a thick white gravy; add a little pepper and salt, pour it into a basin, and add more butter; when they are almost enough, pour all the gravy into the basin, and put more butter into the pan; fry them a light brown over a quick fire; put them in a hot dish; slice a shalot among them; put a little in the gravy drawn from them, and pour it hot upon them. Rf. BEEF-STEAKS, Staffordshire. —Beat them well; flour and sea- son; then fry with sliced onions of a fine light brown; place in a stew-pan, and pour as much boil- ing water over them as will serve for sauce; stew very gently half- an hour, and add a spoonful of ketchup, or walnut-liquor. BEEF PATTIES.—Use the best beef, half roast it, cut it very small, season with pepper, salt, and onion, or shalot, put it into thin paste, close up, and bake to a brown.—Underdone beef may be used instead of fresh. BEEF STEAK PIE.—Take fine rump steaks; beat them with a rolling pin ; then season them with pepper and salt, according to your palate; make a good crust; lay in your steaks; fill your dish ; then pour in as much water as will half fill the dish. Put on tho crust, and bake it well. If the pie be intended to be eaten cold, more