COF 115 COL COT), to fry.—Cut the cod in slices about 11 inch thick, and dry and flour them well. Make a good clear fire; rub the gridiron with a piece of chalk, and place it high from the fire. Turn often till they are enough, and of a fine brown. Be careful, or they will break.— Or do them in a dish in the oven, with a little butter, vinegar, or lemon, and salt and pepper. Serve with lobster or shrimp sauce, a.n. COD, Egg Sauce for Salted.— Boil the eggs hard; half chop the whites, put in the yolks, and chop all together, but not very small; put them into | lb. of good melted butter, and boil up; then put it on the fish. Rf. COD LIVER OIL. — This is very good in debility, in wasting diseases, in the incipent stages of consumption, in chest diseases, rheumatism, gout, rigid limbs, &c. It should be taken freely. Yet some pdople are unable to retain and digest this useful remedy. In such cases, it should be taken in milk, or orange wine, bitter ale, cinnamon water, cold coflee, &c. COFFEE.—It is a tonic and stimulating beverage, of a whole- some nature.—To make Coffee. Use the best. For eight cups, use nearly eight cups of water; put in coffee as much as you like; a solution of isinglass ; boil a min- ute, take off, and throw in a cup of cold water to throw the grounds to the bottom ; in five minutes it will be very clear. Or, beat one or two eggs, which mis with ground coffee to form a ball; nearly fill the pot with cold water, simmer gently for half hour, haying introduced the ball; do not boil, or you will destrov the aroma. COFIEE ICE.—Pour some of this coffee into a bowl, and suffi- cient sugar-candy and cream, and place it in an ice pail till quite fro- zen. Serve in proper glasses. This is a delightful refreshment in hot weather. COFFEE MILK.—Boil a table spoonful of ground coffee in a pint of milk 15 minutes, put in a little isinglass; clear it; boil a minute; throw in a little cold water to pre- cipitate the grounds. Let it stand on the rib ten minutes. COHOSH, Black.—An Ameri- can plant, astringent, diuretic, al- terative, &c. It restrains diar- rhoeas, and is much used by the American Indians in rheumatism and parturition. In incipient con- sumption, it prevents febrile symp- toms, the hectic flush, and reduces pulsation. It promotes the mens- trual flux ; it has rarely failed to cure hooping-cough. It is most valuable in rheumatism, using the saturated tincture, from six to forty drops, and first cleansing the bowels. A strong decoction or powder united with slippery elm forms a valuable poultice for all kinds of inflammation. The pow- dered root made into a syrup is effectual in coughs. The tincture may he made by infusing one ounce of the powdered root in half a pint of spirits. COLCHICUM, Oxymel of.— This preparation has been found beneficial in asthma and winter .cough. Dose from two teaspoon- fuls to a dessert-spoonful, three times a day in barley-water. It effectually allays fever and irrita- tion about the wind-pipe. COLD.—Never neglect a cold. It may be the forrunner of some disease difficult to cure. Consump- tion is often followed by a neglec- ted cold. A cold is caused by the loss of heat, and a decrease of ner- vous energy, causing an obstruc- tion of the perspiration. To remove a cold restore the pei - spii ation. Tako u decoction of the