397 sou sou monds; pound all together, after- wards take it out and mix it with the consomme made of the carcases of the three fowls from which the breasts were taken; run it through a search. SOUP, a la sap.—Boil -1- lb. of grated potatoes, 1 lb. of beef sliced thin, a pint of grey peas, an onion, and 3 ozs. of rice, in six pints of water to live, strain it through a colander, theu pulp the peas to it, and turn it into a saucepan again, with two heads of celery sliced. Stew it tender, and add pepper and salt, and when you serve, add also fried bread. SOUP and BOUILLE.—Stew a brisket of beef with some tur- nips, celery, leeks, and onions, all finely cut. Put the pieces of beef into the pot first, then the roots, and half a pint of beef gravy, with a few cloves. Simmer for an hour. Add more beef gravy, and boil gently for half an hour. SOUP, Consomme.—Take a pro- per tinned pot; heat it lightly and wipe it well; put in a shank and a piece of a buttock of beef, a knuckle of veal, a fowl, an old rabbit, or two old partridges, and about six pints of stock ; reduce it upon a quick fire till it becomes a jelly, then add more stock, boil it on a quick tire and skim it; sea- son it with three turnips, three carrots, three onions, one stuck with two or three cloves, a bunch of leeks, and celery; then put it on the side of the grate, and let it simmer till it is done enough: when the different meats of which it is composed are sufficiently cook- ed, they ought to be taken out, as they may bo dressed for successive tables; when ready take off the fat, put it through a gauze search or a linen cloth, first wet and wrung. SOUP, Cress//.—According to the season, have all sorts of vege- tables picked and washed with care, such as carrots, turnips, cel- ery, onions, &c., in small quantity ; boil them a quarter of an hour ; put them into a stew-pan with a large piece of butter, and some slices of ham; set them upon a slow fire till they are enough; drain and pound them in a mortar, and add the liquor in -which they were boiled; rub them through a search to make a puree; let it boil, and leave it to cook two hours; skim well; have ready a mitonnage, as before directed, and serve the cressy upon it. SOUP, good and cheap.—Lean beef, 1 lb., cut into small pieces; half a pint of split peas ; 2 ozs. of rice, or Scotch barley; 5 potatoes, sliced ; 3 onions, cut in quarters; pepper and salt to taste. Tie the peppercorns in a bag; put these into a gallon and a pint of water. Put into the oven for 3!, hours. It will waste 1 pint in the oven, but more in boiling. SOUP, Grand Bouillon.—To prepare a great dinner, it is neces- sary that a sufficient quantity of stock for soups and sauces should be ready, for which purpose put into a large pot a piece of the breast or rump of beef, with the dressings of any other sort of meat; veal, mutton, lamb, with the bones, neck, and feet of the poultry and game, that may be prepared for removes. Put the pot upon a mo- derate fire, not quite filled with water-, and skim it carefully; throw into it a little cold water every time you skim it, till it becomes perfectly limpid; for upon this stock depends the beauty of your soups and sauces; season it with salt, two turnips, six carrots, six onions, one of which is to be stuck with three cloves and a bunch of locks, and let the whole simmer