271 NIT NIG frightful and horrible, bad persons, spectres of various shapes, wild beasts, infuriated animals in pur- suit, and which the patient cannot escape, though apparently he makes or tries to make the greatest efforts to escape; he attempts to cry out, hut generally in vain. The sen- sation is very distressing and pain- ful. Sometimes the uneasiness continues after he awakes, so as to prevent his turning or moving in bed for some time. Studious, and nervous people, are most subject to it; it is also caused by heavy suppers. The disease is probably produced by indigestion, and by compression of the lungs, and the consequent ob- struction to the free return of blood from the brain. The disease is dangerous, and, doubtless, many have died under the attack; and their death has been attributed to apoplexy. The remedy is to avoid all exci- ting causes, as too much abstruse thinking, late and heavy suppers, food difficult of digestion, cold feet, costiveness, and flatulence. To prevent the nightmare, mix to- gether 10 grains of carbonate of soda; 3 drachms of compound tincture of cardamoms ; 1 drachm of simple syrup, and 1 oz. of pep- permint water. Repeat for several nights in succession; afterwards take a few drops of the Aperient Mixture, page 20, or the Aperient Tonic Mixture, page 21. Also a little cayenne in scullcap tea will prevent an attack. Those who are habitually subject to nightmare should not sleep in a room alone, but have some person near them, to be awakened by their moans, groans, &e. Dr. Beach says, “ It is not im- probable that some of those per- sons who have bfeen found dead in their beds were destroyed by it.” NIGHTSHADE, Deadly— See Robinson’s Herbal. NIGHTSHADE, Woody.—See Robinson’s Herbal. NITRATE OF SODA.—Far- mers find from one to two hundred weight per acre a good dressing for their land ; and therefore this quantity may be regarded, for the present, as a safe proportion for ordinary crops. When used on a smaller scale, we are much in want of information as to its pi’oper pro- portion if mixed with water. The following, however, seem to be as- certained facts:—Six ounces in four gallons of water suit lettuce and celery ; one pound in twelve gallons is a safe quantity for dah- lias. Strawberries are much im- proved by it in the proportion of one ounce to a gallon. In other cases, onions are reported to be much improved by water holding the nitrate of soda in solution in the proportion of one pound to eight gallons. Its effects are extreme- ly active on coniferous plants, ap- plied in a top-dressing at the rate of one hundred pounds per acre. About its action, under favour- able circumstances, there can be no doubt. Fir-trees have been changed from yellow to deep green in about a fortnight from the time of the application. We have seen similar effects upon common shrubs in a worn-out gravelly soil; and the rapidity with which the crops to which it has been applied ac- quired a deep green healthy colour is generally spoken of. Sometimes, however, it is stated to produce no effect. This may have been owing to the land on which it has been used already abounding in alkaline matter, so that any further addition has been useless ; or it may have arisen from the nitrate having been used in a bad season of the year.—Gardener s Chronicle.