187 GRE GRE flour till the froth sinks, and it will he brown. Give all a boil up. GRAYLINGS, to fry.—Scale, gut, and well wash; then dry them, and lay them separately on a board before the fire, after dust- ing some flour over them. Fry them of a fine colour with fresh dripping ; Serve with crimp pars- ley, and plain butter. Perch and Tench may be done the same way. GREASE AND OIL,to remove. —Make a strong lye of pearl-ashes and soft water; add as much un- slaked lime as it will take up; stir it together ; let it settle ; bot- tle it and stop close: have water ready to lower it as used, and scour the part with it. If the liquor should lie long on the boards it will extract the colour of them ; use care and expedition. Ha. GREASE, to clean from Floors. —Spread over the stain a thick coat of soft soap, then pass a heat- ed flat-iron a few times across it, after which wash immediately first with fullers’ earth water, and then clean water. GREASE SPOTS, to remove. —The application of spirits of tur- pentine, and a little essence of lemon ; wash with soap and water. Some wash with alum water, or white soap, potass, and ox-gall, or with sour butter-milk mixed with strong ascetic acid. Or apply a solution of magnesia. GREASE SPOTS, to remove from books.—Moisten the spot with a camel-hair pencil dipped in spirits of turpentine; when dry, moisten with spirits of wine. GREASE, to remove from cloth. —Soft soap, and fullers earth, of each J lb.; beat well together in a mortar, and form into cakes. The spot, first moistened with water, is rubbed with a cake, and allowed to dry, when it is well rubbed with a little warm water, and rin- sed, or rubbed off clean. GREEN BRONZE DIP.— Wine vinegar-, 2 qts.; verditer green, 2 oz.; sal-ammoniac, 1 oz.; salt, 2 oz.; alum, \ oz.; French berries, 8 oz.; boil the ingredients together. GREEN COLOUR, for con- fectioners perfectly harmless.— Infuse |’oz. of saffron for 24 hours, in distilled water; then \ oz. of carmine indigo, and infuse in the same way. Mix, and a beautiful green colour is obtained. It may be preserved a long time by evap- orating to dryness, or by making it into a syrup. GREEN FIRE.—Take of flow- ers of sulphur thirteen parts, of nitrate of baryta, seventy-seven, of oxymuriate of potassa, five, of me- tallic arsenic, two, of charcoal, three. The nitrate of baryta should be well dried and powder- ed ; it should then be mixed with the other ingredients, all finely pulverised, and the whole tritura- ted until perfectly blended together. A little calamine may be occasion- ally added, in order to make the compound slower of combustion, and it is above all things requisite that the rubbing together of the materials should be continued un- til they are mixed. GREEN GAGES, to preserve. —Choose the largest, when they begin to soften; split them with- out paring; strew upon them part of the sugar. Blanch the kernels with a sharp knife. Next day, pour the syrup from the fruit, and boil it with the other sugar six or eight minutes gently; skim and add the plums and kernels. Simmer till clear, taking off the scum ; put the fruit singly into small pots, and pour the syrup and kernels to it. To candy it, do not add the syrup, but observe the directions