CON CON 121 take from fifty to seventy ounces daily (deducting from this the equivalent of any artificial drinks he may take), a larger quantity still during great bodily exertion, and from one-and-a-lialf to twice the quantity in a summer. "When raw fruit gives rise to flatulence, it may be taken cooked wijh spices, and especially when dried and cooked. With greater regularity of stools, flatulence becomes less, the food being retained for a less time within the canal. Exercise is of great service; but it exerts no sudden effect, and at first may even induce constipation. Trying the plan upon himself when a student, the author has, during his twenty-eight years of practice, recommended it to an im- mense number of persons, and in the great majority of cases with complete success. He has attained the power of procuring a daily stool at any convenient time between four o’clock a.m. and mid-day, the average time required being a quarter of an hour. Only on one occasion during thirty years has he failed in his object. The plan is not so suitable for the aged; and is inapplicable to women du- ring advanced pregnancy, or in organic disease or prolapsus of the uteras. When from insufficient perseverance the means does not succeed, cold water clysters form the best supplement; and, excep- tionally, salt and oil, with camo- mile tea, etc., may be thrown up. The author never gives purgatives by the mouth in chronic constipa- tion, believing it to be most impo- litic to irritate the stomach and small intestine, disturbing chylo- ptesis, and introducing into the blood materials that are always more or less injurious. CONSUMPTION.—The word is derived from the Latin verb consumo, to consume or to waste away. It is also called phthisis, from the Greek verb phthio, to waste away. Consumption is the most frequent and most fatal of all pulmonary diseases. It often be- gins with a slight dry cough, so slight and painless as not to at- tract notice. By and by the cough increases, and expectoration gra- dually becomes copious, thick, yellow, and tinged with blood. Sometimes the appetite remains tolerable, but the brealhing is more difficult, especially during and after bodily exertion, and the pulsation is become accelerated. There is a gradual emaciation of the body, debility, night sweats, interrupted rest, the hectic flush, or a bright scarlet spot on the cheek, especially after eating, tightness of the chest, and acute pains under the breast-bone. In the last stage emaciation rapidly increases, and the patient has al- ternations of hope and fear as to recovery. Hope, however, the most prevails. As to the treatment of consump- tion, Dr. Beach says, “ If the pathology of phthisis consists in a diseased state of the blood, all for- mer treatment is wrong, or very inefficient. Wo presbribe for the symptoms instead of the cause. If the elements of this disease circu- late in the blood, ns in scrofula, syphilis, and other complaints, and are thrown by the efforts of the system to the lungs, and these develope tubercles then is it notob- vious that we must prescribe alter- atives, or such medicines as will eradicate its morbid condition?” It is evident from these rational remarks, that the nature of this disease, and that of others, depends upon a morbid and diseased condi- tion of the blood. Hence then there must be an attempt to alter l