CRU CRO 134 CROUP.—This is a dangerous disease. It is common to infancy, and rarely occurs to adults. It is an inflammation of tho larynx, treachea, and contiguous tissues. It derives its name from tho pecu- liar sound of the voice and breath- ing, being of a whistling or crowing character, owing to a contraction of the glottis. It generally com- mences with a common cold and catarrh, hoarseness, cough, and increased difficulty of breathing, and the crowing already spoken of. It demands prompt treatment. The great object is to diminish the inflammation and irritation, and to relax the spasmodic state of the muscles in the parts diseased. The vessels in those parts are over- charged with blood, by an imper- fect action of the exhalents. Place the feet in warm water, and give an emetic. After bathing, rub the legs and feet well with flannel. Then give a vapour bath, if the patient can bear it. (See Emetic Poivder—Expectorant Tincture.) Repeat the process, if needful. The perspiration will be greater by applying to the feet and each side hot bricks, and wrapped in flannel saturated with vinegar and a little water. At the same time give an aperient to produce a free action on the bowels. Apply this tincture to the throat, viz:— Half a tea-spoonful of cayenne pepper, nearly a cupful of vinegar; simmer ten minutes, and strain. This tincture may be diluted with warm water, according to the strength of the patient. Rub it well on the throat for five or ten minutes; and next saturate a flan- nel with it, and apply it to the throat. This application tends to relieve the internally congested blood-vessels. Repeat the appli- cation, as necessary. Mustard plasters may be applied to the feet, the upper part of the chest, and between the shoulders alternately. It has been recom- mended to stoop hops in hot vine- gar, and tho patient to inhale the vapour. Even a large sponge dipped in as hot water as the hand can bear, squeezed half dry, and renewed before it is cool, is of great advantage. Keep tho atmosphere of the room at a regular tempera- ture. , Aid the perspiration by warm drinks, as balm tea, &o. To prevent a return of this dis- order, keep the child warm, avoid wetfeet, cold, damp, easterly winds, &c. Children whose constitutions dispose them to croup, ought to have their diet properly regulated, and be kept from all crude, raw, and trashy fruits. CRUMPETS.—Beat well two eggs, and put them into a quart of warm milk and water, with a table-spoonful of yeast; beat in as much fine flour to make them ra- ther thicker than a common batter pudding. Heat the bakestone very hot, rub it with a little butter on a cloth; have a tin ring the size and thickness of a crumpet,into which pour the batter. Turn them quickly with a thin broad knife. CRUMPETS, Orange.—Cream andnew milk, of each 1 pint; warm and put to it a little rennet to break it, then stir it gently; drain on a cloth six hours ; take the rind of three oranges, boiled, as for preserving, in three waters; pound fine, and mix with the curd and 8 eggs, in a mortar, some nutmeg, the juice of a lemon, and sugar to taste. Bake as above. Some per- sons add slices of orange. CRUMPETS, Royal. — Three cups of raised dough; work 4 table-spoonfuls of melted butter in the dough; a cup of sugar and 3 eggs beaten; put in buttered tins; bake 20 minutes. When