116 COL COL sudorific herbs, as catnep, penny- royal, yarrow, or angelica. Take tlie composition powder (which see). Place the feet in warm water before going to bed, and put a bottle of water to the feet, wrapped in cloth wet with vinegar and water. Give a basin of hot gruel, and let the patient oft drink of the herb tea. Repeat this treat- ment, if necessary. If the throat is sore, wet some hops in hot vine- gar, put in cloth, and wrap round the neck. If the cough is trouble- some, use some of the Cough Remedies. See Cough. Or, take linseed, a cupful; rasins, 4 ozs.; liquorice in stick, two pennyworth; soft water, 2 quarts; simmer till reduced to 1 quart; add 4 ozs. of sugar candy, a table-spoon- ful of old rum, and one of good vinegar, or lemon-juice. Add the rum and vinegar as the decoction is taken. Take a cupful two ox- three times a day—the patient should lie in bed a dav or two. COLD IN THE HEAD.—M. Fam, a Belgian physician, says, a cold may often be arrested by a brisk friction of the back of the head with some stimulant lotion, as lavender water, sal volatile, &c. And also a similar rubbing, two or three times a-week will prevent the “ catching ” of a cold by those who are liable to do so from slight causes. COLD TO AVOID CATCH- ING.—Accustom yourself to the use of sponging with cold water every morning on first getting out of bed followed with a good deal of rubbing with a wet towel. It has considerable effect in giving tone to the skin, and maintaining a proper action in it, and proves a safeguard to the injurious influence of cold and sudden change of tem- perature. Sir Astley Cooper said, “ The methods by which I have preserved my own health are— temperance, early rising, and sponging the body every morning with cold water, immediately after getting out of bed; a practice which I have adopted for thirty years without ever catching cold.” COLD, A, TO CURE.—The following plan is very effectual in curing most colds, but not all Let a man eat next to nothing for two days, provided he is not con- fined to bed, for by taking no car- bon into the system by food, and by consuming the surplus which caused his disease, by breath, he soon carries off his disease by re- moving the cause. This will be found more effectual if he adds co- pious water draughts to the pro- tracted fasting. By the time a person has fasted one day and night, he will experience a freedom from disease, and a clearness of mind, in a delightful contrast with mental stupoi-, and physical pain caused by colds. Or take one handful of Yarx-ow, half an ounce of Ginger root, bruised, or a teaspoonful of Cay- enne Pepper, and about thx-ee pints of water. Boil to one pint. Add a little sugar if you like. Take a good dose at bed-time, and yoxn- cold will be cured by the next morning; if not, repeat the dose. COLD BATHING.—It is use- ful in some fevei-s, chronic rheuma- tism, hysterics, hypochondriac, and paralytic affections, rickets, scrofulous'complaints, debility, ob- structed perspiration, langour and weakness of circulation, &c. It requires great prudence in using, and should bo of short dumtion. In some cases it would be best to commence with tepid bathing, and proceed to the use of the cold bath, which should be from 40° to 65° Fahrenheit. Sea-water is prefer-