188 GRO GUM given for candying fruit: some may be done eacli way. GREEN GAGE JAM— Peel and take out the stones. To 1 lb. of pulp put f lb. of loaf sugar; boil Halt an hour; add lemon juice. A N. GREEN GAGE TART—Se- lect fruit not quite ripe, but sound; hll a pie-dish; beat up \ lb. of powdered sugar, in as much water as will dissolve it; porn- over the fruit,. cover with puff paste, and bake in a moderate oven. Lay on a coating of yolk of egg with a brush over the crust; put the tart back in the oven for a few minutes; sprinkle powdered sugar over the top before serving GREEN GO OSEBERRY JELLY.—Place the berries in hot water on a slow fire till they rise to_ the surface; take off; cool with a little water, add also a lit- tle vinegar and salt to green them. In two hours drain, and put them into cold water a minute ; drain, and mix with an equal weight of sugar ; boil slowly 20 minutes ; sieve, and put into glasses. GREEN OINTMENT—One ounce each chickweed, tansy, wormwood, horehound, hops, and a pinch of salt, finely powdered. Bruise, put into a kettle, cover over with lard and some spirits of wine. Infuse a week or two, and then simmer a little over the fire. Add from 8 to 12 ozs. of Venice turpen- tine—This salve is very healing, applied to wounds, sores, and ul- cers. It is useful in contusions, sprains, swelling's, &c. GRETNA BUNS—Flour, 1 lb.; yeast, 1 gill; butter, J lb.; which rub into the flour; add the yeast, and flour sufficient to form the dough; rise, and make into cakes; bake them on greased tins in a quick oven. GROUND IYY. See Robin- son's Herbal.—It is a purifier of the blood, beneficial to the lungs and kidneys. It is stimulant and ionic. 1 akon in decoction and in- fusion. Mado into an ointment, it cures inflammation of the eves ’ GROUND RICE MILK.— Bod a spoonful of ground rice, rubbed down smooth, with better than a pint of milk, a bit of cinna- mon, lemon peel, and nutmeg Sweeten. GROUND RICE PUDDING. —Boil rather more than a table- spoonful of ground rice in a pint of new milk with lemon-peel and cin- namon. When cold, add sugar nutmeg, and two eggs well beaten! Bake with a crust round the dish Some incorporate currants or raisins. GROUNDSEL.—United with chickweed, and slippery elm, it makes an excellent poultice for in- flammations and all painful swell- ings. GROUSE PIE.—Maybe made as most fowl pies, seasoning with cayenne, salt, cloves, stock, brown gravy, and a glass of port wine. GROUSE, to roast.—Roast them like fowls; twist the head under the wing. Roast carefully half an hour. Serve with a rich gravy with bread sauce, or on but- tered toast, the underside saturated with gravy. GRUEL.—Mix intimately a table-spoonful of oatmeal or patent groats in three or four of cold wa- ter ; add a pint of boiling water, and boil 8 or 10 minutes. GUM ARABIC STARCH— Make a solution of the finest Gum Arabic with hot water. Strain. Put a little into the ordinary starch; mix well. It will give to muslin, lawn, &c., a much improved ap- pearance. GUMS, Tincture for the-—In- fuse 1 oz. of Peruvian bark, gross- ly powdered, in J a pint of brandy