23 APP APP making the paste, but the above is more wholesome. A. JSf. APPLE EGG PUDDING.— Beat an egg well; then add a gill of water or milk, seven or eight table spoonfuls of flour, and half a spoonful of salt; mix well together. Pare and cut into pieces three apples, and stir them into the bat- ter. Boil the whole in a cloth an hour and a quarter, if in a basin, a little longer. Serve with melted butter flavoured with lemon. APPLE FOOL.—Stew apples as directed for gooseberries, and then peel and pulp them. Prepare the milk, &c., and mix as before. APPLE FRITTERS. —Take one pint of milk, three eggs, salt just to taste, and as much flour as will make a batter. Beat the yolks and whites separately, add the yolks to the milk, stir in the whites with as much flour as will make a batter; have ready some tender apples, peel them, cut them in slices round the apple; take the core care- fully out of the centre of each slice, and to every spoonful of batter lay in a slice of apple, which must be cut very thin. Fry them in hot lard to a light brown on both sides. APPLE GINGER.—To 4 lb. of apples add 4 lb. of sugar, 1 quart of water, and 2 oz. of the best essence of ginger. First pare the fruit, cut- ting out every particle of core; then shape it so as to resemble the small kind of preserved ginger. Boil the sugar and water together for twenty-five minutes until it is a nice syrup ; then put in the ap- ple, but be sure and do not stir it too much. Add the essence of ginger; if 2 oz. be insuflicient, add more. It will take nearly an hour to boil, until it becomes yellow and transparent. There will be some pieces that will not clear; put them by themselves, as they will spoil the appearance of the rest. It will require skimming. Amer- ican or Ribstone apples are the best to use. This is an excellent substitute f(^preserved foreign ginger. APPLE JAM.—Fill a wide jar nearly half full of water; cut the apples, unpeeled, into quarters, take out the coi’e, then fill the jar with the apples; tie a paper over it, and put it into a slow oven. When quite soft and cool, pulp them through a sieve. To each pound of pulp put three-quarters of a pound of crushed sugar, and boil it gently until it will jelly. Put it into large tart dishes or jars. It will keep for five or more years in a cool, dry place. If for present use, ora mont h hence, Iialf a pound of sugar is enough. APPLE JELLY. — Prepare twenty golden pippins; boil them in a pint and a half of water from the spring, till quite tender; then strain the liquor through a colan- der. To every pint put a pound of fine sugar; add cinnamon, grated orange or lemon; then boil to a jelly. Another.—Prepare apples as before, by boiling and straining; have ready half an ounce of isin- glass boiled in half a pint of water to a jelly; put this to the apple- water and apple, as strained through a coarse sieve; add sugar, a little lemon-juice and peel; boil all together and put into a dish. Take out the peel. APPLE MARMALADE. Scald apples till they will pulp from the core; then take an equal weight of sugar in large lumps, just dip them in water, and boil it till it can be well skimmed, and is a thick syrup, put to it the pulp, and sim- mer it on a quick fire a quarter of an hour. Grate a little lemon-peel before boiled, but if too much it will be bitter. £u.