442 WAT WAT with about one half the labour, and saving full one half of soap. WASPS and FLIES to destroy. —Dip a feather in a little sweet oil, and touch them with it be- tween their wings; this renders their breathing impossible. WATER for Low Spirits.-Cori- ander seeds and aniseeds, of each 11 oz,; valerian 1| oz.; carda- moms, bruised, 2 ozs.; saffron, 1 oz.; carraway seeds, 2 ozs.; cin- namon, 3 ozs. Simmer half an hour in a quart of water, to which add 4 ozs. of sugar candy. Cool. Then add a quart of port wine, and a quart of brandy. Cork well in bottles. Through all the oper- ation cover close. WATER, to purify.—Put into it powdered charcoal, then filter through a compressed sponge, and it will become perfectly sweet, however impure previously. Water may be filtered and puri- fied by means of a deep flowerpot, with *a compressed sponge in the hole at the bottom. Put over the sponge an inch thick of pebbles, next an inch of coarse sand, next a layer of charcoal, and over again pebbles. The water will filter pure and clear through the hole into another vessel. WATER, to purify.—A large spoonful of pulverised alum sprin- kled into a hogshead of water (the water stirred round at the time) will after the lapse of a few hours, so purify it, that it will be found to possess nearly the freshness and clearness of finest spring water. A pailful containing four gallons may be purified by a single spoonful; or a mixture of one part chalk and two of alum will be still better. WATER, to soften. Wood ashes form a good lye for softening water, but care must be taken that they should be all wood. WATER, hard to make soft.— Boil it, and expose it to the atmos- phere. Add a little carbonate of soda. WATER BRASH. A dis- charge of thin watery fluid from the stomach upwards to the mouth. It generally arises from weakness of the stomach, indigestion, &c. Persons affected with diseases of the chest, and persons of debilita- ted constitution, are much subject to it. Take from 4 to 8 grains of the white oxide of bismuth. Give an aperient pill to keep the bowels open, and give bitters freely. Take nourishing diet, and be frequently in the open air. Take now and then some of the Neutralizing Mixture diluted. A little brandy bitters, and effervescing draughts are beneficial. Use friction with the flesh brush. If the patient is consumptive, then most gentle means must be used, and chiefly in referenee to the disease which is the cause of water brash. WATER CEMENT. This will harden under ivater.—Mix 4 parts of grey clay, 6 of oxide of manganese, and 90 of good lime- stone reduced to fine powder. Calcine the whole to expel the carbonic acid. Work into the con- sistence of a soft paste with 60 parts of washed sand. If a lunp of this cement be thrown into water, it will harden immediately. WATER-CRESSES. — Medi- cinally it acts as a gentle stimulant and diuretic. The expressed juice which contains the peculiar taste and pungency of the herb, may be taken in doses of one or two ounces. Eat the plant also at meals. It is famous for purifying the blood, and the cure of scurvy. WATER GRUEL, to make.— Boil a table-spoonful of oatmeal in a quart of water for one hour, or till it is fine and smooth. Take