300 PEN PEP a slow fire, till it is half done. Strain, and put to it a pint of green peas, lettuce, and celery, all cut small; cover closely, and stew very gently over a slow fire for two hours. In the mean time boil a pint of peas in a pint of water very tender j strain well through a coarse sieve, and pour all the pulp into the soup; boil together, and add salt. PEAS SOUP, White.—To 6 quarts of water put a knuckle of veal, a large fowl, 1 lb. of lean bacon, and \ lb. of rice, two ancho- vies, a few pepper-coms, onions, sweet herbs, and 3 heads of celery sliced. Stew all together till the soup is as strong as you like it; then strain through a hair sieve into a earthen pot; let it stand all night; take off the scum, and pour it off clear; add § lb. of Jordan al- monds,beaten fine; boil a little, and then strain. Put in a pint of cream and the yolk of an egg. PENCIL DRAWINGS, to fix. Dissolve white resin in spirits of wine; lay the pencil drawing on its face upon a sheet of clean pa- per, and brush the back of the drawing with the solution. This penetrates through the paper, and as the spirit evaporates, the resin is deposited as a varnish on the drawing. It does not cockle the paper, which watery solutions will do; and as the brush only passes over the back of the drawing, none of the pencil marks are in any de- gree removed. Pencil, ov Ghallc Drawings, to fix.—Immerse the drawing in a weak solution of isinglass; allow- ing no part of the drawing to re- main without the isinglass passing over it, or it will look spotty. Drain it, by holding the drawing up by one end over a plate. PENNYROYAL.—This plant is perennial. It flowers in August and September. It is warm, pun- gent, aromatic, stimulating, and diaphoretic; like spearmint, bu not so agreeable. It contains i > volatile oil which is obtained bj / distillation. The infusion is warm- ing to the stomach, and allay: sickness. It relieves spasms, hys- terics, flatulency, and colic, anti promotes expectoration in dry con- sumptive coughs. It promote! ■ perspiration, and is most valuabli in obstruction of the menses. PENNYROYAL WATER.— Pennyroyal leaves, dry, 14 lb. water, from 11 to 2 gallons. Dra\ < off by distillation, one gallon. 1 is a specific remedy for female ob structions. It is good for gout rubbing the parts with it till the \ are red ; and if salt be added, it i good for the side in liver com plaints. It is very warming t i the stomach,produces perspiratioi and therefore is good for cough. - asthma, &c. An infusion of thl. herb in hot water is nearly as gooc I PEPPER POSSET; once s highly esteemed for the cure < colds, &c. Put a dozen peppei corns, or a dozen allspice, into 1 pint of milk, and let it simmo slowly; when it boils, pour in gill of sherry, and let all boil ti the curd becomes hard; strain t the whey, and drink it hot. PEPPER POT.—Into 3 quar of water, put what vegetables yc like; cut them very small, at stew them with 2 lbs. of neck mutton, and 1 lb. of picked por - till tender. Half an hour befo. serving, clear a lobster, or era from the shell, and put it in. Sc son with salt and cayenne. Sm: suet dumplings may be boiled the same liquid. Instead of mutton, a fowl m: be used. Pepper-pot may be ma of various things. It is a prof mixture offish, flesh, fowl, veg