AST AST 34 are often useful. Vomiting ex- cited in tlie evening will some- times, by unloading the stomach, promoting expectoration, and in- creasing perspiration, prevent the accession of a paroxysm. For this purpose, take 20 grains of Ipecac- uanha powderOr, Ipecacuanha powder, 15 grains; sulphate of zinc, 4 grains; oxymel of squill, 2 drachms; peppermint water, 1 ounce. MixOr, Tincture of Lobelia is good in obstinate cases; dose 1 drachm. Lobelia is now declared by the most eminent phy- sicians to be the Icing of all reme- dies for Asthma. See my Herbal on Lobelia. I shall now subjoin a few other remedies, and some ad- vice, the value of which has been confirmed by my medical experi- ence, and that of others. iEther is a good remedy during the fit. Dr. Graham directs its use thus; “ Heat a common tea- pot with boiling water—let it stand three or four minutes; pour the water entirely out, and then put one or two tea-spoonfuls of Ether into the pot, close the lid, and in- hale the fumes through the spout in the mouth, breathing in that way for several minutes.—Strong Brandy and Water, and Gin and Water, have been found very ser- viceable during the jit, especially the latter, with two or three drops of the Oil of Juniper added. The followingreceiptsfor asthma have been found very useful:— Take of the Milk of Gum Am- monia, six ounces; syrup of squills, four ounces and a half; mix. A spoonful to be taken when relief is required. It promotes copious expectoration. Or, Gum Ammoniac, one drachm; gum Assnfoetida, squill pill, of each half a drachm; oil of Cinnamon, six drops; form into 24 pills, with common syrup. Take twice a day. Or, Powdered Senna, 1 ounce; flour of Sulphur, ounce; pow- dered ginger,2drachms; powdered saffron, J drachm. Size of a nut- meg to be taken night and morn- ing, in treacle or honey. Or two ounces of best honey, and one ounce of castor oil mixed. A tea- spoonful or two to be taken night and morning. Carraway and Sweet Fennel seeds of each half an ounce; boil in a pint of vinegar about twenty minutes; take it off the fire, and add three ounces of sliced Garlic. Cover up, and when cold, squeeze and strain, and by gentle heat, mix with it a pound and a quarter of good honey. A tea-spoonful or two to be taken night and morn- ing To relieve the breathing, steep some blotting paper in a strung solution of saltpetre; dry it, and light a portion when going to bed, lay it on a plate. Many have ex- perienced much relief from this. ASTHMA.—The Rev. John Wesley recommends the following: —A pint of cold water every morn- ing, and wash the head in cold water, and using the cold hath once in two weeks. Or a decoc- tion of liquorice often gives relief. Or half a pint of tar water twice a day. Or live a fortnight chiefly on boiled carrots. It sel- dom fails. Many have been cured by this diet. Or take from ten to sixty drops of Elixir of Vitriol in a glass of spring water three or four times a day. Or into a quart of boiling water put a tea-spoonful of Balsamic iEther; receive the steam into the lungs, through a fumigator, twice a day. g?gr Balsamic iEther is mado thus:—Put 4 ozs. of Spirits uf Wine, and one ounce of Balsam of