BUT BUT 87 twice a week. If possible, put the chum in a thorough air; and if not a barrel one, set it in a tub of water two feet deep, which will ' give firmness to the butter. When the butter is come, pour off the butter-milk, and put the butter into a fresh-scalded pan, or tubs which have afterwards been in cold water. Pour water on it, and let it lie to acquire some hard- ness before you work it; then change the water, and beat it with flat boards so perfectly that not the least taste of butter-milk re- main, and that the water, which must be often ehanged, shall be quite clear in colour. Then work some salt into it, weigh, and make it into forms; throw them into cold water, in an earthen pan and coyer of the queen’s ware. You will then have very nice and cool butter in the hottest weather. It requires more working in hot than in cold weather; but in neither should be left with a particle of butter-milk. BUTTER, A Novel Method to make.—At Ilougham, says the Stamford Mercury, a farmer’s wife ties up her cream in a linen cloth, buries it for twenty-four hours in a damp comer of her gar- den, empties it into a bowl, stirs it with a spoon, and the butter and buttermilk separate. Her butter is said to be sweeter than that which is made by churninp:. BUTIER, Fairy.—Take the yolks of 4 eggs boiled; butter, J lb.; beat 2 ozs. of sugar in a table- spoonful of orange-flower water; beat all to a fine paste; let it stand two hours, rub it through a colan- der upon a plate. Jlf. BUTTER, to clarify for Potted Meat, §c.—Put it into a sauce- boat, and set it over the fire in a stew-pan that has a little water in. When melted, take care not to pour the milky parts over the otted things; they will sink to the ottom. BUTTER, to preserve for Win- ter.—When the butter has been prepared, as above directed, take two parts of the best common salt, one part of good loaf-sugar, and one part of saltpetre, beaten, and blended well together. Of this composition put one ounce to six- teen ounces of butter, and work it well together in a mass. Press it into the pans after the butter is become cool; for friction, though it be not touched by the hands, will soften it. The pans should hold ten or twelve pounds each. On the top put some salt; and when that is turned into brine, if not enough to cover the butter entirely, add some strong salt and water. BUTTER, Another mode of preserving.—Pour a pint of boiling water on 1 lb. of common salt; add \ oz. of saltpetre, 1 oz. of lump sugar. Let it stand till cold. Pour it off clear of sediment and put the butter into it. This pickle will keep butter firm and sweet during the hottest weather. BUTTER, to choose.—Put a knife into the butter if salt, and smell it when drawn out; if there is any thing rancid or unpleasant, it is bad. Being made at different times, the layers in casks will vary greatly, and you will not easily come at the goodness but by un- hooping the cask, and trying it between the staves. Fresh butter ought to smell like a nosegay, and be of an equal in colour all through; if sour, it has not been washed enough ; if veiny and open, it has been mixed with an inferior sort. BUTTER and PARSLEY.— Wash the parsley; boil it in a bunch, till soft, shred fine, and mix it with melted butter. Itu.