SCI SCA 375 tablespoonful of the mixture every hour. Do not neglect to give an aperient that will cleanse the sto- mach and bowels. Castor oil, and salts and senna, or senna and man- na, are appropriate purgatives. It is very good to bathe the sur- face with warm soft water, to which has been added a little ley. Some have recommended ablutions of cold water; but they should not be adopted except where the heat of the skin is great, and where per- spiration is absent. It often mod- erates the subsequent symptoms.— But no dangerous reaction takes place from tepid as from cold wa- ter, nor will any danger whatever result from it, as it is a most valu- able auxiliary, and the use of it cannot be too highly recommended. If the throat be sore, and the swal- lowing difficult, foment it with the Rheumatic Liquid. Gargle, as in Sore Throat. The Diaphoretic Powder will have an anodyne influ- ence, and should not be neglected. Should the disease assume the malignant type, give immediately the vapour bath of bitter decoction, and emetics, and doses of the cay- enne and salt mixture, as just men- tioned; it may be made a little stronger. If putrid symptoms ap- pear, give yeast mixed with honey and milk. Also gargle with it; and apply yeast poultices to erup- tions run into a sore. Let the room in which the patient is con- fined be well ventilated, and of a proper temperature; but keep away cold air from him by all means. In the beginning of the disease, 'the diet should be light and easy of digestion. Diluents should be freely taken, as balm tea, barley gruel, &c., with a squeeze of lemon in them. If there is debility, let the food be nutritious, as beef tea, jellies, arrow-root, sugo, rice milk, and a little wine. During recovery avoid exposure to cold ; keep the skin clean by tepid ablutions, and occasionally bathe the feet in warm water at bed-time. Apply friction to the whole body as much as the patient can bear. Give the tonic bitters, also the Composition Pow- der. Bella donna has been found to render persons unsusceptible of the fever, in places where it is raging. It is to be given in extract,—the twentieth part of a grain morning and evening. SCARLATINA & MEASLES —Dr. Witt states that sesquicar- bonate of ammonia is an antidote to scarlatina and measles. “ The dose in these complaints varies from 3 to 10 grains, according to the age of the patient, given at longer or shorter intervals, accord- ing to the mildness or severity of the attack. The suitable dose dis- solved in as small a quantity of cold water as will admit of its be- ing swallowed with as many grains of loaf sugar, merely to make it palatable, is all that is required. Any admixture with other medi- cines, as salines, bark, &c., and all acidulous drinks, are to be avoided. The preliminary treatment is also simple; from half a grain of calo- mel, for children, to five grains for adults, should be placed on the tongue and swallowed. About an hour after, the first dose of the ammonia is to be given, and repeat- ed every three or four hours, as long as the disorder takes the fa- vourable course. If the disorder increases in violence, the medicine must be given every two hours, or every hour, or sometimes even more frequently, till the graver symptoms are subdued. This medicine has been found to possess similar powers over diphtheria.” SCIATICA, a form of neuralgia.