EME EMB 154 — Take syrup of liorehound, ground-ivy, and white poppies, of each one ounce, and spermaceti, half a drachm. Mix and beat these very fine, and take a little spoonful when your cough is troublesome, and at going to rest. ELM BARK.—See Slippery Elm. EMBROCATION for Sprains and Bruises.—Vinegar, 1 pint; distilled water, | pint; rectified spirits, 1J pint; camphor, 2 ozs.; Dissolve the camphor in the spirits of wine, and put all together. Another.—Carbonate ammonia, 2 ozs.; vinegar, 2 pints; proof spirits, 3 pints. Mix the ammonia and vinegar; when the efferves- cence ceases, add the spirit. For inflammation of the joints, of some standing, mix with aniseed meal, and use as a poultice twice a day. It is also valuable for sprains, bruises, and other injuries. Another for Lumbago, Gouty pains, and Rheumatism.—Soap Liniment, 2 ozs. spirit of cam- phor, 1 oz.; oil of thyme, 2 drachms; tincture of opium, 1 drachm. Mix, and rub well over the part affected. It is good for toothache. EMBROCATION, Valuable.— Take half an ounce of camphor, cut it into small pieces, and dis- solve it in half a pint of spirits of wine, in a closely corked bottle; when completely dissolved, add one pint of ox-gall, (which can be had of any butcher’s) and about forty or fifty drops of laudanum; shake it well and bottle it for use. Ap- ply lint dipped into it. ‘EMBROIDERY, Articles of to clean.—Gold and silver fancy- work may be cleaned with a little spirit of wine, diluted with an equal weight of water. Alkalies and Acids destroy the beauty of the articles instead of cleaning them. EMERGENCIES. —Recovery of persons apparently drowned, or dead.—1. Lose no time. 2 Avoid all rough usage. 3. Never hold the body up by the feet. 4. Nor roll the body on casks. 5. Nor rub the body with salt and spirits. 6. Nor inject tobacco smoke, or infusion of tobacco. Restorative means, ip ap- parently Drowned. — Send quickly for medical assistance; but do not delay the following means : — I. Convey the body carefully, with the head and shoulders sup- ported in a raised condition, to the nearest house. II. Strip the body and rub it dry; then wrap it in hot blankets, and place it in a warm bed in a warm chamber. III. Wipe and clean the mouth and nostrils. IV. In order to restore the na- tural warmth of the body; 1. Move a heated covered warm- ing pan over the back and spine. 2. Put bladders, or bottles of hot water, or heated bricks, to the pit of the stomach, the armpits, be- tween the thighs, and to the soles of the feet. 3. Foment the body with hot flannels; but, if possible, 4. Immerse the body in a warm bath as hot as the hand can bear without pain. 5. Rub the body briskly with the hand; but do not suspend the use of the other means at the same time. V. To restore breathing, intro- duce the pipe of a common bellows, into one nostril, carefully closing the other and the mouth; at the same time drawing downwards, and pushing gently backwards, the upper part of the wind pipe, to al- low the free admission of air; blow | the bellows gently, in order to in- flate the lungs, till the breast be a little raised: the mouth and nos-