NEC NETl 2dS in 6 ounces of camphorated julap; out the tongue; strain tlio gravy, and put all again into the pan with the yolks of two eggs well beaten, a little grated nutmeg, and some butter rolled in flour; shake the whole well together, simmer five minutes, and put the tongue into the dish; pour over it the sauce, and serve hot. NEATS’ TONGUE, to fry.— Boil till tender ; cut it into slices, and season with nutmeg, cinnamon and sugar; beat up the yolk of an egg with a little lemon-juice, and rub it over the slices; make some butter boiling hot in the frying-pan, and put in the slices. When done, serve -with melted butter, sugar, and sherry w'ine, made into a sauce. NECK OF MUTTON, to taste like venison.—Perforate the neck all over with little holes, and pour a bottle of port wine over it, and let it lie in the wine two or three days; turn it often ; then hang it three days in the open air, but not in the sun; often wipe down with a cloth, to prevent it becoming musty. When being roasted,baste it with the-wine it was steeped in; put white paper, threefold, to keep in the fat; roast it thorough- ly, and then take off the skin, and froth it nicely, and serve. NECK OF PORK, rolled to roast.—Bone it; put a forcemeat of chopped sage, a very few crumbs of bread, salt, pepper, and two or three berries of allspice over the inside ; then roll the meat as tight- ly as you can, and roast it slowly. NECTAR.—Chopped raisins, 3 lbs.; raspberry jelly, 1 lb.; loaf sugar, 5 lbs.; two grated nutmegs, boiling water, 3 gallons. When cold, add oil of nutmeg, oil of car- raway, and oil of cloves, of each, 10 drops; add 3 lemons sliced. Infuse 4- days. Strain, and add 1 quart of bran civ or rum. Bottlo. NECTARINES, to preserve.— Peel, and cut them in two ; sim- mer them in boiling water till they float; drain; boil in clarified su- gar till they cease simmering ; let them stay in till next day; drain them out, and boil the sugar to the second degree, (see sugar); add the fruit to it to boil a moment, and repeat the next day. Let the sugar and fruit incorporate two days before potting, and keep the pan in a warm place: the propor- tion of fruit and sugar is in equal quantities. NERVES.—These are contrac- tile bundles of white cords, whose ends are connected to the brain, and spinal marrow, and thence extend- ing over the whole body, to receive impressions from external objects. They are in the eyes, at the root of the teeth, about the ears, in fact every where in the body, from the crown of the head to the sole of the foot. Two pairs of nerves pro- ceed out of each side of the spine, and thence ramifying to every part of the body. They are so abund- ant, that we cannot touch any part of the skin with the point of a needle without coining in contact with a nerve, and a blood vessel. The great sympathetic nerve is the most important of all. It commu- nicates with all the spinal nerves, and several of those of the brain. NERVE POWDER—Take 1 oz. each of scullcap, and valerian; catnep, 1 oz.; cayenne, 1 drachm; coriander seeds, \ oz. Pulverize, and mix. Take a teaspoonful in a cupful of boiling water, leaving room for milk and sugar. Repeat according to the symptoms. This powder tranquillizes the most irri- table nerves without debilitating and deadening their sensibility. It greatly strengthens the nerves. NERVOUSNESS. — Sulphate of quinine, 1 drachm; dissolve it