SMA S1\1A SS9 vomiting, give 10 or 12 grains of bicarbonate of potash, in balm tea twice or thrice a day. The bowels must be openedby gentle aperients, (page 20, 21) attention must be given to the skin, and medicine given to produce a gentle determi- nation to the surface. Take an infusion of saffron and catnep, or balm and hyssop, with 10 drops of elixir of vitriol; this will aid na- ture to drive out the eruption, by roducing a moisture of the skin, t should be repeated several times. Bathe the feet twice a day in warm ley water, and wash the body with the same liquid warm; do not neglect this if the fever is high. If there is pain in the head apply a mustard poultice to the soles of the feet in addition to bathing the feet and legs in warm water. Ap- ply to the head cloths dipped in vinegar and water, or whiskey and warm water. Let the room of the patient be well ventilated, and often sprinkle it with vinegar and water; do not cover him up close. Give warm diluents, as balm, spearmint,pennyroyal,catnep, &c. ; any of these will do. • If the throat be sore, administer the remedies under Sore Throat. Sage tea, a little vinegar, and a little borax, form a good gargle. The expec- torant tincture is very useful. If the debility is great, and the strength gradually sinking, give tonics, as quinine dissolved in elixir of vitriol; 10 or 12 drops in balm tea three or four times a day. If there is considerable irritation, give 8 or 10 drops of laudanum in the Saline Draught, which see. Or, give from 5 to 10 grains of the Diaphoretic Powder, page 143. Sudorifics are also very serviceable, especially when the pustules are flabby, and not well filled. If the symptoms become unfa- vourable, as the striking in of the eruption, great fever, and delirium, black tongue, &c., the danger is very great. In such case, give immediately the vapour bath of bitter decoction, and an emetic; then give a decoction of saffron and Virginia snalceroot with a tea- spoonful or two of sweet spirit of nitre. Give also the Sudorific Powder, and at intervals the Seid- litz Powder. Sponge the surface of the body with warm water If there is any tendency to putres- cency in the fluids, give a wine- glassful of yeast several times a day. Dr. Anthony Thompson says, “ The sulphuric acid combined with wine is the only remedy on which we can rely in the confluent small pox, when the pustules are filled with a bloody sanies, and the urine is coloured by brokon-down particles of blood.” Camphor is valuable in this dis- ease. To prevent the pustules from affecting the eyes,cold water cloths should be continually applied. While the fever continues high, the diet should be mild and rather spare, as barley gruel, sago gruel, beef tea without salt. When the pustules begin to maturate, the patient may be per- mitted gradually to' take to his usual diet; and if the crop be considerable, and the strength of the patient much reduced, provi- ded he be free from fever, a little port wine, diluted with water, may likewise be allowed after dinner. SMALL POX.—The Sarrace- nia Purpurea, or Indian Cup, a native plant of Nova Scotia, the specific used by the Indians against the small pox, bids fair to realise the expectations entertained by medical men of its efficacy. In a letter addressed to the American Medical Times, Dr. Frederick W.