THE COLD WATER CURE. 459 congestion. Rub the abdomen as much ns possible, while in the bath, with the wet hand. It is a most valuable bath. It is a remedy of great power in weak bowels, piles, congestion in the liver, chlo- rosis, and other female complaints: its value is little known. Cooling Bandages. — These are mostly used in inflammation, congestion of blood, headache, rheumatism, &c., and should al- ways be accompanied by the sitz baths. Linen is first wetted in cold water, doubled in several folds, and placed on the parts af- fected ; renew them as they get warm. Stimulating Bandages. They are dipped in cold water, then well wrung out, then appled to the part affected so as to exclude the external air; to effect this, an outside bandage is placed over the first, which retains and throws back the moisture. Heat is thus generated, and has an exciting and dissolving property, which stimu- lates perspiration, and draws out the vicious humours. For throat and chest complaints, they are worn one round the neck, and one on the chest, at night; for weak and inflamed eyes, one is worn at the back of the head or neck at night; for weak digestion and cases of debility, one round the waist, all day; and for gout and rheumatism, the legs are wrapped in them night and morning. The umschtag, or stimulating bandage, is always used for wounds, bruises, and diseased parts, and for pain in any particular region of the body. Its alleviating power is most surprising. Tho bandage for the waist is a towel, three yards long, and one foot wide; of this one-third is dry, and two-thirds wetted. The wet part is placed on the belly, the dry covers it. It is made tight round the body. It is a cure for intestine congestion, for constipation of the bowels, relaxation, colics, and for gripes. It rallies the powers of the stomach, increases its heat, and by assisting digestion, enables the system to form better juices. Gout, rheumatism, enlargement of the bones, abscesses, chronic in- flammation, cancers, caries, and syphilitic ulcers, demand the ap- plication of these bandages; for they relieve pain when all other remedies fail. - The Wet Sheet.—All diseases of the skin, as ringworms, small pox, measles, and scarlet fever, may be cured by the wet sheet. Do not start at this, for it is con- sonant with reason. It soothes'*' the patient, promotes the eruption, and in fevers it produces salutary perspiration. Spread a blanket on a bed, their on it a wet sheet, well wrung out; wrap the patient close up in it, ex- cept his face; wind the blanket round the body, already cased in the sheet; then add plenty of blankets, tuck them well in, and the necessary perspiration will soon be generated. To stop fever, change the sheet every hour or half hour. “ In desperate cases,’,’ says a medical writer, “we have known this done fifty times in lit- tle more than 24 hours, and per- severance in this treatment ends infallibly in success.” When the fever has abated, the patient is placed in a bath of tepid water (about 64° Fahrenheit,) for a quarter of an hour; during which time two persons must rub him briskly with the hand, water being taken up from the bath occasion- ally, and poured over his head and shoulders. The wet sheet, or ban- dage, is not unpleasant Tong; the patient gets warm almost directly ;