1.56 ERR EPI sense, with violent convulsions of the whole system. Previous to the fit, there is a peculiar sensation felt by the patient; a scream or cry is then uttered, and he falls heavily to the ground. The eyes are fixed and reverted, and the convulsive agitations are violent; the teeth gnash against each other, the tongue projects, and is sadly bitten; the patient froths at the mouth, and is quite unconscious. “ The pe- riod of recurrence of epileptic fits is very variable. Death some- times occurs in the first; or, though rai'ely, recovery taking place, the disease never returns. Years may intervene, or an irregular period of months, weeks, or days, may separate the attacks." Epilepsy is more common in the night than in the day. As it becomes more firm- ly rooted in the system, the fits recur more frequently. Treatment.—Prevent the patient from injuring himself during the fit. A piece of wood, india rubber, &c., should be placed between the teeth to prevent injury to the tongue. Remove all tight clothing especially about the neck. Elevate the head and shoulders. If the fit does not depart, give one or two tea-spoonfuls of the antispasmodic tincture. When the fit subsides, give a vapour bath, and an emetic two or three times a week. After the bath, rub the body over with the Stimulating Liniment. Gentle apei'ients should also be given now and then. Sponge the body every or every other morning with cold salt and water. Let the diet be very light and digestible. As it is a disease of debility, tonics should be employed ; as Peruvian Bark, Snake Root, Lady’s Slipper, and Peony, which may be obtained of the Medical Botanists. Boil them till strong; add sugar, and best Madeira wine. Dr. Beach says, that salt is very efficacious. “ As soon as there are any premonitory symptoms, give a tea-spoonful of salt, in a little water; and, if practicable, repeat it in twenty minutes; it shortens the fit, and may be taken twice or thrice a day, The shower bath may also be used. If the disease proceeds from worms, use the remedies in that case prescribed. A pill made of equal parts of Seullcap, Lobelia seed, and Cayenne, and mucilage is very useful in this disease. EPPING SAUSAGES. — Six pounds of good pork, free from skin and gristle, cut it small, and beat it fine in a mortar. Chop 6 lbs. of beef suet very fine, powder a hand- ful of sage leaves, which sprinkle over the meat; shred the rind of a lemon very fine, and with sweet herbs, scatter it on the meat, and two nutmegs grated, a spoonful of pepper, (less if cayenne) and salt. Mix the suet and all together; when used, roll it up with as much egg as will make it smooth. EPSOM SALTS, are distin- guished from Oxalic Acid, which is poison, thus:—Epsom Salts have a bitter taste; Oxalic Acid has a very acid, or sour taste. ERRORS IN SPEECH.-— Never use a verb plural to a sin- gular nominative; as, Thomas were there..should be was Never use a verb singular to a plural nominative; as, The things has come—the cows was in the field.. should be have and were. I expect the books were sent.. say, I think; expect refers to the future Give me both of them apples,.. should be, both those ap- ples Mr. Smith learned me Grammar,.. taught I propose to offer a few hints,. .purpose, or intend..... I never omit walking out when ever the weather is fine, .. leave out ever I seldom or