COD 114 COD vorite Scotch dish. Take a scrag of mutton or knuckle of veal, and 3 quarts of liquor in which somo meat has been boiled. Get a fowl, and a fine leek cut in pieces, with salt and pepper. Boil an hour and a half, then add five more leeks, and boil 1 hour more. Beef liquor is the best. COCKLE KETCHUP.—Open the cockles, scald them in their own liquor; add a little water when the liquor settles; strain; season with pepper, mace, cloves, and other spices; if for brown sauce, add port, anchovies, and garlick. COCKROACHES, to destroy. —Mix bread crumbs, sugar, and corrosive sublimate, and place it near their haunts.—Or mix sugar, laudanum, and water together.— They are very fond of beer, which might he substituted for water.— Some persons have found a mix- ture of plaster of Paris, sugar, and oatmeal, effectual. Powdered phosphorous, oatmeal, and sugar, form a sure remedy. COCOA SAUCE.—Scrape a portion of the kernel of a Cocoa Nut, adding the juice of three lem- mons, a tea-spoonful of the tincture of cayenne pepper, a tea-spoonful of shallot vinegar, and half a cup- ful of water. Gently simmer for a lew-hours. COD, to boil.—If boiled fresh, it is watery; but it is excellent if salted, and hung for a day, to give it firmness. Wash and clean the fish well, and rub salt inside of it; tie it up, and put it on the fire in cold water; throw a handful of salt into the fish- kettle. Boil a small fish 15 minutes; a large one 30 minutes. Serve it without the smallest speck and scum; drain. Garnish it with lemon, horse-radish, the milt, roe, and liver. Oyster or shrimp sauce may be used. Another way.-r-After cleanir g well, put into the boiling water a handful of salt, a small cupful of vinegar; boil as above, as to time. Take it up; strip off the skin, put before a brisk fire, dredge with flower, and baste with butter; when tho froth begins to rise, throw over it fine white bread crumbs; baste on to make it froth well when a fine brown, dish it up, and garnish it with sliced le- mon, horse-radish, oysters, &c. COD’S HEAD AND SHOUL- DERS, to boil.—Wash it well, dry, and tie it up. Put in salt and a glass of vinegar. Frequent- ly skim it. Boil half an hour. Half boil the milt and roe. Cut thin slices, fry, adding gravy, and a little port wine. For sauce, oysters, eggs, or butter and parsley. COD broiled.—Clean as before. Cut into slices an inch thick; rub them with thick melted butter. Sprinkle a little salt and pepper over them. Place on the grid- iron, and broil on both sides. Serve with parsley sauce, or melted but- ter and anchovy sauce. COD’S HEAD, to balce.—Clean well; put in a dish rubbed with butter. Put in sweet herbs, an onion stuck with cloves, three blades of mace, pepper, nutmeg, lemon peel, horse radish, and 1 quart of water; dust and grate flour and nutmeg over it, and put bits of butter in various parts, and place in the oven. When done, place in the serving dish. Pour all the liquor out of the dish in which it was baked into a sauce- pan, andboil three minutes; strain, and add a gill of red wine, two spoonfuls of ketchup, a pint of shrimps, half a pint of oysters, a spoonful of mushroom pickle, and 4 ozs. of butter rolled in flour. • Garnish with toasted bread, pars- ley, lemon, and horse-radish.