OYS PAI 23G Put on the fire, and stir all the time; and when the butter has boiled once or twice, take them off, and keep the saucepan near the fire, but not on it; for if dono too much, the oysters will be hard. Squeeze a little lemon-juice, and serve. A little cream is a great improve- ment. Observe, the oysters will thin the sauce, so put butter ac- cordingly. OYSTER SOUP.—Take two quarts of fish stock, beat the yolks of ten hard eggs, and the hard part of two quarts of oysters, in a mortar, and add this to the stock. Simmer it all for half an hour: then strain it off, and put it and the oysters (cleared of the beards, and nicely washed) into the soup. Simmer five minutes ; have reacly the yolks of six raw eggs well beaten* and add them to the soup. Stir it all well one way on the side of the fire till it is thick and smooth, but do not let it boil. Serve all together. Another.—Take 1 lb. of Skate, four flounders, or flukes, and 2 lbs. of eels ; cut them in pieces ; season them with mace, pepper, salt, an onion stuck with cloves, a head of celery, some parsley and sweet herbs; cover with water ; simmer 1| hour, and strain; beat the yolks of ten hard eggs, with the hard part of a pint of oysters, in a mortar; simmer all together for half an hour; have ready the yolks of six eggs well beaten, and add them to tlio soup; stir on the fire till it is thick and smooth, but do not let it boil. OYSTERS, to stew. — Open and separate the liquor from them, then wash them from the grit; strain the liquor, and put with the oysters a bit of mace and lemon peel, and a few white peppers. Simmer them very gently, and add some cream, and a little flour and butter. Serve with sippets. PAIN IN THE BACK-Steep root of water-fern in water, till the water becomes thick and clam- my ; then rub the parts therewith morning and evening. Or, apply a plaster, and take, daily, balsam of capivi. Or, apply garlic and hog’s lard to the feet.— TFesley. PAINS IN THE HEAD AND FACE.—Take half a pint of rose- water, two tea-spoonfuls of white vinegar, and form a lotion. Apply it to the affected part three times a day. It requires fresh linen and lotion each application; this will, in two or three days, gradually take the pain away. PAINS IN THE JOINTS.— Make a poultice of the young leaves of Rag-wort, and put on as hut as can be borne. PAIN IN THE SIDE. At bed-time apply a fresh cabbage- leaf, warmed by the fire, and bind it tightly round the body for twelve hours, or more. The first application generally gives relief; if not, apply a second leaf. PAINTING.—The best time for painting the windows and doors of houses is autumn, or winter, if the weather be fine. Though longer in drying, it becomes harder, and therefore more durable. PAINT.—To get rid of the smell of oil paint, plunge a hand- ful of hay into a pale full of water, and let it stand in the room newly painted. PAINT, Cheap. — Tar mixed with yellow-ochre, makes a very good paint for out-door purposes, as rails, iron fencing, &c. PAINT, to clean.—Brush off the dust, and wash with strong soap and water, or soda and water, as the case may requite, using a