'Will whi 445 Women of delicate constitution, debilitated by bard labours, mis- carriages, grief, poor living, and of an erysipelatous habit, general- ly termed scorbutic, are most sub- ject to it, and in them it proves very obstinate. It is the effect both of relaxation and inflammatory excitement. Treatment. — When it arises from relaxation, the Tonic Pills, will generally succeed in effecting a cure. Cold bathing or the local application of cold water, is a good remedy for this disease, and should be used every morning, provided the patient be free from cough or difficulty of breathing, and not subject to a determination of blood to the brain. If the discharge continue after the employment of these means, an astringent lotion may be used ; as the following •—Take of pome- granate-rind, bruised, 3 drachms; boil in a quart of water to a pint and a half; then strain, and add alum, a drachm and a half. To be injected by means of a female syringe. Give an emetic and a vapour bath occasionally. If the stools are of a pale clay or very dark co- lour, or the patient he subject to erysipelas, or eruption of the skin, take a little rhubarb and magnesia every other night for about ten day s. When fluor albus occurs in a person of a robust and sanguine habit, it may be considered of an inflammatory nature; in which case, instead of tonic medicines above recommended, the patient should take every other morning, 2 drachms of Epsom salt, and 10 grains of nitre powder, with 15 of gum-arabic powder, in a glass of barley-water throe times a day; which, with a low diet, free from all kinds of stimulants,) will suc- ceed in curing it. To these reme- dies, the application of cold water, will be a powerful auxiliary. When the discharge is of an ichorous nature, and of a dark or yellowish colour, and attended with pain in the region of the womb, or with irritation, burning heat, dif- ficulty or heat of urine, trouble- some itching, a sense of bearing down, and a frequent inclination to evacuate; pains on the approach, or during the time of menstrua- tion ; and particularly if pieces of coagulated blood (generally termed clots) are discharged ; some organ- ic disease of the womb may be sus- pected, especially if they occur about the time of the cessation of the menstrual discharge. The buchu leaves are a good remedy for this disease, and in many cases of long standing, the tincture, in the dose of two tea- spoonfuls in a wine-glass of the decoction of marshmallow root, has succeeded in curing the dis- ease, and improving the general health. In obstinate cases it may be given in an infusion of the leaves, in lieu of the decoction of marshmallow root. The diet must depend on the general health of the patient. If she be weakly, and of a delicate constitution, it should be nourish- ing and easy of digestion, such as blanc mange, and the vegetable and animal jellies, with a small portion of meat; a little good Port or Sherry may also be allowed, but water should be adopted in lieu of malt liquor: but if the com- plaint be attended with much ir- ritation or pain on making water, it will be advisable to avoid pep- per and much salt, but not other- wise. Mr. Wesley recommends the fol- lowing :—Live chastely: feed spar- ingly : use exercise constantly: sleep moderately, but never lying