FOR FOR 32.5 hour over, from the time it boils up: skim it frequently. Allow water enough. Save some of it to make peas-soup. Some boil it in a cloth, floured, which gives a very delicate look. It should be small and of a fine grain. Serve peas pudding and turnips with it. PORK, Leg of, commonly called Mock Goose.—Parboil it, take off the skin, and then put it down to roast; baste it with butter, and make a savory powder of finely- minced, or dried and powdered sage, pepper, salt, and some bread crumbs, rubbed together through a colander; add to this a little fine- ly-minced onion; sprinkle with this when it is almost roasted ; put half a pint of made gravy into the dish, and some goose stuffing under the knuckle skin; or garnish the dish with balls of it fried or broiled. PORK, Loin of.—Score it, and joint it, that the chops may separ- ate easily ; and then roast it as a loin of mutton. Or, put it into sufficient water to cover it; sim- mer till almost enough ; then peel off the skin, and coat it with yolk of egg and bread crumbs, and roast for 15 or 20 minutes, till it is enough done. PORK, to pickle.—Cut the pork in such pieces as will lie in the pickling tub; rub each piece over with saltpetre ; then take one part bay salt, and two parts common salt, and rub each piece well; lay them close in the tub, and throw salt over them. Some use a little sal prunella, and a little sugar. PORK PIE, to eat cold.—Raise a common boiled crust into either a round or oval form, which you choose, have ready the trimmings and small bits of pork cut off a sweet bone, when the hog is killed, beat it with a rollingpin, season with pepper and salt, and keep the fat and lean separate, put it in layers quite close to the top, lay on the lid, cut the edge smooth, round, and pinch it; hake in a slow soaking oven, as the meat is very solid. Observe, put no bone or water in the pork pie; the outside pieces will be hard if they are not cut small and pressed close. PORK, to roast a leg of.— Choose a small leg of fine young pork; cut a slit in the knuckle with a sharp knife; and fill the space with sage and onion chop- ped, and a little pepper and salt. When half done, score the skin in slices, but don’t cut deeper than the outer rind. Apple sauce and potatoes should be served to eat with it. PORK, Lolled neck of.—Bone it; put a forcemeat of chopped sage, a very few crumbs of bread, salt, pepper, and two or three ber- ries of allspice over the inside; then roll the meat as tight as you can, and roast it slowly, and at a good distance at first. PORK SAUSAGES.—Take 6 lbs of young pork, free from gris- tle, or fat; cut small and beat fine in, a mortar. Chop 6 lbs. of beef suet very fine; pick off the leaves of a handful of sage, and shred it fine; spread the meat on a clean dresser, and shake the sage over the meat; shred the rind of a lemon very fine, and throw it, with sweet herbs, on the meat; grate two nutmegs, to which put a spoonful of pepper, and a large spoonful of salt; throw the suet over, and mix all well together. Put it down close in the pot; and when you use it, roll it up with as much egg as will make it roll smooth. Another way.—Chop fat and lean pork together; season with