303 nc PIC PHEASANT, to stew.—Put it into the stewpan, with as much veal stock as will cover it; stew it till there is liquor enough left for sauce; skim, and add artichoke bottoms parboiled, beaten mace, a glass of wine, pepper and salt; thicken with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a little lemon- juice; take up the pheasant; pour the sauce over it; put forcemeat balls into the dish, and serve it. PICKLE, Picallillo, or Indian Pickles.—Lay I lb. of white gin- ger in water a night, then scrape, slice, and lay it in salt till the other ingredients are ready. Peel, slice, and salt 1 lb. of garlic three days, then put in the sun to dry. Salt and dry long pepper in the same way. Prepare various sorts of vege- tables thus: Quarter small white cabbages, salt three days, squeeze and set in the sun to dry. Cauliflowers cut in their branch- es ; take off the green from the radishes; cut celery in three-inch length; ditto young French beans whole, and the shoots of elder, which will look like bamboo. Ap- ples and cucumbers, the least seedy sort; cut them in slices or quart- ers. All must be salted, drained, and dried in the sun, except the latter; over which pour boiling vinegar, and in 12 hours drain them, but use no salt. Put the spice, garlic, J lb. of mustard-seed, and vinegar enough for the quantity to pickle, into a stone jar, and 1 oz. of turmeric. When the vegetables are ready, put some of them into a two-quart stone jar, and pour over them one quart of boiling vinegar. Next day take out those vegetables; and when drained, put them into a large stock jar, and boiling the vinegar, pour it over more of the vegetables; let them lie a night and do as above. Thus proceed till you have cleansed each set from dust; then to every gallon of vinegar put 2 ozs. of flour of mus- tard, mixing, by degrees, with a little of it boiling hot. The whole of the vinegar should be previ- ously scalded, but left to be cold be- fore it is put to the spice. Stop the jar tight. This pickle will not be ready for a year; but you may make a small jar for eating in a fortnight, only by giving the cauliflower one scald in water, after salting and drying as above, but without the prepara- tive vinegar; then pour the vine- gar, that has the spice and garlick boiling hot over. If at any time it be found that the vegetables have not swelled properly, boiling the pickle, and pouring it over them hot, will plump them. PIC-NIC BISCUITS.—Into 1 lb. of flour, work very small 2 ozs. of butter, mix well with half a salt-spoonful of the finest carbon- ate of soda, 2 ozs. of sugar, mix these thoroughly with the flour, and make up the paste with a few spoonfuls of milk, not more than quarter of a pint. Knead it very smooth, and roll it quarter of an inch thick, cut in rounds, 1£ inch diameter, roll it thin, prick them well, lay on tins sprinkled with flour, bake in a slow oven till they are crisp. When they are cold, put them into dry canisters. Cream instead of milk will greatly enrich them. Carraway seeds or ginger can be added at pleasure. The quantity of soda should be so small as not to taste them in the slight- est ; milk which is slightly sour, may bo used with it. PICTURE FRAMES, to gild. —The size may be made of white of egg diluted with water, or parch- ment boiled to a strong size ; but the cheapest is the Japannor’s gold