CAN CAN 95 pery elm bark, to form a poultice ; apply morn and night. It is valu- able.'—Orapply the irritating plas- ter, for a continual discharge must be kept up, as the patient is able to bear it. The douch bath has been recommended, and doubtless it has had a good effect in many cases. The following applications are useful:— Cayenne and Lobelia Seed, equal quantities, powdered; Meadow- fern and Balm of Gilead buds, of each 3 oz. (these two steeped in spirits for five or six days, and imade into ointment, with lard suf- ficient.) Unite the whole as a paste, and apply to the cancer, cov- ering with a cloth. When the plaster is taken off wash with soap- suds.—Or burn a quantity of red oak bark to ashes, and make into lye. Boil the lye till it be- comes as thick as honey. Then apply constantly. Such prepar- ations, by their stimulating and relaxing properties, excite a pre- ternatural discharge, or cause a sloughing of the ulcer, and thus remove or lessen it. Use one of these ointments principally, the Black Salve occasionally, and after nuch discharge, dress with an emollient ointment. This treat- nent has effected numerous cures. (See Black Salve.) A decoction of narrow-leaved Dock-root has been found to pro- luce rare effects. Saturated cloths vith the same may also he applied. Dr the root may be powdered, and nade into an ointment with Lobe- ia seeds powdered. CANCER PLASTER.—White lak-bark, 4 oz.; bruise it well, and dd urine sufiicent to cover it. nfuse four days, boil it till it be- omes as thick as treacle. Add 2 ■zs. of honey, and 2 ozs. of strain- d turpentine gum. To make this daster caustic, add 2 drachms of white vitrol. Spread on soft lea- ther, or linen.—It may be applied to all kinds of ulcers, white swell- ings. For cancers it is invaluable. CANCER.—Use the cold bath. —This has cured many,—A bleed- ing cancer was cured by drinking twice a-day a quarter of a pint of the juice of clivers, or goose grass, and covering the wound with the bruised leaves. Another by the following receipt:— Take half a pint of small beer. When it boils, dissolve in it an ounce and a half of bees’ wax: then put in an ounce of hog’s -lard and boil them together. When it is cold pour the heer from it, and apply -it spread on white leather. Renew it every other day. It brings out great blotches, which are to be washed with sal prunello dissolved in warm water. If it be not broken, apply a piece of sheet lead beat very thin, and pricked full of pin holes, for days or weeks to the breast. Purges should be added every third or fourth day.—Or, rub the whole breast morning and evening with spirits of hartshorn mixed with oil. Or, keep it continually moist with honey. CANDIED CITRON- PEEL.—Soak the peel in several waters to take away the bitterness; the last water to be warm ; drain, and cover with syrup until they are transparent. The syrup should be renewed once or twice by adding more sugar. Drain and dry. CANDIED LEMON.—Boil three pounds of loaf sugar in a pint of water, till candied; then drop sixteen drops of essence of lemon therein, stir it well, and then pour it out immediately. Make it up as candied peppermint. CANDIED LEMON, OR ORANGE.—Soak the peels in salt and water four or five days, take