101 CEM CEM soup plate; cover this down, and let it cool. The new crystals have absorbed the liquid, which can be rubbed up to any size required, and placed in a cruet-stand. These new grains will dissolve, and he free from the husk and seed of the pepper-pod. CELERY, Essence of.—Soak the seeds in spirits of wine or brandy ; or infuse the root in the same for 24 hours, then take out, squeezing out all the liquor, and infuse more root in the same liquor to make it stronger. A few drops will flavour broth, soup, &c. CELERY SAUCE. — Wash well the inside leaves of three heads of celery; cut them into slices quarter inch thick, boil for six minutes, and drain; take a table-spoonful of flour, two ounces of butter, and a tea-cupful of cream; beat well, and when warm, put in the celery, and stir well over the fire about twelve minutes. This sauce is very good for boiled fowl, &c. CELERY VINEGAR. — In- fuse the root in best vinegar for 48 hours, near a fire, and renew, as needful.—Cress, Mustard, Pars- ley, &c., vinegar, may he made in the same way. CEMENT.—Asphaltum and a small quantity of india-rubber dis- solved in refined naptha, make an adhesive cement, not affected by water. CEMENT. —A little ground borax mixed with plaster of Paris makes an excellent cement for many purposes. It is simply mixed up into a plastic consistency, then applied with a trowel. It soon hardens. CEMENT, a strong repairing. —Professor Edmund Davy pro- poses as an excellent cement for repairing gutters, drain-pipes, pumps, &c., two parts of common pitch melted with one part of gutta percha. This compound is in many cases preferable to gutta percha alone, and may be dryed and preserved for use. To apply it to metal gutters or pipes, they should be warmed with a hot iron, and the cement be poured upon the leaky places. It is equally applicable to wood, glass, porce- lain, ivory, leather parchment, and a number of other substances. CEMENT, durable.—Common clay well dryed and powdered, then mixed with oil; it will last years. CEMENT, for Glass to resist heat.—Equal parts of wheat flour, finely powdered glass, and pow- dered chalk; add half as much brick dust, scraped lint, and white of eggs. CEMENT, FOR ROOMS.— M. Sorel has recently discovered a property possessed by oxychlo- ride of zinc, which renders it superior to plaster of Paris for coating the walls of rooms. It is thus applied;—“A coat of oxide of zinc mixed with size, and made up like a wash, is first laid on the wall, ceiling, or wainscot, and over that a coat of chloride of zinc is applied, being prepared in the same way as the first wash. The oxide and chloride effect an immediate combination, and form a kind of cement, smooth and po- lished as glass, and possessing the advantages of oil paint, without its disadvantages of smell, &c.” The inventor further suggests the employment of oxychloride of zinc as a paint for iron, and also to stop hollow teeth, for which its plasticity and subsequent hardness and impenetrability to the moist- ure of the mouth, render it particu- larly applicable. CEMENT, for joining marble, stone, tjc.-—Hold the fractured