230 LTN LIQ LINIMENT, for Burns.—Tako equal parts of Florence oil, or fresh drawn linseed oil and lime water; shake them well together in a wide bottle, so as to form a liniment. This is found to be an exceedingly proper application for recent scalds or burns. It may either be spread upon a cloth, or the parts affected may be anointed with it twice or thrice a day. LINIMENT, for diseases of the throat and tonsils.—Castile soap, oil of sassafras, camphor, spirits of hartshorn, of each, 1 oz. Add cayenne pepper, 2 drachms; lau- danum, \ oz. ; spirits of wine, h oz. LINIMENT VOLATILE'. — Spirit of hartshorn, 1 oz.; olive oil, 1| oz.; cayenne pepper, 2 drs.; laudanum, 2 drachms; a table- spoonful of salt, and two of brandy. Shake well in a bottle. Rub the affected part with it, apply after- wards a rag saturated with it. It removes pains and swellings. It is a magic remedy. LINIMENT, White.—This is made in the same manner as the white ointment, two-thirds of the wax being left out. This liniment may be applied in excoriation, where, on account of the largeness of the surface, the ointments with lead or calomel might be improper. LINSEED, infusion of.—Take of linseed, two spoonfuls: liquor- ice root sliced, half an ounce; boil- ing water, three pints. Infuse by the fire for some hours, and then strain off the liquor. If an ounce of the leaves of coltsfoot be added to the ingredi- ents, it will then be the Pectoral Infusion. Both are emollient mu- cilaginous liquors, and may be taken with advantage as ordinary drink, in difficulty of making wa- ter, and in coughs and other com- plaints of the breast. LINSEED TEA.—Linseed, 1 tablespoonful; liquorice root, loz.; coltsfoot leaves, 1 oz.; boiling'wa- ter, 3 pints. Infuse 3 hours, and strain. Add sugar, and a little lemon juice. Good for coughs, urinary disease, &c. LIP SALVE, Bed.—Olive oil, 4 ozs.; Alkanet root, 1 oz. Ma- cerate with heat until the oil is well coloured; then add Sperma- ceti, | oz.; white wax, 2 ozs.; pre- pared suet, 3 ozs., and a little sugar. When nearly cold, stir in orange flower water, -j- oz.; oil of laven- der, \ drachm; otto of roses, 2 or 3 drops. LIP SALVE, White.—Boil a little veal suet in salt and water; skim off the fat; mix it with 1 oz. of white wax, and \ oz. of sperma- ceti ; add 3 ozs. of olive oil; melt, and when cool, add a few drops of bergamot, or otto of roses. The colour of lips may be deepened by dissolving in the mouth a cayenne lozenge occasionally. LIPS, chapped.—See page 103. LIQUID BLACKING.-Weak vinegar, 1 quart; ivory black and treacle, each 6 ozs. ; vitriolic acid, and spermaceti, (or olive oil) each If oz. Mix the acid and oil first, then add the other ingredients. If it does not dry quick enough on the leather, add a little more vit- riol gradually till it dries quick enough. If you add too much the mixture will give a brown colour. —This is a celebrated blacking. LIQUID JAPAN BLACK- IN G.—Ivory black, 3 ozs.; coarse sugar, 2 ozs.; sulphuric acid, 1 oz.; muriatic acid, 1 oz.; sweet oil, and lemon acid, of each a table- spoonful, and a pint of vinegar. First mix the ivory black and sweet oil; then the lemon and su- gar with a little vinegar; then add the acids, and mix well together. LIQUID BLUE.—Dissolve ex- tract of indigo in warm water.