206 IND INF ness, obstructed perspiration, want of exerciso, especially in the open air, deficiency or vitiation of tho gastric juice, gluttony, alcoholic drinks, depressing passions; in- tense study, onanism, or self- abuse, &c. Tea, coffee, and to- bacco are most fruitful causes of this disease. Treatment.—Abandon, if possi- ble, the causes which produce the effect. Give occasionally an emetic. If necessary, gentle aperients. In- jections are often of great use. t hese methods may be repeated about once a week, till the disease abates. Emetics serve to remove morbid matter, impart new tone to the stomach, and give healthy ac- tion to the secretions. Dr. Beach recommends lobelia combined with mandrake, as the best emetic. The bowels are best regulated by always eating brown bread; for the bran gives a more natural stimulus totheliverand alimentary canal than any medicine which can be given. The use of the Dyspeptic Pill tends very much to improve the tone of the stomach. The Restor- ative Wine Bitters cannot be too much recommended. If indiges- tion arises from affections of the liver, treat for the same ; especially take the Liver Pill with the afore- said medicines. If, from a disor- dered stomach, there is acidity, &c., take the Neutralizing Mixture. In fine, be choice in your diet; and eat the unsifted flour, by some called ground down, or brown bread—a better name would be— ground altogether. It is the grand panacea for indigestion. The dyspeptic must avoid or take little' of fat meat, butter, cheese, pastry, strong coffee, green tea, and ardent spirits, which harden the food in course of digestion, and cause the feculent matter difficult and pain- ful to be evacuated. Eat sparing- ly, take open air exercise as much as possible; use cold sponging' INDIGESTION —— Prescrip- tions.—Dr. Babington’s. —Infu- sion of Columba, 6 ozs.; carbonate ot potass, 1 dr. ; compound tinc- ture of gentian, 3 drs. Mix. 1 hree table-spoonfuls to be taken every day, at noon. Or, take Gentian and Columba roots (brui- sed) and camomile flowers, of each 1 oz., to three quarts of water; boil to three pints. Dose—two or three tea-cupfuls a day. Or, take one ounce each of hops and carraway seeds; 24 cloves; } oz. of senna, and 24 black peppers. Boil the whole in 3 pints of water till it is reduced to 2 pints. A wine-glassful of the infusion to be taken twice a day, at eleven and three o’clock. Pain in the Stomach from bad digestion.— lake fasting, or in the fit, half a pint of camomile tea. Do this five or six mornings. Or, drink the juice of half a large lemon, or sweet orange, immedi- ately after dinner every day.—Dr. Mead. Or, from ten to twenty drops of elixir of vitriol in sage tea, twice or thrice a-day. Or, in the fit a glass of vinegar. Or, take two or three tea-spoonfuls of stomachic tincture, in a glass of water, thrice a-day. it3T The tincture is made thus Gentian root, sliced, 1 ounce; orange peel, dried, half an ounce ; cochi- neal, fifteen grains ; proof brandy, one pint; in three or four days it is fit for use.—This is useful in all dis- orders that arise from a relaxed stomach.—Wesley. INFANTS, Management of.— A child, when bom, should be laid, for the first month, upon a thin mattress, which the nurse may sometimes keep on her knee, that the child may always lie, and only sit up as the nurse slants the