LAN 223 LAY specified in a notice to quit. But, during liis Lodger’s temporary ab- sence, he may fasten up the doors of the rooms he occupied, to pre- vent his occupation of them; but the Landlord is bound, on the re- turn of the tenant, to deliver any property he has left there. But if a Lodger leave his rooms without paying all demands upon him the Landlord may sell any property the Lodger may have left behind him, after giving the owner suffi- cient notice of his intention to do so. A fortnight’s notice is suffi- cient. All chattels and personal effects found on the demised premises may be distrained, whether they belong to the tenant or a stranger. Fixtures cannot be distrained, though the tenant may have fixed them; yet the landlord may claim those which are incorporated with the building. Cloth sentto a tailor’s to be made into clothes, or old clothes sent to be repaired, warps and weft sent to bo woven, dresses to make or alter, a horse sent to be shod, books to bind, paper to print, corn to grind, watches to be repaired, shoes to mend, &c., &c.; these are not to be distrained. No distress can be made till the day after that on which the rent falls due ; it cannot be made be- tween sunset and sunrise; nor after the rent has been tended. Goods removed to avoid distraint, may be followed and seized within thirty days, wherever they may be found, unless really bought by some person ignorant of the fraud. Goods fraudulently secreted, the landlord may with a peace officer, break open any house, warehouse, &c., where they are secreted, and distrain the said property. A landlord cannot legally dis- train for more rent than is due to him; but if the amount of the first distraint does not cover the amount of rent due, he can dis- train again. Or should the dis- traint be postponed by mutual agreement, the landlord can still distrain. The outer door of the house, ex- cept where goods have been frau- dulently removed, cannot be broken open. But if the outer door has been passed, the inner doors may be forced. Should the landlord, or his agent, or both, after they have legally entered the premises, and having begun to distrain, be forcibly ejected, they may break upon the outer door, and re-enter to distrain. Should they be vio- lently treated, or threatened with violence, they may legally call in the aid of a policeman. An inventory of the goods dis- trained must be taken; the amount of rent for which they are distrain- ed, the day on which they were dis- trained, and the costs. A copy of this inventory must be served up- on the tenant, or must be left at the house, shop, warehouse; or be posted up on some prominent place on the premises. The goods may then be removed to any convenient place for sale, which may take place five days after. LAVENDER.—A well-known plant. It is a pleasant and effica- cious cordial, and veiy useful in languor, weakness of the nerves, lowness of spirits, faintings, Ac. It should be propagated by slips in March: plant them in a shady situation till they have taken root, after which they may be exposed to the sun, and when strong may be transplanted. LAVENDER WATER.—Put in a bottle half a pint of spirit of wine, and two drachms of oil of lavender. Mix with it rose water, five ounces, orange flower water,