BLA BLA 63 hours to ferment (lightly covered) and skim well; then, to every gal- lon of the juice, add one quart of water and three pounds of sugar; let it stand in an open vessel for twenty-four hours; strain, and barrel it. Let it stand six months, then bottle and cork close. It im- proves bv age. BLACK CAP PUDDING.— Make a batter with milk, flour, and eggs; butter a basin; pour in the batter, and 5 or 6 ounces of well cleaned currants. Cover it with a cloth well floured, and tie the cloth very tight. Boil nearly one hour. The currants will have settled to the bottom; therefore dish it bot- tom upwards. Serve with sweet sauce and a little rum. A. iV". BLACK CUPS.—Halve and core some fine apples, put them in a shallow pan, strew white sugar over, and bake them. Boil a glass of wine, the same of water, and sweeten it for sauce. Another way.—Take off a slice from the stalk end of some apples, and core without paring them. Make ready as much sugar as may be sufficient to sweeten them, and mix it with some grated lemon, and a few cloves in fine powder. Stuff the holes as close as possible with this, and turn the flat end down in a stew-pan; set them on a very slow fire, with half of raisin wine, and the same of wa- ter ; cover them close, and then baste them with the liquor. BLACK C UK RANT JAM.— See Cun-ant, p. 136. BLACK CURRANT JELLY. —See Currant, p. 137. BLACK CURRANT LOZEN- GES.—Boil the fruit in a jar stopped close. Strain the juice through a coarse sieve. Measure the juice, and boil briskly half an hour. The more the juice has evaporated before adding the sugar, the better. For every full quart of juice (as first measured into the pan,) allow—Fine loaf sugar, 5 oz.; best gum arabic, finely pow- dered, 3 drachms, cream of tartar, 3 drachms. Mix these well in a basin with a very small quantity of the boiling juice, stirred briskly to it till smooth, then stir in the whole. Boil the mass till it is stiff and candies on the sides of the pan. Pour it on plates turned up- side down; the thickness should not exceed one-eighth of an inch. Dry in the sun, or in front of a fire, but at some distance. When quite dry, cut out in lozenges. A sharp tin cutter is the best instrument. The form should be either square, diamond, or hexagonal, that the pieces may be cut close to another without waste. Shake among the lozenges a little magnesia to pre- vent sticking. Keep them in a wide-mouthed bottle, with a glass stopper. N. B—These lozenges mav be made with the entire fruit. BLACK CURRANTS, to pre- serve.—Get the currants when they are dry, and pick them ; to every If lb of currants, put 1 lb. of sugar into a preserving pan, with as much juice of currants as will dis- solve it; when it boils, skim it, and put in the currants, and boil them till they are clear; put them into a jar, lay brandy paper over them, tie them down, and keep in a dry place. A little Raspberry juice is an improvement. Hu. BLACK CURRANT PUD- DING, to bake.—Make a puff paste crust, roll it thin, line a basin with it, put three parts full of the cun-ants, fill up with sugar, and put a paste cover over on the top, well closed; bake on a tin in a moderate oven 50 or 60 minutes. When served turn out upon a dish. Serve with cream, &c. When boiled, use a suet crust,