ALT AMA 17 of water; mixed with four ounces of butter warmed, four yolks and two whites of eggs, sugar to taste, two spoonfuls of cream, and one of brandy; mix well, and bake in little cups buttered. Serve with pudding-sauce. ALMOND PUDDING, Baked. —Beat fine four ounces of almonds, four bitter, a little wine, yolks of six eggs, peel of two lemons gra- ted, six ounces of butter, a quart of cream, and juice of a lemon. Mix well; bake half an hour; with paste rouud the dish. ALMOND PUDDING.—Beat half a pound of sweet and a few bitter almonds with a spoonful of water; then mix four ounces of butter, four eggs, two spoonfuls of cream, warm with the butter, one of brandy, a little nutmeg, and su- gar to taste. Butter some cups, half-fill, and bake. Serve with butter, wine, and sugar. ALOES, Compound Decoction of. — Extract of valerian, two drachms; extract of Liquorice, half an ounce; extract of Socco- trine aloes, powdered myrrh, pow- dered saffron, of each two drachms ; subcarbonate of potash, two scru- les ; aniseed, quarter of an ounce raised; water, a pint and a half. Boil 20 minutes ; add four ounces of compound tincture of carda- moms. This decoction cures con- stipation, jaundice, mental depres- sion, bilious and nervous affections, female irregularities, &c.—Dose from half an ounce every other morning. ALIER ATI VE S.— Medicines adapted to cure a disease without producing any very sensible effect on the human system. ALTERATIVE PILLS.—Lo- belia Seeds, 2 drachms; Mandrake, 2 drachms ; Blue Flag, 2 drachms; J^lood Hoot, 2 drachms; ^Cayenne, I epper, I drachm; Gum Guiucum, two drachms ; Extinct of Dande- lion, 6 drachms; Oil of Pepper- mint, 3 or 4 drops; Single Syrup to form into Pills.—Dose, two pills twice or thrice a day. These pills are of great service in bilious and liver complaints, diseased joints, boils, carbuncles, cutaneous eruptions, scrofula, syphillis, &c. ALTERATIVE ‘SYRUP. — Tincture of cayenne, £ oz.; tinc- ture of lobelia, and tincture of myrrh, of each, 2 ozs.; treacle, 4 lb. Mix. A tea-spoonful two or three times a day. (JKg“Noted for its effectual cure of cutaneous sores ; boils, indigestion, and some chronic complaints. ALUM-ROOT.—An American plant, a great remedy in sores, wounds, ulcers, and cancers. It is a, powerful styptic in all bleed- ings ; and a great vulnerary, or healer of wounds, sores, cuts, &c. The root is powdered, and applied to bleedings. Made into an oint- ment with lard, it cures Piles. ALUM, to discover in bread.— Heat a knife, and thrust it into a loaf or cake; if alum be present, it will partially coat the knife. AMAUROSIS.—A total or par- tial loss of sight, caused by para- lysis of the optic nerve or’ retina. It first manifests itself by specks floating before the vision, which increase till they become like a cloud ; then dilation of the pupil and insensibility to light. It is difficult to cure. The diet must be low, and alcoholic drinks must be avoided. The bowels must be kept gently open by small doses of Black Draught, or by Salts and Senna, or by Rhubarb, Co- locynth &e. Electricity may be applied to the eye, toproducea heal- thy action of the system. Fo- ment the eye with tho diluted tincture of Cayenne Pepper. Fre- quently bathe the head in cold n