429 YAP UYU pain. Or, give an injection of lobelia lierb; slippery elm bark, and valerian; balm water, a small cupful. Infuse 15 minutes. Take at the same time the Diuretic Drops in penny-royal tea. An aperient may be useful. Parsley tea, spirits of mint, sweet spirits of nitre, and a little camphorated spirit, all combined, have often effected a cure. The Diuretic Drops, Drinary Decoction, and infusions of spear- mint, are very efficient. Also decoctions or infusions of white poplar bark, dandelion root, lin- seed, queen of the meadow, cleavers, sweet shrub, juniper ber- ries, uva ursi, commonly called bearberry coolwort. URINARY DECOCTION.— Cleavers, queen of the meadow, marsh-mallows, juniper berries, of each 2 ozs. Boil in 4 quarts of water down to 1 quart. Dose, a small cupful a day. USQUEBAUGH.—This liquor is in high repute in Ireland. Take best brandy, 1 gallon; raisins stoned, 1 lb.; cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg, and cardamoms, each, 1 oz., crushed in a mortar ; saffron, i oz.; the rind of a Seville orange, and brown sugar candy, 1 lb. Shake well every day for 14 days. Some add 1 quart of water, and I quart of whiskey. UVULA, Relaxation of.—This is the pendulous body which hangs down from the middle of the soft palate, at the top of the throat. It is subject to be relaxed; to hang down too far; and by its contact with the epiglottis, and the root of the tongue, it causes cough, retch- ing ; and very much interferes with the voice in speaking, especially publicly. Keep a small portion of gum catechu or gum kino in the mouth ; alum also is good. Or, with a camel hair pencil touch the uvula occasionally with a solution of nitrate of silver. If such remedies ultimately fail, then excision must take place. Before that the most astringent gargles should be tried. VACCINATION ACT.—It is imperative by law that parents should have every child vaccinated within three calendar months after birth, either by the appointed pub- lic vaccinator, or by a legally qualified practitioner. If other than the parents are left in charge of the child, the vaccination must then be within four months of birth. If the child he not taken in eight days after vaccination to be examined by the medical prac- titioner in order to ascertain the result of the operation, parties not complying incur a penalty not ex- ceeding 20s. The registrars of each district are required to send notices to the parents or guardians of children, whose births they hare registered, stating also the names and addresses of the public vac- cinators, and the hours of attend- ance. VALERIAN.—See Robinson’s Herbal. Valerian is a medicine of great use in nervous disorders, hysteria, lowness of spirits, rest- lessness, and diseases of the blad- der, &c. The common dose is from a scruple to a drachm; in powder; and in infusion from one to two drachms. Its unpleasant- flavour may be neutralized by the addition of mace. VAPOUR BATH.—Sit naked upon a chair ; place the legs upon a stool. Place a vessel under the chair. Throw a large blanket around the patient and the chair; pin it under his chin, and make it tight all round. The vessel is to contain the liquid, hot water, or decoction of bitter herbs, or other-