AST 33 AST niated Tincture of Valerian, two drachms; Tincture of Castor, a drachm; Laudanum, thirty drops; Camphor Mixture, one ounce; Syrup of Tolu, one drachm. Mix. This is most valuable for spasmodic affections. ASTHMA, Treatment of.—For its cure or relief, see my Herbal, under the following articles ; they are first-rate remedies for this disease;—Assafcetida, BlackByro- ny, Butter-Bur, Chervil, Coffee, Colt’s foot, Foxglove, Garlic, Horse-radish, Lobelia in two pla- ces, Meadow Saffron, Hedge Mus- tard, Myrrh, Thom Apple, Thyme, and Skunk Cabbage. The smoking of Stramonium, known as Thorn Apple, is particu- larly recommended; the vapour, if possible, should be inhaled. It wonderfully allays morbid irrita- bility, and the caloric which is taken with it, during the operation of smoking, powerfully promotes the secretion of mucus, and thus often speedily terminates the fit. If the patient is unable to smoke it, the vapours of a strong decoc- tion of it may be inhaled, by breath- ing over it as soon as it is taken off the fire. Boil an ounce in a pint of water; as soon as it boils, take it off the fire; it should be made in a close vessel. Hedge Hyssop is an excellent remedy. It powerfully allays the morbid irritation of the lungs, pro- motes expectoration, obviates cos- tiveness, strengthens the stomach,- and increases the secretion of urine, and perspiration of the skin. A strong decoction of it, combined with Carraway, or Aniseed, is the best form of administration. Before and during the fit the patient should immerse his feet in warm water, and drink warm simple beverages, as balm tea, barley water, <fcc., with two or three tea-spoonfuls of iEther, or of aromatic spirit of Ammonia. Whatever tends to quiet the ner- vous system, is of the greatest service; though active remedies should be applied with the great- est caution. Washing the head with warm water has been of very great service; and sometimes sneezing, produced by snuff, made of Asarahacca, has suddenly termi- nated the paroxysm. If the chest be much pained, foment with hot flannels, or apply a bran or oatmeal poultice. Very strong Cofiee is much recommended if the attack is violent; combine with it 10 or 15 drops of laudanum, half a drachm of iEther, and two drops of the oil of mint. This mixture may he taken several times during the day. The following pills are valuable in Asthma:—Ipecacuanha powder, 6 grains; James’s Power, 12 grains; Camphor, 15 grains; Extract of Henbane, or Syrup, to form into 10 or 12 Pills. One or two may be taken every hour, or less fre- quently. Asthmatics are very subject to an accumulation of inflammable air in the intestines which renders an aperient necessary. Distension of the stomach or intestines from any cause is a, source of great dis- tress to the patient, by mechani- cally preventing the motion of the diaphragm. Therefore, take of Compound Colocynth Pill, 1 drachm; prepared Calomel, 8 grains; Assafcetida half a drachm, or more. Divide into 15 or 20 Pills ; take two or three occasion- ally. . But probably the best Aper- ient is Castor Oil given in Pepper- mint, or weak Brandy and Wa- ter. To hasten the termination of the Paroxysm, rubbing the scalp with Camphorated Sal Volatile, and immersing the feet in warm water, c