452 YEA YEL cold, put into it four spoonfuls of fresh yeast in a jug, shake it well together, and let it stand one day to ferment near the tire, without being covered. There will be a thin liquor on the top, which must be poured off; shake the remain- der and cork it up for use. Take always four spoonfuls of the old to ferment the next quantity, keeping it always in succession. A half-peck loaf will require about a gill. Another way.—Boil one pound of potatoes to a mash; when half cold, add a cupful of yeast, and mix it well. It will be ready for use in two or three hours, and keeps well. Use double the quantity of this to what you do of beer-yeast. To take off the bitter of yeast, put bran into a sieve, and pour it through, having first mixed a lit- tle warm water with it. YEAST, for home made bread. —Boil a handful of hops half an hour in 3 pints of water. Pour half, boiling, through a sieve, upon a cup of flour, mix, and add the rest of the hop water; a spoonful of salt, half a cup of treacle, and when warm, a cup of yeast. YEAST DUMPLINGS. Make a very light dough with yeast, as for bread; use milk if you like, instead of water, add salt. Let it rise an hour before the fire; twenty minutes before you are to serve, have ready a pan of boiling water. Make the dough into balls ; put them in, and boil 20 minutes. Stick a fork into one, andif itcomeout clear, itis enough. Do not cut them, but tear them apart at the top, or they will be- come heavy. Eat while hot, with treacle or sugar, preserve, &c. YEAST POULTICE.—Yeast, 1 gill; milk, 1 pint; slippery elm hark sufficient to make a poultice. Sprinkle over with very finely pow- dered charcoal, and blood-root. Mix, and form a poultice. It is cooling and adapted to arrest gan- grene or mortification. It is very appropriate to most sores and ul- cers, especially offensive sores. YELLOW DOCK.—See Rob- inson's Herbal.—This plant is well known. The leaves are boiled and eaten. It is moderately as- tringent, and rather purgative. It is very appropriate to scrofulous complaints. In bilious complaints, internal heat, hectic fever, palpi- tation of the heart, piles, cutaneous eruptions, &c., it is most valuable. The root may be given in decoc- tion. A poultice of it is very good to discuss all indolent swellings. Made into an ointment, it is good for tetter, ringworm, &c. YELLOW BEVEB. The first stage usually begins with weariness, chilly fits, faintness, giddiness, flushing- of the face, redness of the eyes, pain in the eye-balls, forehead, back, great weakness, anxiety, thirst, and lethargy. The urine is high col- oured, deficient, and turbid. The tongue is covered with a dark fur; the perspiration is irregular, in- terrupted, and lessened; the bile is secreted in unusual quantities, and speedily ejected from the stomach. The skin is very dry, hot, and hard. The eyes, face, and breast become yellow. This stage of the disease lasts about 48 hours. The symptoms begin to abate, by which the pa- tient is flattered’; but returning aggravated symptoms soon un- deceive him. He becomes very debilitated; putrefaction takes place; large patches of livid spots appear on different parts of the body; the tongue becomes dry and' black; black fur on the teeth, and oft blood from the mouth,