BLO BLO 69 to be certain, to arrest tire cough and freely empty the bronchial tubes. In the second and third stages, it is a remedy of some im- portance, that can be relied on. I gave it in three cases of that condition of body, preceding the deposition of tubercle, although there was cough, short and feeble inspiration, and a general phthisi- cal aspect. In one, a girl of ten years, there was an hereditary predisposition, and many symp- toms of phthisis in the first stage were present, but no physical signs of the disease. She had taken cod-liver oil and other reme- dies without benefit, and was ex- tremely weak and emaciated. Af- ter attending to the secretions, I put her on the compound sangui- naria powder nightly, which per- mitted me subsequently to give her steel, and to resume the cod- .liver oil. Her health improved; the cough diminished and disap- j peared; she gained strength and flesh, and was restored to perfect i health. In a girl of ten years, with a sluggish liver, jaundice, cough, but no deposition of tuber- cle, the same good result ensued, although the time was longer. In the first stage of phthisis, wherein actual deposition of tuber- cle was going on, with all the symptoms well marked, in which cod-liver oil alone was not agree- ing, I have combined with it small doses of the compound sanguinaria powder twice a day, with relief to shortness of breath, and improve- ment of the general health; and all the improvement has been at- tributed by the patients to the san- guinaria. In the second stage, the tincture in moderate doses may be com- bined with other expectorants with great advantage, and will assist other remedies to cure; whilst, in the third, the relief afforded in a ready expectoration and complete emptying of the bronchial tubes is really marvellous. The expecto- ration becomes more easy, the breathing clearer, the spasmodic efforts at coughing less; and much improvement will result for a time in the last stage of this malady. Some bitter infusion may be com- bined with the sanguinaria, with decided good effect in the dyspep- sia, or loss of appetite sometimes present. I believe the sangui- naria in moderate doses will be found a remedy of much service in the pretubercular and first stages of phthisis, either alone or com- bined with other substances; and that as an expectorant, in the second and third, it cannot be sur- passed. It materially helps to prolong life even in very hopeless cases. Bronchitis. In the chronic form, it is in general use all over America, as one of the most active expectorants. Dr. Leonard ob- serves, that its acrimony renders it powerful in removing the tena- cious phlegm, and which it is our object to get rid of. Dr. Wood, of Philadelphia—a name honoured in America, and well known in Europe—recommends the tincture, among other remedies, as well adapted for this complaint, four to six times a day, kept just within the nauseating point. It is used extensively in the various hos- pitals in Canada, and is found truly valuable as a remedy. Its value in bronchitis I have known for some years, and have found it more serviceable than many other expectorants, and one that pro- motes the expulsion of mucus in such a manner as to afford very great relief, with a feeling of warmth and comfort to the patient. Catarrh, is much benefited by