GIN GHE 177 on it the best vinegar; cover tbe jar, and shake it frequently ; infuse ten days, then strain off the liquor. GEESE, to choose.—The largest are esteemed the best; also the white and the grey ; the dark col- oured are not so good. A young goose has a yellow bill; if the bill be red, it is a sign of age: if fresh, the feet will be pliable, but, when stale, stiff' and dry. GENTIAN. — The root is a most valuable bitter tonic, proper for all cases of debility, and indi- gestion. It strengthens the sto- mach, promotes digestion, and pre- vents acidification of the food. GENTIAN, Compound Infu- sion of.—The root, cut in pieces, 4. oz.; dried Seville orange peel bruised, 1 drachm; coriander seeds, bruised, half a drachm ; spirits of wine, 4 ozs.; water, 1 pint; infuse first in the alcohol three hours; then add the water, and macerate 12 hours without heat. The dose is 2 or 3 drachms three times a day. GENTIAN, Tincture of.—Gen- tian, ljj oz.; orange peel, 4 drs.; cardamoms, 2 drachms ; spirits of wine, 1 pint. Macerafe for 15 days. Dose, one tcaspoonful. GHERKINS, to piclcle.—Put them into strong salt and water, and stir twice a day; take out and place in a jar with vine leaves, and pour boiling vinegar over them. When cold heat the vinegar again, cover the gherkins with fresh vine leaves, and pour it upon them; re- peat till of a good colour. Then add to it as much vinegar as is necessary, suppose two quarts, a oz. of mace, 6 cloves, \ oz. ginger, $ oz■ of black pepper, and a table- spoonful of salt. Boil five minutes, and pour upon the pickle. Another Receipt.—Put them in- to a jar, and cover them with boil- ed vinegar; add a little salt; place them near the fire; boil the vine- gar every day for five or six days ; cover to keep in the steam ; then take fresh vinegar, with black, white, or cayenne pepper, and gin- ger ; put in the gherkins; simmer slowly till they look green. When cool, cover, and keep in a dry place. GIBLET PIE.—Clean the gib- lets well; stew with a little water, onion, pepper, salt, sweet herbs till nearly done. Cool, and add beef, veal or mutton steaks. Put the liquor of the stew to the gib- lets. Cover with paste, and when the pie is baked, pour into it a large tea-cupful of cream. GILDING, for Books, §c.— Screw a quantity of pages strongly into a press. After being cut and scraped as smooth as possible, size them with isinglass glue mix- ed up with spirits of wine, and then apply the gold leaves, let them dry, then burnish with a blood-stone. GILDING, to preserve from fly-dirt.—Cover over with gauze or tissue paper, till the flies axe gone. Or boil a few leeks in a pint of water; with a very soft brush wash over the glasses and frames with the liquid—flies do not like it, and will not alight. GILDING, to renew.—Give the wood a coating- of size made of the white of an egg, well beaten, and diluted with water, or isinglass dissolved in a weak spirit. Apply the size, and when half dry, apply the gold, and when completely dry, polish with an agate. GINGER, to candy.—Put 1 lb. of loaf sugar finely powdered into a pan with as much water as will dissolve it, and 1 oz. of race gin- ger powdered ; stir over a slow"firo till the sugar begins to boil: then stir in 1 lb. more sugar, and stir till it becomes thick, and falls in a mass from the spoon: takeoff, and dry it in cakes upon earthen dish- es; put in a warm place, and L