pig PIG 301 size. Size the frame, and lay on ] the gold. When perfectly dry, t burnish with an agate. Isinglass < makes a good varnish. < PICTURE VARNISH.—Mas- < tic varnish. PIES, Oswego.—Line a deep : plate with crust, and bake it in a quick oven; when done, fill with the Custard, (See Custard, boiled, made of Oswego, &c.,) strew the top with powdered sugar, dust it with the com, and set it again in the oven to hake. PIGS, Management of, when deeding.—It is stated in Wade’s British History, that a gentleman in Norfolk put up six pigs, of nearly equal weight, to feed at the same time, and treated them the same as to food and litter for seven weeks. Three of them were left to shift for themselves as to clean- liness ; the other three were kept as clean as possible, by a man em- ployed for the purpose, with a curry-comb and brush. The last consumed in the seven weeks few- er peas by five bushels than the other three, yet weighed more when killed by two stones and four pounds upon the average. PIG, to bale a.—Lay the pig m a well-buttered dish; flour it all over; rub some butter on it, and send it to the oven; when done, lake it out, rub it over with a but- tered cloth, and put it into the oven again till it is dry ; lay it in the dish, and cut up. Take the fat from the dish it was baked in, and some gravy will remain at the bottom ; put this to a little veal graw, with butter rolled in flour, and boil it up with the sage that conies out of the body. Serve with apple or currant sauce. PIG, to barbacue.—Dress a pig of ten weeks old, as if for roasting; make a forcemeat of two anchovies, six sage leaves, and the liver of the pig, all chopped very small; put them into a mortar, with the crumbs of half a penny loaf, 4 ozs. of butter, half a teaspoonful of cayenne, and half a pint of red wine; heat all to a paste; put it into the pig’s belly, and sew it up;. place the pig before a brisk fire; singe it well; put port wine in the dripping pan freely, and baste it well at the time of roasting. When nearly done, take the sauce and bread, and add an anchovy chop- ped small, sweet herbs, half a< lemon; then draw the pig. Gar- nish with slices of lemon. It will 1 take four hours to roast. PIG’S CHEEK, to prepare for boiling.—Cut off the snout, and. clean the head; divide it, and take out the eyes and the brains; sprinkle the head with salt, and let it drain 24 hours. Salt it with common salt and saltpetre; let it lie 9 days if to be dressed without stewing with peas, but less if to be dressed with peas; and it must1 be washed first, and then simmer till all is tender. PIG’S FEET and EARS.— Clean carefully, and soak some hours, and boil them tender ; them take them out; boil some vinegar and a little salt with some of th6 water, and when cold put it ovei them. When they are to be dressed, dry them, cut the feet ir two, and slice the ears; fry, anc serve with butter, mustard, anc vinegar. They may be eithe.- done in batter, or only floured. PIG’S FEET and EARS, t . ragout.—Boil them; split th , feet down the middle, and cut th t ears in narrow slices; dip them i: 3 butter, and fry brown; take bee gravy, a teaspoonful of lemo: r pickle, a table-spoonful of musb • room ketchup, one of browning ’ and a little salt; thicken wit e butter rolled in flour; put in tl