456 THE COLD WATER CURE. The Cold Water treatment is that which nature has placed in the power of all her creatures; and without water taken inwardly and applied outwardly, there can be no health. Nature has no secrets in giving man life; she has implanted within him the knowledge of that which is to support and render pleasant that life. “I leave behind me,” said a celebrated physician, on his death-bed, “ two great phy- sicians, diet and water." Water is the great dissolvent in nature. If the primary ducts be obstructed, water dilutes, attenu- ates, divides, and scatters the im- purities contained in them; and these are afterwards ejected by the stomach and intestines. If disease be settled in the blood, and the morbific matter deposited in the different organs of the animal economy, nothing is so effectual as water to dilute the thickened and blunt the acute; to revivify that which languishes, extinguish that which burns, and to open again all the passages by which injurious humours can escape. Cold water creates a sudorific process causing perspiration, with- out wearying the organic system. It is supported by copious draughts of cold water, which quench the thirst, moisten and refresh the blood, replace the lost juices, and maintain the tone of the muscles. The drinking of cold water, and its application to the body by va- rious processes, convey the morbid humours to the skin, whence they exude in eruptions, boils, and ab- scesses. These eruptions, consti- tuting the crisis of the complaint, are the certain sign of a perfect cure. After the unwholesome juices are driven out and replaced by wholesome ones, then follow the restoration of the digestive powers, and the freeing of all the organs by the dissolving of all ob- structions; the vital and animal functions are re-established in their former harmony; and thus nothing then remains but health, a treasure which can only be pre- served by continuing the system by which it has been obtained. Some will ask, Is the cold water treatment applicable to all descrip- tions of disease ? We answer, that jts application must be of ad- vantage in the large number of acute and chronic diseases. There are cases, however, wherein some essential organ having become de- fective, art can do no more than prolong existence and alleviate suf- fering. Among such exceptions are consumption, organic diseases of the heart, of the lungs, of the large vessels, dropsy, &c. Yet all these cases, and others deemed in- curable, by the moderate judicious use of some of the cold water ap- plications, will ensure relief and palliation of pain. Again, will the cold-water treat- ment produce a radical cure? What is to be understood by the word radical ? If it means the final extirpation from the system the cause of disease, and the relief of