MIN 2.56 MIN Or, scald tile new milk very gently without boiling. Cream al- ready skimmed may be kept 24 hours, if scalded without sugar; and by adding to it as much pow- dered lump sugar as will make it pretty sweet; it will be good two days, if kept in a cool place. Or place a piece of newly-ham- mered iron, or three twelve-penny nails, in each howl, then pour the milk upon them. MINCED COLLOPS.—Chop beef, and mince it very small, to which add salt and pepper. Put into small jars, and pour on the top some clarified butter. When intended for use, put the clarified butter into a frying-pan, and slice some onions into the pan; fry them ; add a little water to it, and then put in the mince-meat. S tew it well, and in a few minutes it will be fit to serve. MINCE MEAT.—Good lean beef, 1 lb.; boil it 50 minutes; then chop it very fine; then take apples, currants, raisins, and suet, 1 lb. each; candied lemon, candied citron, 2 ozs. of each; and 4 ozs. of almonds. Chop each extremely Jine; mix and add 1 lb. of sugar, and a wine-glassful and a half of brandy. Spices and lemon juice may be added, if you like. Let it stand some hours covered before using. —This meat may be put into tart- let pans or dishes. MINCE PIES.—Boil a neat’s tongue two hours; skin it, and chop it extremely small; chop al- so very fine 3 lbs. of beef suet, 3 lbs. of best baking apples, 4 lbs. of clean currants, picked and well dried before the fire; 1 lb. of good raisins, stoned, and chopped very small, and lib. of powdered su- gar ; mix all together with § oz. each of mace and nutmeg grated; cloves and cinnamon, of each, J- oz., and 1 pint of brandy; make a rich puff paste. As you fill the pic, put in a little candied citron and orange, cut small. MINCE PIES.—Clean 7 lbs. of currants, and 3J lbs. of beef suet, chopped fine; ~3£ lbs. of the lean of a sirloin of beef, minced raw; 3| lbs of apples chopped fine; 2 lb. each of citron, lemon-peel, and orange peel, cut very small; 2 lbs. of tine sugar; 1 oz. of spice, cloves, mace, nutmegs, and cinna- mon, pounded together, and sifted, the rind of 4 lemons, and 4 Seville oranges; rub all together till well mixed; mix a bottle of brandy, one of sherry, and the juice of the grated lemons and oranges to- gether in a basin; pour half over, and press it down tight; then add the other half, at the top, to soak in by degrees; cover it close. It will keep 4 or 5 weeks. When used, sheet the dish, or tins with puff paste, and cover with the same. They will bake in ten or twelve minutes. MINCE PIES.—Roll out puff paste to the thickness of a penny piece; lightly butter your tartlet tins; cut out from the paste round pieces, each the size of the tartlet- tins; with these pieces line the tins; put in each mince-meat; wet them round, put on the lids, making a small hole in the centre; close well at the edges ; egg over lightly, and bake from 15 to 25 minutes. Mince Meat, for the above.-Beei without skin and strings, 2 lbs.; best suet, chopped fine, free from skin, 4 lbs.; add 6 lbs. of clean dry currants; 3 lbs.chopped apples; the peel and juice of 2 lemons, half a pint of sherry, a nutmeg, -j oz. of cloves; ditto,mace; ditto,pimento, in finest powder ; press into a deep pan or dish, and keep covered in a cool dry place.