YEL 455 FLE It is best to have the copperas li- quor in another vessel. A Dark Drab may be ob- tained by using a little archil, and extract of Indigo. FLESH COLOUR, for dyeing SILK.—Boiling water, 1 gallon; put in one ounce of white soap, and one ounce of pearlash. Mix well; then add a cupful of Annot- ta liquor. Put the silk through several times, and proportion the liquor till you obtain the required shade, A Salmon colour may be obtain- ed by first passing through the above liquor, and then through di- luted muriate of Tin. MAGENTA for SILK, WOOL, or WORSTED.—Water, 1 gallon, heated up to 180 degrees; add Magenta Liqour, 1 table- spoonful ; stir it well up. This will dye a broad ribbon 4 yards long; or a pair of small stockings. To dye a larger quantity of ma- terial, add more Magenta Liquor and water. The shade of colour may be easily regulated by using more or less. Magenta Pink may be obtained by increased dilution. MAUVE, for SILK, WOOL, or WORSTED.—Water, 1 gal- lon ; add one tablespoonful of sul- phuric acid; then lieat to boiling point. For a very light Mauve, add one teaspoonful of imperial Violet Liquor; boil the same amount of material, as stated under Magenta, about 10 minutes. Rinse in cold water. If the colour be too deep, use a little soap in rinsing, using warm water. A violet colour may be produced by using a tablespoonful of Violet Liquor instead of a teaspoonful. PEA-GREEN, for SILK.— To one quart of water, put half a toaspoonful of Picric Acid, and rather more than half a wineglass- ful of sulphuric acid, and a tea- spoonful of paste extract of indigo; boil about five minutes ; then add water to cool it down to blood heat, or 100 degrees. Put in the silk, and work it about 20 minutes. The shade may be varied by adding more or less of the Picric Acid, or extract of indigo; if more of either be added, boil separately in a little water, and add to the pre- vious liquor. PEA-GREEN for WOR- STED.—Use the same materials as the aforesaid; but boil all the time in 1 gallon of water for about 20 or 30 minutes. ^ A DARKER GREEN may be obtained by using a larger quantity of material. PLUM COLOUR for WOR- STED, SILK, or COTTON.— Water, 1 gallon; sulphuric acid, a teaspoonful; glauber salts, or com- mon Dyer’s crystals, 2 tablespoon- fuls ; violet liquor, a tablespoon- ful ; magenta liquor, half a table- spoonful. Boil the article (silk, wool, or worsted,) about ten min- utes. Cotton should be dyed the above colours separately, and by first running them through weak Gall Liquor, and weak double mu- riate of tin. Then wash well, and work in the aforesaid liquor, ac- cording to colour and shade. The liquor should be cold for Cotton. SCARLET on WORSTED or WOOL.—Water, 3 gallons, 2 ozs. of dry cochineal, 1 oz. of cream of tartar, nitrate of tin, a wine-glass- ful ; boil the goods 1 hour. To give the goods a yellower hue, add a little young fustic. Wash out as before. YELLOW, for Dyeing SILK. —Proceed the same as in Dyeing Pea Green, omitting the extract of indigo, and using oxalic tin instead of sulphuric acid.