BAC 40 BAC 9. Six and three, bring a man from your opponent’s ace point as far as he will go, for a gammon or hit. 10. Six and four, exactly the same as last. 11. Six and five, ditto. 12. Cinque and quatro, ditto. 13. Cinque-trois, makes the trois point in your own tables for a gammon or hit. 14. Cinque-deuce, play two men placed in your adversary's outer table in the five, for a gam- mon or hit. 15. Cinque-ace, bring one man from the five in your adversary’s tables for the cinque, and play one down on the cinque-point in your own tables, for the ace, for a gam- mon or hit. 16. Quatre-trois.bringtwomen from the five in your adversary’s tables, for a gammon or hit. 17. Quatre-deuco, make the quatre-point in your own tables, for a gammon or hit. 18. Quatre-ace, play a man from the five, in your adversary’s tables for the quatre; and for dice, a man down on the cinque point in your tables, for a gammon only. 19. Trois-deuce, bring two men from the five in your adversary’s tables, for a gammon only. 20. Trois-ace, make the cinque point in your own tables, for a gammon or bit. 21. Deuce-ace, play one man from the five in your adversary’s i tables, for the deuce; and for the • ace, play a man down upon the' cinque point in your own tables, for a gammon only. * LAWS OF BACKGAMMON. 1. If you take a man or men from any point, that man or men must be played. 2. You are not understood to have played any man till placed upon a point, and quitted. 3. If you play with 14 men only, there is no penally attending it, because with a lesser number you play to a disadvantage, by not having the extra man to make up your tables. 4. If you bear any number of men, before you have entered a man taken up, and which conse- quently you were obliged to enter, such men, so borne, must be en- tered again in your adversary's tables, as the man taken up. 5. If you have mistaken your throw, and played it, and if your adversary has thrown, it is not in your choice nor his to alter it, un- less both sides agree to do so. BACON, YORKSHIRE. Yorkshire Bacon is first-rate, equal to that of Wiltshire, Cumberland, &c. The peculiarity of flavour de- pends upon curing, which is con- ducted in the following’ manner:— Afte. killing, the pig must hang for twenty-four hours, before being cut up. Take saltpetre, six ounces to the cwt., and rub it well in; and 10 lbs of common salt to the cwt; well rub it in, and place in the salting-tub. After having been in salt twelve or fourteen days, it must be turned over, and a few pounds of fresh salt applied, and left for ten days longer. Then take out, wipe well, and hang up in a cool, dr y place in a linen or cotton bag, or wash over with lime and water, to prevent rancidity, and the attack of the bacon-fly. Hams especially should be pre- served in this way. Some people make their bacon thus: Take off all the inside fat of a side of pork, and lay it on a long board or dresser, that the blood may run from it. Rub it well on both sides with good salt, and let it lie a day. Then take a pint of bay-salt, a quarter of a pound of saltpetre, and beat them *