LOB 231 LOG or as a fricassee, with, a cream- sauce ; it then looks very nicely, and eats excellently, especially if there is spawn. LOBSTER, to roast.—When you have half boiled the lobster, take it out of the water, and while hot, rub it with butter, and lay it before the fire. Baste it with butter till it has a fine troth. LOBSTER SAUCE.—Cut a lobster into pieces, tho size of a dice; pound the spawn, a little butter, and four anchovies in a mortar, and rub them through a hair sieve; put the cut lobster into a stewpan with half a pint of gravy, and a bit of butter rolled in flour; set over a slow fire, and stir till it boils; if not thick enough, add a little flour and water, and boil again; put the spawn in and sim- mer it; if the spawn boils, it may spoil the colour of the sauce. Add a little lemon pickle. LOCKED JAW, Tetanus.— A disease in which the muscles of the body are in a state of rigidity, with occasional spasms, and excru- ciating pain. The cause of this disease is injury done to the ex- tremities of the nerves, punctured or lacerated wounds of the hands or feet, surgical operations, or the use of narcotic poisons. The muscles of the lower jaw become hard and contracted, the mouth is closed, and the patient cannot open it; hence the name locked jaw. The rigidity extends to the tongue and throat, causing great difficulty in swallowing-. Sometimes nearly the whole body is alfected with the spasms. There is constriction of the breast, severe spasmodic pain in the stomach, shooting to the spine; the face is hideously distorted, and the breath- ing very laborious. It is a danger- ous disease, and requires prompt skilful attention. Treatment— When the disease is caused by wounds, they should bo cleaned, and the inflammation subdued as soon as possible. If possible foment or steam over with bitter herbs, and steep in hot soap water several times a day. Then apply a poultice of slippery elm mixed with ley or milk, and put on warm. Promote perspiration by means of tho vapour bath, or place hot bricks wrapped in vine- gar cloths to the feet and sides. Repeat if needful. Pour into the mouth a teaspoonful of the Anti- spasmodic Tincture every ten mi- nutes until the muscles of thejaws relax to enable the patient to swal- low. Give a tea made of balm and catnep. These means have often been effectual. Add more cayenne to the Antispasmodic Tincture if the rigidity does not give way. An aperient or injec- tion will also be necessary. The latter may embrace a strong decoc- tion of lobelia, milk, treacle, sweet oil, and a little Antispasmodic Tincture. LOGWOOD, an antiseptic.— Dr. Desmartis, in a paper to the Academy of Sciences, announces that Campeachy logwood (Hoerna- toxylum Campeachianum) posses- ses the same valuable quality, and in a much higher degree, than coal, tar and plaster, or creasote, which have hitherto been esteemed as the best antiseptics. The fact was discovered by accident. Dr. Desmartis had several cancerous patients under his care, all present- ing large ulcerous sores, emitting a most nauseous smell. An as- tringent being considered expedi- ent, a pomatum composed of equal parts of extract of logwood and hog’s lard, was applied to those sores, whereupon, to the Doctor’s surprise, the feetor disappeared completely, and the emission of