PUF 333 PUL eggs, and the whites of two, some grated lemon peel, and ginger. Mix, and make into little balls about the size and shape of an egg, with a little flour. Boil 20 minutes. PUDDING, to please.—Mix a quart of new milk with a pint of buttermilk; drain off the whey, and mix with the curd the crumb of a French roll grated, half a lemon peel grated, quarter of a pint of cream, 3 ozs of cold melted butter, the yolks of five and the whites of two eggs; sweeten the whole to taste, and bake with puff paste for half an hour. Another.—Line a shallow dish with an inch-deep layer of several kinds of good preserves; mix together, and with them mix 3 ozs. of candied citron or orange- rind, Beat well the yolks of ten eggs, and add to them gradually I a lb. of sifted sugar; when well mixed, p6ur in gradually h a lb. of good clarified butter, and a little ratafia, or any other flavour. Fill the dish two-thirds with this mix- ture, and bake the pudding one hour in a moderate oven. Half the quantity will be sufficient for a small dish. PUDDING, a wholesome one.— Put into a basin | lb. of rice, 4 ozs. of coarse sugar, or treacle; 2 quarts of milk, and 2 ozs. of dripping or butter; put it cold into the oven. It will take a good while to bake, hut it will be very good solid food. PUFF PASTE.—To 1 lb. of flour, take f lb. of butter. Hub half the butter very finely into the flour, and mix it into a paste with cold water; roll out the paste; put in the remainder of the butter ; roll it up, and leave it for half an hour; then roll it out for use. An egg may be beaten very fine, and mixed with the water. PUFF, a good light one.—Mix two spoonfuls of flour, a little grated lemon peel, some nutmeg, half a spoonful of brandy, a little loaf sugar, and one egg ; then fry it enough, hut not brown ; beat it in a mortar with five eggs, whites and yolks ; put a quantity of lard in a frying-pan, and when quite hot, drop a dessert-spoonful of batter at a time; turn as they brown. Serve them immediately, with sweet sauce. PUFF, a good one.—To a f oz. of butter add 3 ozs. of Jordan Al- monds with 2 ozs. of loaf sugar; pound them with a small quantity of rose water till they form a thick paste ; spread the paste on butter- ed tins, bake in a slow oven. When cold, put a spoonful of any kind of jam in each and cover with whip- ped cream. PUFF, made of cheese.—Strain cream curd from the whey, and heat half a pint basin of it fine in a mortar’, with a spoonful and a half of flour, three eggs, but only one white, a spoonful of orange flower-water, a quarter of a nut- meg, and sugar to make pretty sweet. Lay a little of this paste, in small very round cakes on a tin plate. If the oven is hot, a quarter of an hour will bake them. Serve with pudding sauce. PULMONARY BALSAM.— Horehound, (plant) comfrey-root, blood-root, elecampane-root, wild cherry bark, spikenard-root, penny royal, (plant) of each, 4 ozs. Pour 3 quarts of boiling water upon them; infuse for 3 hours ; then heat the water again; and pour it upon the plants to infuse 5 or 6 hours. Sweeten with sugar candy.—It is veiy serviceable in diseases of the lungs, chronic coughs ; it removes constriction of the chest, by pro- moting expectoration. Take half a small tea-cupful three or four times a day. PULMONARY COM-