LAN 222 LAN deliver up possession of the house and premises (or workshop, or warehouse, as the case may be) I now hold of you, situate at in the parish of in the county of . Dated the day of , 186 Witness, Job Clark. P. R. To Mr. C. S. ©3r If the rent is payable quar- terly, or half yearly, six month’s notice to quit must be given; the notice to expire on the same day of the year when you took the house, warehouse, &c. Suppose you took a house the first day of May; then you must give notice a day or two before the first of November, for then the six months’ notice will ex- pire on the same day of the year on which you took it, viz. on the first day of May. Leases for less than three years are often made by word of mouth. But in all cases it is best to have a written agreement; for some- times the words of a mutual agree- ment may be forgotten, or be mis- construed on account of imperfect remembrance. All Leases for terms above three years must be by deed of agree- ment, upon stamped paper, and properly signed and witnessed. It is best to have this deed made by a solicitor. The tenant should specially inquire if the landholder is the freeholder, or if he is merely a tenant by lease, and is about only to sub-let it. If so, he should in- quire if the rent has been regularly paid, and also the rates and taxes, either by himself, if he has it on lease, or by the previous lessee. In cases where a landlord leases or lets a furnished house, it is some- times customary to receive from the tenant, and his surety, a bond for the due performance of the cove- nant or agreement, stipulations, and for the payment of rent:—for, being a furnished house, he cannot enforce the payment of the rent by distraint. When a house is lot from year to year, and then sublet, the in- coming sub-tenant must inquire if the rent to the chief landlord, the queen’s taxes, and the local rates, have been duly paid, for he will be answerable for any arrears. If a lessee holds possession after the expiration of his term, he is, until lie has paid rent subsequent- ly due, merely a tenant by suffer- ance, and may bo dispossessed at any moment; but as soon as he has paid, and the landlord has re- ceived any such rent, he consti- tutes himself a tenant from year to year, and can legally give, and must legally receive, a proper no- tice to quit. In respect to Lodgers, any goods taken upon the premises by the Lodger will be liable for rent, tax- es, and rates; and he should there- fore be very careful to inquire whether all due up to the time of his taking have been duly paid. The Landlord has power to distrain upon the goods of his Lodger, and has also a perfect right to break open any of his Lodger’s doors to seize and execute distress upon his goods—he cannot without such regular distraint detain the prop- erty of his Lodger. The keeper of an inn, hotel, or public-house has a legal right to, and may detain the goods of a Lodger till the rent is paid. If the lodgings be taken month- ly, a month’s notice is required on cither side; if three months, or six months, then a three or six month's notice will be required. A Lodging-house keeper cannot forcibly eject, or by a policeman, a lodger who is determined to remain after the expiration of his term, or the expiration of the time properly