231 LIV LIY LIQUID CHERRIES.—Cher- ries, 1 lb., to f lb. of tine sugar. The cherries must be fine and ripe; cut the tails about half; put them into the sugar, and simmer five minutes ; stand till next day ; then add £ lb. of sugar to each pound of cherries, prepared as the first, and a little syrups or jelly, or red currants, or rasps. Simmer to- gether till the syrup is glutinous. LIQUID GLUE.—Best glue, 1 lb.; dry white lead, 4 ozs.; soft water, 1 quart; alcohol, 4 oz. Stir together when dissolved, and bottle while hot. LIQUORICE PIPES.—Dis- solve gum arabic in water with Spanish liquorice, and with the ad- dition of sugar make into a paste. Drop, and dry them in a slow oven. LIVER COMPLAINT.—Take 4 lbs. of Dandelion Roots, bruise and press out the juice; run it through a muslin bag, and bottle it. Of this take two table spoon- fuls three or four times a day. Drink occasionally the following decoction:—Take the bruised roots above mentioned, a small handful of Agrimony, and two ounces of Burdock R,oot, to three quarts of water—boil to two quarts. Of this take four half-pints a day. LIVER, Inflammation of.— This disease generally begins with a sense of weight, or pain in the right side, about the false ribs. The pain often extends to the top of the right shoulder. The sto- mach and bowels are disordered; the appetite is impaired; the pa- tient has sickness, often vomits bilious matter; there is a dry cough, oppressive breathing, a dif- ficulty of lying on the right side; costiveness, emaciation, debility, hard and frequent pulse, and a sal- low complexion. The office of the liver is to se- crete the bile, the origin of which is this:—the dark venous blood, passing through the liver on its way back to the heart, is there di- vested of its noxious matter, con- sisting largely of carbon, and so made fit for re-entering into the ai'terial circulation. A portion of the matter so separated from tho blood is the bile, which is dis- charged into the duodenum, and there mixes with the digested food, and performs the important office of fitting it for absorption into the system. The bile thus mixed with the elements of nutrition is also absorbed, and it is probable that it is adapted and designed to sup- port the processes of respiratory combustion. It is the bile that gives the colour to the foeces, which indicate a healthy flow of the bile when they are of the colour of rhu- barb. When, owing to some func- tional derangement, the bile mixes with the blood in its circulation, it is indicated by yellowness of complexion, in jaundice, and by the symptoms previously described. The healthy flow of bile is inter- rupted frequently by high living, obstructed perspiration, the drink- ing of wines, malt liquors, and es- pecially ardent spirits, and dram drinking. Dr. Graham j udiciously observes; —“ the term liver complaint is now far too indiscriminately used. It is properly applied to designate disease in the texture of the liver; but the majority of the maladies called by that name are in reality severe disorders of the digestive canal, that is, chronic affection of the stomach and intestines.” The symptoms which indicate affections of the liver, are increas- ing debility and emaciation, the pain and uneasiness at the right side extending to the shoulder, loss of appetite, full and hard pulse, &c. But in digestive diabase, the