367 SAL SAL SALMON, dried.—Pull some into flakes ; have ready some eggs boiled hard, and chopped large; put both into half a pint of thin cream, and two or three ounces of butter rubbed with a tea-spoonful of flour; skim it and stir it till boiling hot; make a wall of mash- ed potatoes round the inner edge of a dish, and pour the above into it. SALMON, to dry. Cut the fish down, take out the inside and roe. Rub the whole with com- mon salt after scaling it; let it hang 24 hours to drain. Pound three or four ounces of saltpetre, according to the size of the fish; 2 ozs. of bay-salt, and 2 ozs. of coarse sugar; rub these, when mixed well, into the salmon, and lay it on a large dish or tray two days, then rub it with common salt, and in 24 hours more it will be fit to dry; wipe it well after draining. Hang it either in a wood chimney, or in a dry place; keep- ing it open with two small sticks. Dried salmon is eaten broiled in paper, and only just warmed through; egg-sauce and mashed potatoes with it; or it may be boiled, especially the bit next the head. SALMON, to marinate.—Cut the salmon in slices ; take off the skin, and take out the middle bone; cut each slice asunder ; put into a saucepan and season with salt, pep- per, 6 cloves, a sliced onion, some whole chives, a little sweet basil, parsley, and a bay leaf; then squeeze in the juice of three lem- ons, or use vinegar. Let the sal- mon lie in the marinade for two hours; take it out; dry with a cloth; dredge with flour, and fry brown in clarified butter; then lay a clean napkin in a dish; lay the slices upon it; garnish with fried parsley. SALMON, to pickle.—Boil as before directed, take the fish out, and boil the liquor with bay-leaves, peppercorns, and salt; add vinegar, when cold, and pour it over the fish. Another way. After scaling and cleaning, split the salmon, and divide into such pieces as you choose; lay it in the kettle to fill the bottom, and as much water as will cover it; to three quarts put a pint of vinegar, a handful of salt, twelve hay-leaves, six blades of mace, and £ oz. of black pepper. When the salmon is boiled enough, drain it and put it on a clean cloth, then put more salmon into the kettle, and pour the liquor upon it, and so on till all is done. After this, if the pickle be not smartly flavoured with the vinegar and salt, add more, and boil it quick three quarters of an hour. When all is cold, pack the fish in some- thing deep, and let there be enough of pickle to plentifully cover. Pre- serve it from the air. The liquor must be drained from the fish, aud occasionally boiled and skimmed. SALMON, to pot. Take a large piece, scale and wipe, but do not wash it; salt very well; let it lie till the salt is melted and drain- ed from it, then season with beaten mace, cloves, and whole pepper; lay in a few bay-leaves, put it close into a pan, cover it with but- ter, and bake it; when well done, drain it from the gravy, put it into the pots to keep, and when cold, cover it with clarified butter. In this manner you may do any firm fish. SALMON PIE.—Clean and scrape well a piece of fresh salmon; season it with salt, mace, and nut- meg ; put a piece of butter at the bottom of the dish, and lay in the salmon; melt butter in proportion to the size of the pie ; boil a lob- ster ; pick out all the flesh, and