THE NEW FAMILY GUIDE. <S-—> AED ADD ABDOMINAL RUPTURES, or Herniai, take place at the navel, in females, and the scrotum and groin in males. When the bowel lies quietly in the bag, and admits of being readily put back into the abdomen, the rupture is termed reducible; but irreducible when the contrary. A hernia is stran- gulated when the intestine is, as it were, tied round with a string, so as to prevent the contents of the bowels from passing off; in such a case, inflammation is excited, and alarming, and sometimes fatal, symptoms, are manifest. The causes of ruptures are vari- ous; viz. sedentary habits, violent exercise, such as feats of agility, jumping, running, lifting and car- rying heavy iveights, vomiting, straining, laughing, sneezing, and whatever induces extreme action of the abdominal muscles. Some parts of the parietes, or enclosure of the bowels, are naturally weak- er than others; especially the in- guinal and crural rings, and the umbilicus; and it is of these parts that hernia most frequently oc- curs : vr the abdominal walls may be defectively formed. When a hernia takes place suddenly, there is a sensation of something giving way at the part, and some pain; but in many persons it comes on gradually, and almost impercept- ibly, particularly in very debilita- ted constitutions. The general symptoms of a her- nia, when reducible and free from strangulation, are an indolent tu- mour at some point of the abdo- men, frequently descending out of the abdominal ring, or out of the navel, but occasionally from other situations. The swelling often arises suddenly, and is sub- ject to a change of size, being smaller when the patient lies down on his back, and larger, when he stands up or holds his breath. It frequently diminishes when press- ed, and grows large again when the pressure is removed. Its size and tension often increase after a meal, or when the bowels are flat- ulent. In consequence of the un- natural position of the bowels, many persons who have rupture are occasionally troubled with colic, costiveness, and vomiting. But sometimes the functions of the in- testines suffer little interruption. But in all cases ruptures are troublesome and dangerous, and therefore ought to be attended to in time. When a rupture is re- ducible, return the protruded parts to their original cavity, by gently pressing the projecting tumour, which can be best effected when the patient is lying on his back, with the legs bent, so that the knees may be erect; an attitude which he should always preserve as much as possible. An injection should be given made of gruel,