BLO BLO 71 sanguinaria in vinegar most effica- cious. They effectually cleansed the throat of viscid secretion, and afforded much comfort to the suf- fering patients, allaying all irrita- tion. Rheumatism has been treated by Professors Smith and Ives, in the acute form, with the tincture or decoction, given till its opera- tion upon the skin and system generally becomes manifest. Very many other physicians speak of its use in the chronic form. I have cured some cases of chronic rheu- matism by the tincture and com- i pound powder. In one, a female of 29, the subject of leucorrhoea and rheumatism, all the pains dis- appeared in a fortnight, and even the leucorrhoeal discharge dimin- ished. I Hepatic or Liver Diseases. In the Southern States of America, yellow fever, jaundice, inactivity of the liver, &c. from the nature of the climate, prevails, but the Sangui- naria has been found by Dr. Mac- bride, of Charleston," of utility in torpor of the liver, with colic and yellowness of the skin. Jaundice he submitted to frequent trials of the medicine with advantage. Dr. A. D. Wilson cured a case of en- largement of the liver and spleen in a girl of 16, by the tincture and extract. The evidence of its value in jaundice, is favourable by a host of careful American writers. jLincnorrhcea. It is an emme- nagogue of some importance and power. Indeed, its first known use among the native Indian wo- men was for this purpose. If the atient is plethoric and of full abit, large doses are necessary; and if combined with aloes, shortly before the usual monthly period, it will scarcely or never fail to pro- duce menstruation. Rowder. The usual dose of this as an emetic is from ten to twenty grains suspended in water. It is preferable sometimes to administer it as a pill, to avoid the irritation of the fauces. Dr. Leonard fre- quently combines it with ipecac- uan; the dose is from one to five grains, repeated according to the effect desired. Grain doses will produce a diaphoretic and expecto- rant effect; if given every one or two hours, it will then exert a se- dative action, and reduce the fre- quency of the pulse. Compound Rowder. Powdered Blood-root, two scruples; opium, powdered, one scruple; sulphate of potass, powdered, seven scru- ples. Mix. Dose is from three to fifteen grains. It is probably the least irritating of all the pre- parations. The Poivder of Sanguinaria with Camphor. Take of Sanguinaria powdered, one scruple; powdered camphor, eight grains; powdered cloves, thirty-two grains. Mix. This is used in cold in the head, and proves very efficacious. Infusion of Sanguinaria. San- guinaria bruised, five drachms; boiling water, a pint. Macerate for four hours, and strain. The emetic dose is from half an ounce to an ounce, at short intervals, till its effects are produced. Decoction of Sanguinaria. San- guinaria bruised, six drachms; distilled water, a pint and a half. Boil down to a pint, and strain. Dose same as the infusion. Extract of Sanguinaria. This and the powder, can be obtained of the Medical Botanists. The dose is from an eighth to half a grain per day. It is best to com- mence with a sixteenth, according to the strength of the patient. Tincture of Rlood-root. This, also can be bought. Will prove emetic in a dose of two to four