MUT NEA 2G7 and. mace; and strew over them shred parsley, thyme, and two or three shalots: fry them in butter till half done; add half a pint of gravy, a little juice of lemon, and a piece of butter rubbed in flour ; and simmer the whole very gently five minutes. They should be served instantly, or they will be hard. MUTTON HAM. Choose a fine-grained leg of weather-mutton of 12 or 14 lbs. weight; cut it ham- shape, and hang two days. Then put into a stew-pan, 1 lb. of bay- salt, the same of common salt, 2 ozs. of saltpetre, and J lb. of coarse sugar, all in powder; mix and make it hot; rub well into the ham. Turn it in the liquor every day; at the end of four days put 2 ozs. more of common salt; in twelve days take it out, dry it, and hang it up in wood-smoke a week. To be used the same way as ordinary ham. MUTTON PUDDING.—Sea- son with salt, pepper, and a bit of onion; lay one layer of steaks at the bottom of the dish ; and pour a batter of potatoes boiled and pressed through a colander, and mixed with milk and an egg, over them; then putting the rest of the steaks, and batter, bake it. Batter with flour, instead of po- tatoes, eats well, but requires more egg, and is not so good. MUTTON STEAKS, to broil. —Should be cut from the loin or neck that has been hung; if a neck the bones should not be long. They should be broiled on a clear fire, seasoned when half done, and often turned ; take them up into a very hot dish, rub a bit of butter on each, and serve hot the moment they are done. MUTTON STEAKS, Main- tenon.—Half-fry, and stew while hot, with herbs, crumbs, and sea- soning ; put them in paper imme- diately, and finish on the gridiron. Be careful the paper does not catch ; rub a bit of butter on it first to prevent that. NAILS, growing into the flesh. —Cut a notch in the middle of the nail every time the nail is pared. The disposition to close the notch draws the nail up from the sides. NAILS, to whiten.— Wash them with turpentine, then with soap and water, next with a solution of oxalic acid, and lastly, wash the hands well in warm water. NANKEEN DYE.-Boil equal parts of anatto and common po- tash till dissolved. NARCOTICS. Medicines abating pain, causing sleep, and calming irritation. NASTURTIUMS, to piclcle.— Get them when very young. Steep in salt and water; take them out, and put them into boiling salt and water, and boil a minute. Then pour upon them in the jar the best vinegar with what spices are most agreeable. Cover close. They will be ready in a week. NEAT’S TONGUE, to boil.— “Neat” is an old Saxon word, meaning animals of the ox kind. Soak it during the previous night. Dress it; put it into cold water. It will take 4 or 5 hours. A tongue out of the pickle need not be soak- ed, but it will require nearly the same time. An hour before it is dished up, take it out, and blanch it; boil again till tender. NEAT’S TONGUE, to fricas- see.—Boil the tongue till tender ; then peel and cut into slices; put them into a frying-pan with but- ter, and fry them brown. Pour the butter from the pan, and put in some good gravy, with sweet herbs, onion, garlic, pepper, salt, mace, and a wine-glassful of pi rt wine. Simmer half an hour; take