RAT 346 RAI and the side crust together. The same mode of uniting the paste is to he observed if the sideB are pressed into a tin form, in which the paste must be baked, after it shall be filled and covered ; but in the latter case, the tin should be buttered, and carefully taken off when done enough.; and as the form usually makes the sides of a lighter colour than is proper, the paste should be put into the oven again for a quarter of an hour. With a feather put egg over at first. RAISED FRENCH PIE.— Raise a crust three inches high ; lay in slices of veal, a few mush.- rooms, a few slices of ham, a cut- up chicken, more mushrooms, and a sliced sweet-bread ; season with pepper, salt, and sweet herbs; cover it in, and put it in the oven; it will take about two hours in a moderate oven. When done, pour off the fat, and put six yolks of eggs boiled hard. RAISED PIES, Seasoning for. —Salt, 3 lbs; white pepper, 3 ozs.; cayenne pepper, § oz.; cloves, 2 ozs.; allspice, 2 ozs.; and 1 oz. each of basil, thyme, marjoram, bay leaf, and nutmeg. P ound the spices and herbs by themselves, sift, and mix with the salt, and put a wav in a stoppered bottle. RAISED PUFF CAKES.— Make the richest puff paste ; roll it pretty thick into four or live pieces, all one size; lay one piece on a deep baking dish, upon it pour some good prepared cream, or sweetmeat; then another piece of paste, some cream, or marmalade, and so on, as many as you please , the paste to be the last, in whic make a little hole, which must be tilled with sweetmeat or jelly, when it is well baked; this must be done in a brisk oven, to raise the paste properly : it is done also by bakinD the paste first upon a baking plate, and adding the cream, jelly, or sweetmeat, when it is cold, and finishing after the same manner. RAISIN CAKE.—One cup of flour, two cups of cream, one cup of butter, four eggs, 1 lb. of raisins, cloves, cinnamon, candied lemon, cut extremely fine, and one tea- spoonful of soda. RAISIN CAKE.—Take 1J lb. of light dough, a tea-cupful of sugar, one of butter, three eggs, a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda, 1 lb. of raisins, nutmeg or cinna- mon to the taste ; bake one hour. Let it rise before being baked, RAISIN LOAF.—To 6 lbs. of flour, add 2i lbs. of raisins,. \ oz. of carraway and a few coriander seeds ground, a little cinnamon or clove pepper, and half a pint of barm mixed with cold water ; cut the paste with a knife very well, to make the loaf appear to be fuller of raisins. For a richer loaf, add more fruit, and rub butter in the flour and sugar; bake it a fine brown on the top. RAISIN WINE.—To every gallon of spring-water put 8 lbs. of fresh Smyrnas in a large tub; stir it every day for a month; then press the raisins in a horse-hair bag as dry as possible; put the liquor into a cask; and when it has done hissing, pour in a bottle ot the best brandy; stop it close for twelve months; then rack it on, but without the dregs ; filter them through a bag of flannel of three or four folds ; add the clear to the quantity, and pour one or two quarts of brandy, according to the size of the vessel. Stop it up, and at the end of three years you may either bottle it or drink it from the cask. Raisin wine would be ex- tremely good if made rich of the fruit, and kept long, which im- proves the flavour greatly.