334 PUN PUN PLAINTS.—It is said that the tender shoots of Scotch fir, peeled and eaten fasting early in the morning in the woods, when the weather is dry, has performed many cures of pulmonary com- plaints among the Highlanders in Scotland. PULMONARY SYRUP.. Blood-root, honeset, slippery elm bark, coltsfoot, elecampane, of each 2 ozs.; white root, spikenard root, of each, 4 ozs.; comfrey-root, poplar bark, of each, 1 oz.; lobelia, hore- hound, snake-root, of each, § oz. Pour upon them 2 quarts of boiling water; stir well; add lib. oftreacle, and when cool, 1 quart of Hollands gin.—It is one of the best remedies for asthma, coughs, hoarseness, &c. A table-spoonful every hour; or a wine-glassful three times a day. PUNCH, to make.—Take two lemons, and rub some lumps of sugar over them, till all the yel- low part of the skin has been taken off. Put these lumps into a bowl, and squeeze as much lemon juice to them as is requisite to give suffi- cient acidity. Then add the pro- per quantity of sugar; mix the sugar and juice well together, to which add some boiling water, and mix till the whole be cool. Take rum and brandy, equal quantities, and mix with the above; the quan- tity of spirits according to taste. PUNCH, Royal.—Take half a pint of brandy, a bottle of cham- pagne, the juice of three lemons, and of two Seville oranges, and a quarter of a pint of Martinique, with nearly a quart of strong infu- sion of tea, and sweetened accord- ing to taste. PUNCTUATION is the mak- ing of pauses, by points indica- tive of their length. The Comma is written thus (, ) and represents the shortest pauses in reading, and the smallest divi- sions in writing. Rule 1. In general a simple sen- tence does not admit of any point except the period ; as, True polite- ness has its seat in the heart. Rule 2. The simple members of a compound sentence are separated by a comma; as, Good men are esteemed, and they are happy. He labours assiduously, and he is becoming rich. Rule 3. When two or more words—whether nouns, adjectives, pronouns, verbs, or adverbs—are connected without the conjunction being expressed, the comma sup- plies the place of that word; as, My parents, brothers, and sisters were all present.—But when it is expressed, the comma is omitted; as, Cicero spoke most forcibly and fluently. Rule 4. Absolute, relative, and, generally, all parenthetical and explanatory clauses, are separated from the other parts of a sentence by commas; as, The commander having been shot, the troops became dispirited. Paul, the chief of sin- ners, became the chief apostle. Christianity, though strenuously opposed by infidelity, is destined to triumph. In short, he was a great man. Rule 5. The modifying words and phrases, nay, however, hence, finally, in short, at least, and the like, are usually separated by commas. Rule 6. Words denoting the per- son, or object addressed, are sepa- rated by commas; as, My son, give me thine heart. John, hear what I say. Rule 7. An emphatical repeti- tion, requires a comma; as, Against thee, thee only, have I sinned. Rule 8. When words are placed in opposition to each other, or with some marked variety, they require