46 BAT BAT BATH, BATHING.—See un- der their descriptive Names, as Cold Bath, Warm Bath, Vapour Bath, ifj-c. BATH BUNS.-Take 1 lb. of flour, put it in a dish, and make a hole in the middle, and pour in a dessert spoonful of good yeast; pour upon the yeast half a cupful of warm milk, mix in one-third of the flour, and let it rise an hour. When it has risen, put in 6 ozs. of cold butter, 4 eggs, and a few car- raway seeds ; mix all together with the rest of the flour. Put it in a warm place to rise. Flatten it with the hand on a paste-board. Sift 6 ozs. of loaf sugar, half the size of a pea; sprinkle the particles over the dough; roll together, to mix the sugar; let it rise, in a warm place about 20 minutes. Make in- to buns, and lay on buttered tins; put sugar and 9 or 10 comfits on the tops, sprinkle them with water; bake in a pretty hot oven. A. N. BATH CAKES.—Take six. pounds of flour, three quarters of a pound of butter, and three pounds of raw sugar, rub the butter and sugar well into the flour, after crushing the sugar small; take a little volatile salts dissolved in milk, mix the sugar and milk to- gether, and then put the other things in: roll it thin, and cut it into round cakes with a tin mould, and bake them in a slow oven; they must not be browned much. Some persons prefer them with a few carraway seeds. BATHING the feet and legs in warm water at night.—Excellent for colds, coughs, hoarseness, pains headaches, and fevers. It prevents determination of blood to the head, excites the blood downwards, and promotes perspiration. The pa- tient should go to bed immediately. BATH PIPE.—Take powder- ed white sugar, 16 parts , Italian juice, dissolved in a little water, 2 parts; powdered gum Arabic, 1 part. Make them into a stiff mass with warm water, and roll it into the usual form. BATTER PUDDING.—Rub three spoonfuls of fine flour ex- tremely smooth by degrees into a pint of milk : simmer till it thick- ens ; stir in two ounces of butter : set it to cool; then add the yolks of three eggs; flour a cloth that has been wet, or butter a basin, and put the batter into it; tie it tight, and plunge it into boiling water, the bottom upwards. Boil it an hour and a half, and serve with plain butter. If approved, a little ginger, nutmeg, and lemon- peel may be added. Serve with sweet sauce. BATTER PUDDING WITH MEAT. —Make a batter with flour, milk and eggs; pour a little into the bottom of a pudding-dish; then put seasoned meat of any kind into it, and a little shred * onion; pour the remainder of the batter over it; bake in a slow oven. BATTER, to be used with all sorts of roasting meat.—Melt good butter; put to it three eggs, with the whites well beat up, and warm them together, stirring them con- tinually. With this you may baste any roasting meat, and then sprinkle bread crumbs thereon; and so continue to make a crust as thick as you please. BATTER, for frying Fruit, Vegetables, §c.—Cut four ounces of fresh butter into small pieces, pour on it half a pint of barley water, and when dissolved, add a pint of cold water; mix by degrees with a pound of fine dry flour, and a small pinch of salt. Just before it is used, stir into it the whites of two eggs beaten to a solid froth; use quickly, that the batter may be light. r