PIQ PIQ 313 six pippins in vine leaves covered with water, very gently, that the inside he done without breaking the skins. When soft, skin, and with a tea-spoon take the pulp from the core. Press it through a colander; add two spoonfuls of orange-flower water, three eggs beaten, a glass of rasin wine, a pint of scalded cream, sugar and nut- meg to taste. Lay a thin puff paste at the bottom and sides of the dish : shred very thin lemon- peel as fine as possible, and put it into the dish; likewise lemon, orange, and citron, in small slices, but not so thin as to dissolve in the baking. PIPPIN TARTS.—Pare thin two Seville oranges ; boil the peel tender, and shred it fine; pare and core twenty apples, put them in a stew-pan, and as little water as possible; when half-done add half a pound of sugar, the orange-peel and juice; boil till pretty thick. When cold, put in a shallow dish, or patty-pans lined with paste, to turn out, and be eaten cold. PIQUET, Game of.—Piquet is a very scientific game, and is much played in the clubs in London and Paris. It is played by two persons, with 32 cards, all below the seven being discarded. The ace is the highest in rank, and equal to 11 points; the other cards follow in their common rotation, the court cards and the ten being equal to ten points each, and the others as niany points as they have pips on them. The game consists of 101 points; the players cut for the deal, the lowest being dealer. He gives twelve cards each by two at a time, and the eight cards that re- main must be placed upon the table, and are called the talon or stock. The following are the terms used at piquet:— Capot. — This is a term used when either player makes every trick, for which he scores forty. Cards.—Majority of tricks which reckon ten points. Carte Blanche, means a hand without a court card in the twelve dealt, which counts ten, and takes place of every thing else. Huitieme, eight successive cards of the same suit and counts eighteen points. Pique, is when the elder hand has reckoned thirty in hand, and plays before the other counts one, in which case, instead of thirty points it is called sixty, adding thereto as many points as one got above thirty. Point, the greatest number on the cards of the same suit in hand, after having taken in and reckon- ed by their pips scores for as many points as cards. Quart.—Four cards in sequence of the same suit counting four points; there are five kinds of quarts ; the first called quart-ma- jor, consists of ace, king, queen, and knave ; the second is from the king; the third is from the queen; the fourth from the knave; and the fifth a basse-quart of quart minor, of ten, nine, eight, and seven. Quartoze, the four aces, kings, queens, knaves, or tens, scoring fourteen points. Quint, means five cards of the same suit in sequences, and counts fifteen points ; there are four sorts of quints ; a quint-major, of ace, king, queen, knave, and ten; down to knave, ten, nine, eight, and seven, which is called a quint- minor. Repique, signifies when one of the players counts thirty or more in hand before his opponent attains one ; then it is called ninety, reck- oning as many above ninety as were gained above thirty.