10 ABS ACT ABSORBENTS, OR ANTI- ACIDS,—Are medicines adminis- tered to counteract acidity in the stomach or intestinal canal. In most cases, emetics and aperients are given previous to their being taken; they are; Ammonia, car- bonate of, in doses from 5 grains to 1 scruple; Ammonia, liquor of, 10 to 20 drops; Ammonia, aromatic spirit of, 20 to 30 drops; Lime water, 2 ounces to half a pint; Magnesia calcined, 20 to 10 grains; Magnesia, carbonate of, half to 2 drachms; Potass, cai'bonate of, 10 grains to half a drachm ; Potass, solution of, 10 drops to half a drachm! Soda, carbonate of, 10 grains to half a drachm; Soda water, half a pint. ABSTINENCE.—Disease may oft be cured by abstinence from ail food, especially if the disorders have been procured by luxurious living and repletion. The latter overtaxes nature, and it rebels against such treatment. Indiges- tion, giddiness, headache, mental depression, &c., are often the effects of greediness in meat and drink. Omitting one, two, or three meals, allows the system to rest, to regain strength, and allows the clogged organs to dispose of their burdens. The practice of drug taking to cleanse the stomach, though it may give the needed relief, always weakens the system, while absti- nence secures the good result, and yet does no injury. Said a young gentleman to a distinguished physician of Phila- delphia,—‘ Doctor, what do you do for yourself when you have head- ache, or other slight attack p” “Go without my dinner,” was the re- ly. “Well, if that will not do, ow do you proceed then P” “Go without my supper,” was the an- swer. “ But if that does not cure you, what thenP” “ Go without my breakfast. We physicians seldom take medicines ourselves, or use them in our families, for ive know that starving is better, but we cannot make our patients believe it.” Hippocrates (thefather of medi- cine) said wisely, that if a man eats sparingly and drinks little, he is nearly certain of bringing no disease upon himself, and that a moderate supply of food nourishes the body best. The quantity of food which nature really requires for her support is small, and he that eats and drinks moderately at each meal, stands fair to enjoy sprightliness, vivacity, and free- dom of spirits. Bodies governed by temperance and regularity are rarely hurt by melancholy, or any other affection of the mind. To have a clear head, we must have a clean stomach; for thisis the grand reservoir in which the food is first deposited, and thence its nutritive power is distributed throughout all parts of the body. ACETOUS CATAPLASM, on POULTICE.—This is made with vinegar and bran only, or with the addition of oatmeal', or bread crumbs. It is a simple poultice, but very useful for sprains and bruises. As it becomes dry, it should be moistened with vinegar. ACHES AND PAINS.—Rub a little opodeldoc upon the part affected, two or three times a day and wear a flannel upon it; or mix Camphorated Spirit, Ammonia, sweet oil, and laudanum: (of the last the least), rub the part well, and then apply a cloth well sat- urated with the mixture, and cover with a bandage. If this does not give relief, take twenty drops of Volatile Tincture of Guiacum, every night and morning. ACID DROPS.—Boil 1 lb. of sugar in a cupful of water over a