RIC 359 RIC RICE-GLUE, or CEMENT.— Mix rice-flour with water, the same as in making paste, (See Paste) and gently simmer over the fire till it boils. It is used in ma- king ornaments, and for joining paper and cardboard. RICE MILK.—Put 1 lb. of Carolina rice into a pan with 2 ozs. of butter, two quarts of water, a bit of cinnamon or lemon-peel, and salt; boil very gently until the rice is soft; about one hour and a quar- ter ; then add three pints of milk and an egg well beaten; stir it over the fire ten minutes longer, and sweeten it with a little honey or sugar, and it will produce an ex- cellent meal for five or six persons. RICE MILK, ground.—Boil one spoonful of ground-rice, rub- bed down smooth, with three half- pints of milk, a bit of cinnamon, lemon-peel, and nutmeg. Sweeten when nearly done. RICE PANCAKES.—Cream, 1 quart; ground rice, 3 or 4 spoon- fuls ; stir it on a slow fire till of a roper thickness; stir in 1- lb. of utter and a nutmeg grated; then pour it out into an earthen pan; when cold, stir in four spoonfuls of flour, a little salt, some sugar, nine eggs well beaten, and, if you like, the squeeze of a lemon. RICE PASTE for fruits, $c. —Boil \ lb. of ground rice in the smallest quantity of water, strain from it all the moisture; beat | oz. of butter and one egg well, and it will form an excellent paste for tarts, &c. RICE PUDDING, baked.— Swell the rice with a little milk in the oyen or over the fire; then add milk, egg, sugar, allspice, and lemon peel. Bake in a deep dish. RICE PUDDING, to boil.— Boil £ lb. of rice ; take it up, and stir in \ lb. of butter, or milk and cream ; grate nutmeg and -sugar according to taste; tie it up tight, and boil it another hour; when done, pour melted butter over it. Currants may be added, if you like. RICE PUDDING, plain.— Wash and pick some rice; throw among it some pimento finely pounded, but not much; tie the rice in a cloth and leave plenty of room for it to swell. When done, eat it with butter and sugar, or milk. Put lemon peel if you please. It is very good without spice, and eaten with salt and butter. Another.—Put into a very deep pan half a pound of rice washed and picked; two ounces of butter, four ounces of sugar, a few allspice pounded, and two quarts of milk. Less butter will do, or some suet. Bake in a slow oven. RICE PUDDING, a rich one. —Boil j lb. of rice in water, with a bit of salt, till quite tender; drain it dry ; mix it with the yolks and whites of four eggs, a quarter of a pint of cream, with 2 ozs. of fresh butter melted in the latter; 4 ozs. of beef suet or marrow, or veal suet taken from a fillet of veal, finely shred, f lb. of currants, two spoonfuls of brandy, one of peach- water, or ratafia, nutmeg, and a grated lemon peel. When well mixed, put a paste round the edge, and fill the dish. Slices of candied orange, lemon, and citron, if ap- proved . Bake in a moderate oven. RICE PUDDING, with fruit. —Swell the rice with a very little milk over the fire ; then mix fruit of any kind with it (currants, gooseberries, scalded, pared, and quartered apples, raisins, or black currants): put one egg into the rice to bind it; boil it well, and serve with sugar. RICE SMALL PUDDINGS. —Wash two large spoonfuls of rice, and simmer it with half a