EYE 153 ERY Leave out the superfluous tvords printed in Italics.:— She fell down upon her knees... More than you think for Who has got my inkstand What are you doing of.... .Missing his way, lie returned back You may en- ter in Her conduct was ap- proved of..... I cannot by no means allow it The l'ellow again repeated the assertion Such conduct admits of no excuse. .... I can do it equally as well as he They combined together, and covered it over Nobody else As soon as ever I have not had no dinner yet Please give me both of those books Our cat caught a great big rat.... It is a wonderful phenomenon Has Alfred returned back from his journey ?.... It is four months ago since I had a letter The ver- dant green field It is very true. ERUPTIONS on the FACE. —After washing, the eruptions, foment with camphor-spirit, two or three times per day. ERYSIPELAS—Dr. Baumann employs Collodion in all cases, and has found it, even in several cases of Erysipelas of the face, and in one case of phlegmonous Ery- sipelas of the thigh, highly useful. He first gives an emetic, and then daily applies Collodion to the parts. The recovery is rapid, and no ill consequences have been observed. Bathing the legs and feet in warm water is very serviceable. Some recommend the part to be covered with meal, or flour, or yeast. Some persons recommend a poultice of cranberies powdered fine, in a raw state. A decoction of elder-leaves will promote perspiration ; applying to the part a cloth dipped in lime- water. Or take gentle purgatives, as senna, manna, cream of tartar, with a little fennel seed, to prevent griping. The vapour bath is very beneficial. The Marshmallow oint- ment is very serviceable; also the Elder ointment. Wash the parts oft with the following liquid or tincture:—Infuse 1 or. of celandine leaves in a pint of whiskey a few hours. Apply it when there is much itching. But the best ap- plication is a poultice made of slip- pery elm bark. Mix the bark with milk, buttermilk, or cream. Should there be ulceration, add brewer's yeast to the poultice. The diet should be cool and nourishing. Dr. Beach referring to a case, says, “ The patient was so bad that he had to sit in a chair five or six months, day and night,” and the most eminent allopathic doc- ters could do him no good. “ I used the pulverized willow bark, commonly called pussy willow; it was mixed with cream, under which it grew better; it sloughed in several places nearly to the bone. When the pain almost subsided, I applied the slippery-elm bark and milk, and then the Black Salve, which effected a cure in a few months.” ESPRIT DE ROSE.—Otto of roses, f oz.; Spirits of wine, 1 pint; mix, and bottle. Shako frequently. Put the bottle in a warm bath till it is warm. Take out and shake up till cold. If not bright, filter rapidly through fine linen. ESSENCES, &c., To extract from wood, barks, roots, herbs, §c. —Take balm, mint, sage, or any thing you please; put into a bottle, and pour upon them a spoonful of ether; keep in a cool place a few hours, and then fill the bottle with cold water; the essential oil will swim on the surface, which may be easily separated. EYERTON TOFFEE.-Fine sugar, 1 lb.; butter, 2 oz.; water,