CON CON 122 the quality of the blood. Remove all the causes which have produ- ced this disease, as obstructed per- spiration, evacuations, and secre- tions, a cold and damp residence, insufficient warmth and clothing, intemperance, venery, and self- pollution ; the last habit is a most prolific cause of consumption. In the first stage of consump- tion, special attention must be given to the skin and bowels, by adopting the vapour bath, stimu- lating liniments, (See Stimulating Liniment) and also injections, to equalize the circulation, reduce all feverish symptoms, and prevent night sweats. A medicated vapour bath is the best; which see. Put the patient to bed, and place to the feet and sides hot bricks wrap- ped in cloths dipped in vinegar, and half wrung out, and give an emetic; repeat this process once or twice a week, and sponge morn- ing and evening with the afore- named Liniment, and occasionally in the morning with a decoction of poplar bark. Rub very dry with a towel. This will prevent night sweats. To improve the appetite, if bad, give the tonic bitters, (see Tonic Bitters). If the patient is constipated, give an injection of half a pint of warm water, or thin gruel, with a little butter, or sweet oil, or castor oil, adding one or two teaspoonfuls of tincture of myrrh. Sometimes a lax state of the Row- els prevails; in that case give from 10 to 15 drops of laudanum; or mix finely pulverized charcoal, 2 parts, and magnesia, 1 part; a table-spoonful occasionally, or give the Neutralizing Mixture, (which see.) Let the Cough, Syrup be taken two or three times a day, to pro- mote expectoration, ease pain, &c. Let the patient’s diet be light, nourishing, and easy of digestion. In consumption, the celebrated Dr. Beach, of America, highly ex- tols the use of Sanguinaria Cana- densis, or Blood-root. It is a seda- tive and alterative of great power; in reducing the pulsation it is superior to digitalis, and it does not debiliate at all. It promotes the secretions of the liver, and therefore promotes the appetite; it is a powerful tonic, and when it is taken properly nothing tends more to check morbific influence, to promote the secretions, appetite, and digestion, and to improve the muscular power, and facial appear- ance. In restraining spitting of blood, and especially in females where the menses are substituted by the effusion of blood from the lungs, no medicine is so efficacious as blood-root, (which see.) As to the benefit to be derived from cod liver oil, the matter is dubious. It is feeding, but not antiseptic. It may prevent, to some extent, emaciation; but to prevent the formation of tubercles, and, consequently, decay, it is a matter of doubt. Much benefit may be derived from gentle emetics, tonics, the Irritating Blaster, (which see); and for pain in the side the Rheumatic Liquid. Also constant fresh air in a genial at- mosphere. The following syrup is atine expectorant and alterative; —Blood-root, 4 ozs.; bruise and simmer in a quart of water, down to a pint nearly; add 1 lb of sugar; simmer again to form a syrup; and | oz. of solution of iodide of iron; fake a teaspoonful two or three times a day. Many have derived much bene- fit from Tar-water, and some have been completely cured by it. “ In Dr. John William's Legacy to the World,” this recipe is given,— common tar, a table-spoonful; honey, three table-spoonfuls; three yolks of hen’s eggs; wine, half a