229 LIN LEN liquors to the juice of six China oranges, and twelve lemons; stir the whole well, and run it through a jelly-bag till clear. Then add a little orange-water, if you like the flavour, and, if wanted, more su- gar. It will keep well if corked. tg^Any of the above may be made effervescing by taking nearly half a tumbler of water, and dissolvtng in it 20 grains of car- bonate of soda, and mixing with it the same quantity of lemonade. LEMONADE POWDERS.— Citric acid 1 oz.; carbonate of soda, 1J oz.; 4 ozs. of powdered sugar. This fine dry lemonade will keep well. Powdered ginger, nut- meg, or cinnamon may be added, ad libitum. Put as much as you like into cold water. Gu. LEMONADE, superior.—Pare as many lemons as you are likely to want; on the peels pour hot water, but more juice will be neces- sary than you need use the peels for. While infusing, boil sugar and water to a good syrup with the white of an egg whipt up; when it boils, pour a little cold water into it; set it on again, and when it boils up take off, and set- tle. Skim, and pour it clear from the sediment to the infusion, and the lemon juice, stir and taste it, and add as much more water as will make a very rich lemonade. Wet a jelly-bag, and squeeze it dry, then strain the liquor, which will be uncommonly fine. LENITIVE ELECTUARY.- Senna, finely powdered, 8 ozs.; powdered coriander seed, 4 ozs.; tamarinds and prunes, of each, 1 lb.; figs, 1 lb. ; mix the pulps and powders together, and with simple syrup, make into an electu- ary. A teaspoonful to be taken' two or three times a day. It is an agreeable laxative for children, fe- males, and delicate persons.—If a little sulphur be added, it will be a sovereign remedy for PILES. LENT POTATOES.—Beat 4 ozs. of almonds, and 3 ozs. of tho bitter; blanch, and add a little orange flower water; butter, 8 ozs.; 4 eggs well beaten and strained ; half a glass of raisin wine, and su- gar to taste; beat all till very smooth, and grate in 3 nice bis- cuits, (Savoy). Make into balls with a little flour, the size of a chestnut; throw them into a stew- pan of lard, and boil them in it to a yellow brown; drain; serve with sweet sauce. LIGHTNING STROKE. — Dash cold water over the head and face, apply friction to the spine with strong liniment, and mustard poultices to the feet. LIME LINIMENT.—Linseed or common olive oil and lime-water, equal parts, to be well shaken be- fore using, is good for scrofulous or other sores, and still more for burns and scalds. LIME WATER.—Put unslak- ed lime into a tub; cover it with pure water; stir often for one day ; then strain off the water, and keep for use. It is an anti-acid tonic, kills worms, and frees the bowels from slimy and morbific matter. It pro- motes digestion; it is valuable in looseness, scrofula, diabetes, and whites. Mixed with a decoction of Peruvian bark, it wonderfully strengthens the debilitated, and those threatened with atrophy. LINEAL MEASURE. 12 Inches make.. .. 1 Foot. 3 Feet, or 36 inches . 1 Yard. 2 Yards, or six feet . 1 Fathom 5| Yds., or 16| ft., 1 Rod, Pole, or Perch. LINEN, to preserve.—Secure it from damp when you put it by; and also from insects by putting amongst it bags of lavender, roses, thyme, cedar shavings, &c.