RAS RAS 348 siovo; then add the juice to the sugar, till it makes a thicltish paste; dress it on fine cap paper, and place it on the stove to dry. RASPBERRY DUMPLINGS. ■—Make a puff paste, and roll it out; spread raspberry jam, and make it into dumplings; boil them an hour ; pour melted butter into a dish, and strew grated sugar. RASPBERRY FRITTERS. —Grate two Naples biscuits; pour over them a glass of boiling cream; when it is almost cold, beat the yolks of four eggs to a strong froth; beat the biscuits a little; then beat both together very much. Add 2 ozs. of sugar, and as much raspberi'y juice as will make it a pretty pink colour, and give it a proper sharpness : drop them into a pan of boiling lard, the size of a walnut. When dish- ed up, stick bits of citron in some, and blanched almonds, cut length- ways in others. Lay round them green and yellow sweetmeats. RASPBERRY JAM.—Weigh ■ equal quantities of fruit and sugar, put the former into a preserving pan, boil and break it, stir con- stantly, and let it boil very quickly; when most of tlie juice is wasted add the sugar, and simmer, skim half an hour. This way the jam is greatly superior in colour and flavour to that which is made by putting the sugar in first.—It is best to put the juice of the rasp- berry through a hair sieve, to keep out the seeds. Some put 1 lb. of sugar to a pint of pulp. RASPBERRY JELLY.-Take six quarts of ripe raspberries and one of ripe currants, press out the juice and strain it, to a pint of ‘juice add 1 lb. of loaf sugar, and finish as other jellies. RASPBERRY PASTE.-Put any quantity of raspberries into a hair sieve; press their juice into a preserving pan, put it on the fire, and stir constantly till of a thick consistence. To each lb. of pulp, add 1 lb of loaf sugar, clarified, and boiled to the blow. Let it boil a minute or two. Pour into glasses, or upon plates. It is a delicious confectionery. RASPBERRIES, to preserve. —Take raspberries that are not too ripe, and put them to their weight in sugar, with a little water. Boil softly, and do not break them; when they are clear, take them up, and boil the syrup till it be thick enough; then put them in again, and when they are cold, put them in glasses or jars. RASPBERRY SANDWICH. —Take | lb. of flour, \ lb. of sifted sugar, | lb. of butter, three eggs, and 2 ozs. of ground rice; mix very well first without the flour ; then add it gradually. Spread it in oblong pieces on buttered paper, about | inch thick; on the first piece put a layer of raspberry pre- serve or jam ; lay another piece of paste on the top of the preserves ; then preserves again, and lastly a layer of paste. Bake in a brisk oven, and when wanted, cut like sandwiches. RASPBERRY TART.—Roll out some thin paste, and lay it in a dish or patty-pan. Put in the raspberries, strew over them line sugar, cover the dish with a fine crust, and bake it. When done, cut it open, and put in warm half a pint of cream, the yolks of two or three eggs well beaten, and a little sugar. Replace it in tlio oven for five or six minutos and 86RASPBERRY TOURTE. — The difference between tarts and tourtes is, that the first are always covered with paste, whilst the lat- ter are sent to table open, or wit n a slight network, or trellis of paste