BEE 57 BEE seasoning: must be put in than if intended to be eaten hot. An on- ion, finely sliced, is a great im- provement to it. Hu. BEEF-STEAK PIE.—Prepare the steaks as stated under Beef- steaks, and when seasoned and rolled with fat in each, put them in a dish with puif paste round the edges; put a little water in the dish, and cover it with a good BEEF-STEAK PUDDING.— Take some fine rump steaks ; roll them with fat between; and if you approve a little shred onion. Lay a paste of suet in a basin, and put in the chopped steaks; cover the basin with a suet paste, and pinch the ed- ges to keep the gravy in. Cover with a cloth tied close, let the pud- ding boil slowly for two hours. Ru. BEEF-STEAK PUDDING, halced.—Make a batter of milk, two eggs and flour, or, which is much better, potatoes boiled and mashed through a colander; lay a little of it at the bottom of the dish ; then put in the steaks very well sea- soned ; pour the remainder of the batter over them, and bake it. Ru. BEEF-STEAK, Stewed.—Peel and chop two Spanish onions, cut into small parts four pickled wal- nuts, and put them at the bottom ofastewpan; add a tea-cupful of mushroom ketchup, two teaspoon- fuls of walnut ditto, one of shalot, one of Chile vinegar, and a lump of butter. Let the rump-steak be cut about three quarters of an inch thick, and beat it flat with a rolling- pin, place the meat on the top of the onions, &c., let it stew for one hour and a half, turning it every twenty minutes. Ten minutes be- fore serving up, throw in a dozen oysters with the liquor strained. BEEF SOUP.—See Soup and Bouille, page 397. BEEI STOCK.—Cutapieceof good beef into pieces, and boil with water just to cover it. Keep skim- ming, and add parsley, thyme, carrot, onion, turnip, celery, and a little salt; boil till the meat is tender, and strain it fine. BEEF TEA.—Cut a pound of fleshy beef in thin slices; simmer with a quart of water twenty min- utes, after it has once boiled, and been skimmed. Season, if ap- proved. Ru. BEER. See Ale. BEER, Excellent Table.—On three bushels of malt pour of hot water the third of the quantity you are to use, which is to be thirty-nine gallons. Coverit warm half an hour, then mash, and let it stand two hours and a half more, then set it to drain. When dry, add half the remaining water, mash, and let it stand half anhour, run that into another tub, and pour the rest of the water on the malt, stir it well, and cover it, letting it infuse a full hour. Run that oif, and mix all together. A pound and a half of hops should be in- fused in water, and be put into the tub for the first running. Boil the hops with the wort an hour from the time it first boils. Strain off and cool. If the whole be not cool enough that day to add the yeast, a pail or two of wort may be prepared, and a quart of yeast put to it over night. Before tunning, all the wort should be added together, and thoroughly mixed with the lade-pail. When the wort ceases to work, put a bit of paper on the bung-hole for three days, when it may be safely fastened close. In four weeks the the beer will be fit for drinking. Note. Servants should be directed to put a cork into every barrel as soon as the tap is taken out, and to fasten in the vent-peg, the ah caus- ing casks to become musty.