CHI cm 109 in ten minutes, add a lump of but- ter. When half stewed, take them out, and cool. Reserve the gravy to serve with the pudding. Then take a pound of flour, a quart of milk, four eggs, well beaten, and salt. This will form the batter. Put a layer of chicken in a dish, and pom- over it a portion of the batter, and so alternately till the dish is full. Bake it hrown. Put an egg to the gravy preserved; give it a boil, and put in a sauce- boat to serve with the pudding. CHICKENS, boiled—Fasten the wings and legs to the body by thread tied round. Steep them in skim milk two hours. Then put them in cold water, and boil over a slow fire. Skim clean. Serve with white sauce or melted but- ter sauce, or parsley and butter. —Or melt 1 oz. of butter in a cup- ful of milk; add to it the yolk of an egg beat up with a little flour and cream; heat over the fire, stirring well. CHICKENS, to broil Slit down the back, and season with pepper and salt; put them be- fore a clear fire, at a distance, the inside next the fire, till half- done; turn them, and mind the fleshy side does not bum, rasp bread over it, and nicely brown. Let the sauce be good gravy, with mushrooms; garnish with lemon, and the livers broiled, the gizzards cut, slashed, and broiled with pepper. Or, take a handful of sorrel, dip it in boiling water; drain; have ready half a pint of good gravy, a shallot chopped fine, and boiled parsley, thickened with a piece of butter rolled in flour; add a glass of port; lay the sorrel round the fowls ; pour the sauce over them; garnish with lemons. CHICKENS, to braise.—Bone them and fill them with forcemeat; lay the bones and any other poul- try trimmings into a stewpan, and the chickens on them. Add a few onions, herbs, mace, a pint of stock, and a glass or two of sherry. Co- ver the chickens with slices of ba- con, and white pepper; cover, and boil slowly two hours. Take up, strain, skim off the fat; then boil very quick to a glaze, and do the chickens over it with a brash. Serve with a hrown fricassee of mushrooms. CHICKENS to fatten quickly. —Make a paste with ground rice scald with milk, mixed with trea- cle. Give it warm in the day- time as much as they will eat, leaving none. It fattens in a short time. CHICKENS, to fricassee. Skin and cut in Small pieces; wash in warm water, and dry; season with pepper and salt; put into a stew-pan with water, and a large piece of butter, a little lemon, a glass of white wine, one anchovy, mace and nutmeg, an onion stuck with cloves, a bunch of lemon thyme, and sweet marjoram. Stew till the chickens are tender; then dish. Thicken the gravy with flour and butter; strain it; beat the yolks of three eggs in a large cupful of cream, and put it in the gravy; shake over the fire; do not boil, pour over the chickens. CHICKENS to roast.—Pluck carefully, draw and trass them, and put them to a good fire ; singe, dust, and baste them with, butter. Cover the breast with a sheet of buttered paper; remove it ten minutes before it is enough, that it may brown. A chicken will take 15 or 20 minutes. Serve with butter and parsley. CHILBLAINS.—To cure chil- blains, simply bathe the parts af- fected in the water in which pota- toes have been boiled, as hot as can