415 THU THO TEETH, Loose, to fasten. Dissolve § oz. of myrrh in half a pint of port wine, and 2 ozs. of oil of almonds. Mix, and wash the mouth every morning-.—Chew a little catechu, or kino, or alum occasionally. TENCH, to fry.—Scale, gut and well wash. Dry them, and lay them separately on a board be- fore the fire, after dusting some flour over them. Fry them with fresh dripping to a fine colour. Serve with crimp parsley, and plain butter, tfff Tench may be cooked the same as Trout, which see. TESTICLES, Cancer in.—The same treatment as in Cancer, which see. TESTICLES, Inflammation of. The part is much pained and swol- len, the pain extending along the spermatic cord ; there are sympto- matic pains in the loins, &c. Adopt a recumbent posture. Suspend the part by means of a bag truss. Foment with refriger- ants, washes, and apply poultices, and the stramonium ointment, or ointment made of burnt sponge, which ismade by burning sponge in a close vessel; powder it, mix with lard, and apply it. Poultices of bread and milk, softened with oil may be applied when the patient is in bed. The discutient oint- ment applied will be of great use. The stramonium poultice is high- ly recommended. The food must be light, and the drink diluting. Wine, spirits, and beer must be avoided. Aperi- ents should be occasionally given, and the general health established’ THOMPSON’S HOT DROPS —Gum myrrh, 2 ozs.; cayenne pepper, 1| drachm; spirit of wine, 1 pint. Put in a bottle, and shake several times a day for a week, lake from a teaspoonful in a little warm tea. These drops remove pain, and prevent mortification, in- ternally and externally. It is a fine remedy for rheumatism. It will relieve the headache by taking a dose, bathing the head with it, and snuffing it up the nose. It is good for bruises, sprains, swollen joints, and old sores, &c., &c. THRUSH.—An affection pecu- liar to young children, during the period of teething. It is an affec- tion of the mucous membrane of the mouth. It appears in small white ulcers up on the tongue, gums, and around the mouth. If not mild it may extend to the whole of the alimentary canal, from the mouth down to the anus, at- tended with flatulency, purgings, &c. . In this severe form it often terminates fatally. Sometimes the inside of the mouth becomes so raw and sore, as to make it painful to take nourishment. Elderly people, and persons with debilitated con- stitutions, are liable to this com- plaint. Attention should be paid to the state of the general system, espe- cially to the stomach and bowels. An emetic is often of great service. Give also a gentle aperient. Small doses of magnesia, and the use of lime water will be of great service in removing the acid Loin the sto- mach and bowels. The Neutral- izing Mixture diluted may be given till the bowels are acted upon. Make a decoction of sage and hyssop, add a little borax, and wash the affected parts with it. Let it be sweetened. A solution of burnt alum has been recom- mended ; or apply it pulverised. THUNDER STORMS.— During those storms, avoid trees, and elevated objects of every kind. If the flash is instantly followed by thunder, it indicates that the electric fluid is very near, and then