235 LOO LOO pus was considerably attenuated. To complete the evidence, ho sus- pended the use of the pomatum for a few hours only, when the offen- sive emanations immediately re- commenced, and the purulent se- cretion became again abundant. Logwood causes gangrene to dis- appear as if by enchantment, especially that of hospitals. He has also found it efficacious in pre- venting or stopping erysipelas, which often occurs after amputa- tion, or the infliction of other wounds, and is a source of con- stant anxiety to the surgeon. It entirely removes the putridity of ulcerous cancers, emitting charac- teristic effluvia, and in short, of the most foetid sores. This sub- stance also possesses the advantage of being capable of mixture with hoemostatic medicines, (designed to arrest spitting of blood,. &c.,) such as ergotine, perchloride of iron, persulphate of iron, &c.; it may also be used as a powder and a lotion. The extract of logwood, which is much used in dyeing, and is very cheap, is only soluble in warm water.—See liobinson’s Herbal. LOO. Amongst all round games Loo deservedly occupies the most prominent position; and be- ing the most interesting, is gener- ally played. It is a game so gen- erally known as to require little comment; and so easily learnt, that a thorough knowledge of the game may be obtained in half an hour’s play. There are two kinds of Loo, “limited Loo,” in which the per- son looed has to pay a certain amount as previously agreed to, and “unlimited Loo,” in which the party looed pays whatever amount may be on the table at the time he was looed. The method of playing, however, is precisely the same in both games, and is as follows:— The whole pack of cards are used, as at whist, and rank in the_ same order; the deal is cut for, and when decided, the dealer pays a stake previously agreed upon: ho then gives three cards (one at a time,) to each person playing ; he also deals a spare hand called “miss,” which the elder hand has the option of taking if his own cards do not suit him; each per- son looks at his cards in rotation, beginning with the elder hand and finishing with the dealer;, and each in his turn may take miss (so long as she remains untaken), if his own cards do not please him. It is optional whether you stand your own hand or not; but if you take “miss,” you are compelled to stand: if there is only one player standing before him, the dealer is compelled to stand. Laws of the Game.•—1. If you hold your trumps or more in your hand, lead one; if only two play- ers, lead the highest. 2. If you hold ace of trumps, you must lead it, but if not leader, you are not compelled to play it unless you can head the trick otherwise. 3. If you cannot follow suit, you must play a trump if you have one. 4. After taking a trick you must play a trump. 5. The cards after dealing must be taken up in rotation by the play- ers, and no one to look at his cards until the one before him has de- clared whether he stands or not. 6. The dealer must not look at his cards until he has asked each player if he stands; and if there is but one player, he is forced to stand. 7. No one must play a card out of his regular turn, under penalty of being looed. 8. If the dealer makes a misdeal