55 BEE BEE a fine large steak from a rump that has heen well hung, or it will do from any tender part; heat it, and season with butter, pepper, salt, clove, and onion; lay it in a disli that has a cover to fit quite close, and set in the oven with water. In two or three hours, it will be quite tender, and then serve with its own gravy. BEEF, Steieed Hump.—Wash it well; and season with pepper, cayenne, salt, allspice, cloves, and mace, in fine powder. Bind it up tight, and lay it in a pot that will just hold it. Fry three large onions sliced, and put them to it, with three carrots, two turnips, a shalot, four cloves, a blade of mace, and some celery. Cover the meat with good beef-broth, or weak gravy. Simmer it very gently for several hours, till quite ten- der. Clear off the fat, and add to the gravy half a pint of port wine, a glass of vinegar, and a large spoonful of ketchup ; simmer half an hour, and serve in a deep dish. Half a pint of table- beer may be added. The herbs to be used should be parsley, thyme, basil, savoury, marjoram, penny- royal, and chives. Garnish with carrots, turnips, or truffles and morels, or pickles of different colours, cut small, and laid in little heaps separate; chop- ped parsley, chives, beet-root, &c. If, when done, the gravy is too much to fill the dish, take only a part to season for serving, but the less water the better; and to in- crease the richness add a few beef- bones and shanks of mutton in stewing.—A spoonful or two of made mustard is a great improve- ment to the gravy. Rump roasted is excellent; but in the country it is generally sold whole with the edge bone, or cut across instead of lengthways. Another way.—Half roast it; then put it into a large pot with three pints of water, one of small beer, one of port wine, some salt, three or four spoonfuls of vinegar, two of ketchup, a bunch of sweet herbs-of various kinds (such as burnet, tarragon, parsley, thyme, basil, savoury, pennyroyal, mar- joram, knotted morjoram, and a leaf or two of sage,) some onions, cloves, and cayenne; cover it close, and simmer till tender. When done lay it into a deep dish, set it over hot water, and cover it close. Skim the gravy; put in a few piclded mushrooms, truffles, mo- rels, and oysters if agreeable, but it is good without; thicken the gravy with flour and butter, and heat it with the above, and pour over the beef. Forcemeat balls of veal, anchovies, bacon, suets, herbs, spices, bread, and eggs, to bind, are a great improve- ment. BEEF, boiled.—Boil the thick end of a brisket of beef, some car- rots, turnips cut in small balls, and some celery, for 1 wo hours. Let it simmer for six hours longer, taking care to fill up the pot as the water decreases. An hour before the meat is done, take out as much bioth as will fill your soup dish, and boil in it turnips and carrots, cut in small pieces, with some celery, and sea- son it with salt and pepper; serve the beef in one dish, and the soup in another. Add toasted bread to the soup. Hu. BEEF GRAVY.—Accordingto the quantity wanted, cut slices of lean gravy beef, which place in a stew-pan upon a slice of ham or lean bacon, sliced onions, a carrot, two or three cloves, and a head of celery; add a little good fat broth, and a pint of water; put on a slow fire for about half an hour, stirring it a few times. Then add boiling