MUT MUT 264 a bundle of sweet herbs; grate a penny loaf, half a lemon, nutmeg, pepper and salt to your taste; make them into a force-meat, with three eggs, and a large glass of port wine; fill up the skin with the forcemeat; but leave the bone and shank in their places, and it will appear like a whole leg; lay it in an earthen dish, with a pint of port wine under it, and put it in the oven; it will take two hours and a half; when it comes out, take off all the fat; strain the gravy over the mutton; surround it with hard yolks of eggs, and pickled mush- rooms. Garnish with pickles. MUTTON,Kebobbcd.—Take all the fat out of a loin of mutton, on the outside also if too fat, and re- move the skin. Joint it at every one; mix a small nutmeg grated with a little salt and pepper,crumbs and herbs ; dip the steaks into the yolks of three eggs, and sprinkle the above mixture all over them. Then place the steaks together as they were before they were cut asunder, tie them and fasten them on a small spit. Roast them at a quick fire; set a dish under, and baste them with a good piece of butter, and the gravy of the meat; but throw some more of the above seasoning over. When enough, take up, and lay it in a dish ; have half a pint of good gravy ready be- sides that in the dish ; and put in- to it two spoonfuls of ketchup, and rub down a tea-spoonful of flour with it; give this a boil, and pour it over the mutton, but first skim off the fat well. Mind to keep the meat hot till the gravy is quite ready. MUTTON, Loin of.—Roasted ; if cut lengthways as a saddle, some think it cuts better. Or for steaks, pies, or broth. MUTTON, a la Francois. — Take away the fat from loin cut- lets; dredge them a little with pepper on both sides, and plenti- fully with flour; heat in a sauce- pan three table-spoonfuls of water; put the cutlets in one flat layer at the bottom when the water begins to boil; throw in a little salt when they begin to stew, and a bit of butter. Let them simmer as gent- ly as possible, the pan raised above the fire, for 1.' hour. Turn the cutlets when half done; and put to them a little gravy, if they do not yield sufficient themselves.— It is a fine relish, very nutritious, and very suitable for invalids. MUTTON, Fillet of, braised.— Take off the chump end of the loin, butter some paper, and put over it, and then a paste as for venison, roast it two hours. Do not let it be the least brown. Have ready some French beans boiled and drained on a sieve; and while the mutton is being glazed, give them one heat up in gravy, and lay them on the dish with the meat over them. MUTTON, Rumps and kidney to dress.—Stew six rumps in some good mutton gravy half an hour; take up, and let them stand to cool. Clear the gravy from the fat; and put into it 4 ozs. of boil- ed rice, an onion stuck with cloves, till the rice is thick. Wash the rumps with yolks of eggs well beaten; and strew over them crumbs of bread, a little pepper and salt, chopped parsley, and thyme, and grated lemon-peel, fry in butter to a fine brown. While the rump is stewing, lard the kidneys with bacon, and put them to roast in a Dutch oven. When the rumps are fried, the grease must be drained before they are put on the dish, and the pan being cleared likewise from the fat, warm the rice in it. Lay the lat- ter on the dish; the rumps put