PLU 319 PLO for it helps to cure. At night bathe the legs up to the knees in warm water, with a little soap or soda in, for about ten minutes. Let warm herb tea be constantly drunk, as balm, hyssop, catnep, pennyroyal, &c. Apply the Rheumatic Liquid to the chest or sides; or fomenta- tions of bitter herbs, as hops, tansy, &c., to which add some cayenne tincture. Salt, cayenne, and brandy, well simmered, and made strong, form an excellent application for pleuritic pains. These means seldom fail to arrest the disease. It may be added, if the bowels are consti- pated, give a gentle injection, and a gentle aperient. Let the diet be very simple, as sago gruel, arrow- root gruel, common gruel with a squeeze of lemon, &c. During the progress of the disease the Cough Pill, and the Pulmonary Syrup will be of great service. After the pleuritic symptoms are gone, take the Composition pow- der, and any of the tonic bitters. PLEURISY ROOT. An American plant. It is expector- ant, sub-tonic, astringent, dia- phoretic, carminative, antispasmo- dic, diuretic, &c. It promotes perspiration. It is a valuable medicine for the lungs, promoting expectoration, alleviating difficult breathing in asthma, and especially in pleurisy; hence its name. It is valuable in all fevers; in colics and griping, acute pains in the stomach, and female complaints, as copious menstruation, spasms, and nervous debility. It is a specific in measles. The dose of the root in powder is from 15 to 30 grains three times a day. Near- ly a cupful of the decoction may be taken nearly as often. PLOVERS, to choose.—Choose those that feel hard at the vent, which shows they are fat. In other respects, choose them by the same marks as other fowls. When stale, the feet are dry. They will keep sweet a long time. There are three sorts ; the grey, green, and bastard plover, or lapwing. PLOVERS’ EGGS are a nice and fashionable dish. Boil them ten minutes, and serve either hot or cold on a napkin. PLOVERS, to roast.—Roast the green ones in the same way as woodcocks and quails, without drawing; and serve on a toast. Grey plovers may be either roasted or stewed with gravy, herbs, and spice. PLUM CAKE.-Take fine flour, 1J lb.; butter, If lb.; currants, f lb. ; raisins well stoned and chopped, | lb. ; sugar, 18 ozs., sifted fine; 14 eggs with half the whites. Shred the peel of a large lemon very fine, 3 ozs. each of candied orange and lemon; a tea- spoonful of beaten mace, half a nutmeg grated; a tea-cupful of brandy or sherry, with a little orange flower water. Work the butter with the hand to a cream ; beat the sugar well in ; whisk the eggs half an hour; mix them with the sugar and butter, and put in the flour and spices. Beat the whole an hour and a half; mix in lightly the brandy, fruit, and sweet ■meats; put into a hoop, and bake for 2fhours. Another.—Flour, well dried, 2 lbs.; sugar, sifted, 1 lb.; butter, 1 lb.; nutmegs and mace, J oz. each; currants, 2f lbs.; 16 eggs; sweet almonds, f lb. ; the same of candied lemon;" half a pint of brandy, and three spoonfuls of orange flower water. Beat the butter to a cream ; put in the but- ter and sugar. Beat the yolks half an hour, and mix with the whites. Put in the flour just be-