MUM 259 MUL drops of oil of peppermint. Keep in a bottle; shake upbefore using. Use as a gargle; it will purify the month from bad odours and tastes. MUFFINS.—Take 14 lbs. of flour, 2 ozs. of salt, 4 quarts of wa- ter, and I- a pint of yeast; beat them 20 minutes, and let them rise to the top of what you mix them in; beat them down a second time, turn them out on a bed of flour, and with a knife and spoon make them up; when the iron is hot, sifta little flour upon it, which if hot, will turn brown ; lay the muffins on; when blistered on the top turn them; and when brown on the other side, they will be baked enough. Some persons, when they are half done dip them in warm milk, and bake to a pale brown. The addition of eggs is an improvement; and so is milk, i. e. 1 quart milk, and 1 quart of water, instead of the two quarts of water. MUFFIN PUDDING. — Boil a few coriander seeds, a bit of lem- on peel and sugar, in 1| pint of milk; braize the milk over four muffins; when cold, crush them with a wooden spoon; add nearly a cupful of brandy; | lb. of any dried fruit, some grated nutmeg, 2 ozs. of Jordan almonds, blanched and pounded fine, and six eggs well beaten; mix well together, and boil in a basin, or bake in a dish with paste round it. It may be made plainer; or good, by sub- stituting currants for sweet-meats. MULLED ALE.—Boil a quart of good ale with some nutmeg, beat up six eggs aifd mix them with a little cold ale, then pour the hot ale to it, and return it several times to prevent it curdling; warm, and stir it sufficiently thick, add a piece of butter or a glass of brandy, and serve it with dry toast. MULLED WINE.—Boil some spice in a little water till the flavour is gained, then add an equal quan- tity of port, some sugar and nut- meg ; boil together, and serve with toast. Another way.—Boil a bit of cin- namon and some grated nutmeg a few minutes, in a large cupful of water; then pour to it a pint of port wine, and add sugar to your taste; beat it up, and it will be ready. Or it may be made of good British wine. MULLET, red.—It is called the Sea-Woodcock. Clean, but leave the inside, fold in oiled paper, and gently bake in a small dish. Make a sauce of the liquor that comes from the fish, with a piece of but- ter, a little flour, a little essence of anchovy, and a glass of sherry. Give it a boil and serve in a boat, and the fish in the paper cases. MUMPS.—This is a disease of the salivary glands which are situ- ated on each side of the lower jaw. It generally comes on with cold shiverings, sickness, and vomiting, pain in the head, succeeded by swelling of one or both sides of the neck, and sometimes becomes very painful, and so large as to impede the breathing, and the swallowing. It generally increases tillthefourth day, and then declines. In this complaint, little medicine is required. Give an aperient. See page 20, 21. Bathe the feet frequently in warm water. At night give the Diaphoretic Pow- der or Decoction, page 143. Bathe the swelling with warm water and tincture of myrrh, and thirty drops of laudanum; or apply flannels dipped in the mixture. Cover the swelling with flannel. In extreme cases, give the Vapour Bath and the Composition Powder, page 119. Should the swelling break, apply a slippery elm poultice, made with