273 OCT OCT milk, and one-third water) gradu- ally with a table-spoonful or two of oatmeal. Place in a saucepan up- on a clear fire, and when it begins to rise and boil, take it off, and pour it from one basin into another to incorporate it well with the milk; return it to the pan; put on the fire, and when it is about to boil, take off, and let it stand a lit- tle to settle; when settled, pour it off into a basin, add a little salt, and let it cool. This is an excel- lent milk, very congenial to weak constitution, affording a good, firm nourishment, and is easy of diges- tion. OATMEAL PORRIDGE. — Take nearly a quart of water, two small teaspoonfuls of salt, and when the water boils, scatter in very slowly oatmeal, and boil well, stirring all the time. Pour into basins. This is a very wholesome food—a food upon which the stal- wart sons of Lancashire and York- shire, of the north of England, and of Scotland, lived. They were men and women in those days of oatmeal porridge; they were all tall, stout, handsome, lively, and captivating. This food is to be eat- en chiefly with milk—take one fourth of a spoonful, dip it into the milk,causing the spoon to be full of both—or it may be eaten with but- ter, or sugar, or treacle. OCTOBER BEER, to brew the good old English way.—Tho malt should he old and good, and rather coarsely ground. Take 5 quarters of malt, for 3 hogsheads of beer, and 18 lbs of hops ; more if the malt be pale dried. Use soft water. The first liquor is to bo boiled, adding a handful of hops to it; then before you strike it over to the malt, cool in as much liquor as will cause it not to scald the malt. With the next liquor do tho same, and so to the end— but, do not scald. When the malt is let out of the mash-tub into the under tub, put to it a handful or two of hops; it will preserve it from blinking or foxing. In boil- ing, let the first wort boil high and quick; for the quicker the first wort is boiled, the better it is ; the second boil more than the first; and the third or last more than the second. In cooling, let into the tun lei- surely, and leave behind as much sediment as possible, that the fer- mentation may be mild, and not fierce; for there are in all ferment- ed liquors salt and sulphur, and we must keep those two bodies in due proportion, that the salt may not exalt itself above the sulphur —much depends upon this. At first put but little yeast; let it work by degrees quietly; if it works too slowly, whip in the yeast several times till it is well fermented. When you cleanse do it by a tap from your tun, placed six inches from the bottom, that most of the sediment may remain, which may be thrown on the malt to mend the small beer. When the beer is tunned, fill your vessel; let it work at the bung-hole, and have a reserve in a small cask to fill it up. Do not put any of the beer which will bo under the yeast, after it has work- ed over into the vessels; put it in another cask, for it will not be so good as the other in the cask. When the fermentation ceases, stop it close, and let it stand till the spring; for brewing ought to be done in October, that it may settle and digest all winter. In the spring, unstop the vent hole, and see whether the beer ferments or not; for when warm weather comes it will have another fermentation; when it is over, stop well again; let it stand till K