THE COLD WATER CURE. 460 but we must not. regard inconveni- ence or unpleasantness for a cure. Are drugs, blisters, and leeches pleasantBut the application of cold water, in any way, relieves the skin, excites it, and disencum- bers it of obstructions which close the orifices of the pores, a reaction of the whole system ensues, a heat being created on the surface, 40 or 50 degrees above the usual temper- ature of the body. The body im- bibes a portion of the water, which in conjunction with the heat newly caused, softens and dissolves the morbid humours, and assists in their exudation by the pores of the skin. Ablutions.—Where persons are very weak, washing and rub- bing the body must be done, in place of the bath or douche; and water may be poured over the heads of feverish patients, and rubbed on the shoulders and parts affected. If the patient be too weak to allow of this rubbing, a wet sheet is thrown over him, on which the friction is applied. This is of great advantage in weak cases and young children. The ablu- tions are an essential, agreeable, and valuable portion of the cold water system. In trifling com- plaints, gout in its infancy, ner- vous irritability, or in weakness in the skin, ablutions, accompanied by drinking abundantly cold water is very often sufficient to establish health. Ablutions should be per- formed in the morning immedi- ately in getting out of bed, before the body has become chilled, and the patient must afterwards take exercise in the open air. Fatigued persons may try the wet sheet and the rubbing, and they will speedily find the benefit of it. To use the wet sheet as an ablution, the pa- tient stands up, and the servant flings it over his head and body; rub the body well for five minutes, then take off the wet sheet, and* put on a dry one. This is a cer- tain relief for fatigue and over-ex- ertion. Cold Water Drinking. The best time both for drinking cold water and exercise is before breakfast. Then they both pro- duce their best effects; but the only general rule prescribed by Priessnitz is to drink cold water as much, and at all times, as it can be done without inconvenience. Water may be drunk after break- fast, but the stomach must not be over-charged. At dinner also a few glasses may be taken to mois- ten the food; after that the stomach must be left to itself; and after the lapse of a few hours, we may- go on drinking cold water until supper time. It may be taken after supper, but not so as to dis- turb the rest. Exercise, which is in itself a part of the curative process, excites the beneficial ac- tion of the water, and promotes the cure. The water should be fresh from the spring, and as cold as possible. Stoppers must be kept in the bottles and decanters which hold it, as the water then will preserve its coldness and fresh- ness much longer. Advice. Immediately on rising in the morning, rince the mouth, and wash the teeth with cold water, then drink two or three glasses of spring water; after this, the whole body, especially the head, must be wash- ed. If a thickness in the throat be felt, gargle well, and rub the outside of the throat three or four times a-day, with a cold wet hand; keep the water in the mouth until it becomes warm, then repeat it. This method is recommended for clearing and strengthening the throat.