ORG OXC 232 cut. the rinds with a penknife in various forms; draw out part of the peel as you cut them, and put them into salt and water, to stand three days to take out the bitter; then boil them in a large saucepan of fresh water, with salt in it, but do not cover them, or their colour will be injured; take out, and boil them ten minutes in a thin syrup, for five days successively; put in- to a deep jar, to stand two months, and then make a thick syrup, and just give them a boil in it; let them stand till the next day; then jar them, and cover with brandy papers; tie them down with a bladder. Whole oranges may be preserved in the same way; but do not boil so long, and keep in a very thin syrup at first, or it will cause them to shrink and wither. Always put salt in the water for either oranges preserved, ororange chips. ORANGES, to preserve in jelly. —The same as lemons preserved in jelly, page 226. ORANGEADE.—Squeeze the juice; pour boiling water on a lit- tle of the peel, and cover close. Boil sugar and water to a thick syrup, and skim it. When all is cold, mix the juice, the infusion and the syrup, with as much more water as will make a rich sherbet; strain through a jelly-bag. Or, squeeze the juice, and strain it, and add water and capillaire. ORANGEADE, Effervescing.- Make it the same as the Ginger Beer Powders, page 178, putting orange juice into tartaric mixture, instead of ginger. ORGEAT. — Boil a quart of new milk with a stick of cinnamon, sweeten to your taste, and let it grow cold; then pour it by degrees to three ounces of almonds, and twenty bitter, that have been blanched and beaten, to a paste, with a little water to prevent oil- ing ; boil all together, and stir till cold, then add half a glass of brandy. Another tcoy-Blanch and pound three quarters of a pound of al- monds, and thirty bitter, with a spoonful of water. Stir in by de- grees two pints of water, and three of milk, and strain the whole through a cloth. Dissolve half a pound of loaf sugar in a pint of water, and skim it well; mix it with the other, as likewise two spoonfuls of orange flower water, and a tea-cupful of the best brandy. ORGEAT, for the Sick.—Beat 2 ozs. of almonds with a tea-spoon- ful of orange-flower water, and a bitter almond or two ; then pour a quart of milk and water to the paste. Sweeten with sugar or capillaire. This is a fine drink for those who have a tender chest; and in the gout it is highly useful, and, with the addition of half an ounce of gum arabic, has been found to allay the pain. Half a glass of brandy may be added if thought too cooling in the latter complaints, and the glass of orgeat, may be put into a basin of warm water. OSWEGO PREPARED CORN.—It makes an excellent diet, especially for invalids and children. Simply boiled in milki and sweetened, it is excellent. For Children the above makes the most nutritious of all food, and is invaluable. For Invalids it is better than the best Arrow Root, and it is pre- pared in the same way. For Gravy Jelly, boil in water, mix with a little strong meat gravy, and cool in a form. For thickening Soups and Gra- vies it is unequalcd. OX-CHEEK, to marinate. Bone the cheek; stew it with red