SCA 371 bad, a plaster should be made of gall dried to the consistence of salve, and spread upon linen. This should be applied all over the parts affected, and continued on four or five days; then it should bo taken off and the head dressed with soot ointment as before. After the cure, give two or three gentle purges. If a proper regard was paid to cleanliness in the head and apparel of children, the scald head would be seldom seen.— Wesley. SCALLOPED COLD CHICK- EN.—Mince the meat very small, and set it over the fire, with a scrape of nutmeg, a little pepper and salt, and a little cream, for a few minutes. Put it into the scal- lop shells, and fill them with crumbs of bread, over which put some bits of butter, and brown them before the fire. Yeal and ham eat well done the same way, and lightly covered with crumbs of bread, or they may be put on in little heaps. SCARLATINA, or Scarlet Fe- ver.—It derives its name from the colour of its eruptions. It is a disease of infancy, and seldom at- tacks adults. It never attacks the same person twice. It begins with chilliness and shiverings, languor, and depression of spirits, a dry skin, aud pains in the head; and soon the whole skin becomes cov- ered with specks, or minute in- flammations, larger and redder than those of the measles. In two or three days, they disappear, suc- ceeded by scalings of the scarf skin, like bran dispersed over the body, which fall off and appear again two or three times successively. This disease is sometimes of a more ma- lignant type, tending towards pu- trefaction. It is attended with se- vere sore throat; the uvula, and all the back part of the throat are very SCA red, painful, and swollen, and the swallowing much impeded, or ren- dered nearly impossible. It is of- ten attended with delirium, the spots become black; the disease becomes dangerous. Scarlatina is infectious. Treatment.—If the disease is of a mild character, little more is re- quired than to observe a cold diet, and to avoid cold air, and cold drinks. If the body be costive, give an aperient; see pages 20, 21. If the fever be high, give the Sa- line Mixture, which see. Take a small cupful at a time. Barley water, acidulated with tamarinds, or lemon-juice affords a good bev- erage. Give also the Sudorific Powder. Emetics will be useful as soon as the disease begins. The Emetic Powder should not be neg- lected. Bathe the feet in warm water, and give saffron tea. Drink balm tea frequently. Scarlet fever is caused by some morbific matter taken into the cir- culation by the lungs; and the in- creased action in the system is a healthy effort of nature to expel such morbific matter. Nature therefore must be assisted; or if her efforts are too great, she must be restrained. It is not always necessary to give the Emetic Pow- der ; but if there be soreness of the throat, and much phlegm, hinder- ing the breathing, the powder will have a good effect, abating the feb- rile symptoms, curing the disease, or rendering the attack light. Mr. Stephens asserts that he gave the following mixture in 400 cases, af- ter they had assumed the most alarming appearance, the majority of which it cured; viz.—Cayenne, a table-spoonful; common salt, 1| teaspoonful. Beat into a paste; pour upon it a pint of boiling wa- ter ; to stand an hour; then add half a pint of good vinegar. A