ISO GLA GLO gar. Wet the sugar with a little water, and boil all together to a candy, and drop on paper. GINGER POP.—This is made by adding strong ale to the Ginger Beer ingredients, and fermenting. GINGER WINE.—Fine loaf sugar, 12 lbs.; powdered ginger, 6 ozs.; water, 6 gallons. Boil for an hour. Whisk the whites of 6 eggs, to mix with the liquors. When cold, put into a barrel, and 6 lemons cut into slices, and a cup- ful of yeast; ferment 3 days, then bung. In eight days, bottle it. It is improved by adding a pint of brandy. GLASS, to cut, &c.—Glass may be easily filed, sawed, cut, drilled, or turned, by keeping the edge of the tool constantly wet with spirits of turpentine. GLASS, to drato on.— Grind lamp black with gum water, and common salt; draw the design with a pen or hair pencil. GLASS, to frost.—This maybe done by sugar of lead, Glauber’s Salts, Epsom Salts. Dissolve in hot water, and apply with a brush. GLASS, to join.—Melt a little isinglass in spirits of wine, and add a little water. Gently warm the mixture over the fire. When thoroughly melted, it forms a transparent glue, which will unite broken glass firmly, and so that the joining will not be seen. Lime mixed with the white of an egg forms a very strong cement for joining glass, porcelain, &c. GLASS, to paint gold colour.— Silver, 1 oz.; antimony | oz.; mix in a crucible; then pound the mass to powder, and grind it on a eopper plate, adding yellow-ochre, orbrickdust calcined again, 15ozs., and grind them well together with water. GLASS, to paint red.—Take jet, 4 ozs.; litharge of silver, 2 ozs.; red chalk, 1 oz. Powder fine, and mix. GLASS, to remove crust from.— Wash with sulphuric or muriatic acid diluted with water, and mixed with coarse sand. GLASSES, to clean. — Wash with warm water and soap, then rinse in clean cold water; wipe the wet off with a cloth, and finish with a dry one. Sifted Fullers Earth is excellent for cleaning glasses. It restores the lustre oj glass. GLASS STOPPLES, to loosen. —Drop a little hot oil round the stopple, close to the top of 'the neck of the bottle, and place before the fire so as not to crack. In about half an hour apply more oil, and then gently try to work it about, occasionally gently beating it against the soft part of your hand, or gently strike it with a very light wooden instrument. If this does not succeed, apply more oil, and a cloth dipped in hot water wrapped round the neck only. Gloves to clean.—Wash in soap and water; then stretch them on wooden hands, or pull them out in their proper shape. Dry. If want- ed yellow, rub with yellow ochre; if white, with pipe clay; or mix the two. GLOVES, to cleanse.—Lay the gloves upon a clean board, pass over them with a brash a mixture of fullers earth and powdered alum; sweep off, and rub well with dry bran and whiting; and dust them well. But if they are greasy and soiled, take out the grease with crumbs of toasted bread, and burnt bone powdered, then take a clean woollen cloth, and rub them over with the first-named powder. GLOVES, Perfume for.—Ex- tract of ambergris, 4 drops, spirits of wine, 1 oz. Rub the inside with cotton saturated with it.