TEE 414 TEA TART, Apple. Prepare puff paste, and put in apple preserves, or apple jelly; add lemon-peel without pith. TART, Orange.—Line a tart pan with thin puff paste ; put in- to it orange marmalade made with apple jelly ; lay bars of paste, and bake in a moderate oven. TARTS, Transparent.—Take 1 lb. of flour, beat an egg till thin, then melt f lb. of clarified fresh butter, to mix with the egg, and when cool, pour the whole into the flour, and form the paste. Roll it thin, make up the tarts, put in the oven, wet them over with a little water, and grate on sugar. TARTLETS.—Sheet the tart- let pans with puff paste; put any kind of sweetmeat; cross bar, and put them into the oven to bake ; when done, put them on paper, to soak the butter from the paste. TEA and COFFEE, Substi- tute for.—Take a small handful of agrimony, one handful of black- berry leaves, and a few raspberry leaves, and a small quantity of balm or mint, according to taste; put it into a jug that will hold three pints, then pour on boiling hot water, infuse five minutes, then sweeten. For a change, you may use Avens in the same way as agrimony. TEA CAKES.—Take 3 lbs. of flour, 5 ozs. of sugar, 6 ozs. of but- ter, rubbed into the flour, and a tea-cupful of new barm ; set them to rise with milk and water; then mix them, to stand half an hour , make them up, roll them thin, and lay them on tins to rise; bake them a fine brown in a hot oven; when they are baked, rub a little butter over them. TEA CAKES.—Rub fine 4 ozs. of butter into 8 ozs. of flour; mix 8 ozs. of currants, and six of fine sugar, two yolks and one white of egg, and a spoonful of brandy; roll what size you like; beat the other white of egg, and wash over them. Dust sugar upon them, or not. TEA CAKES, Small.—Put a J lb. of butter into 1 lb. of flour; mix jj lb. of sifted loaf sugar, and wet it with water; when made up divide into two equal parts; put 1 oz. of carraway seeds to one piece, to have two sorts. Rub the paste out very thin, and cut it out with a small round cutter; butter a baking sheet, and dust it with flour; lay the cakes on, and bake in a slow oven till of a light brown. TEAL . This delicate bird should be dressed with the utmost care. They should be served up with the gravy in them, and put to a quick fire or oven. A few minutes will be sufficient. Serve with a rich gravy, or shalot sauce. TEETH, decayed, to Jill.—If it has a cavity, steep a little gutla percha in boiling water; then place sufficient in the cavity, press it down well, till it is level with the other teeth. Cool it by hold- ing cold water a few minutes on the same side, and it will harden. Sg5g“ Wipe the cavity as dry as possible previous to the insertion. The fluid mastic cement of the shop will fill a cavity, and it allays the toothache immediately.—See Teeth, hollow. TEETH, hollow, to Jill.—See Succedaneum.—Or, take a drachm of gutta percha, softened by hot water, worked up with catechu powder and tannic acid, of each half a drachm, and with a drop of essential oil. For use, a morsel is to be softened over the flame of a spirit lamp, introduced while warm into the cavity of the tooth, and adapted properly. The mass be- comes hard, and after several months exhibits no decomposition.