61 BIT BLA cuits, in an oblong form on white paper; sift sugar over, and bake. These biscuits are very rich. The sweetmeat may be varied accord- ing to fancy. BISCUIT, American.—Butter- milk, 11 pint; a little salt, 2 spoon- fuls of carbonate of potash dissol- ved in 4 table-spoonfuls of hot water. Mix flour enough to be stiff. Add shortening. Form and bake immediately. BISCUITS, Yarmouth.—Take six ounces of well washed and picked currants; dry them well, and rub a little flour among them to make them white; add half a pound of powdered sugar, twelve ounces of sifted flour, and half a pound of the best fresh butter. Break three eggs and mix the whole together until it becomes of the consistence of paste; then roll and cut into shapes. The oven must be hot, and paper must be used. Bake to a slight brown colour. BITE OF A MAD DOG.—Mr. Hildebrand, "Veterinary Surgeon of Germany, says : Bathe the bit- ten place in hot water. He has ascertained, by experience, that hot water has the effect of decom- posing the virus, and if applied in time renders cauterization un- necessary. In that case, all that is to be done after well bathing the part, as stated, is, to apply the solution of caustic potash to the wound with a brush, and after- wards anoint it with antimony ointment. " Apply ice to the Spinal column. .this is effectual. Or, wash well with a strong decoction of to- bacco, and then bind wetted to- bacco cm the wound. Or, take a pound of salt, dissolve in a quart ot water. Squeeze, bathe, and wash the wound with this liquid lor ono or two hours; then bind some salt upon it for ten or twelve hours. Or, mix powdered liver- wort, four drachms ; black pepper, two drachms. Divide this into four parts, and take one in warm milk for four mornings, fasting. Dr. Mead affirms he never knew this fail. Wesley. BITTER, an excellent Family. —Two ounces of gentian root, half ounce of Virginian Snake root, a pint of water, and a pint of bran- dy. Infuse for three days, strain, and bottle for use. This bitter is excellent for the stomach. BITTER INFUSION.—Take gentian root, cut into pieces, half an ounce; dried Seville orange peel, bruised, one drachm ; corian- der seeds, bruised, half a drachm ; spirits of wine, four ounces ; wa- ter, one pint. First pour on the spirits of wine, and in three hours the water; then macerate for twelve hours, and strain. Take three spoonfuls between meals to promote digestion. BITTER TONIC. — Gentian root, one ounce; the yellow rind of a fresh lemon; put into a jar or bottle with hot water; let it stand. A cupful in the morning promotes appetite. BITTERSWEET OINT- MENT.—Bark of Bittersweet Root, 2 ounces; cover with spirits of wine, and add, unsalted butter, 8 ounces. Simmer and strain. Excellent for swelled breasts, tu- mours, ulcers, &c. It may be ap- plied twice a day. BITTERSWEET.—See Rob- inson’s Herbal, page 193 ; Night- shade, Woody.—It is a valuable plant, on account of its detergent, tonic, and healing qualities. Use- ful in scrofula, skin diseases, bad ulcers, syphilis, &c. black ball for lea- ther.—Beeswax, 2 pounds ; tallow, i pound; gum arabic, a