MAR MAT 244 good marmalade, if tlio seeds are pulverised, and well mixed witli the rest. MARROW PUDDING.-Pour a pint of cream boiling hot on the crumbs of a penny loaf,' or French roll; cut 1 lb. of beef marrow very thin; beat 4 eggs well; add a glass of brandy, with sugar and nutmeg to taste, and mix all well together. It may be either boiled or baked, 40 or 50 minutes ; cut 2 ozs. of citron very thin, and stick them all over it when you dish it up. Another way.—Blanch i lb. of almonds; put them in cold water all night; next day beat them in a mortar very fine, with orange or rose water. Take the crumbs of a pjenny loaf, and pour on the whole a pint of boiling cream ; while it is cooling, beat the yolks of four eggs, and two whites, 15 minutes; a little sugar and grated nutmeg to your palate. Shred the marrow of the bones, and mix all well to- gether, with a little candied orange cut small. Bake, &c. MARSHMALLOW. — Decoc- tions of this plant are very useful where the natural mucus has been abraided from the coats of the in- testines ; in catarrhs from a thin rheum. It is emollient and demul- cent. It is good in diseases of the urinary organs, when the urine is hot and deficient; and it is of great value in dysentery, bronchitis, &c. Two or three ozs. of the fresh roots may be boiled in 2 quarts of water, down to 1 quart; strain; add 1 oz. of gum arabic. It will be more palatable by adding liquor- ice-root, or raisins and sugar to sweeten it. As an external application, it is invaluable ; it subdues inflamma- tion, and prevents gangrene, or mortification ; it disperses inflam- matory tumours and swellings. It is applied by poultices, prepared by cutting the fresh root into very small pieces, bruising them fine, and boiling the pulp in sweet milk, adding slippery elm to give it pro- per consistence. ©gy^The common roadside mal- low is often used for the marsh- mallow, which grows in marshes near the sea. The former has not half the virtues.—See liobinsou’s Herbal on this most valuable plant. MARSHMALLOW LOZEN- GES.—Pound cleaned marshmal- low roots to a pulp ; boil If lb. of loaf sugar in 6 or 8 ozs. of rose-wa- ter to a solid consistence; add 4 ozs. of the marshmallow pulp; whisk the whole well; place it over a gentle heat, to dry up the mois- ture, stirring all the time; and when a good paste has formed, empty it on buttered paper; roll out, and cut into forms. They are excellent for coughs, asthma, and even consumptions, especially if a little orris root, liquorice, or white poppy seeds powdered be added, with a little gum arabic, or gum tragacanth. MATRIMONY, the game of.— Matrimony may be played by any number of persons, from five to fourteen. This game is composed of five chances, usually marked on a board or sheet of paper, in the following- manner:— Ace of diamonds turned up. . d pi M Pi c3 bO H Intrigue Queen and Knave. S' 2 cp & s £> § c v; Pairs, the highest. It must be understood that when the ace of diamonds is turned up,