TUR TUR 423 ley, and butter. Fill, and sew it up. Tie it in a clean cloth, and boil it very white. Serve it with oyster sauce, made good. Or take the bones with a piece of veal, mutton, and bacon, and make a rich gravy, seasoned with pepper, salt, mace, and shalots. Strain, and stew the turkey in it, after it has been half boiled half an hour. Dish it up in the gravy, after it is well skimmed, strained, and thick- ened with a few mushrooms stewed white, or stewed palates, forcemeat balls, and pieces of lemon, fried oysters, &c. TURKEY, to hash.—Take off the legs; cut the thighs in two pieces; cut off the pinions and breast in large pieces. Take off the skin, or it will give the gravy a greasy taste. Stew with a pint of gravy, a teaspoonful of lemon- pickle, the end of a lemon, and a little mace; boil the turkey seven minutes. Put it on your dish; thicken the gravy with flour and butter. Mix the yolks of two eggs with a spoonful of thick cream; put it on the gravy; shake it over the fire till it is hot, but do not let it boil. Strain, and pour it over the turkey. Lay sippets round, and garnish with lemon and pars- ley. TURKEY, to roast. The sinews of the legs should be drawn whichever way it is dressed. The head should be twisted under the wing ; and in drawing it, take care not to tear the liver, nor let the gall touch it. Put a stuffing of sausage-meat; or, if sausages are to be served in the dish, a bread stuffing. As this makes a large addition to the size of the bird, observe that the heat of the fire is constantly to that part; for the breast is often not done enough. A little strip of paper should be put on the bone to hinder it from scorching while the other parts roast. Baste well and froth it up. Serve with gravy in the dish, and plenty of bread- sauce in a sauce-tureen. Add a few crumbs, and a beaten egg to the stuffing of sausage-meat. TURKEY PATTIES, to make. —Mince some of the white part, and, with grated lemon, nutmeg, salt, a very little white pepper, cream, and a bit of butter warmed, fill the patties. TURKEY, pulled.—Divide the meat of the breast by pulling in- stead of cutting ; then warm it in a spoonful or two of white gravy, and a little cream, grated nutmeg, salt, and a little flour and butter; don’t boil it. The leg should be seasoned, scored, and broiled, and put into the dish with the above round it. Cold chicken does as well. TURNIPS, to mash. Boil them very tender. Strain till no water is left. Place in a sauce- pan over a gentle fire, and stir well a few minutes. Do not let them burn. Add a little cream, or milk, or both, salt, butter, and pepper. Add a table-spoonful of fine sugar. Stir and simmer five minutes longer. TURNIP PIE.—Season mut- ton chops with salt and pepper, reserving the ends of the neck bones to lay over the turnips, which must be cut into small dice, and put on the steaks. Put two or three good spoonfuls of milk in. You may add sliced onion. Cover with a crust. TURNIP SOUP.—Take off a knuckle of veal all the meat that can be made into cutlets, &c., and set the rest on to stew with an onion, a bunch of herbs, a blade of mace, and five pints of water; close it on a slow fire five hours. Strain it, and set it by till next