SNU 393 SNO mixed with the yolk of an egg; lay some of this round the dish ; put in the birds drawn and half- roasted. Chop the trail, and put it all over the dish. Put some small mushrooms, a sweetbread, and artichoke bottoms, cut small, into some good gravy; stew all to- gether, and beat up the yolks of 2 eggs in a spoonful of sherry; stir all together one way. When thick take it off, and when cold pour it into the surtout. Put the yolk of a few hard eggs here and there. Season with beaten mace, pepper, and salt; cover with the forcemeat; colour with the yolks of eggs, and send to the oven for half an hour. SNIPES, to roast. Do not draw them. Spit them; flour them, and baste with butter. Toast a slice of bread brown; place it in the dish under the birds for the trail to drop on. When they are enough, take up, and lay them on the toast; put good gravy in the dish. Serve with butter, and gar- nish with orange or lemon. SNIPE PIE.—Bone 4 snipes, and truss them. Put in their in- sides finely chopped bacon, or other forcemeat; put them in the dish with the breast downwards, anc put forcemeat balls around them Add gravy made of butter, anc chopped veal and ham, parsley, pepper, and shalots. Cover with nice puff paste; close it well tc keep in the gravy. When nearly done, pour in more gravy, and a little sherry wine. Bake two or three hours. a AT SNOWBALLS.—Pare s'ix ba- kmgapples, and take out the cores; nil the holes wiih orange marma- lade. Make a little good hot paste, and roll the apples in it; make the crust of an equal thickness, and put them into a dripping pan; bake m a moderate oven. When you take them out, make icing for them the same way as for plum cake, and ice them all over with it, a quarter of an inch thick. Place them a good distance from the fire till they are hardened, but do not let them brown. Put one in the middle of a china dish, and the other five round it. Garnish with flowers. Another.—Swell rice in milk, and strain it off, and having pared and cored apples, put the rice round them, tying each up in a cloth. Put a bit of lemon-peel, a clove, or cinnamon in each, and boil them well. SNOW RICE CREAM.—Put into a pan 5 ozs. of ground rice, 3 ozs. of loaf sugar, eight drops of essence of almonds, 3 oz. of fresh or salt butter. Add a quart of new milk. Boil twenty minutes, until smooth. Pour into a mould pre- viously greased with butter. Turn it out when quite cold, and serve with preserves round it. SNUFFLES.—A troublesome complaint, to infants especially. The mucous membrane of the nose, through the taking of cold, being much swollen, the child is no long- er able to breathe through its nose, as it was accustomed to do, but is compelled to breathe through the mouth. The difficult breathings are attended by a peculiar snuffling noise, which, in sleep, becomes a regular loud snore. It often inter- feres with its sucking at the breast; as soon as it seizes the nipple a threatening suffocation compels it to desist. While this complaint lasts the child may be partially fed with the spoon ; give it a very mild purga- tive ; bathe its legs frequently0in warm water. Rub the nose with tallow, and apply a slippery elm poultice mixed with cream. SOAP, Chemical.- Powdered Fullers earth, 1 oz.; just moisten