SPR 404 STA 1 lb. of flour, and U lb. of sugar; beat 7 eggs, yolks and whites apart; grate a lemon, and, with a spoon- ful of brandy, beat the whole to- . getber with your hand for an hour. Bake in a buttered pan. Sweetmeats may be added Another.• Beat 12 eggs to a froth; dissolve a little volatile salts in half a pint of hot water, and let it cool; mix them together, and beat them for 10 minutes; then add 1 lb. of grated loaf sugar, and nearly 1 lb. of fine flour ; beat them well together, add a few seeds, and bake in a hot oven. Rub some of the pieces of sugar on the rind of a lemon to give it a flavour. SPRAIN.—Take of camphora- ted spirit, common vinegar, spirits of turpentine, of each, 1 oz. SPRAIN.—Hold the part in very cold water for two hours. Or, apply cloths dipt therein, four times doubled, for two hours, changing them as they grow warm. Or, bathe in good crab ver- juice. Or, boil bran in wine vinegar to a poultice. Apply this warm, and renew it once in twelve hours. Or, mix a little turpen- tine with flour and. the yolk of an egg, and apply it as a plaster. This cures in a desperate case. Weakness remaining after a sprain is cured by fomenting the part daily with beef brine. Sup- pose the ancle sprained :—1st. Foment it with warm vinegar four or five times every four hours. 2nd. Stand, if you can, three or four minutes at a time on both vour feet, and frequently move the sprained foot. Sometimes also while sitting with your foot on a low stool, move it to and fro. dra. Let it be gently rubbed with a warm hand at least thrice a-day. 4th. Two hours after every ap- plication of the vinegar, let it. be just wetted with spirits of wine, and then gently rubbed.— Wesley. SPRAINS. Take a few glo- bules of Rhus Toxicodendron, and apply to the sprained part this Rh us liniment for about 10 minutes, and repeat twice a day for three days. The Rhus is sold" by the Homoeo- pathic chemists. SPRAINS of the Muscles of the Back.—Take of Canada turpen- tine, | oz; soap liniment, 6 ozs., and one-pennyworth of laudanum. Mix, and rub well in before a hot fire. SPRATS, to broil.—Sprats are very good and nutritious food; but to be enjoyed they must bo eaten in the room in which they are cooked ; they admit of few re- moves, on account of becoming cold so soon. When cleaned, they should be fastened in rows by a skewer run through the head, and then broil- ed ; dredge with flour, and place on a gridiron over a nice clear fire for 4 or 5 minutes. Grease the gridiron. Or, they may be done in a Dutch oven. SPRATS, to hake.—Rub them with salt and pepper; put into a deep dish; cover with vinegar and port wine; cover and place in the oven all night.. Cochineal liquor gives them a rich colour. they keep well. bQUILL MIXTURE.-'lake of simple cinnamon-water, 5 ozs. ; vinegar of squills, 1 oz.; syrup of marsh-mallows, l|oz. Mix them. This mixture, by promoting ex- pectoration and the secretion o urine, proves serviceable in astn- matic and dropsical habits. A table-spoonful at a time. STAINS on LINEN, to re- move. —Apply benzoin; or salt of wormwood, diluted with water, or hold the article over the flames of brimstoue ; or wash with soap and potass.