ORA 2S0 ORA the paste be too oily, add bean flour, finely sifted ; but let no wa- ter enter the composition. ORANGE FLOWER CAKES —Put four ounces of the leaves of the flowers into cold water for an hour; drain and put between nap- kins, and roll with a rolling-pin till they are bruised; then have ready boiled one pound of sugar to add to it in a thick syrup, give them a simmer, until the syrup adheres to the sides of the pan, drop in little cakes on a plate, and drv as before directed. ORANGE FLOWER CAN- DY.—Boil in a pint of water half the white of an egg, and pour it on 2J lbs. of fine loaf sugaf. When dissolved, place it over a clear fire; boil a few miuutes; take off and let it stand a few minutes until the scum is cleared off; then boil the sugar till it is very thick; then gradually drop in 3 J ozs. of orange petals. ‘Stir the candy till it rises into one white mass in the pan, but mind it does not burn; then pour it upon papers or into a dish. The syrup should be three parts boiled when they are added. They must be gathered qp. the day they are wanted for use, as they are soon discoloured by keeping. ORANGE FOOL.—Mix the juice of six Seville oranges with six eggs well beaten, a pint of cream, a 3 lb. of sugar, a little cinnamon and nutmeg; mix, and keep stirring over a slow fire,, till it is thick ; put in a small bit of butter; stir till it is cold, and dish it up. . ^ ORANGE GINGERBREAD. —Sift lbs of fine flour, and add to it f lb. of treacle; 6 ozs. of can- died orange peel, cut small;. § lb. of sugar; 1 oz. of ground ginger, and 1 oz. of allspice ; melt | lb. of butter; mix the whole well to- gether; let it stand 12 hours, ioil it out with very little flour half an inch thick; cut into pieces three inches long and two wide; mark them in the form of chequers with the back of a knife; bake a quarter of an inch apart; egg over with milk and egg; bake in a cool oven 15 minutes; when done wash over again slightly ; divide the pieces with a knife, as in baking they will run together. ORANGE JELLY. — It may be made the same as Lemon Jelly, which see. Grate the rind of two Seville and of two China oranges, and two lemons ; squeeze the juice of three of each, and strain, and add to the juice a quarter of a pound of lump sugar, a quarter of a pint of water, and boil till it al- most candies. Have ready a quart of isinglass jelly made with two ounces; put to it the syrup, and boil it once up; strain off the jelly, and let it stand to settle as above, before it is put into the mould. ORANGE JUICE, Buttered. —Mix the juice of seven Seville oranges with four spoonfuls of rose-water, and add the whole to the yolks of eight, and whites of four eggs, well beaten; then strain the liquor to half a pound of sugar pounded, stir it over a gentle fire, and when it begins to thicken, put in about the size of a small walnut of butter, keep it over the fire a few minutes longer; then pour it into a flat dish, and serve it to eat cold. ORANGE MARMALADE.— See Marmalade. ORANGE PUDDING.-Grate the rind of a Seville orange, put to it six ounces of fresh butter, six or eight ounces of lump sugar pounded: beat them all in a mor- tar, and add as you do it the whole of eight eggs well beaten and strained; scrape a raw apple, and mix with the rest; put a paste at the bottom and sides of the dish,