BUT CAB 88 BUTTERMILK.—If made of sweet cream, it is a delicious and most wholesome food. Those who can relish sour butter-milk find it still more light, and it is reckoned more beneficial in consumptive cases. Butter-milk, if not very sour, is also as good as cream to eat with fruit, if sweetened with white sugar, and mixed with a very little milk. It likewise does equally for cakes and rice pud- dings, and of course it is economi- cal to chum before the cream is too stale for any thing but to feed pigs. Hu. BUTTERED EGGS. — Beat four or five eggs, yolk and white together, put a quarter of a pound of butter in a basin, and then put that in boiling water, stir it till melted, then pour the butter and the eggs into a sauce-pan ; keep a basin in yqpr hand, just hold the saucepan in the other over a slow part of the fire, shaking it one way, as it begins to warm; pour it into a basin, and back, then hold it again over the fire, stirring it constantly in the sauce-pan, and pouring it into the basin, more perfectly to mix the egg and but- ter, until they shall be hot without boiling. Serve on toasted bread; or in a basin, to eat with salt-fish, or red herrings. BUTTERED ROLLS, OR RUSKS. Take one pound of bread paste, four ounces of butter, roll it in the paste, bake them on tins, long or round, in a hot oven. The above is recommended for sick people. . BUTTERNUT. — See Robin- son’s Herbal. It is an American plant, and makes a very easy purge, causing no pain or irrita- tion. As a regular purgative, it is valuable; for it does not leave the bowels with a tendency to be con- stipated. It is administered in the form of an extract, in doses from 15 to 30 grains.—All such j medicines can be obtained of the Medical Botanists. CABBAGES. — The following sorts of winter gi'eens are best , I suited for cottage gardens:—1. the first sort, after the summer cabbages, is the Savoy. 2. The Brussels sprout; it has a long j stalk, with small heads all the j way up. 3. Green borecole, or Scotch kale; a fine tall early . green. 4. Buda kale, also the Manchester, the Russian, or the Prussian kale; a short plant, with little or no stem, and very hardy. These four sorts will keep up a constant supply from November to May. If a cottager has a large garden, he should have some of each. If he has only room for one sort, it should be the Scotch kale. The first three sorts may be sown in March; and the strongest plants put out in June, leaving the weaker to be planted out in July. The Buda kale should not be sown till May, nor planted out till July. CABBAGE, to boil.—Cut off the outside leaves, and cut it in quarters; pick it well, and wash it clean; boil it in a large quan- tity of water, with plenty of salt in it; when it is tender and a fine light green, lay it on a sieve to drain, but do not squeeze it, if you do, it will take off the flavour; have ready some very rich melted butter, or chop it with cold butter. —Greens must be boiled the same way. Strong vegetables, like tur- nips and cabbage, &c., require much water. Bf. CABBAGE, a la Flamande.— Cut a large cabbage into quarters; scalding it in boiling water some time; drain well; cut the stem j out of each quarter, and chop it 1