218 LAM LAM article to a gentle lieat, and dip it into the varnish two or three times. This varnish is durable, beautiful in colour, and may bo cleaned with water and a bit of dry rag. LACQUER, Tale, for Tin-plate. Best alcohol, 8 ozs.; turmeric, 4 drs.; hay saffron, 2 scs.; dragon’s blood, 4 scs.; red sanders, 1 sc.; shell lac, 1 oz.; gum sandarach, 2 drs. ; gum mastic, 2 drs.; Can- ada balsam, 2 drs.; when dissol- ved add spirits of turpentine, 80 drops. LACQUERED ARTICLES.— Ormolu, candelabra, mosaic (/old, gilt jewelry, §c., to clean.—Wash or brush them with soap and hot water. Dry and rub with wash leather. Acids must not be used. Or, take rotton stone, 1 oz., fine- ly powdered; oil, a teaspoonful; oxalic acid, 2 drachms; water sufficient to make into a paste. LACQUER, for philosophical instruments.—Alcohol, 80 ozs.; gum gutta, 3 ozs. ; gum sandar- ach, 8 ozs.; gum elemi, 8 ozs. ; dragon’s blood, 4 ozs.; seed lac, 4 ozs.; terra merita, 3 ozs. ; saf- fron, S' grs.; pulverized glass, 12 ozs. LAMB, to choose.—If the hind quarter and the knuckle be flexi- ble, it is stale. If the neck-vein of a fore quarter be of an azure colour, it is fresh; but if greenish or yellowish, the meat is nearly tainted. If the eyes are sunk, the head is not fresh. LAMB, Breast of, and. Cucum- bers.—Cut off the chine-bone from the breast, and set it on to stew with a pint of gravy. When the bones will draw out, put it on the gridiron to grill; and then lay it in a dish on cucumbers nicely stewed. LAMB CHOPS, en casserolle. —Cut a loin of lamb into chops; do them with yolk of egg on each side, and stew them with bread crumbs, cloves, pepper, salt, mace, mixed; fry them of a light brown, and put them round in a dish very close; leave a hole in the middle to put the sauce in, made of sweet herbs and parsley, shred fine, and stewed in good thick gravy. Gar- nish with parsley. LAMB, fore quarter of, to roast. —Roast it either whole, or in sep- arate parts. 11 should be roasted before a brisk fire, or done in the oven. While roasting baste well with butter. If left to be cold, chopped parsley should be sprink- led over it. The neck and breast together is called a scoven. LAMB, fore quarter of to ra- gout.—Take off the knuclde bone, and cut off all the skin. Lard well with bacon, and fry it to a nice brown ; put it into a stew- pan, and just cover it with gravy, sweet herbs, pepper, salt, ground mace, and a little whole pepper; cover, and stew half an hour; strain off the gravy, and have ready half a pint of fried oysters ; pour off the fat, and put them in- to the gravy with two spoonfuls of port wine, a few mushrooms, and a little butter rolled in flour. Boil all together with the juice of half a lemon. Pour the sauce over the lamb. LAMB FRY.—Should be scald- ed a moment; then soaked one hour in vinegar, pepper, and salt, with parsley and shalots; then dip them in a thick batter, and fry to a good colour; serve with fried parsley. To ragoat, put them into a light braise, with small onions, thin slices of lard, sweet herbs, half a bay leaf, thyme, a glass of sherry, sufficient broth, pepper, and salt. Serve with any sauce, with fried bread round the dish.