ATR ATR 36 ROSES, RED, THE PETALS OF .. ROSES, DAMASK QUICKSILVER, NITRATE of dose 1 scr. to 1 drachm. 1 to 1 „ 1-8 grain to 2 grains. SAGE, LEAVES OF 10 grs. to 1 drachm. SIMAROBAR, bark, of .. . 1 )> to \ „ SAUNDERS, RED, THE WOOD 1 to 4 „ TANIN 5 to I0 grains. TORMENTIL, the root .. .. WORTLEBERRY; use the ■ 10 >> to 1 drachm. LEAVES >1 10 >> to 1 drachm. ATROPHY.—The word is de- rived from the Greek a, not, and trophe, nourishment; not nourish- ment, and the want of that nourish- ment induces emaciation, and loss of strength. The symptoms are a gradual consuming or wasting away, impaired digestion, loss of appetite, depression of spirits, and general languor; in the later sta- ges hectic fever, cough, and diffi- cult breathing. In young persons of scrofulous habit, there is enlarge- ment of the mesentreic glands, indigestion, costiveness or diar- rhoea, uncertain appetite, flushed or pallid cheeks, remittent fever, swelling of the abdomen, emacia- ted limbs, and eruptions of the skin on the shoulders, arms, thighs, &c. I have seen the vessels so attenuated as to he scarcely able to contain the blood, and, in some cases, the smaller ones congested. The cause may he hereditary, damp houses, rooms, and beds, unwholesome foul air, close and had ventilated sleeping rooms, ex- cessive evacuations, worms, mental anxiety, excessive indulgence in venery, or spirituous liquors. It is induced in females by giving suck too long. Treatment. Many diseases are accompanied by Atrophy to a greater or less extent. In those cases, therefore, it is but an effect of a disease, and that disease must he prescribed for. There are cases, however, in which the most careful and repeated scrutiny fails to detect any serious disease of the vital organs, though some impor- tant viscus may be affected. If the glands are affected, apply the Tincture of Iodine by means of a Camel Hair brush, or the Oint- ment of the same. The following formula has been recommended:— Iodine of Potassium, 1 drachm ; Compound Infusion of Gentian, 6 ounces; Aromatic Spirit of Am- monia, 2 drachms; mix, and take a table spoonful three times a day; with the following Aperient at bed-time;—Compound Rhubarb Pill, 4 grains; Sulphate of Qui- nine, 4 grains ; Cayenne Pepper, 2 grains; make into 3 or 4 pills. In this disease, fresh air should he obtained, and abundant exercise in the open air. Keep the bowels regular, and always combine atonic with a purgative. The diet must be light and nutritious. If the disease arises from a venereal taint, (alas! how many monstrous pa- rents thus infect their children!) then Sarsaparilla will be useful. See article Venereal, in Robinson's Herbal; the same course will, in a great measure, be applicable to Atrophy. If the disease proceeds from worms, then Anthelmintics must be administered. Sometimes Atrophy is produced by suckling too long, which must be abondoned, or it will cause wasting, and ultimately consump- tion. The child should be weaned