277 orn ONI good gravy, and mustard; stir all together, and when pretty thick, pour into a dish, and garnish with toasted bread cut fine. ONIONS, to roast.—Should he done with all the skins on. They eat well alone, with only salt and cold butter; or with roast potatoes or with beet-roots. ONION SAUCE.— Peel the onions, and boil them tender; squeeze the water from them, then chop them, and add to them butter that has been melted, rich and smooth, as will be hereafter direct- ed, but with a little good milk in- stead of water; boil it up once, and serve it for boiled rabbits, par- tridges, scrag, or knuckle of veal, or roast mutton. A turnip boiled with the onionsmakes them milder. ONION SOUP, Brown.—Skin and cut round ways six large Spanish onions; fry them in but- ter till tender, and nicely brown; take out and drain; boil an hour in five quarts of water, stirring well; add pepper and salt; rub the crumbs of a penny loaf through a colander, and stir it well into the soup ; boil two hours. Ten min- utes before it is served, beat the yolks of two eggs with two spoon- fuls of vinegar, and a little of the soup, pour in gradually, and stir well. Add cloves, if agreeable. ONION SOUP, White.—Take 30 large onions; boil in five quarts of water, with a knuckle of veal, a blade or two of mace, and pepper; when the onions are quite soft, take up, and rub them through a hair sieve, and work \ lb. of but- ter with flour in them; when the meat is boiled so as to leave tbe bone, strain the liquor to the on- ions; boil gently for half an hour; serve with a cupful of cream and a little salt; stir it well when you put in the flour and butter. ONION STEW,—Choose five or six white onions, skin them, and first parboil them in water from 30 minutes; then chop them very fine, and boil out in milk, add but- ter, and gravy, or, if you like, a little cream. Do not boil too quickly. Season with salt, mace, and pepper. Thicken with a little rice flour. This kind of stew is very wholesome, and with the ad- dition of a little chopped tender ham, not over fat, and some lean veal, it becomes a stew of first rate relish. A. iV. ONIONS, to stew.—Peel six large onions, fry gently to a fine brown, but do not blacken them; then put them into a small stew- pan with a little weak gravy, pep- per and salt; cover and stew two hours gently. They should be lightly floured first. ON WAS,offensive breath caused by eating.—Chew parsley, or orris root, or cloves, to neutralize the smell. Or take 4 drops of con- centrated solution of chloride of soda in a wine-glassful Of water. Use fresh butter. OPHTHALMIA, or inflamma- tion of the eye.—See Eye. It may be caused by cold, sharp winds, intemperance, venery, dust or par- ticles of matter in the eyes, over- taxing the eye, the result of mea- sles, small pox, scrofula, syphilis. Particles of iron have been re- moved from the eye by a magnet. Particles of sand, &c. have been re- moved by introducing the mucil- age of slippery elm into the eye, the person lying on his back, and another injecting it into the cor- ner or part affected, and the pa- tient moving the eye in an oppo- site direction; the mucilage will wash out the particles; this is very safe, as the slippery elm has a very healing power. A hog’s bristle bent semicircular, is useful to re- move particles from the eye.