RHE RHE 355 with the above disease, and this particular exemption from the malady under consideration, as af- fecting the disciples of the Hebrew persuasion, was, and has been, attributed to the very free indul- gence which the above people ex- ercise in their dietary consumption of lemon juice. _ When lemon juice disagrees, either of the two following formu- lae may be substituted :—Lemon juice (strained or filtered) and treacle, equal parts; powdered sugar candy, sufficient; mix inti- mately,—a table-spoonful three or four times a day. Or, take powdered rhubarb, 2 drachms ; acetate of potash, 1 oz.; guaiacnm, 1 drachm; sulphur 2 ozs.; 1 nutmeg, grated very fine; treacle, 1 lb. Mix, and take two tea-spoonfuls night and morning. The seat of rheumatism is in the muscles — electro-galvanism must be used ; it is generally the best plan to begin with currents of the weakest power, and gradually to increase their strength so long as the application causes no pain. Dumb bells should be used above all, every day; they should never exceed in weight 1 lb. for ladies and 4 lbs. for men. Silk is the best non-conductor of cold we have, and it is affirmed that those of the fair sex who wear tight fitting sleeves to their silk dresses are not subject to rheumatism; males should wear thick silk sleeves to all their waistcoats ; they can be easily taken off, and tacked or sewn on to another vest; besides the above precautions, flannel must be ■worn summer and winter by day “but never by night,” next the skm: at night a small flannel spencer or jacket should be worn over the night dress. Tailors and milliners have much to answer for in introducing such modem inventions as the wide sleeves, and in like manner “ the apology of a bonnet;” this last, the cause of tic doloreux, rheuma- tism, &c. RHEUMATISM.—To prevent, wear washed wool under the feet. To cure, use the cold bath with rubbing and sweating. Or, ap- ply warm steams. Or, mb in warm treacle, and apply to the part brown paper smeared therewith; change it in twelve hours. Or, drink half a pint of tar-water morn- ing and evening. Or steep six or seven cloves of garlic in half a pint of white wine: drink it lying down. It sweats, and frequently cures at once. Or, mix flour of brimstone with honey, in equal quantities, take three teaspoonfuls at night, two in the morning, and one afterwards, morning and eve- ning, till cured. This succeeds oftener than any remedy I have found.— Wesley. RHEUMATISM. —Extract of Sarsaparilla, 1 ounce. Triturate in a pint of boiling water. Dis- solve 2 drachms of Iodine of Po- tass ; and begin with small doses twice oi' thrice a day. Very valu- able. The application of wheat, bran, or oatmeal poultice, diluted with muriatic acid water, or the tincture of lobelia water, lias often been known to give relief. RHEUMATISM.-Take a large handful of buckbean, four ounces of white mustard seeds, and one of lignum vitae, or wood of life, to two quarts of water; boil to three pints. Dose—three tea-cupfuls a day. Use also the following Liniment. Take of sal volatile, three ounces ; oil, one ounce, camphor, quarter of an ounce, laudanum, one ounce. Rub the part affected with this liniment three times a day. RHEUMATISM, Embrocation