CAN 94 CAN Camphor, 1 oz; alcohol, 1 pint; mix, that the Camphor may he dis- solved. It may also be made with a double proportion of Camphor. Good for rheumatic pains, paralytic numbness, inflammation, for dis- persing tumours, and preventing mortification. Not to be adminis- tered internally. CAMPHOR OINTMENT.— Camphor, finely powdered, 1 oz.; lard, 2 ozs. Mix. It is designed to ripen indolent tumours. CAMPHORATED OIL. Beat 4 ounces of camphor in a mor- tar, with 4 ounces of Florence oil, till the camphor is dissolved. An excellent liniment for rheuma- tism and all kinds of sprains. CANCER.—A cancer is a hard indolent tumour, usually seated in some of the glands, as the arm- pits, eye, nose, lips, tongue, womb, and the female breast; the two last are most subject to it. It af- fects the aged more than the young, and may exist for years. It com- mences with a small hard tumour, increasing slowly, and attended with acute shooting pains ; sooner or later ulceration sets in. The discharge is so acrid as to inflame the part with which it comes in contact. The place where cancer occurs assumes a purplish appear- ance previous to its ulceration. Ulceration gives ease for a time, but the cancer penetrates deeper, and spreads wider, corrupting the stream of life, and reducing to the greatest debility, and often termin- ating in death. To cure, remove debility, and improve the general health. Re- gulate the bowels, and give an em- etic. Give a vapour bath made of bitter herbs, as camomile, hops, catnep, tansy, &c. and boiling wa- ter and vinegar. Occasionally rub the whole surface of the body with the following liniment;—Cayenne, a tea-spoonful; salt, two table- spoonfuls; pour upon them half a int of boiling water ; infuse three ours, and then add half a pint of boiling water; infuse an hour lon- ger, stirring occasionally. Steam- ing with the bitter herbs, combined as above, allays the pain, swelling and inflammation. The following pills will be of much use; Blood- root, 1| drachm ; extract of dan- delion, 3 drachms; lobelia seed, 1 drachm ; cayenne, 1 drachm ; senna, in powder, 1 drachm; add 3 drops of oil of mint, and form into pills. These pills will be found very efficacious in the cure of jaundice, and liver complaints. Citric Acid will relieve the pain of cancers. Dr. Brandini, of Flor- ence, had a patient, aged 71, af- flicted with cancer on the tongue. An operation could not be made, for the affection was too extensive investing the base, the sub-lingual, and the sub-maxillary glands. In the. midst of his pain, the poor man asked for a lemon. It abated the pain; and the next day it gave him still greater relief. . This led the doctor to try Citric Acid; 4 grains of the acid, in 1 oz. of wa- ter ; and this, as a gargle, entirely carried off the pain, and reduced the swelling of the tongue very much. The doctor tried the same remedy on a female with an ulcerous cancer on the breast, deemed incurable. Her torments were so great, that neither she, nor the other patients could get any rest. He applied a pledget of lint soaked in the above solution, and the relief was instantaneous. It was repeated with the same suc- cess. Thus Citric Acid promises to be a great boon to mankind. Citric Acid is prepared from lemons. Externally apply the following; —Simmer cicuta leaves till they are soft, then mix them with slip-