HAS 31? RAS RAISIN WINE, to make equal to Sherry.—Wash and. pick the raisins; chop them, and to every lb. add a quart of water which has been boiled and cooled. Keep the whole in a vessel for a month, fre- quently stirring. Then take the raisins from the cask, and closely stop the liquor in the vessel. In a month rack it into another vessel, leaving the sediment. Repeat till it becomes fine ; then add to every 10 gallons, 6 lbs. of fine sugar, and 12 Seville oranges, the rinds being pared very thin, and infused in two quarts of brandy, to be added to the liquor at its last racking. Let the whole stand three months in a cask and it will be fit for bottling. It should remain in bottles twelve months. To give it the flavour of Madeira, put in, when it is in the cask, two green citrons, to remain till the wine is bottled. RANCID BUTTER, to cure.— Melt it in a water-bath with pow- dered charcoal, and strain through flannel. RASPBERRY.—This plant is well known. The leaves are as- tringent, and very useful in lax and flux. A decoction or infusion has often restrained diarrhoea when all other remedies have failed. Besides, the infusion made strong removes canker, or morbific matter from the mouth, throat, stomach, bowels, and other parts of the body. Made into a poultice, i. e. in infu- sion, with slippery elm, or bread, it is effectual in removing proud flesh, inflammation, &c. The in- fusion is a good gargle for sore mouth, &c. RASPBERRY BRANDY.— Pick fine dry fruit, put into a stone jar, and the jar into a kettle of water, or on a hot hearth, till the juice will run ; strain, and to every pint add half a lb. of sugar • give one boil and skim it; when cold, put equal quantities of juice and brandy; shake well and bottle. Some people prefer it stronger of the brandy. RASPBERRY CAKES. — Pick out the bad raspberries that are among the fruit, weigh and boil what quantity you choose, and when mashed and the liquor is wasted, put to it sugar the weight of the fruit; mix it well off the fire till it is well dissolved, then put it on plates to dry in the sun; as soon as the top part dries, cut with the cover of a canister into small cakes, turn them on fresh plates ; when dry put them in boxes with layers of paper. RASPBERRY CREAM. Mash the fruit gently, and let it drain; then sprinkle a little sugar over, and that will produce more juice; put it through a hair sieve to take out the seeds; then put the juice to some cream, and sweeten it; after which, if you choose to lower it with some milk, it will not curdle; which it would if put to the milk before the cream ; but it is best made of raspberry-jelly, in- stead of jam, when the fresh fruit cannot be obtained. Another way.—Boil 1 oz. of isinglass shavings in three pints of cream and new milk mixed, for fifteen minutes, or until the former be melted; strain it through a hair sieve, into a basin ; when cool, put about half a pint of raspberry-juice or syrup to the milk and cream j stir it till well incorporated, sweet- en, and add a glass of brandy; whisk it about till three parts cold, llien put it into a mould till quite cold. In summer use the fresh juice; in winter syrup of rasp- berries. raspberry drops. Pounded loaf sugar, £ lb. upon a plate, and a quantity of raspberries, which must be passed through a