205 IND IMP tarts with a feather, and sift sugar over them as you put them in the 0VeI1- -r, 1. -fi Ice Waters. — Rub some fine su°-ar upon lemon or orange, to give the colour and flavour, then soueeze the juice of either on its respective peel; _ add water and sugar to make a fine sherbet, and strain it before it be put into the ice-pot. If orange, the greater proportion should be of the China juice, and only a little* of Seville, and a small bit of the peel grated by the sugar. Currant or Raspberry Water Ice.—The juice of these, or any other sort of fruit, being gained by squeezing, sweetened and mixed with water, will be ready foriceing. Ice Creams.—Mix the juice of the fruits with as much sugar as will be wanted, before you add cream, which should be of a mid- dling richness. ICELAND MOSS.—It derives its name from the country in which it is found. As an article of food for invalids, it is very light, and nutritious. It, has tonic, and de- mulcent properties, and it forms a very suitable diet for the consump- tive. It allays the tickling cough, relieves the breathing, and im- proves the digestion. The decoc- tion is the most medicinal. It is bitter; but that may be obviated by previous washings. ICELAND MOSS JELLY.— Moss, | oz. to ,1 oz.; water, 1 qrt. Simmer down to \ pint. Add fine sugar, and a little lemon juice. It may be improved with J ounce of isinglass. .Ste moss should first be steeped in cold water an hour or two. IMPERIAL.—Cream of tartar, 2 ozs.; citric acid', 1 oz.; orange or lemon peel, 3 ozs.; fine sugar, 6 or 8 ozs.; boiling water, 2 qrts. Mix; cover the vessel to cool. Very suitable for hot weather. It might be bottled by adding a little yeast. _ IMPERIAL CREAM.—Boil a quart of cream with the thin rind of a lemon; stir till nearly cold; have ready in a dish to serve in, the juice of three lemons strained with as much sugar as will sweet- em the cream; pour it into the dish from a large tea-pot, holding it high, and moving it about to mix with the juice. It should be made from 6 to 12 hours before it is served. INDELIBLE INK.—German Receipt.—Dissolve 20 grains of sugar in 30 grains of water, and the addition to the solution of a . few drops of concentrated sulphu- ric acid; the mixture is then heat- ed, when the sugar is carbonized by the action of the acid. It is said that the writing is not only of a solid black colour, hut that the acid resists the action of chemical agents. INDELIBLE INK.—Add a little nitrate of silver to ordinary writing ink. INDIA PICKLE.—Strong vin- egar, 31 quarts ; salt, 1 lb.; shal- lots, \ lb.; ginger, 2 ozs.; white pepper, 1 oz.; mustard seeds, 2 ozs.; cayenne pepper, half a ta- ble spoonful. Boil all together ; put into a jar; add 2 ozs. of ground mustard. You may put in kidney beans, cauliflower, &c., as you like. INDIAN PUDDING.—Indian meal, a cupful, a little salt, butter, 1 oz.; treacle, 3 ozs.; 2 teaspoon- fuls of ginger, or cinnamon. Put into a quart of boiling milk. Mix a cup of cold water with it; hake in a buttered dish 50 minutes. INDIGESTION.—It may bo the effect or symptom of some dis- ease, as nervous debility of the stomach, affections of the liver, in- flammation of the stomach, costive-