LEM 225 LEM Isinglass, 1 part; water, 16 parts ; lemon-juice, 2parts; Lisbon wine, 8 parts. Sugar to sweeten, and a little grated lemon-peel to flavour. Clarify with an egg. LEMON BRANDY.—Put 2 quarts of brandy to 3 quarts of wa- ter ; take 2 lbs. of fine sugar, and 3 pints of milk. Pare 12 lemons thin; steep the peel in the brandy 12 hours, and squeeze the lemons upon the sugar; then put the wa- ter to it, and mix all the ingredi- ents together. Pour the milk in boiling. Let it stand 21 hours, then strain, and bottle. LEMON DRINK.—Water, 1 quarts; the juice of 10 lemons, loaf sugar, 2 lbs.; get the oil from the rinds by rubbing them with the sugar; mix; steep the rinds a day: then strain. A. JY. LEMON CAKE.—Put 3 spoon- fuls of rose or orange-flower water to the whites of 10 eggs 3 ozs. of butter, a cupful of milk, and 1 lb. of white sifted sugar; beat them an hour with a whisk, and grate in the rind of a lemon. When well mixed, add the juice of half a lem- on, and the yolks of ten eggs beat- en smooth; stir in 1 lb. of flour; butter a pan, and bake it in a mod- erate oven for one hour.—Orange cakes may be made in the same way. Add a small bit of car- bonate of soda to the milk, to pre- vent acidity. LEMON CHEESECAKES.— Boil the peel of two large lemons; pound well, with \ lb. of loaf su- gar, the yolks of six eggs, \ lb. of fresh butter, and some curd beaten fine. Mix all together ; lay a puff paste on the patty-pans; fill half full, and bake. Orange cheesecakes are done the same way; but the peel must be boiled in two or three waters to neutralize its bitter .taste. LEMON, Conserve of.—Grate the rind of a lemon into a saucer; squeeze the juice of the fruit over and mix it well together with a spoon; then boil some sugar very high, mix it in, and when of a due consistency, pour into moulds. LEMON CREAM.—Take a pint of thick cream, and put to it the yolks of three eggs well beaten, 4 ozs. of fine sugar, and the thin rind of a lemon grated; boil; stir it till almost cold ; put the juice of a lemon in a dish, or bowl, and pour the cream upon it, stirring it till quite cold. It is excellent when iced. LEMON CREAM, Yellow.— Pare thin 4 lemons into a large cupful of water, and squeeze the juice on 7 ozs. of finely pounded sugar; beat the yolks of 9 eggs well; add the peels and juice beat- en together for some time; then strain it into a block-tin sauce-pan; set it over a gentle fire, and stir it one way till thick, and scalding hot; but not boiling, or it will curdle. Pour it into jelly-glasses. A few lumps of sugar should be rubbed hard on the lemons before they are pared, or after, as the peel will be so thin as not to take all the essence, and the sugar will at- tract it, and give a better colour and flavour. LEMON CREAM, White.—la made the same as the above ; only put the whites of the eggs in lieu of the yolks, whisking it well to froth. LEMON CUSTARD.—Sherry wine, a pint; refined sugar, 1 lb.; the juice of two lemons, the rind of one pared thin, and the rind of the other boiled soft, and rubbed through a sieve; boil well. Take out the peel, and a little of the li- quor ; cool; pour the rest into the dish you design it for; beat four yolks and two whites of eggs; mix them with the cool liquor; strain o