ns cur CITE 25. If a player makes a false move, castles improperly, &c., the opponent must notice it before he touches a piece or pawn, or he will not be allowed to inflict any penalty. CHESTNUTS. Roast them well, depriving them of husks. Mis four ounces of sugar in a cup- ful of water, and the juice of a lemon; put all together in a sauce- pan over a slow fire for ten min- utes ; serve in a dish and grate sugar over it. CHICKEN BROTH.—Skin a small chicken, and split it in two; boil in a quart of water, or more, with three blades of mace, and a small crust of white bread, over a slow fire till reduced to half the quantity. Skim. CHICKEN CURRY. Re- move the skin; cut up raw, slice onions, and fry both in butter to a light brown. Lay the joints cut into two or three pieces each, into a stew-pan, with a veal or mutton gravy, and two cloves of garlick. Simmer till tender; and before serving, take a spoonful or two of curry powder, a spoonful of flour, and 1 oz. of butter, and four table-spoonfuls of cream, and add them to the stew; salt to taste. Squeeze in a little lemon. A dish of rice, boiled dry must be served. CHICKEN and HAM PAT- TIES.—Take the white meat from the breast of chickens, and 4 ozs. of ham cut small; put them into a stewpan, with 1 oz. of butter roll- ed in flour, half a gill of cream, half a gill of real stock, a little nut- meg, lemon-peel, cayenne pepper, salt, and a spoonful of lemon juice. Stir over the fire some time, but do not burn. CHICKEN and IIAMpotted.— Bake the chicken in a close cover- ed pan with a little water for about 30 minutes, adding, as you like, salt, pepper, cloves, mace. Broil oi fry some ham, and pound both chicken and ham small, moistening with butter: place in alternate layers when you pot them, and press tightly. CHICKEN PANADA.—Boil a chicken in a quart of water, till three parts done; skin it, cut off the white meat, and pound it to a thick paste with a little of the water it was boiled in; season it with salt, nutmeg, and lemon-peel; boil gently for a few minutes; let it not be so thick. It is very nourishing. Till. CHICKEN PIE. Cut the chickens in pieces, and boil nearly tender. Make a rich crust with an egg or two to make it light and puff. Season the chicken and slices of ham with pepper, salt, mace, nutmeg, and cayenne. Put them in layers, first "the ham, chicken, forcemeat balls, and hard eggs in layers. Make a gravy of knuckle of veal, mutton bones, seasoned with herbs, onions, pepper, &c. Pour it over the contents of the pie, and cover with a paste. Bake an hour. CHICKEN POX.—This is a mild eruptive disease, and seldom occurs more than once in a person’s life-time. The eruption is at- tended with but little indis- position. There is a slight chilli- ness, weariness, cough, fever, bad appetite, &c. a day or two before the eruption appears, which res- embles the small-pox. Treatment is simply plenty of cooling drinks acidulated, some cooling and ape- rient medicine, to keep the bowels gently open. Let the patient also be kept warm till the pox die away. CHICKEN PUDDING.—Cut half a pound of good ham very fine, and a couple of chickens. Season with salt, pepper, thyme, nutmeg, and mace. Stew them gently, and