BLO 72 BOA drachms; but is rather intended to act as a stimulant to the stomach, expectorant, or alterative, for which purpose twenty to sixty drops may ho given every two or three hours in acute cases, and three or four times a day in chronic. BLOOD-ROOT SYRUP. Bruised Blood-root, 2£ ounces; Lobelia, £ ounce; White Sugar, 1 jounce; water, 1| pint; gently simmer half an hour, till it thick- ens ; when cool, add a teaspoonful of paregoric elixir. Take a table- spoonful occasionally; a child a teaspoonful, or less. This Syrup is very valuable in chest complaints, bronchial affections, coughs, and difficult breathing. BLOODY FLUX. — Feed on rice, sago, and beef-tea. To stop it, take a spoonful of suet melted over a slow fire. Do not bleed. A person was cured in one day by feeding on rice-milk, and sit- ting a quarter of an hour in a shal- low tub, having in it warm water, three inches deep. BLOTCFIES.—Blotches or pim- ples on the face and neck are often the effect of some functional de- rangement of the liver or stomach. Lotions, in that case, do more harm than good. If they proceed from a disordered liver, take the compound colocynth and blue pill, (which a druggist will supply,) night and morning, for two or three days; then purge off with two or three doses of Epsom salts and senna. If they proceed from derangement of the stomach, take fifteen grains of carbonate of soda, six grains of rhubarb, and two of ginger, or cayenne pepper in water twice a day, and a compound colo- cynth pill every other day. Last thing at night rub the blotches with tallow, and in the morning apply fullers earth about half an hour, wash off with warm water and soap; and during the day sev- eral times with elder-flower wa- ter. Take also extract of sarsapa- rilla to purify the blood. BLUE FIRE.—Nitre, 2 parts; sulphur, 3 parts; zinc, 3 parts; meal gunpowder, 4 parts. Mix. BLUE FIRE FOR ROCK- ETS.—Fine zinc filings, 1 part, antimony, 2 parts; nitre, 4 parts. Mix. BLUE FLAME.—Gunpowder, 1 part; king’s yellow, 1 part; sulphur vivum, 2 parts; crude antimony, powdered, 4 parts; nitrate of potash, 14 parts. Mix, and sift through lawn. BLUE FLUID FOR MAKING BLUE WRITING INK—OR BLUE BLACK.—Prussian Blue in fine powder, 1 oz., placed in a common phial, and concentrated Hydrochloric Acid, 2 ozs. poured over it. Effervescence ensues, and the mixture soon assumes the con- sistence of a thin paste. After 24 hours it may be diluted with 8 or 9 ozs. of water, and preserved in a glass bottle. The intensity of this colour may be lessened by water. It forms an excellent Blue Writing Fluid. BLUE WRITING FLUID.— Pure Prussian Blue, 6 parts; ox- alic acid, one part; triturate with water to a perfectly smooth paste, then dilute. Add a little gum. BOARDS, to scour. — Brush well with soft soap, and soda, add- ing a small quantity of washing salts.' To kill vermin wash again with salt, or alum, or with chlor- ide of lime. A. N. BOARDS, to remove stains and grease from.—Make a ley of pearl ashes, unslacked lime, and soft water. Let it settle and bottle it. When used, dilute it with water, and wash it very quickly, that it may not discolour the boards.