LUN 237 LUN the affected part frequently. Or dip a flannel in hot water, and sprinkle with spirits of turpentine, and apply to the part as long as it can be endured. Or apply the Stimulating Liniment. 1 he tinc- ture of aconite is an excellent ru- be facient ; also the soap and opium liniment, with a few drops of spirits of turpentine. The dia- phoretic powders are very useful. If the urine be deficient and high coloured, give 10 or 12 grains of carbonate of potassa with a tea- spoonful of sweet nitre in a wine- glassful of water twice a day. Lumbago and Sciatica, rem- edy for.—Rectified oil of turpen- tine, 25 drops; vitriolic ether, 1 scruple; mucilage of gum arabic, 3 drs. ; syrup of poppies, 1 dr.; rose-water, l-i- oz.; make into a draught; take at bed-time. LUNCHEON CAKE.—Flour, 2 lb.; sugar, J lb.; currants, i lb.; butter, J lb. beaten very fine; a few caraway seeds; nutmeg grated; milk, half a pint; half a teaspoon- ful of carbonate of soda; three or four eggs. Stir all together, beat them ten minutes, and bake in a tin. LUNGS, Inflammation of.— Sometimes this disease affects one lobe of the lungs, and sometimes both. Males are more subject to it than females. Frequent colds, wet feet, intemperance, over exer- tion, and natural debility of the lungs induces this complaint. It generally begins with cold shiverings, followed by hot fever, dull pains in the chest or side, cough, and very laborious breath- ing, the pulse is full and quick, the bowels are often constipated, the urine deficient, the skin dry and burning, the expectoration scanty, but is gradually increasing, and sometimes it contains blood. It is a very dangerous disease; as it may proceed with such violence as to cause an effusion of blood or lymph into the texture of thelungs, as to cause suffocation. Treatment.—Avoid bleeding by the lancet. Dr. Beach says, “ All the blood in the body must pass through the lungs, after reaching the heart, before it can be again circulated; but in this disease, they are unable to perform this double duty from the great amount which has been distributed to them. As these organs have become unduly loaded; impeding respiration, &c., the obvious indication is—instead of abstracting, or rather attempt- ing it—to return it to its original channels, and thus remove the bur- den under which they labour. Bleeding will not affect this; but, on the contrary, it will so weaken or paralyze the heart, which is la- bouring to accomplish this object, that prostration, and often death, are the consequences.” Give sudorific medicines to pro- duce free and copious perspiration; and for this purpose give a vapour bath, using an infusion of bitter herbs, as hops, camomile flowers, pennyroyal, tansy, catnep; add vinegar; cover, and infuse two or three hours. It should be repeat- ed. If the patient cannot bear the fatigue of the bath, place hot bricks, or bottles, to the sides and feet. Give also Sudorific Powders, which see, until the breathing is relieved, and free perspiration induced. As soon as the patient is relieved, the bowels must be regulated by giving a gentle purge, and also an emetic ; repeat, if necessary; continue the sudorific powders; as these means are calculated to unload the chest, and return the blood to its former state. Injections, where thefceces are hard, and the bowels lethargic, arc of great importance, and should bo given occasionally. If the cough