26 APR APR APRICOTS, to preserve.-'When ripe, choose the finest apricots; pare them as thin as possible, and weigh them. Lay them in halves on dishes, with the hollow part upwards. Have ready an equal weight of good loaf sugar finely pounded, and strew it over them; in the meantime break the stones, and blanch the kernels. When the fruit has laid twelve hours, put it, with the sugar and juice, and also the kernels, into a preser- ving pan. Let it simmer very gently, till clear; then take out the pieces of apricots singly as they become so; put them into small pots, and pour the syrup and kernels over them. The scum must be taken olf as it rises. Cover with brandy-paner. APRICOT CAKES.—Scald 1 lb. of ripe apricots, peel and take out the stones as soon as you find the skin will come off. Beat them in a mortar to a pulp ; boil | lb. of refined sugar, with a spoonful of water, and skim it well. Then put in the pulp of the apricots; simmer a quarter of an hour over a slow fire, and stir gently all the time. Pour into shallow flat glasses, turn them out upon glass plates, put them into a stove, and turn once a day till dry. Far. APRICOT JAM.—Pare the ripest apricots, and cut them thin. Infuse them in an earthen pan till they are tender and dry. To 11- lb. of apricots, put 1 lb. of refined sugar, and 3 spoonfuls of water. Boil the sugar to a candy height and put it upon the apricots. Stir over a slow fire till they look clear and thick; but they must only simmer, and not boil. Put them into glasses. Far. APRICOT JELLY.—Peel and stone 20 fine apricots. Grate them to a pulp, and put them into a pan with a small cupful of water, and 1 lh. of fine sugar. Add lemon juice, and stir in the white of one egg thoroughly. Boil it till it will jelly when put to cool. Apples, grapes, and damsons, may be jellied in the same way, and in summer they make fine effervescing drinks.—The jelly may be boiled down to make ele- gant Fruit Candy. Gu. APRICOT PUDDING.-Halve twelve large apricots, give them a scald till they are soft; meantime pour on the grated crumbs of a penny loaf a pint of boiling cream ; when half cold, add four ounces of sugar, the yolks of four beaten eggs, and a glass of white wine. Pound the apricots in a mortar with some or all of the kernels; then mix the fruit and other in- gredients together; put a paste round a dish, and bake the pud- ding half an hour. APRICOTS, or PEACHES in Brandy.—Wipe, weigh, and pick the fruit, and have ready a quarter of the weight of fine sugar in fine powder. Put the fruit into an ice pot that shuts very close ; throw the sugar over it, and then cover the fruit with brandy. Between the top and cover of the pot, put a piece of double cap-paper. Set the pot into a sauce-pan of water till the brandy is as hot as you can possibly bear to put your finger in, but it must not boil. Put the fruit into a jar, and pour the brandy on it. When cold, put a bladder over, and tie it down tight. APRICOT MARMALADE.— Apricots that are not fit for pre- serves, or too ripe for keeping, will answer this purpose. Boil them in syrup till they will mash, then beat them in a mortar to a paste. Take half their weight of loaf su- gar, and water enough to it to dis- solve it. Boil and skim it till it is clear, and the syrup thick like