SMA 390 SMA Morris, president physician of the Halifax Visiting Dispensary,states that this Sarracenia, a papavera- ceous plant, will cure small pox in all its forms within twelve hours after the patient has taken the de- coction. “ However alarming and numerous the eruptions,” he says, “ or confluent and frightful they may be, the peculiar action of the medicine is such that very seldom is a scar left to tell the story of the disease. If either vaccine or vari- olous matter is washed with the infusion of the Sarracenia, they are deprived of their contagious properties. So mild is the medi- cine to the taste that it may be mixed with tea and coffee, and given to connoisseurs in these beverages to drink without being aware of the admixture. The medicine has been successfully tried in the hospitals of Nova Scotia, and its use will be continu- ed.”—Galignani. “We are now favoured with the following particulars respecting this valuable plant. The Sarra- cenia Purpurea, or Indian Cup, a native plant of Nova Scotia, found in swamps and moss-bogs, has the wonderful reputation among the Mic-Mac Indians of curing Small Pox; and of being as great a specific in this disease as quinine for ague. It is sup- posed to act by neutralizing the virus in the blood, rendering it in- ert and harmless; and that this is its action may be gathered from the fact that if either vaccine or variolous matter may be washed with the infusion of the Sarrace- nia, it is deprived of its contagious property. Moreover the eruption, even if confluent, on its disappear- ance, leaves no trace behind. I he root of the plant is the part em- ployed. The dose, when reduced to powder, isabout a dessert-spoon- ful, simmered in a pint of water down to half a pint; this is usual- ly divided into two doses, to bo taken during the day. Sugar should not be used with it.”— Galignani. SMALL POX, Prevention of pitting in.—Mr. Startin, the se- nior surgeon to the Gurney Hos- pital for diseases of the skin, has communicated to the Medical Times a very important plan, which he has adopted during the last fourteen years, for preventing pit- ting in small pox, and which, he states, has always proved success- ful. The plan consists in applying the acetum caniharidis or any ves- iccating fluid, by means of a camel- hair brush, to the apex of each spot or pustule of the disease, on all the exposed surfaces of the body, until blistering is evidenced by the whiteness of the skin in the parts subjected to the application, when the fluid producing it is to be washed off with water or arrow- root gruel. The pain attending the application of the vesiccating fluid, is very slight and transient. SMALLPOX, to prevent pitting in.—The following has been found very effectual:—The application consists of a solution of india-rubber in chloroform, which is painted with a camel hair pencil over the face (and neck in women), when the eruption has become fully de- veloped. When the chloroform has evaporated, which it very readily does, there is left a thin elastic film of india-rubber over the face. This the patient feels to be rather comfortable, as it removes itching and all irritation ; and, what is more important, “pitting," once so common, is thoroughly pre- vented by the application. In making the solution, the india- rubber must be cut into small pieces, and chloroform added till it