SAU 370 SAU ter the sizo of a walnut, shako it well, in order to mix it, without breaking- the ingredients. SAUCE, a la Nonpareille.—Cut some ham into dices, with the same weight of mushrooms or truffles ; put them into a stewpan, with a bit of butter, upon a slow tire, and simmer 15 minutes. If the sauce is to be white, put three skimming spoonfuls of white cullis. If brown, add half a glass of port wine, and seasoning; put in the whites of hard eggs, and mushrooms, in the same quantity as the ham and truffles, and cut in the same way; also, lobsters’ tails, and spawn, if there be any ; finish with a bit of butter. SAUCE, Excelsior.—Put into a saucepan a wineglassful of vinegar, some garlic, shalots, a laurel leaf, thyme, and pepper. Put on the tire till reduced to half the quan- tity. Add to it some gravy or soup. Pass it through a sieve; rub some butter into a little flour, and add it to the sauce, with finely chopped herbs. Excellent for cut- lets, or warmed slices of meat, &c. SAUCE, Grande.—Chop two shalots very fine, and a small bunch of parsley. Beat up the yolks of two or three eggs, and add Florence oil till the mixture is pretty thick. Add two tea-spoon- fuls of the best vinegar, a small one of salt, and one of soluble cayenne, and then mix all with the shalots and parsley. SAUCE, Italienne.—Cut twelve dices of ham, and put it into a stewpan, with a handful of mush- rooms well minced, and a sliced lemon, from which the peel and seeds must be taken; add a spoon- ful of hashed shalot, washed and dried in a cloth, half a bay-leaf, two cloves, and a gill of oil; put them all upon the fire; when near- ly ready, take out the lemon, and put in a spoonful of minced pars- ley, a spoonful of Espagnole, a glass of good white wine, without reducing it, and a little pepper; reduce, skim, take out the ham, and when it has obtained its point, take it oif. SAUCE, Lemon, for boiled Folds.—Put the peel of a small lemon, cut very thin, into a pint of sweet rich cream, with a sprig of lemon-thyme, and ten white pepper-corns. Simmer gently, till it tastes well of the lemon; then strain it, and thicken it with a quarter of a pound of butter, and a dessert-spoonful of flour rubbed in it. Boil it up ; then pour the juice of the lemon strained into it, stirring it well. Dish the chickens, and then mix a little white gravy, quite hot, with the cream, but don’t boil them together, and salt to your taste. SAUCE, Menhold.—Put into a stewpan a bit of butter broken in pieces ; shake over it a little flour, and add a little milk or cream; season it with parsley, young onions, a small bay-leaf, mush- rooms, and shalots; put it on the fire and stir often ; pass it through a sieve; put it on the fire with some parsley, and a little pepper. SAUCE, Poivrade.—Cut twelve small dices of ham, and put them into a stewpan, with a little bit of butter, five or six branches of pars- ley, two or three young onions cut in two, a clove of garlic, a bay- leaf, a little sweet basil, thyme, and two cloves; put them together upon a quick fire ; when they are well done, put in a little fine pep- per, a large spoonful of vinegar, and four spoonfuls of cullis or broth, not reduced; shake and boil it, draw it to the edge of the stove, and let it simmer three quarters of an hour; skim, and pass it through a sieve or colander.