TYP TYP 425 The favourable termination, of typhus is indicated by a gradual de- crease 'of those symptoms ; by the disappearance of stupor in the face of the patient, and his increasing’ attention to things around him; the pulse becomes moderated, the heat of the skin natural, the tongue becomes clean, &c. Treatment.—If there is nausea, oppression, and sickness, give an emetic; and if the patient is chilly, give the Vapour Bath, and then the Sudorific Powder to promote perspiration, which will give much ease, and dislodge from the fauces phlegm, and other morbific matter endangering suffocation. Observe an emetic in the first stages of ty- phus is of the utmost importance, and at any time before pros- tration commences. It has been known to restrain the disease in- stantly, and in many cases to mit- igate the symptoms. If the patient is constipated, aperients must be given. But if there is a tendency to diarrhoea, they must be omitted, or be ad- ministered sparingly; a small dose of rhubarb and magnesia may act as a corrective, or a single tea- spoonful of castor oil. Dr. Beach says, “In typhus, the brain and the system generally, are thrown into an unhealthy state, by an accumulation of acrid and vitiated bile, and matter collected in the stomach and first passages, caused by an inactive and torpid state of the liver. Delirium, great heat, and prostration of strength, take place from this cause. The sym- pathy existing between these or- gans is surprising; if one is healthy so is another; if one is in a mor- bid condition, those that sympa- thize with it are also diseased. Hence the very great importance of exciting a healthy state of the stomach, liver, and the whole ali- mentary canal. Aperients are ad- niirably calculated to fulfil this indication. They cleanse and stimulate at the same time; and although a patient may be very weak, he will gain strength under the administration of repeated purgatives. They may be given in moderate doses, in protracted cases, every other day. Persons in a very’- low or distressed state of typhus fever will soon assume a more healthy appearance after the administration of purgatives. The combination of a tonic, as a solu- tion of quinine, with purgatives, would render them more beneficial. A Scotch physician observes,— “ By oft sponging the surface of the body with cold water and vine- gar, and the application of cold to the head, and bathing the feet in warm water, the discomfort and headache of the patient may bo mitigated. Pain in the belly, or tenderness, in typhoid fever is best met by the use of warm fomenta- tions.” Where there is great sensibility and swelling of the abdomen, showing an inflammatory state of the intestines, and where the stomach rejects medicine, the use of injections is indicated. The saline mixture should be given in a state of effervescence; or a table-spoonful of yeast twice a day. Fixed air affords as much relief as any medicine, and has, in some instances, proved an effectual remedy, not by counteracting pu- trescency, but by cooling the body, abating thirst, and diminishing the morbid irritability of the sys- tem. . Let the patient drink balm and pennyroyal tea, and take the Dia- phoretic Powder ; for no medicines stand higher than those which produce perspiration ; though too much sweating must not be pro-