BEE BEE 54 BEEF, Round of.—Should be carefully salted and wot with the pickle for eight or ten days. The bone should be cut out first, and the beef skewered and tied up to make it quite round. It may be stuffed with parsley, if approved, in which case the holes to admit the parsley must be made with a sharp pointed knife, and the pars- ley coarsely cut and stuffed in tight. As soon as it boils, it should be skimmed, and afterwards kept boiling very gently. BEEF, to salt red.—Choose a piece of beef with as little bone as you can (the flank is most proper), sprinkle it, and let it drain a day; then rub it with common salt, salt- petre, and bay-salt; but only a small proportion of the saltpetre, and you may add a few grains of cochineal, all in fine powder. Rub the pickle every day into the meat for a week, then only turn it. It will be excellent in eight days. In sixteen drain it from the pickle; and let it be smoked at the oven- mouth when heated with wood, or send it to the baker’s. A few days will smoke it. A little of the coarsest sugar may be added to the salt. It eats well, boiled ten- der with greens or carrots. If to be grated as Dutch, then cut a lean bit, boil it till extremely tender, and while hot, put it under a press. When cold, fold it in a sheet of paper, and it will keep in a dry place two or three months,—ready for serving on bread and butter. Ru. BEEF SAUSAGES.—Take 2 lbs. of nice lean tender beef, and one pound of beef suet. Cut and chop them fine. Mix powdered sage and sweet herbs with the meat. Season pretty high with pepper, salt, nutmeg, &c.; also the finely shred rind of a small lemon. Skins may be dispensed with, if they be rolled well in a beaten egg, fried in hot butter, and rolled about in the pan. A. N. BEEF, Sirloin, to dress.—Cut out all the meat and fat in little pieces as thick as your finger, and two inches long; dredge it with flour; and fry in butter, of a nice brown; drain the butter from the meat, and toss it up in a rich gravy, seasoned with pepper, salt, anchovy, and shalot. Do not let it boil on any account. Before you serve, add two spoonfuls of vinegar. Garnish with crimped parsley. Ru. BEEF SOUP.—Put into ten pints of water, eight pounds of beef, cut into two or three pieces, one pound of mixed green vegeta- bles, four teaspoonfuls of salt, half a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, a few shalots, and three cloves. Boil gently three hours. BEEF-STEAKS should be cut from a rump that has hung a few days. Broil them over a very clear fire, or in the oven; put into the dish a little minced shalot, and a table-spoonful of ketchup; and rub a bit of butter on the steak the moment of serving. It should be turned often, that the gravy may not be drawn out on either side. This dish requires to be eaten so hot and fresh done, that it is not in perfection if served with any thing else. Pepper and salt should be added when taking it off the fire. BEEF-STEAK, with Potatoes. —Cut thin slices of beef, beat and season them with pepper and salt, dip them into a little melted but- ter and broil them. When done, put them into a dish before the fire, and fry potatoes to a fine brown colour, serve with parsley chopped fine, a small piece of but- ter, pepper and salt. BEEF-STEAKS, Rich.—Cut