BAC BAC 39 you might be obliged to play at length those fives and fours. As soon as he enters one, com- pare his game with yours; and if you find your game equal, or bet- ter, take the man if you can, be- cause it is twenty-five to eleven against his hitting you; which, being so much in your favour, you ought always to win that risk when you have already two of his men up ; except you play for a single hit only. Never he deterred from taking any one man of your adversary’s, by the apprehension of being hit by double dice; it is five to one against it. If you should happen to have five points in your tables, and to have taken up one of your adversary’s men, and are obliged to have a blot out of your tables, rather leave it upon the doublets than any other, because doublets are thirty-five to one against his hitting you; any other chance is seventeen to one against his doing so. Two of your adversary’s men upon your tables are better for a hit than any greater number, pro- viding your game is the most for- ward ; because having three or more men on your tables, gives him more chances to hit you than if he had only two men. If you have a blot upon entering a man upon your adversary’s ta- bles, and have your choice where, always chose that point which is most disadvantageous to him. CRITICAL CASES FOR A BACK. GAME. Question.—Suppose A plays the fore game and that all his men are placed in the usual manner; for B’s gamo suppose that fourteen of his men are placed upon his adver- sary’s ace point, and one on his deuce point, and that B is to throw, which game is tho likeliest to win the hit p Answer.—A’s is the best by twenty-one to twenty, because if B misses an ace to take his oppo- nent’s deuce point, which is twen- ty-five to eleven against him, A is in that case to take up B’s men in his tables, either singly or to make points; and if B secures either A’s deuce or trois points, then A is to lay as many men down as possible, in order to be hit, and so get a hack game. DIRECTIONS FOR PLATING AT SET- TING OUT THE 36 CHANCES OF THE DICE. 1. Two aces to be played upon your cinque point and bar point, for gammon or hit. 2. Two sixes to he played on your adversary’s bar point, and on your own, for a gammon or hit. 3. Two trois to be played on your cinque point and the other two in your trois point, in your own tables, for a gammon only. 4. Two deuces to be played on your quatre point in your own ta- bles, and two to be brought over from the five men placed in your adversary’s tables; this also for a gammon only. 5. Two fours to be brought over from the five men placed in your adversary’s table, and to be put upon the cinque point in your own tables, for a gammon only. 6. Two fives, to be brought over from the five men placed in your adversary’s tables, and put on the trois point in your own, for a gammon or hit. 7. Six ace, now take your bar point for a gammon or hit. 8. Six deuce, a man to he brought from the five, in your ad- versary’s tables, and placed on the cinque point in your own, for a gammon or hit.