FLI FLO 1G7 FLATULENCY, griping, §c., in Children.—It proceeds from in- digestion. Give an emetic to pro- duce a vomit. In two hours after, give a little rhubarb and mag- nesia, and occasionly a little castor oil, in aniseed water. Also a warm bath now and then. FLEAS AND LICE, on ani- mals, to destroy.—Solution of cam- phor—the camphor first dissolved in spirits of wine.—The root of the tail, and most of the back of dogs may be rubbed with Scotch snuff. ■ Or apply oil of turpentine. FLIES. — Horses, cows, and oxen may be relieved from the annoyance of flies and the stings of venomous insects, by nibbing their legs and stomachs with train oil, which drives those unwelcome visitors away. FLIES annoying Working Hor- ses.—An infusion of walnut leaves, applied occasionlybetween theears, and on other sensitive parts of the horse, is successful. FLIES, to destroy.—A. teaspoon- ful of laudanum, and two table- spoonfuls of water, strongly sweet- ened with sugar, placed in a sau- cer. Or dissolve quassia chips in boiling water, and sweeten. Or a strong infusion of green tea, well sweetened. Or ground black pepper and sugar, diluted in milk, and put on plates, &c. FLIES, to keep off.—Dust meat over with pepper, or powdered ginger, or fasten to it a piece of pa- per on which camphor has been well rubbed, or a few drops of creosote. FLIP.—Put a quart of ale on the fire; beat 3 or 4 eggs, with 4 ozs. of sugar, a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg or ginger, and a gill of good old rum or brandy. When the ale is about to boil, put it into one pitcher, and the eggs, turn, &c. into another; then pour it from one vessel to the other till it is as smooth as cream. FLOUNDERS, to fry.—Rub with salt inside and out; let them stand two hour's to give them firm- ness ; dip them into egg, cover with crumbs and fry. To boil. Open and clean; boil in salt and water; make either gravy, shrimp, cockle, or mussel sauce, and garnish with red cab- bage. FLOUR, to detect adulterated. —Take a little in the hand, and squeeze it for half a minute; if good, it can be put out of the hand in a lump ; if adulterated, it will fall apart as soon as it leaves the hand. FLOUR CAUDLE.-Into five large spoonfuls of pure water rub smooth a dessert-spoonful of fine flour. Set over the fire five spoon- fuls of new milk, sweetened; the moment it boils, pour into it the flour and water; and stir it over a slow fire twenty minutes. It is a nourishing and gently astringent food—an excellent food for babies with weak bowels. FLOWERS, a hint to lovers of. —A beautiful show of evergreens may be had by a very simple plan. If geranium branches, taken from luxuriant and healthy trees just before the winter sets in, be cut as for slips and immersed in soap- water, they will, after drooping for a few days, shed their leaves, put forth fresh ones, and continue in vigour all winter. By placing a number of bottles thus filled in a flower-basket, with moss-to con- ceal them, a show of evergreens is insured for the whole season. They require no fresh water. FLOWER BULBS AT ANY SEASON IN THREE WEEKS. —Fill a flower pot half full of quick lime, fill up with good earth, plant the bulb, and keep the earth i damp.