293 PAR PAR PARTRIDGE, to boil.—Boil quick in a good quantity of water about fifteen minutes. For sauce, take a quarter pint of cream, and a small piece of fresh butter; pour it over the birds. PARTRIDGE, to carve.—The partridge is here presented as just taken from the spit; but before it is served up, the skewers must be withdrawn. It is cut up in the same manner as a fowl. The wings must be taken off in the lines a, b, and the merrythought, in the line c, d. The prime parts of a part- ridge are the wings, breast and merrythought, but the bird being small, the two latter are not often divided. The wing is considered the best, and the tip of it reckoned the most delicate morsel of all. PARTRIDGE, to dress a la braise.—Truss the legs into the bodies of two brace of partridges; lard, and season with beaten mace, pepper, and salt; lay slices of ba- con, beef, and veal, a small carrot, and onion, cut small, sweet herbs, and some whole pepper; put in the partridges with the breasts downwards; lay thin slices of beef and veal over them, and some parsley shred fine; cover, and stew 8 or 10 minutes over a slow fire ; shake the pan, and pour into it a pint of boiling water ; cover close, and let it stew half an hour over a quicker fire; turn out the birds; keep hot; pour into the pan a pint of thin gravy; boil till reduced to half a pint; strain, and skim off the fat. Cut a veal sweet- bread small, small mushrooms, cockscombs, and fowls’ livers, stewed half an hour in a pint of gravy; some artichoke buttons, and asparagus tops, blanched in warm water; then add the other gravy to this, and put in the part- ridges to heat; when hot, pour 6ome sauce over them, and serve. PARTRIDGE, to hash.—Cut up the partridge as for eating; slice an onion into rings; roll a little butter in flour; put them into the tossing pan, and shake it over the fife till it boils; put in the partridge with a little port wine and vinegar; and when it is thoroughly hot, lay it on the dish with sippets round it; strain the sauce over the partridge, and lay on the onion in rings. PARTRIDGE, to pot.—Clean them nicely; and season with mace, allspice, white pepper, and salt, in fine powder. Rub every part well; then lay the breast downwards in a pan, and pack the buds as close as you possibly can. Put a good deal of butter on them ; then cover the pan with a coarse flour paste and a paper over, tie it close, and bake. When cold, put the birds into pots, and cover with butter. PARTRIDGE, toroast.—Roast them like a turkey, and when a little under roasted, dredge them with flour, and baste them with butter ; let them go to table with a fine froth; put gravy sauce in the dish, and bread sauce on the table. PARTRIDGE, to slew.—Truss as for roasting; stuff the craws, and lard them down each side, of the breast; roll a lump of but- ter in pepper, salt, and beaten mace, and put them inside; sew up the vents; dredge them well, and fry a light brown; put them into a stewpan with a quart of good gravy, a spoonful of sherry wine, the same of mushroom ket- chup,a teaspoonful of lemon pickle, and a little mushroom powder, one anchovy, half a lemon, a sprig of sweet marjoram; cover the pan close, and stew half an hour ; take out, and thicken the gravy ; boil it a little, and pour it over the partridges, and lay round them