320 PLU PUT foro the oven is ready; mix to- gether lightly the currants, &c. Bake two hours. Another.—Take 4 lhs. each of dried flour, and currants, well •washed and picked; sugar, 11 lb., sifted; six oranges, lemon, and ci- tron peels, sliced ; mix all together; then beat ten eggs, the yolks and whites separately ; melt 1| lb. of butter in a pint of cream; when nearly cool, add J pint of ale yeast, and nearly £ pint of sherry, and the eggs; strain the liquor to the dry ingredients ; beat them well, and add J oz. each of cloves, mace, cinnamon, and nutmeg. Butter the pan and put it into a quick oven, two or three hours. PLUM CAKE.—A rich one.— Mix well If lbs. of the best flour well dried, with k lb. of dry sifted loaf sugar; \\ lb. of well cleaned and dry currants; f lb. of raisins stoned and chopped, one eighth of an ounce each of clove, mace, and cinnamon, a small nutmeg grated, the peel of a lemon cut very fine, and f lb of almonds. Melt 1 lb. of butter in half a pint of cream not hot; put to it half a pint of wine, a little brandy, a little rose-water, and 6 eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately, and a quarter of a pint of yeast. Strain this grad- ually into the dry ingredients, heating them for an hour. Butter the pan or hoop and bake in a moderate oven for 4 hours. In putting in the batter, add plenty of candied orange, lemon, and ci- tron peel. If you ice the cake when nearly cold, pour the iceing over and re- place it in the oven, leaving it there all night or until it becomes cold, hut if the oven be warm, keep it near the front and the door open, or the colour nmy be spoiled; or the iceing it may be left until the next day. PLUM CAKE, to make little ones.—Take 1 lb. of flour; rub in- to it £ lb. of butter, and | lb. of sugar, a little beaten mace; beat 4 eggs well; leave out half the whites; add three spoonfuls of yeast; put to it \ pint of warm cream; strain them into the flour, and make it up light; set it before the fire to rise; before it is sent to the oven, put in % lbs. of currants. PLUM CAKE, a white one.— It is made the same as the 2nd Receipt, except beating the whites of the eggs well; and when mixed with the other ingredients, beating the whole for two hours. PLUM, Compote of .—Green-ga- ges are the best to preserve in syrup. They must not be quite ripe. Boil them a little in raw sugar and a little water; skim, when cooling, and reduce the syrnp according to the time you intend to keep them. It is the best to prick them in several places, and scald them in boiling water until they rise on the surface; take off the fire, and let them cool in the same water; cover the pan, and put them on a slow fire, which will bring them back to their proper colour; drain them in cold water, and boil them a moment in sugar; leave them in it till next day, and boil them a little more. Prepared in this way, they will keep a long time. „ POACHED EGGS.—Break an egg into a cup, and put it gently into boiling water; and when the white looks quite set, which will be in about three or four minutes, take it up with an egg sliced, and lay it on toast and butter, or spin- ach. Serve them hot; if fresh laid, they will poach well without breaking. POISON, Antidotes to—The treatment of cases of poisoning must vary with the nature of the