INT 210 IPE tin. Or, muriatic acid. On the ink disappearing, rub it over im- mediately with a rag wetted with cold water, to prevent a white mark. INSECTS on plants to destroy. —Tie up sulphur in a muslin bag, and dust the leaves of young shoots and plants. A dredging- box may be used. Sulphur in- creases verdure. A weak solution of alum sprinkled upon plants is not relished by insects. Or, a thin mixture of soft soap and oil of turpentine painted on the stems of trees.—Painting the walls behind rose trees, fruit trees, &o., prevents the visits of spiders, earwigs, caterpillars, &c. The best paint for this purpose is gas tar. INTERMITTENT FEVER. See Ague. INTESTINES, Inflammation of.—See Bowel Complaint; page 73. The mucous membrane is generally the seat of this disease. The stomach and intestines are lined with a membrane which se- cretes a liquid termed “mucous.” This disease is often caused by ex- posure to cold and wet, especially while in a state of perspiration; the suppression of customary evacua- tions, indigestible food, mercury, frequent drastic purges, feculent accumulation in the intestines, strangulated rupture, and over- feeding, giving nature more than it is able to do; drunkenness is an awful thing for the bowels, gradu- ally, by its extreme terrible friction, lessening the secretion of the mu- cous. When that ceases, farewell to life. It manifests itself by acute pains in the bowels, pains shooting around the navel, which increase by pres- sure. There is great constipation, and vomiting of bilious matter, fever, debility, mental depression. It is a dangerous disease, and re- quires prompt attention. The ob- ject is to remove the inflammation. Let all exciting food and drinks be abandoned. Avoid severe purga- tives. Give a table-spoonful, or rather more of castor-oil every two hours until it acts on the bowels. Bathe the feet and legs in warm water. If the oil takes no effect, give the following injection;— Lobelia herb, | dr.; slippery elm, \ dr.; valerian root, 1 dr.; boiling water, half a pint. Infuse ten minutes, strain, and give warm. If the pain is severe, make a decoc- tion of bitter herbs, with a trifle of cayenne and opium, and flannels dipped in it, and applied to the ab- domen. To allay vomiting, take infusion of spearmint, half a pint; bicarbonate of potash, half a tea- spoonful. Give a tablespoonful every hour. As soon as the bow- els are relieved, give a vapour bath, and then the Diaphoretic Powder. Should the extremities become cold, repeat the vapour bath. IODINE LOTION.—Tincture of Iodine, f fluid oz.; iodide of iron, 12 grains; chloride of anti- mony, oz. Mix for a wash. It is a remedy for corns. Apply wi!h a small brush. Or Iodine, li grains; spirits of wine, 3 teaspoonfuls. Dissolve, and add a pint of water. A most excellent wash for scrofulous sores. IPECACUANHA.—It is eme- tic, stimulant, tonic, and sudorific. It is useful in bleeding from the lungs, and indigestion, if taken in small doses, so as not to produce nausea; also in fluxes, diarrhoea, hoopingcough, and in some fevers. From 25 to 30 grains form a good emetic, without causing debility. In doses of 2 or 3 grains, it forms a tonic, giving tone to the stomach, and promoting digestion. It is valuable in bilious and liver com- plaints.—See Robinson's Herbal.