COU 126 COS of antimony, 4 drachms. Mix and apply, after paring the corn. After bathing the feet and cut- ting the corns, apply to them a leaf of houseleek, or one of ground- ivy, or of purslane, well steeped in vinegar. Renew every evening for a few days. CORN SOLVENT, Sir E. Davy's :—Potash, 2 parts; Salt of Sorrel, 1 part: Mix in tine pow- der. Lay a small quantity on the corn for four successive nights, binding it on with rags. CORPULENCY.—Mr. Alfred William Moore, sent the following communication to the Medical Times:—“Fat is a necessary in- gredient of the body. Nature is sometimes too liberal in its supply; it then becomes burdensome, and subjects the objects of its prodi- gality to ridicule. The discovery of a certain remedy may prove a boon. The following systematic plan of treatment, adopted by my- self, who am constitutionally fat, will clearly show that abstaining from bread and fermented liquors will remedy this inconvenience:— Weighing 15J stones, I reduced myself in three months to 12J stones by strictly adhering to the following plan of dieting myself: Breakfast early, consisting of 2 oz. of biscuit, 1 egg, two cups of tea or coffee; then fasted till five; my dinner consisting of animal food, &c., but no bread: likewise avoid- ing bread at my tea or supper.” Abstain as much as possible from the use of butter, sugar, and fat meat, and take plenty of exer- cise every day. COSMETICS.—It is said that Pimpernal water is a great beauti- fier of the countenance.—Or, melt 1 lb. of soft soap, and half a pint of sweet oil, and add a tea-cupful of very fine sand, and three or four drops of camphorated spirit. COSTIVENESS.—See Consti- pation. COSTIVENESS.—Rise early every morning. Or boil in a pint and a half of broth, half a handful of mallow leaves, strain, and drink it before you eat any thing else. Do this frequently, if needful. Or, take daily, two hours before dinner, a small tea-cupful of stewed prunes. Or, live upon bread made of wheat flour with all the bran in it. Or, boil an ounce and a half of tamar- inds in three pints of water to a quart. In this, strained, when cold, infuse all night two drachms of senna, and one drachm of red rose leaves; drink a cupful every morning.—An infusion of senna, with Epsom salts, with gentian root, and camomile flowers, may be taken every other day. COUGHS,—The following are the best recipes for Coughs. Some of them are of rare excellence ;— 1. To allay a tickling Cough.— Six table-spoonfuls of treacle; the juice of half a lemon; simmer over i the fire till well incorporated. Take off, and add one table-spoon- ful of paregoric, and about the size of a horse-bean of refined ni- tre. Take two tea-spoonfuls when the cough troubles. 2. Take 4 ozs of sugar candy, powdered, \ oz. of citric acid, or lemon juice; mix by heat; add a few drops of oil of aniseed. If the cough is not a dry one, add 20 drops of laudanum, or a dessert spoonful of paregoric. Take a teaspoonful at a time, when the cough is troublesome. 3. Two table-spoonfuls of Lin- | seed, four ounces of LiquoriCij" root, or Spanish Juice, four ounces of Elecampane root, water three quarts; boil down to three pints. Dose, a wine-glassful four or five times a day. 4. Powder of tragaeanth, one