FIR FER 163 and take now and then the Compo- sition Powder. FEMALE PILL.—Aloes and Lobelia, 1 drachm each; Black Cohosh, Gum Myrrh, Tansy, Unicorn Root, 1 oz. each; Cayenne, J oz. Mix, and form into piils with solution of gum.—These pills remove female obstructions, and are good for head aches, lowness of spirits, nervousness, and sallow- ness of the skin. Or Aloes, Red Oxide of Iron, White Turpentine, 1 oz. each. Melt the turpentine, and strain; mix well; form into pills with mucilage. Take two or three per day. FENNEL SAUCE.-Soak four sliced onions, in two spoonfuls of oil, a cup of gravy, two cloves of garlick; simmer an hour; skim off the fat, and sieve; add chopped parsley, fennel, pepper and salt; boil a moment. FERMENTATION, to check. —The least bit of sulphate of Potass. It is applicable to liquors, syrups, preserves, &c. FERMENTATION, topromote. —Put into the wort some powder- ed ginger. Or fill a bottle with boiling water, and sink it into the worts. Or heat a small quan- tity of the worts, and put it to the rest, with a little yeast. Or beat up the whites of two eggs with some brandy, and put it into the wort. Do not disturb the wort. FERNS, to copy.—Dip them well in common porter, and then lay them flat between white sheets of paper, with slight pressure, and let them dry out. FERTILITY, IMMENSE.— A single plant may produce: — No. of Seeds to flowers, a flower. Groundsel. 130 x 50 — Chickweed. 500 Shepherd’s Purse. 150 10 = total. 6,500 5,000 X SO = 4,500 FEVER DRINKS.—Thejuice of a lemon, cream of tartar, 1 tea- spoonful ; water, 1 pint. Sweeten with loaf sugar. When the patient is thirsty, let him drink freely. FIG PASTE, for Costiveness.— Chop small 1 lb. of figs, and mix with them 2 ozs. of best senna, cut small, and a cupful of treacle; stew and stir it till it becomes stiff and film. Take a piece about the size of a walnut. FININGS FOR BEER.-Isin- glass, 4 ozs.; dissolve it in two quarts of stale beer; simmer it till thick as a syrup, put into it a handful of salt, and half a pint of powdered oyster-shells; mix them with one gallon of strong beer or ale, stir till it ferments; cover it up close. The quantity will be sufficient for a butt of beer. FIRE IRONS, to prevent rust- ing-—Apply sweet oil, and dust them with unslaked lime powder- ed. If rusted, oil them, and in two or three hours, polish with fine emery, lime, or powdered pumice stone. Tripoli and sul- phur, equal parts, combined, will remove rust. FIRE TO LIGHT.—Clear the grate, and place at the bottom a few coals about the size of a wal- nut, place the fuel (shavings and wood split) upon them, then cin- ders, and lastly coals. This meth- od speedily produces a good fire. FIRE KINDLERS.—Tar, 1 quart; rosin, 3 lbs.; melt them. When not quite cool, add 1 gill of spirits of turpentine, and mix as much saw-dust, with a little char- coal, as can be worked in ; spread out while hot on a board ; divide into pieces. They will instantly ignite, and briskly burn long enough to ignite coal, or wood. FIRE, to revive.—Strew on a dull fire powdered nitre, or salt- petre.