186 GRA GRA 7 — = mixed with flour, and boiled in the soup, will enrich and give greater consistency. Long boiling is necessary to give the full flavour of the ingredients. A clear jelly of cow heels is very useful to keep in the house; it is a great improvement to gravies and soups. GRAVY.—Most joints will af- ford sufficient trimmings, cuttings, &C-, to make half a pint of plain gravy, which may be enriched, if necessary, with various seasonings, cow heel, lemon, sweet herbs, ham, mutton, or veal. An eminent cook observes, “ Good browning may be made for roast meat and poultry, by saving the brown bits of roasted or boiled m eat; cut them small, cover them with boiling wa- ter till next day in a basin, then boil three minutes; strain; keep for use. Gravy for boiled, Meat—May be made with parings and trimmings, or pour from a quarter to half a pint of the liquor in which the meat was boiled into the dish with it, and pierce the inferior part of the joint with a sharp skewer. Gravy for Brown Sauces.—Take some neck of beef; cut it into thin slices; flour it well, and put it in- to a saucepan with a slice of fat bacon, a sliced onion, powdered sweet marjoram, pepper and salt; stir a little on a slow fire ; when brown, put some water to it; stir, and boil half an hour, strain, and take the fat off, adding a little lemon juice. Beef Gravy, See page 55. Gravy Soup.—Take the bones of a rump of beef, and a piece of the neck; wash them well; and then boil all the goodness from them. Add some beef marrow; strain off; put a piece of butter into a stew-pan, brown it, add a glass of good port wine; put in two carrots, pepper, salt, a little sugar, and boiling water as needed. Stew gently for 3 or 4 hours. It may be varied by adding onions, sweet herbs, cloves, mace, or allspice, cayenne pepper, port wine, mushroom ketchup, &c. Gravy for a fowl.—Take the neck, liver, and gizzard; boil them in half a pint of water, with toast- ed bread, pepper, salt, thyme; boil till reduced to half; add a glass of port wine; boil; strain; bruise the liver well, and thicken with butter rolled in flour. Instead of the gizzard, you may use beef, or ham. GRAVY SAUCE for Ragouts, Game, Poultry, §c.—Take a slice of fat ham, or bacon, or 1 oz. of1 butter, and an onion, upon it lay 1 lb. of juicy beef; cover; set on a slow fire ; turn the meat about,. and slightly brown; add 1| pint of boiling water; boil; skim ; put in broivn toasted bread, a sprig of i savory, or lemon thyme, parsley, lemon peel, allspice, black pepper, stew two hours; strain. To thick- en it, add butter and flour melted and mixed on the fire, add a little of the gravy, stir, and add the re- mainder gradually; simmer gent- ly 15 minutes; skim off the fat, and pass through a sieve. Gravy fora Turkey.—Lean beef 1 lb.; hash and flour it; melt 14 oz. of butter in a stew-pan, and put in the beef; fry brown; add 3 pints of boiling water, sweet herbs, 3 blades of mace, 3 cloves, a few pepper corns, a small carrot, a brown crust of bread ; boil down to a pint. Add salt. Gravy may be made without meat, by using butter, a glass each of small beer, and water, chopped onion, pepper, salt, grated lemon peel, two cloves, a spoonful of mushroom ketchup, or walnut li- quor ; put on the fire; stir in some