BAS 45 BAR sugar in three tea-cupfuls of wa- ter, over a slow fire for half an hour. Dissolve a little gum in hot water; and put it in to clear , keep scumming while any scum rises ; vfhen ready it will snap like <rlass; cut it into long sticks. BARLE Y SO (JP.—Take a gal- lon of water, and half a pound of barley, a blade or two of mace, a large crust of bread, a small piece of lemon-peel; let it boil till it comes to two quarts; then add half a pint of sherry wine, and sweeten to your palate. Hu. When boiled to 3 quarts, chop- ped chicken and bacon may be put in. and salt; omitting the sugar. BARLEY SUGAR.—Boil one pound of very fine sugar in a tea- cupful of water, over a slow fire for half an hour ; keep skimming it as often as any scum arises on the surface, till enough. Before it comes to the crack, take it off, and pour it on a stone. You must not pull this but make it into long sticks, and clear it with vinegar. Flavour with lemon juice, or oil of lemons; rub a little fresh but- ter over a stone or marble slab, and pour sugar along it in narrow strips; twist it to a spiral form while warm; and when it becomes cold, mark it across with a knife, and it will break into any lengths desired. BARLEY WATER.—Careful- ly clean two table-spoonfuls of pearl barley, put it into a quart jug, adding a very little salt, and lump sugar to taste. Fill up with boiling water, and keep stirring for ten minutes. Cover, and let cool. It will be fit for use in ten or twelve hours. Finely shred lemon peel, or a little calf’s feet jelly, greatly improves it. To make Barley-water 'pectoral, add to the above, sliced figs, brui- sed liquorice root, raisins, stoned ; the quantity of each according to taste; distilled water, 1 pint; boil awhile, and strain. These drinks are useful in fevers, and diseases of the chest. The barley should be well washed, then boiled a few minutes to extract its colouring matter. Then boil in fresh water to a proper consistence. Or, take a tea-spoonful of pearl barley, two ounces of loaf sugar of the ordinary size, half a lemon, and enough isinglass to clear it. Pour half a gallon of spring water on these ingredients, and let it stand till cold. Or, add the juice and rind of one lemon to a tablc-spoonlul of honey, and two teacupfuls of bar- ley, pour a quart of boiling water upon it. BARONESS’S PUDDING.— Suet, flour, raisins, of each, three quarters of a pound, and a little salt, and cinnamon. This is a real good pudding. BASILICON OINTMENT, Yellow.—Yellow Wax, 8 ounces; Burgundy Pitch, 3 ounces; Venice Tui’pentine, 4 ounces; Linseed Oil, 10 ounces. First melt the Rosin, to which add the Wax, and the Burgundy Pitch. When the whole is melted, remove from the fire, and slowly put in the Oil, stirring well till it is cold. For the Slack Sasilicon, Yellow Wax, and Yellow Rosin, 10 ounces; Common Pitch, 5 ounces. Melt as before, and add 10 ounces of Linseed Oil when taken from the fire. For the Green Sasilicon, Yel- low Wax, and Yellow Rosin, of each, 3 ounces; Venice Turpen- tine, 6 ounces; Powdered Verdi- gris, 1 ounce; Lard, 6 ounces. Melt first the Rosin, &c., as before. These ointments are very effi- cacious in healing cuts, abscesses, and local affections of any kind.