TIN TIC 416 a recumbent position is best. Avoid rivers and ponds, because ■water is a conductor, and persons in boats are very likely to be struck by the lightning. Avoid the chimney, for the iron about the grate, the soot, and the rarified air are all conductors. Do not sit near an open window, because a draught of humid air is a good con- ductor. In bed we are compara- tively safe, for the feathers and blankets are bad conductors, and we are, to a great extent, insulated in such situations. TIC DOLOUREUX.—Take J a pint of rose-water, add 3 tea- spoonfuls of white vinegar, to form a lotion. Apply it to the part af- fected 4 or 5 times a day. It re- quires fresh linen and lotion each application : this will in 2 or 3 days gradually take away the pain. Quinine, either in pills or as a draught, is also efficacious in re- moving these pains. Quinine Draught.—Sulphate of quinine, 2 grains; diluted sulphuric acid, 2 drops; spirit of nutmegs, 1 drachm; distilled water, 10 drachms. Mix. A wine-glassful to be taken daily at mid-day. Cleanse the stomach and bowels by an emetic and an aperient. Give the Restorative Wine Bitters, to which add a liittle of the sub- carbonate of iron. If constipated, take the Dyspeptic Pill. Cold water cloths applied form no mean remedy: also the Rheumatic Liquid, ■which see If the pain is very severe, apply' the Stimulating Liniment, and af- terwards a poultice made of hops, powdered valerian, and a little tincture of cayenne. I have found extract of henbane, in the dose of 3 grains, formed into a pill, given three times a day, to afford great relief. . Where there is much irritation of the nerves of the face, particular attention must be paid to the state of the digestive organs; for nothing tends more to keep up nervous ir- ritability than indigestion. See Indigestion. The extract of bella- donna is a good preventive taken previous to the attack. Take ono grain. Repeat, if necessary. Chlo- roform is now used for Tic. It should be advised by a skilful chemist. Or, pour a pint of boiling water on 1 oz. of valerian root, and \ oz. of cassia. Infuse 24 hours. Take a wine-glassful three times a day, between meals, with a tea-spoonful of powdered Peruvian bark in each glass. Take no tea, coffee, ale, porter, or acids, but a light, nourishing diet; and keep the bowels regular with a little Tur- key rhubarl;. TIN COVERS, to clean. Mix the finest whiting with tha least drop of sweet oill; rub well, and wipe clean; then dust some dry whiting over, and rub bright with dry leather. TINCTURE of LOBELIA.— See page 233. Take 4 ozs. of the dried plant, water, and spirits of wine, of each, 1 pint; sulphuric ether, 1 oz.; spirits of nitric ether, i a pint. Macerate in a dark place one or two weeks. Strain. Begin with one or two drops at a time. It is excellent for asthma, and asthmatic or spasmodic cough. It is good in hooping cough, chronic bronchitis, croup, &c. TINNING.—Plates or vessels of brass or copper, boiled with a solution of stannate of potassa mixed with turnings of tin, be- come, in the coarse of a few min- utes, covered with a firmly attach- ed layer of pure tin. A similar effect is produced by boiling the articles with tin filings and caus- tic alkali, or cream of tartar. In