CAL 92 CAL any size; punch full of holes, and hake on tin plates in a cool oven. CAKES, Yorkshire. Two pounds of flour, mix with it four ounces of butter melted in a pint of good milk, three spoonfuls of yeast, and two eggs; beat all well together, and let it rise; then knead and make into cakes: let them rise on tins before you bake, in a slow oven. Another sort is made as above, leaving out the butter. The first is a shorter sort; the last lighter. CAKE, to keep good a year.— Flour, butter, currants, raisins, sugar, of each, 1 lb; one ounce of almonds blanched and dried before the fire, six eggs well beaten, orange peel, and lemon peel, of each, one ounce. Beat the butter to a cream, and gradually nrix with the flour ; add a wine glass of brandy. This cake should not be cut under three months. CAKES, Iceing for.—Powder and sift 1 lb. of loaf sugar; put it into a basin with the whites of three or four eggs; beat well to- gether, and add the juice of six lemons; beat well until it becomes very light and hangs in flakes from the spoon; it is then ready for use. CALAMINE CERATE.-Take of Olive oil 1 pint, calamine pre- pared, and yellow wax, of each half a pound. Melt the wax with the oil, and as soon as the mixtui-e begins to thicken, mix with it the calamine, and stir the cerate until it is cold. This is an excellent ap- plication for burns, and all cuta- neous excoriations. CALF’S FEET, boiled or braised.-Bone them quite, and stuff them with forcemeat of what- ever kind you please; tie them in slices of lard with string or tape; boil them slowly in broth and sherry wine, sweet herbs, cloves, roots, and onions; serve with any sauce. When thus cooked, they may be broiled, dipped in butter, or with bread-crumbs. Hu. CALFS’ FEET BROTH.— Boil two calves feet, j lb. of veal, the same quantity of beef, the bot- tom of a penny loaf, three blades of mace, and a little salt, in three quarts of water, to three pints; strain, and take off the fat.—Or put a cupful of the jelly into a saucepan, with a glass of sweet -wine, a little sugar and nutmeg, and make hot; beat into it gradually an egg, a little butter, a bit of lemon-peel grated; and mix well. CALF’S FEET, fricasseed.— Parboil; take out the long bones; split them; put them into a stew- pan, with veal gravy, and a glass of sherry, and the yolks of two or three eggs, beaten with cream, grated nutmeg, salt, and butter. Stir till thick. Simmer the whole ten minutes, dish, and garnish with shred lemon. CALF'S FEET JELLY.—Boil two feet in five pints of water till the feet are broken, and the water half wasted; strain it, and when cold, take off the fat, and remove the jetty from the sediment; put it into a sauce-pan, with sugar, raisin wine, lemon-juice to your taste, and lemon-peel. When the fla- vour is rich, put to it the whites of five eggs well beaten, and their shells broken. Set the saucepan on the fire, but do not stir the Jelly after it begins to warm. Let it boil twenty minutes after it rises to a head; then pour it through a flannel jelly-bag, first dipping the bag in hot water, and squeezing it quite dry. Run the jelly through until clear; then put it into glasses or forms. When the mixture has boiled twenty minutes, throw in a tea- cupful of cold water; let it boil