BRE BRE 76 BREAD, TO MAKE.—Put half a bushel of good Hour into a kncading-tub; mix with it between four and five quarts of warm water, and a pint and a half of good yeast, put it into the flour, and stir it well with the hands till it becomes tough. Let it rise an hour and twenty minutes, or less if it rises fast; then, before it falls, add four quarts more of warm water, and half a pound of salt; work it well, and cover it well with a cloth. Put the fire then into the oven; and by the time it is warm enough the dough will be ready. Make the loaves about five pounds each; sweep out the oven clean and quick, and put in the bread; shut it up close, and two hours and a half will bake it. In summer the water should be milk warm, in winter a little more, and in frosty weather as hot as you can well bearyourhand in, but not scalding, or the whole will be spoiled. If baked in tins, the crust will be very nice. Rolls, muffins, or any sort of bread, may be made to taste new when two or three days cfld, by dipping them uncut in water, and baking afresh or toasting. BREAD, Adulteration in.—See Adulteration. BREAD CAKE. Take the quantity of a quartern loaf from the dough, when making white bread, and knead well into it two ounces of butter, two of sugar, and eight of currants. Warm the but- ter in a tea-cupful of good milk. By the addition of an ounce of butter or sugar, or an egg or two you may make the cake the better. A tea-cupful of raw cream im- proves it much. It is best to bake it in a pan, rather than as a loaf, the outsido being less hard. BREAD, FRENCH.—With a quarter of a peck of fine flour mix the yolks of three and whites of two eggs, beaten and strained, a little salt, half a pint of good yeast that is not bitter, and as much milk, made a little warm, as will work into a thin light dough. Stir it about, but don’t knead it. Have ready three quart wooden dishes, divide the dough among them, set to rise, then turn them out into the oven, which must be quick. Rasp when done. BREAD, ITALIAN.—Make a stiff dough, with two pounds of fine flour, six of white powdered sugar, three or four eggs, a lemon- peel grated, and two ounces of fresh butter. If the dough is not firm enough, add more flour and sugar. Then turn, it out, and work it well with the lrr. 1, cut it into round long biscuits, and glaze them with white of egg. BREAD PUDDING.—Pour boiling milk over grated bread, and cover it close. When soaked sufficiently, beat it fine, and mix with it two or three eggs, well beaten. Put into a basin that will just hold it, and cover it with a flowered cloth, and put it into boiling water. To be eaten with melted butter and sugar, or pre- serves. BREAD PUDDING. Boil half a pint of milk with a bit of cinnamon; take four eggs, and the whites well beaten, the rind of a lemon grated, half a pound of suet chopped fine, and as much bread crumbs as are necessary. Pour your milk on the bread and suet, keep mixing it till cold, then put in the lemon-peel, eggs, a little sugar, and some nutmeg grated fine. This pudding may be either baked or boiled. Far. BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. Slice buttered French rolls, scatter over them two ounces of well-washed cur-