RHE RHE 353 tudes, always sitting erect; loosen his clothing, so that there will be plenty of play for the lower mus- cles used in the process of breath- ing ; and regularly each day exer- cise those muscles by filling his lungs and expanding his chest, es- pecially in the depths of it, by mus- cular discipline of the shoulders and arms, by reading and talking with the lungs well filled, and by making the respiration at all times as long and deep as possible. RESTORATIVE WINE BITTERS.—Quassia, J oz.; gold- en seal, 2 drachms ; bitter-root, 2 drachms; cayenne pepper, 2 drachms; whitewood bark, 2 drachms. Bruise all, and add 1 pint of Hollands gin, and 2 quarts of wine. A less quantity may be made. Dose, a table-spoonful or two twice a day. Remarkably use- ful in indigestion. Another, by Dr. Thompson of America.—Balmony bark, 1 part; poplar bark, 5 parts. Boil in water sufficient to strain from 1 lb. 2J gallons of water, to which add— sugar, 31 lbs.; nerve powder, 21 ozs.; while hot, strain and add- best Malaga wine, 3§ gallons; tincture of meadow-fern, 1 quart; Prickly ash seeds, 1 quart.—A less quantity may be made. Dose, from half to a wine-glassful twice a day. These bitters are priceless. ihey are sure to correct the bile, and create an appetite, by giving tone to the digestive powers, and may be freely used, both as a re- storative, and as a preventive of disease. RHENISH WINE.—To every gallon of the juice of apple, soon as it comes from the press, add 2 lbs. of loaf sugar ; boil as long as any scum arises ; strain through a sieve, and let it cool. Add some good yeast, and stir it well. Let it stand in the tub for two or three weeks, or till the head begins to flatten : skim off the head, draw it clear off, and tun it. In 10 or 12 months rack it off, and fine it with isinglass. Add a pint of brandy to_ every three gallons. This wine will be found very superior. RHEUMATISM. — This dis- ease commonly occurs in autumn and spring, and seldom in winter or summer, unless the vicissitudes of heat, and cold be sudden and fre- quent. ' In a plethoric habit, or when attended with fever or super- irritation, it is called acute or in- flammatory rheumatism; and when with sub-irritation, chronic rheu- matism. Acute Rheumatism.—Its symp- toms are fever, with pain, swell- ings, and redness of the joints, as the knees, hips, ancles, shoulders, elbows, wrists, &c. The fever yarely continues violent more than fourteen days, although sometimes the pain keeps shifting from one joint to another for some weeks. The pain and sometimes the fever are much increased in the evening, and the former, during night, Ts often acute. As the pains become fixed the fever generally abates. It is caused by exposure to cold, when the body is unusually warm, or by its partial application, or from a continuance of cold, as wet clothes, &c. Treatment.—In the first place, clear the stomach and bowels by aperients and emetics. If the skin is hot and dry, sponge the body all over with warm water and carbo- nate of soda, or common soda. If the skin is not very hot and dry give the vapour bath of bitter herbs. Dry well, and apply the stimulating Liniment. Repeat every day. From ten to thirty drops of colchicum or meadow saf- fron may be given two or three times a day, in a wine-glass half w