212 1TC JAL meg, a little lemon, and the juice of parsley, thyme; add a little sugar. ITALIAN SAUCE, White.— Put some chopped mushrooms, and shalots into a stew-pan with a slice of ham minced very small, and put in a little stock; simmer 15 minutes; add bechemel, (which see). Boil a minute; if it loses its colour, add a spoonful of cream; strain; season with salt, a few drops of garlic vinegar, a squeeze of lemon, and a bit of sugar. ITCH.—It is a skin disease, in- fectious. Sometimes it is caused by poor living, unwholesome food, bad air, unventilated and dirty houses, dirty beds and clothes. The itch begins with small erup- tions on the joints of the fingers, on the wrists, thighs, &c. They cause a most intolerable itching, the scratching of which only spreads the disease. Remedies :—Sweet oil, 1 lb.; suet, 1 lb. Melt and macerate; then add powdered nitre, 3 ozs. ; powdered alum, 3 ozs.; powdered sulphate of zinc, 3 ozs. ; oil of ani- seed, oil of spike, and oil of origa- num, to perfume. Or, mix 2 ozs. of lard with 1 oz. of sulphur- vivum, and a few drops of essence of lemons. Before going to bed rub this well into the affected parts. In the morning wash with soap and warm water; change the lin- en and clothes. Repeat the appli- cation, if necessary. Take at the same time flour of sulphur and cream of tartar, in milk, beer, or treacle. Pbjequently take a Warm Bath. The greatest cures have been effected by it. Wash the parts affected with strong rum.o—Tried. Or, an- oint them with black soap, but wash it off soon. Or, steep a shirt half an hour in a quart of water mixed with half an ounce of powdered brimstone. Dry it slow- ly, and wear it five or six days. Sometimes it needs repeating.— Tried. 0 r, mix powder of whi te hellebore with cream for three days. Anoint the joints for three mornings and evenings. It sel- dom fails. Or, beat together the juice of two or three lemons, with the same quantity of oil of roses—Anoint the parts affected. It cures in two or three times using. The following is said soon to effect a cure:—Sulphur-vivum, Venice turpentine, 1 oz. each; lard, f oz. Melt the lard and tur- pentine ; add the sulphur. Apply several times a day. Or, wash the body well in warm water, and rub it with the follow- ing preparation:—Lime. 2 ozs.; sulphur-vivum, 2 ozs. Mix in 1 quart of water. Pour off, and use it when clear. A decoction of white hellebore, with a little lavender water, has been recommended. IVORY, to polish.—Ivory is polished with putty and water, by means of a rubber made of hat, which in a short time produces a fine gloss. IVORY and BONE, to stain. —Black;—Rub over with diluted oil of vitriol; wash, and then steep in nitrate of silver and good ink. Blue; steep in a strong solution of extract of indigo and a little potash. Green ; dissolve. copper in nitric acid, and steep the- ivory in it.—Steep in oxalic tin, and then in a strong decoction of Brazil wood, or lac dye, and alum. Purple; nitric acid, 2 parts; sal ammoniac, 1 part; mix, and steep the ivory in it. JALAP.—It is the resin of a Mexican plant. It is one of our common and most valuable purga-