BLA 64 BLA and proceed as above, boiling two hours. A. N. BLACK CURRANT WINE. —Take six gallons of ripe cur- rants and put them into a large jar. Boil nine ox ten gallons of water -with four pounds of loaf sugar. Skim well, and let it stand for forty-eight hours. Then strain through a flannel bag into another vessel, return it into the jar, and let it stand three weeks to settle, and then bottle off. BLACK DRAUGHT.—Infuse 2 ozs. of Senna leaves, and a j oz. of Ginger in hot water (not boil- ing) for eight hours. Strain, and to the liquor add six ounces of Epsom Salts, 1 oz. of Liquorice; gently simmer till the Salts are dissolved. When cold, add \ oz. of Sal Volatile and six drops of the Oil of Cloves. Cork tightly. In order to keep it for a length of time, 2 ozs. of Tincture of Senna should bo added. BLACK EYE.—This is caused by a blow or bruise. If attended with inflammation and pain, wash the eye often with very warm wa- ter, in which is dissolved a little carbonate of soda ; or with equal parts of tincture of opium and wa- ter. If the pain be acute, foment with a decoction of stramonium leaves, simmered in spirits. Wash the eye, and bind on the leaves; often repeat. Perhaps the best application is a poultice of Slip- jjery Elm-bark. Mix with milk, and put it on warm. To remove the black colour of the eye, bind on a little raw meat; or a poultice made of the root of Solomon’s seal. Culpeper says, “It is available for bruises, fills, or blows, to dispel the congealed blood, and to take away the pains, and the black and blue marks that abide after the hurt.” Tho blackness may be concealed by painting the part with flesh-coloured paint. BLACKING BALLS,(toma/ce) —Take of mutton suet, four ounces; bees’ wax, one ounce; sugar-candy, or gum arabic and coarse sugar, one drachm, in fine powder. Melt these well together, over a gentle fire, and add about a spoonful of turpentine, and lamp- black sufficient to give it a good black colour. While hot enough to run, make it into a ball, by pouring theliquid intoa tin mould’; or let it stand till almost cold, or it may be moulded by the hand. Hu. BLACKING, real Japan.— Take three ounces of ivory-black, two ounces of coarse sugar, one ounce of sulphuric acid, one ounce of muriatic acid, one lemon, one table-spoonful of sweet oil, and one pint of vinegar. First mix the ivory-black and sweet oil to- gether, then the lemon and sugar, with a little vinegar to qualify the blacking; then add the sulphuric and muriatic acids, and mix them all well together. The sugar, oil, and vinegar, prevent the acids from injuring the leather, and add to the lustre of the blacking. Hu. BLACKING CAKE/or Bunts and Shoes. — Gum Arabic, one ounce; a pint of soft water, or more; ivory biack, two ounces; a tablespoonful of sweet oil; trea- cle, or brown sugar, one ounce. Boil till of a proper thickness, and mould into cakes. These cakes, when used, must bo dissolved in vinegar, or vinegar and water. BLACKING, Cheap.—Take of ivory-black, one pound; lamp- black, half an ounce; treacle, ono pound ; sweet oil, one ounce and a half; coarse gum-arabic, half an ounce; and stale vinegar, three pints and a half; mix well: first dissolve the gum in a little water;