HOR 199 HOP in a pint of water for use. It is a i good cosmetic. Add a little laven- j der water. HOOPING COUGH.—Use the cold hath daily.' Or, rub the feet thoroughly with hog’s lard, before the fire, at going to bed, : and keep the child warm there- in. Or, rub the back at lying down with old rum. It seldom fails. Or, give a spoonful of the juice of pennyroyal, mixed with brown sugar-candy, twice a-day. — Wesley. HOOPING COUGH.-Dissolve a scruple of salt of tartar in a quarter of a pint of water; add 8 drops of laudanum, sweeten it with sugar. Give to an infant a teaspoonful four times a day; two years old, two spoonfuls ; for four years, a table-spoonful. Or, take flower of Benjamin, and strained opium, of each 2 drachms, camphire, 2 scruples, essential oil of aniseeds, half a drachm, recti- fied spirit of wine, one quart, 4 ozs. of powdered liquorice, and 4 ozs. of honey: digest and strain. Or, take of musk julep, 6 ozs.; par- egoric elixir, J oz., volatile tincture of valerian, 1 drachm ; mix, and take two spoonfuls three or four times everyday. Or, take ipe- cacuanha, 14 grains; warm water | a pint. Infuse. Take a tea- spoonful now and then. HOOPING COUGH, Embro- cation for.—Olive oil eight ounces, oil of amber, four ounces, oil of cloves, sufficient to scent it strong- ly ; croton oil, 3 drops ; mix, rub on the chest.' Or, oil of amber, and spirits of hartshorn, equal parts. Mix. Apply to the soles of the feet, and to the palms of the hands, morning, noon, and night. HOPS.—The extract of tinc- ture of hops may be used instead of opium in most cases; it is not narcotic, but very anodyne. In consumption it gives ease without any deleterious effects. Its valuable medicinal properties are but little known. In jaundice, indigestion, melancholy, nervous depression, &c., it has been of singular use. A strong infusion or decoction, is a cure for indiges- tion, attended with nervous irrita- tion, weakness of the stomach and bowels; and for typhoid fevers, and twitching of the tendons. It is of vast service in the after pains of child-birth. It may he taken in tincture, decoction, infusion, or pills made of the extract. HOPS, Infusion of.—Hops, 2 ozs.; boiling water, 1 quart. In- fuse a day. Dose ; a wineglassful. —The Tincture is made by macer- ating 1 oz. of the hops in quarter of a pint of proof spirits; dose, | a drachm to 1 drachm. The Extract is made by boiling the strength of it obtained by infusion or decoction, to a thin syrup, and then evaporating till it becomes thick. Cover close. Dose, in pills, from four to ten grains. Hops heated, in a flannel bag, are a good remedy for the tooth- ache, and neuralgic pains. A bag of hops warmed, and put under the head, allays nervous excite- ment, and procures sleep. Dr. Beech says, he has “ given it with success in inflammation of the bowels.” A strong decoction, half a pint at a time, is drunk by the Spaniards for venereal. HOREHOUND.—The plant is .very stimulant, diaphoretic, pec- toral, and tonic. It is good for coughs, asthma, and female weak- ness. Very beneficial in con- sumption—See Pulmonary Balsam, or Syrup. HOREHOUND, to candy.— Boil some horehound till the juice is extracted. Boil some sugar till