232 LIV loss of flesh is not so great, the breathing is not so laborious, and the pain is more in the region of the stomach. Treatment.—The first thing to do is to lessen the undue determi- nation of blood to the part by equal- izing its circulation, and restoring the proper secretions. This will be effected by moderating the diet, living low, avoiding all stimulants, condiments, &c. Give the Vapour Bath, and the Sudorific Powders, to promote copious perspiration. Take gentle aperients; as, senna, manna, cream of tartar, and fennel seed. The bowels should be moved at least once a day. All violent purgatives are to be avoided; they must be gentle. In weak consti- tutions, a decoction of tamarinds, sweetened with manna, often ans- wers the purpose; but if not suf- ficiently strong add a little senna. Mild laxative injections occasion- ally are of great service. If there should be vomiting, mix supercarbonate of potash, 1 drachm, with half a pint of peppermint wa- ter ; and take a table-spoonful whenever the vomiting returns. If the pain is severe, foment the side with a hot decoction of bitter herbs, as hops, &c.; or the Ano- dyne Fomentation; or apply the Stimulating Liniment. A poultice made of bran, or oatmeal, with a little mustard and cayenne pepper, and mixed with vinegar, and form- ed into a plaster or poultice, will be found to be invaluable.—A mus- tard plaster is also applicable, and answers better than a blister plas- ter, though it may be applied if the pain be obstinate; give also ten grains of the Diaphoretic Pow- ders, for they allay pain, and pro- mote sleep. If the sickness and irritation of the stomach continue, give an emetic, and repeat every day, if necessary. LOB Medicines which promote tho secretion of urine have a very good efl'ect here. (See Diuretic Drops, &c.) Or, take £ dr. of purified nitre; or a teaspoonful of sweet spirits of nitre in gruel or balm tea three or four times a day. Con- tinue this treatment till the symp- toms are subdued. Chronic disease of the liver arises chiefly from the induration and torpidity of the liver; therefore the object must bo to correct the disordered state of the stomach and bowels, and to give tone and ac- tivity to the liver. This may be effected by the Vapour Bath, Em- etics, and sponging the body with the Stimulating Liniment; by the use of the Liver Pill, or Dyspep- tic Pill, &c., which see. Apply to the painful part the Irritating Plaster. LIVER PILL. One ounce each of powdered blood-root, pow- dered mandrake, and extract of dandelion, to which add 2 drachms of powdered senna. Add a few drops of oil of spearmint, or pep- permint, and form into pills. Take two or three night and morning. This pill is a sovereign remedy for inflammation of the liver, and for jaundice. LIXIVIUM, of Pearl-ashes.— Steep j oz. of pearl-ashes in clear water 24 hours. Then strain off the water. This infusion is very useful in many colours, especially Brazil wood, which it will render beautiful in lustre. L O B E L I A.—An American plant, containing most valuable medical properties. It was first used with great advantage, as an emetic, by the American Indians, and was brought into notoriety by Dr. Samuel Thompson. It is emetic and stimulating, and Dr. Beech says, “from its action on the great sympathetic nerve, its