MIL MIL 255 Scotch Silesian .. Spanish legal lcguas Do. Do. common Swedish .. Swiss Turkey (berries) Westphalian mile MICE. See Rats; the same directions are applicable to Mice. MILDEW, to remove. — Soap the linen previously wetted, and apply salt and lemon juice to both sides; or apply finely powdered pipe clay, or fullers earth, or finely powdered chalk. Expose it for several hours to the atmosphere.. MILDEW, to remove. — Mix soft soap with powdered starch, half as much salt, and the juice of a lemon, and lay on with a brush. Let it lay on the grass day and night till the stain is gone. Or, take 2 ozs. of chloride of lime, pour on it a quart of boiling water, then add three quarts of cold water; steep the linen 10 or 12 hours, when every spot will be extracted. Mix oxalic acid, citric acid, and milk together; rub into the linen ; repeat as it dries; wash, and bleach on the grass. MILK, Chalk to detect in.—Di- lute the milk with water; the chalk if there be any, will settle to the bottom in an hour or two ; put to the sediment an acid, vinegar, &c., and if effervescence takes place, it is chalk. MILK OF ROSES, a Cos- metic, common.—Mix 4 ozs. of the oil of almonds with half a gallon of rose-water, and add 40 drops of the oil of tartar. Or, take 1 lb. of Jordan almonds, 2 quarts of rose-water, 1 pint of spirits of wine, £ oz. of oil of lav- ender, 1 oz. of white Windsor soap, and 2 ozs. of cream of roses. Blanch the almonds in boiling wa- ter ; dry well, and pound into a paste. Pound in the soap, and mix it well with the almond paste; then add the cream of roses ; mix, and add the rose-water and spirits. Strain, and add the oil of lavender gradually, and stir well. Bottle. The French Method.—Mix 4 ozs. of oil of almonds, \ oz. oil of lav- ender, 2 quarts of spirits of wine, and 10 ozp. of rose-water; blanch 3 lbs. of Jordan almonds; pound thgm with J lb. of Spanish oil soap, j oz. of spermaceti, and half oz. of white wax. Put all into a large jar. with 2 ozs. of pearlash dissolved in 1 oz. of warm water. Shake well, and bottle. MILK PORRIDGE.—Make a fine gruel of split grits, long boiled, or of Yorkshire oatmeal; strain, if you like ; add either cold milk, or warm it with milk, us may be a- greeable. Serve with toast.—See Porridge. MILK PUNCH.—Take one quart of water, 3 pints of new milk, and | lb. of sugar, or more ; boil slowly 10 minutes ; take from the fire, and stir in quickly two or three well beaten eggs, mixed with a pint of cold milk. Add 4 or 5 table- spoonfuls of lemon juice, and a quart of brandy. Run it through a flannel bag. Stir it to a froth, and serve in warm glasses. MILK SOUP.—With cinna- mon boil a quart of milk, two bay leaves, and moist sugar. Put sip- pits in a dish ; pour the milk over them; simmer over the fire till the bread is soft; beat up the yolks of two eggs with a little milk; Mix all together, and serve. MILK, to preserve.—Milk often turns by an acid developed in the liquid. To prevent it, add to the milk a small portion of bi-carbon- ate of soda. This is not at all inj u- rious to health ; but rather aids di- gestion. Many of the great dairies on the continent adopt this method. 1984 7083 4G30 7416 11704 9166 1821 12155