CAR CAR 96 out and wasli well. Boil in soft water till they are tender. Then make syrup of loaf sugar and water, and boil till they are candied. Add sugar, as required. You may regu- late the taste, by adding cinnamon, mace, and cloves. When candied, dust them with fine sugar. CAPERS, to keep.—Scald some vinegar, when cold, pour it upon the capers; tie close, to keep out the air. -Hu. CAPER SAUCE.—Melt some butter, chop the capers fine, boil them with the butter. An ounce of capers will be sufficient for a moderate sized sauce-boat. Add, if you like, a little chopped parsley, and a little vinegar. More vine- gar, a little cayenne, and essence of anchovy, make it suitable for fish. -4- • As a substitute for capers, some use chopped pickled gherkins. CAPILLA1RE.—Take 21 lbs. of loaf sugar, 2 eggs well beaten, 1 quart of water. Simmer it one hour, skim it, let it cool; boil and skim, and add 2 ozs. of orange flower water and 4 tablespoonfuls of brandy. Strain and bottle for use. A spoonful in a tumbler of water makes a pleasant beverage. CARBUNCLE.—A carbuncle is a species of boil, but larger, and much more painful. It shows de- bility in the constitution.—Give a mild aperient, rendered tonic by the addition of quinine. Foment the part with bitter herbs, or steam it with the same. Linseed meal, and slippery elm bark, well boiled, make an excellent poultice. Or ot poplar bark and slippery elm, and a few drops of tincture of myrrh. When the poultice is taken off, wash well with a decoction of bay- berry. The T eg et able Oaustic, and tiie mack Salve, are good re- medies. Every time the place is dressed, it should bo well washed with soap and water, or weak tinc- ture of myrrh and water. The diet must be light and nourish- ing ; the patient must take exer- cise in the open air. When the tongue indicates no fever, give tonic bitters. CARMINATIVES.—Rind of Seville oranges, 3 drachms; fresh lemon peel, 2 drachms; ginger, in powder, § drachm; boiling water, 8 ozs. Infuse 2 Lours, and strain. Then take of the above, £ oz.; spirit of peppermint, £ drachm; spirit of lavender, § drachm. Antiflatulent mixture— Oil of aniseeds, 10 drops; refined sugar, 1 drachm. Beat up together, and add, tincture of ginger, 2 drachms; peppermint water, 6 ozs. Mix; three tablespoonfuls when needful. Another.--Assafoetida, 6 grains; rhubarb, 4 grains; oil of aniseeds, 5 drops. Make two pills, and take every five or six hours. CARMINATIVE DROPS; for expelling wind.—Angelica, 2 ounces; Lady’s Slipper, 1 ounce; Sweet Flag, £ ounce; Anise, 1 ounce; Fennel Seed, £ ounce; Catnep Flowers, 1 ounce; Mother- wort, 1 ounce; Pleurisy Root, 2 ounces. Infuse in a pint of Spirits of wine for three or four days, oft shaking, keeping it in a warm place; then add a pint of water, and a table-spoonful of Tincture of Cayenne. Excellent in flatu- lency, colic, nervous affections, promoting perspiration, and re- freshing sleep. I Another Receipt.—Anise, Dill, Fennel Seed, of each £ ounce, Catnep Flowers, and Motherwort, of each, 1 ounce; Pleurisy root, 4 ounces. Infuse in Brandy for 22 hours, and then strain; To chil- dren, give from five to fifty drops; and to adults, from one to four tea- spoonfuls, every three or four hours.—It eases pain, produces