PIQ PIQ 315 ser quartoze you may count three aces, kings, queens, knaves, or tens: the same applies to the huitiemes, septiemes, sixiemes, quints, quarts, and tierces, to which the player must have regard in his discarding, so that what he takes in may make them for him. The point being selected, the elder hand declares what it is, and asks if it is good; if his adversary has not so many, he answers, “ it is good if he has just as many, he answers, “it is equaland if he has more, he answers, “ it is not goodfor whoever has the point, whether elder or younger, counts it first; hut if the points are equal, neither can count: it is the same when the players are equal in tierces, quarts, quints, &c.; and whoever should hold several other sequences, either of the same value or not, cannot count one. There are no trumps at piquet, hut the highest card of the same suit takes the trick. If the elder hand has the bad luck to have neither point, sequence, nor quar- torze, nor any threes which are good, he must begin to count by playing that card which he thinks most proper, and continue until the adverse party wins a trick, and takes his lead. This method must he continued till all the cards are played ; and he who takes the last trick counts two ; then each player counts how many tricks he has taken, and he who has most reckons the cards ; but if they are equal, neither counts any thing. MB. HOYLE’S MAXIMS FOlt PLAYTNG PIQUET. Play by the stage of your game, that is, when behind your adver- sary, play a pushing game ; other- wise you ought to make twenty- seven points elder hand, and thir- teen points younger hand. Discard in hopes of winning the cards, which generally make twen- ty-two, or twenty; therefore don’t discard for low quartoze, because the odds are against your succeed- ing. At the beginning of a party play to make your game, which is twenty-seven points elder hand, and thirteen younger hand. Gaining the point generally makes ten difference; therefore when you discard, endeavour to gain it, but do not risk losing the cards. Saving your lurch, or lurching your adversary, is so material that it is always worth risking some point to accomplish either of them. If you have six tricks, with any winning card in your hand, play that card ; you would play greatly against yourself not to do so. The younger hand should al- ways play upon the defensive, therefore, in order to make his thirteen points he is to carry tierces, quarts, and especially strive for the point. It is often good play for a young- er hand not to call three queens, knaves, &c. ; also to sink one card of his point, which his adversary may suppose to be a guard to a king or queen. The younger hand having the cards equally dealt him is not to take in any card, if thereby he runs the risk of losing them. The younger hand having three aces, it is generally best to throw out the fourth suit. The younger hand should carry guard to his queen suits in order to make points and make cards. If the elder hand is sure to make the cards equal by playing in any particular manner, and is advanc- ed before his adversary in the game, he should not risk them;