241 MAR MAR is a sure purge, superior iu some diseases to jalap. It is very useful in scrofula, in bilious, dyspeptic, and venereal affections.—See Rob- inson's Herbal. MARBLE, to clean.—Soap lees mixed with, quick lime, pretty thick, and applied for a day, then washed off with soap and water. Or muriatic acid diluted with water, taking care that it be not too strong. Or soft soap, 1 lb. ; whiting, powdered, 1 lb.; soda, 1 oz.; boil together for 20 minutes; apply for 24 hours, wash off with clean water, and polish with a piece of felt, or coarse flannel.— Iron stains on marble are removed by a mixture of lemon juice and sulphuric acid; apply for a few minutes, and then rub with a soft cloth. MARBLE, Imitation of.— Make a solution of alum, and of half as much of the best glue as alum. Mix with one part whiting, or ra- ther less, and three parts of well- baked plaster of Paris. It may be coloured by first staining the water. It sets very hard. MARBLE, to polish.—Mix a quantity of the strongest soap-lees with quiclc-lime, to the consistence of milk, and lay it on the stone, See., for twenty-four hours, clean it afterwards with soap and water, and it will appear as new. MARIGOLDS.—Their virtues have been lost sight of. The juice, or a strong decoction, with (or without) a very small portion of spirits of wine, is a rare application for healing lacerations, bruises, cuts, both pain and bleeding being immediately arrested. By its use in severe wounds Erysipelas is prevented. It seldom leaves a cic- atrix, or mark, behind it. It has a tendency to contract the mouths of the small arteries, when directly cut across, and where they have been slit longitudinally. The tinc- ture may be purchased of the Ho- moeopathic Chemists; and largely diluted with water, it is a first-rhte remedy. MARIGOLDS, to cultivate.— Pull up all those plants, whose flowers are less double, as soon as they appear, that they may not impregnate the others with their farina. Save the seeds from the largest and most double flowers. Sow the seeds in April in places where the plants are to remain. MARIGOLD CHEESE. Pound marigold petals in a mortar, and strain out the juice; put it into the milk when you put in the rennet, and stir them together; the milk being set, and the curd come, break it as gently and as equally as possible; put it into the cheese vat, and press it with a gentle weight. Manage the same as other cheeses. MARINE GLUE.—Dissolve \ lb. of india rubber in 3 gallons of coal naphtha. The india rubber should be first steeped in hot wa- ter, then cut into shreds with a pair of scissors, then dried, and put into the najDhtha ; stir till it is dissolved, and is as thick as cream. Then take one part of it and add it to two parts by weight of shellac. Melt in an iron vessel. Stir well. It has great tenacity. MARJORAM, to cultivate.— The common sweet maijoram, so so much used in the culinary art, is cultivated by seeds, which are sown on a warm border at the end of March. When the plants are an inch high, transplant them into beds of rich earth; water them daily, till they have taken new root. The plant is aromatic, and warming in cold diseases of the head and stomach. The decoction is good for diseases of the chest, p