107 CUE CUE cannot be legally taken, he may oblige him to move his king; if the king cannot be legally moved, no penalty can be inflicted. 10. If a player move one of his adversaiy’s men, his antagonist may compel him either to replace the piece or pawn, and move his king, or to replace the piece or pawn, and take it, or to let the piece or pawn remain on the square to which it had been played. 11. If a player takes one of his adversary’s men, with one of his own, that cannot take it without making a false move, his antagonist may either compel him to take it with a piece or pawn that can legally take it, or to move his own piece or pawn which he touched. 12. Should any player by mis- take take one of his own nien with another, his adversary can compel him to move either. 13. If a player make a falsemove, that is, plays a piece or pawn to any square to which it cannot le- gally be moved, his opponent may compel him to take the piece or pawn to a correct square, or let it remain on the square to which he had moved it, or to replace the piece or pawn, and move his king. 14. Should a player move out of his turn, his opponent may choose whether both moves shall remain, or the second be retracted. 15. When a pawn is first moved in a game, it may be played one or two squares, butin the latter case the adversary has the privilege of taking it as it is named “ en pas- sant,” with any pawn which could have taken it had it been moved only one square; a pawn cannot be taken en passant by any other piece but a pawn. 16. A player cannot castle in the following cases 1st. If the king or rook have been moved. 2nd. If the king be in check. 3rd. If there be any piece between king and rook. 4th. If the king pass over any square attacked by one of the adversary’s pieces or pawns. 17. If a player touch a piece or pawn that cannot be moved with- out leaving the king in check, he must replace it, and move his king; but if the king cannot be moved, no penalty can be indicted. 18. If a player attack the adverse king without saying “check,” the last player must retract his last move and free his king from check, but if moves be made subsequent to the attack being known, they must be retracted. 19. Should any player say check without giving it, and his adver- sary, in consequence, moves his king; or touch a piece to protect it, he may retract such moves. 20. If the king has been in check for several moves, and it cannot be ascertained how it occurred, the player whose king is in check must retract his last move, and free his king from check; but whatever moves made, previous to the check being known, must remain. 21. Every pawn which has reached the eighth square of the chess-board, may be immediately exchanged for a queen, or any other piece the player may think proper. 22. If a player remain at the end of a game with a rook and a bishop against a rook, or with both bishops only, or knight and bishop only, &c., he must check-mate his ad- versary in fifty moves on each side at most, or tho game will be con- sidered drawn. 23. If a player agrees to check- mate with a particular piece or pawn, or on a particular square: or engages to force his adversary to stale-mate or check-mate him, he is not restricted to any number of moves. 24. A stale-mate is a drawn game.