421 TUM TRO whites of two well beaten eggs, sugar, lemon-peel, and raisin wine. TRIPE, to fricassee.—Cut into small square pieces. Put them into the stewpan with as much sherry as will cover them, with pepper, ginger, a blade of mace, sweet herbs, and an onion. Stew 15 minutes. Take out the herbs and onion, and put in a little shred parsley, the juice of a small lemon, half an anchovy cut small, a gill of cream, and a little butter, or yolk of an egg. Garnish with lemon. TRIPE, to fry.—Cut the tripe into small square pieces ; dip them in yolks of eggs, and fry them in good dripping, till nicely brown ; take out, and drain, and serve with plain melted butter. TROUT, a-la-Genevoise.-Clean the fish well; put it into the stew-pan, adding half champagne and half sherry wine. Season it with pepper, salt, an onion, a few cloves stuck in it, and a small bunch of parsley and thyme; put in it a crust of French bread; set it on a quick fire. When done, take the bread out, bruise it, and thicken the sauce ; add flour and a little butter, and boil up. Lay the fish on the dish, and pour the sauce over it. Serve it with sliced lemon and fried bread. TROUT, to broil.—Wash, dry, tie it, to cause it to keep its shape; melt butter, add salt, and cover the trout with it. Broil it gradu- ally in a Dutch oven, or in a com- mon oven. Cut small an anchovy, and chop some capers. Melt some butter with a little flour, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and half a spoonful of vinegar. Pour it over the trout, and serve it hot. TROUT, to fry.—Do them the same as Graylings. See page 187. TROUT, to pot.—The same as Lobsters, which see. TROUT, Stewed.—Wash two middle-sized trout clean, and wipe them dry, lay them in a stew-pan with half an onion cut in thin slices, a little parsley, two cloves, one blade of mace, two bay leaves, a little thyme, salt and pepper to taste, a pint of stock, and a glass of port wine ; simmer gently for thirty minutes, take it out, strain the gravy, thicken with butter and flour, and stir it over a sharp fire for five minutes; pour over the trout and serve. TRUE LOVERS’ KNOTS.— Roll out a piece of puff paste into a thin sheet, cut it into pieces three or four inches square, fold each comer over into the centre, and cut a piece out from each side, leaving it in the form of a true lover’s knot; put them on a tin, and bake them in a moderate oven; when they are done, place some jam or preserve on each point, and some in the centre. TUMOURS, Cure of—To re- move tumours, Dr. Simpson, of Edinburgh, introduces a hollow acupuncture needle, or very fine trocar, into their tissue, and injects in a few drops of some irritant li- quid, such as a solution of chloride of zinc, perchloride of iron, or creosote. The effect has been to destroy the vitality of the tumours so treated, and they have been sep- arated. We have seen a similar plan adopted in Paris by M. Mai- sonneuve. He had slender stylets, made of a paste composed of flour, water, and chloride of zinc. These are baked. A puncture is made in the tumour, the caustic stylet is inserted, broken off, and left. We saw several malignant tumours treated in this manner, and some cases in which a healthy granula- ting surface was left, after the sep- aration of tumours which had been destroyed in this manner.