201 HUN HOT HORSERADISH SAUCE.— Grate very small a stick of horse- radish. ; then with two tablespoon- fuls of it, mix a little salt, and four tablespoonfuls of cream; stir brisk- ly, and add gradually a wineglass- ful of vinegar, and a little sheiry wine. Excellent with cold roast beef. Another.—Grate horseradish in- to a basin, then add three table- spoonfuls of cream, a teaspoonful of mustard, and a little salt. Mix well with half a cupful of vinegar, to which has been put a little melt- ed butter, a little gravy, and some mushroom, or walnut ketchup. Season with clove, black, or cay- enne pepper. A. N. HORSERADISH VINEGAR —To 3 ozs. of scraped horseradish, put a quart of best vinegar, 1 oz. of minced shalot, and 1 dr. of cayenne. Let it stand a week. HOSIER BISCUIT. — One pint of new milk. Stir in a tea- spoonful of salt, and flour, until it becomes a stiff batter; add two table-spoonfuls of yeast; let it rise in a warm place as much as it will. Then stir in a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of potass dissolved in hot water; beat up three eggs; stir them, and flour with the bat- ter till it becomes thick dough; let it rise; knead again; cut to biscuit shape; bake in a quick oven. HOTCH-POTCH.—Stew peas, lettuce, and onions in a little wa- ter with a beef or ham bone. While these are doing, fry mutton or lamb steaks brown; forty min- utes before dinner put the steaks into a stew-pan, and the vegeta- bles over them; stew, and serve in a tureen. A knuckle of veal and scrag of mutton, stewed with vegetables, as above, will make a nice hotch-potch. IiOTCH POTCII, of different kinds.—Take a brisket of beef, or mutton steaks or pigeons, rabbits cut in quarters, or veal, or poultry; boil long over a slow tire in a lit- tle liquid, -with onions, carrots, parsnips, turnips, celery, parsley, shalots, spices, a laurel leaf, thyme, sausages, and thin broth or water. When done, drain. Fowl may be done in the same way, pickled pork, a little ham, &c. Pigeons also with bacon, broth, a little butter, nutmeg, ginger, a little lemon, &c. HOT WATER PIPES, to stop leakage in.—Iron borings and fi- lings, mix them with vinegar and a little sulphuric acid; let the mixture stand till it becomes a paste; with this fill up the cracks, where the leakage is; and if the pipe has been previously dried, and is kept dry till the paste hard- ens, it will effectually stop the leakage, and will last a long time. HOUSELEEK.—It is used as a cooling application to sores, ul- cers, &c. The juice mixed with cream is good for inflammation of the eyes, and erysipelas. Taken inwardly it is good for fevers, cool- ing them down wonderfully. First give a purgative to cleanse the sto- mach and bowels ; then bruise the houseleek; adding to the juice its weight in fine sugar to form a syr- up. A tablespoonful every two hours. Frink balm or catnep tea. This receipt is worth gold. See Robinson's Family Herbal. HUNTER’S PUDDING.-Mix 1 lb. each of suet, Hour, currants, rasins stoned, and cut; the rind of half a lemon shred fine; 6 Ja- maica peppers finely powdered, 4 eggs, a glass of brandy, salt, and a little milk to make it of a proper consistence; boil it in floured cloth 8 or 9 hours. Serve with white sauce. This pudding will keep 6 months, if tied up in the i same cloth.