44 BAR BAR ■water twenty minutes, drained, and then preserved with sugar like other fruit. BARBERRY JAM, to make. Pick the barberries from thestalks; hake them in an earthen pan; when baked, pass them through a sieve with a large wooden spoon ; weigh the berries, and put their weight of powdered sugar; mix well together; put it in your pans and cover it up; set it in a dry place; .when you have filled the pans, sift powdered sugar over the tops-. Hu. . This fruit is cooling, antiscorbu- tic, . and deobstruent, containing malic and citric’ acid. They are very useful in all inflammatory fevers, especially typhus, and bili- ous disorders, and scurvy. In the form of jam, the fruit is very re- freshing. Gu BARCLAY’S ANTIBILIOUS PILLS.—Extract of colycinth, 2 drachms; extract of jalap, 1 drachm ; almond soap, 1 drachm and a half; guiacum, 3 drachms; tartarized antimony, 8 grains; oil of juniper, 4 drops ; oil of caraway, 4 drops; oil of rosemaiy, 4 drops; Form into a mass with syrup of buckthorn, and divide into pills. BARK, Decoction of. Boil an ounce of the Peruvian bark, grossly powdered, in a pint and a half of water, to one pint, then strain the decoction. If a tea- spoonful of the weak spirits of vitriol be added to this medicine, it will render it both more agree- able and efficacious. BARK, Compound Decoction of. Take of Peruvian bark, and Virginia snake-root, grossly pow- dered, each three drachms. Boil in a pint of water to one half. To the strained liquor add one ounce and a half of aromatic water. BARK, Tincture of.—Peruvian Burk, 2 ounces; of Cinnamon and Orange peel, 4 ounce each; Cay- enne Pepper, 4 teaspoonfuls. In- fuse all in 1| pint of Brandy, for six days in a close vessel.—Very useful in agues, remittent fevers, and the slow, nervous, and putrid kinds, especially at their decline. A table-spoonful at a time in any suitable liquor, sharpened with a few drops of Elixir of Vitriol. BARK, Electuary of—Take of Peruvian bark, in powder, three ounces; eascarilla, half an ounce; syrup of ginger, enough to make an electuary. In the cure of obstinate inter- mitting fevers, the bark is assisted by the eascarilla. In hectic habits, however, it will be better to leave out the eascarilla, and put three drachms of crude sal ammoniac in its stead. Du. BARLEY GRUEL.—Take of pearl barley 3 ozs.; boil in two quarts of water, till reduced to about one; a little cinnamon or ginger may be added ; strain, and return into the saucepan; and then add, according to your palate, three quarters of a pint of port wine. Hu. BARLEY MILK.—Boil half a pound of pearl barley in three pints of milk; when sufficiently boiled, add one quart of cream, a stick of cinnamon, and sugar to taste ; when nearly cold, pour in a pint of sherry - vine, beat it into a froth, and serve. BARLEY PUDDING.—To 6 eggs well beaten put a quart of cream, half the whites, sweeten to your palate, a little orange flower or rose water, and 1 lb. of melted butter. Then put in six handfuls of barley, boiled tender in milk. Butter tho dish, and put it in. Bake it a light brown. Far. BARLEY SUGAR, Common. —Boil three pounds of coarse raw ■