CUS CUS fire, till it is thick, and then pour it into cups. CUSTARDS, Baked— Boil a pint of cream with some mace and cinnamon: and when it is cold, take four yolks and two whites of eggs, a little rose and orange-flower water, sack, nutmeg, and sugar to your palate. Mix them well, and hake it in cups. Or, pour into a deep dish, with or without lining or rim of paste ; grate nutmeg and lemon peel over the top, and bake it in a slow oven about thirty minutes. CUSTARDS, Beast.—Set a pint of beast over the fire with a little cinnamon, and three bay leaves, and let it, be boiling hot. Then take it off, and have ready mixed o spoonful of flower, and the same of thick cream. Pour the hot beast upon it by degrees, mix it well to- gether, and sweeten it to your taste. You may bake it either with crust or in cups. CUSTARD. Cheap and good — Boil three pints or new milk with a little lemon peel, a little cinna- mon, three bay leaves, and sweeten it; rub down a large spoonful of idee flour into a cup of cold milk, and mix it with two yolks of eggs well beaten ; take a basin of boil- ing milk and mix with the cold, then pour that to the boiling, stir- ring it one way till it begins to thicken, and is just going to boil up, then add a large. spoonful oi peach water, and a little ratafia, marbles boiled in custard or any thing likely to burn, will, by shak- ing them in the saucepan, prevent its catching. 0 CUSTARD FRITTERS.—— Beat the yolks of 8 eggs with a spoonful of flour, half a nutmeg, a little salt, and a glass of brandy , add a pint of cream; sweeten, hake in a dish; when cold, cut in- to quarters; dip them in batter modo of i pint of cream, \ pint of milk, 4 eggs, a little flour, and ginger grated; fry in good lard or dripping, then strew over them grated sugar. Blu. CUSTARD, ORANGE.—Boil the juice of 12 oranges with a little of the rinds and sugar to your taste. Strain it, and when cold add a pint of cream and the yolks of 12 eggs. Stir over a slow fire until it thickens. CUSTARD OSWEGO, Boiled. —Two tablespoonfuls of Oswego Prepared Corn to one quart of milk; mix the corn with a small quantity of the milk, and flavour it; beat up two eggs. Heat the remainder of the milk to near boil- ings—then add the mixed corn, the eggs, four table-spoonfuls of sugar, and a little butter and salt. Boil it two minutes, stirring it briskly. CUSTARD PIE.—Boil a quart of milk with the rind of a lemon. Strain it, and then boil. Mix a table-spoonful of flour smoothly with two of milk, and stir it into the boiling milk. Boil a minute, constantly stirring ; take off, and when cool, add three beaten eggs, sweeten to your taste; bake in a quick oven. TX CUSTARD PUDDING.-Half- pint of cream; pint of new milk, boiled ; stir in a little finely sifted flour; add three or four table- spoonfuls of white sugar, quarter of a nutmeg grated, a tea-spooniul of lemon-peel finely cut; the yolks of two eggs. Beat well and mix. Add brandy according to taste. Then place some light puff paste round the sides of a dish, pour in the custard, and bake about half ^CUSTARD PUDDING, Boil- ed,—Boil a stick of cinnamon and lemon peel in a quart of thin cream, with lb. of sugar; when cola,