SHI 382 SIIO sugar, finely powdered, 1 lb.; tar- taric acid, 4 ozs.; carbonate of soda, 4 ozs.; add 3 tea-spoonfuls of essence of lemon, or accord- ing: to your taste. Mix very well, and tlien bottle and cork well. When used, put 2 teaspoonfuls in a glass tumbler of spring water, stir briskly, and drink while in a state of effervescence. SHERRY, British.—Put \ a bushel of good pale malt into a tub, and pom- upon it 4 gallons of boil- ing water; stir well, cover the ves- sel, and infuse four hours. Strain through a hair sieve. Add pure water, 7 gallons ; white sugar, 16 lbs.; boil together gently for three quarters of an hour, constantly skimming it. Pour it into a clean tub, and dissolve in it 4 lbs. of sugar candy, powdered; ferment with yeast for three or four days. When poured off clear into a sweet cask, add 5 lbs. of the best raisins, bruised and stoned. Stir once or twice a day. Slightly bung for 2 days, and add 3 or 4 quarts of French brandy. Bung closely. In three months bottle for use. SHINGLES. Called herpes, tetters, salt rheum, &c. It is a disease of the skin; an inveterate eruption on different parts of the body, usually the hands, and some- times it appears in distinct clus- ters round or near the waist, sur- rounding one half of the trunk of the body, like a belt, generally to- wards the right side. It is a spe- cies of ringworn or tetter. The eruptions or vesicles which appear break and discharge a thin corrosive fluid which causes much irritation or itching. Treatment. Keep the body open by the black draught, and seidlitz powder; administer tonics in the decoction of sarsaparilla. Give also a vapour bath of bitter decoction, and afterwards, rub the body with the stimulatingliniment. If there is much fever, give five grains of the carbonate and nitrate of potash two or three times a day. Celandine ointment is very good; when the itching is very troublesome, apply it to the affec- ted parts. Dr. Beach recommends a wash to be made of celandine and whis- key ; infuse a table-spoonful of the former in the latter; wash often, and then apply the Brown Ointment. Should the vesicles form or run into a bone, apply a poultice of slippery elm, and a lit- tle cream. The tincture of blood- root, and tincture of myrrh, make a good wash. Apply as before the Brown Ointment. The tepid wa- ter cloth is a good application to allay itching. The warm baths should often be taken. SHOES and BOOTS, to make waterproof.—Melt 5 ozs. of sper- maceti in a pipkin or other earthen vessel, over a slow fire; add 2 ozs. of cut india-rubber; add a little wood naphtha. Dissolve, and add 2 ozs. of hog's lard, 8 ozs. of tallow, and 4 ozs. of amber varnish. Mix. Apply to the shoes or boots a few times. SHORTNESS of BREATH. —Take of vitriolated spirits of ether, one ounce, and of camphor twelve grains. Make a solution, of which take a teaspoonful during the paroxyism. This is usually found to afford instantaneous re- lief in difficult breathing, depend- ing on internal disease, and other causes, where the patient, from a quick and very laborious breathing, is obliged to be in an erect posture. Or, take a quarter of an ounce of powder of elecampane root, half an ounce of powder of liquorice, as much flower of brimstone and pow- der of aniseed, and two ounces of sugar-candy powdered. Make all