8 ABD ABD butter, salt, and five or six drops of laudanum. Folds of linen dip- ped in ice-water should be placed upon the tumour, and renewed every fifteen minutes. Ice also may be applied with good effect. If the case has been delayed too long, use flannels dipped in a warm decoction of bitter herbs, as tansy, wormwood, horchound, and hops; these herbs tend to soften the tu- mour, and facilitate its return. Change the flannels frequently. Infants are often subject to um- bilical hernia, or rupture of the navel. It is cured by applying a proper bandage or trass, which, with increasing strength, effects a cure. Particular attention should be paid to the cure of female infants that are ruptured; that they may be free from the complaint when they become adult and pregnant; for then it often recurs from the too great distension of the abdo- men, &c. During pregnancy, it is often troublesome, but after par- turition, if the contents have not contracted any adhesion, they will often return into the abdomen, and may be kept there by a proper bandage. F ernales subj ect to um - bilical rupture, should keep their bowels unconstipated, especially if the navel rupture be irreducible ; and they should avoid indigestible food. When the tumour is returned, it should be kept in its place by a bandage or truss. By the perma- nent pressure of a truss upon the opening, the parts are prevented from descending, and a permanent cure is often effected. A truss may be obtained at a Surgical In- strument Maker’s. Dr. Beach, of America, states; —“Most of the cases of strangu- lated hernia for which an operation is performed, might be cured by proper treatment. In very many cases, where an operation has been proposed, the patient has recover- ed by very simple means. I have been called to some, where, at first view, it has seemed impossible to return the protruded viscera with- out cutting down and dividing the stricture; and yet, by prompt and energetic means, I have succeeded in reducing it.” The following directions are founded upon the American practice:— Commence the treatment by giving a dose of castor oil; avoid strong and irritating purgatives. —Use injections of an oily nature ; as Lobelia injlata, a sufficient quantity. Infuse in half a pint of hot water, to which add as much milk and treacle, and a gill of olive or sweet oil. Repeat every hour. This is one of the most powerful relaxants that can be used in this disease. The following External Appli- cations are recommended by Dr. Beach :—Steam and foment with bitter herbs (herbs afore mention- ed). Put the decoction in a tub or pail, and sit over it by means of a narrow board put across it. Place a blanket over the patient. This will cause perspiration, and reduce the inflammation. In ex- treme cases, a warm bath should be taken for some time. An alka- line poultice may be applied over the rupture. Mix the slippery elm bark with weak ley, until a poultice of a proper consistence is formed, to be applied tepid, and often renewed. The best effects have been produced by this appli- cation. Dr. Reese, of New York, uses the sulphuric ether for the reduc- tion or return of hernia. He wots the tumour with the liquid, and then,in order to produce speedy evaporation, blows upon it with a pair of bellows. Ho states that