MAC 239 MAC half, and put it into another stew- pot. To the remainder add more stock, and boil it till you can pulp all the macaroni through a fine sieve. To these two liquors put a pint or more of cream boiling hot, the macaroni that was first taken out, and half a pound of grated Parmesan cheese; make hot, but do not boil. Serve it with the crust of a French roll cut into bits the size of a shilling, or with nice crisp biscuits. MACAROONS, to make. — Blanch 4 ozs. of almonds, and pound withfour spoonfuls of orange fiower-water; whisk the whites of four eggs to a froth, then mix it, and 1 lb. of sugar, sifted with the almonds to a paste ; and lay- ing a sheet of wafer-paper on a tin, put it on in different little cakes, the shape of macaroons. MACAROON PIE, raised.— Raise, ornament, and bake a crust; have ready some hot macaroons, stewed, and a white fricassee of chickens, in separate stew-pans, and put them alternately on the lire; strew grated Parmesan cheese over it; put a slip of paper round the edge of the pie to prevent its burning. Brown the cheese, and serve it. MACASSAR OIL, to make.— Take 3 quarts of olive oil, half a pint of spirits of wine, 3 ozs. of cinnamon powder, 2 ozs. of berga- mot ; put it into a large pipkin, and give it a good heat; take off the fire, and add £ oz. of alkanet- root, and keep it closely covered for several hours. Filter through blotting paper. MACKEREL, to boil. — Ruh them with vinegar; when the wa- ter boils, put them in with a little salt, and boil gently 15 minutes. Serve with fennel and parsley chop- ed, boiled, and put into melted utter, and gooseberry sauce. MACKEREL, to broil whole.— Wash them clean, cut off their heads, and pull out their roes at the neck end. Boil them in a little water; bruise them with a spoon, beat up the yolk of an egg, a little nutmeg, a little lemon-peel cut fine, some thyme, some pars- ley boiled and chopped fine, a little salt and pepper, and a few crumbs of bread. Mix well together, fill the dish with them. Flour well, and broil. Serve with butter, ketchup, and walnut pickle. Far. MACKEREL, to collar.—Gut and slit the mackerel down the belly; cut’off'the head; take out the bones; lay it on its hack; sea- son with mace, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and a handful of parsley shred fine; strew it over them; roll tight, and tie them separately in cloths ; boil twenty minutes in vinegar, salt, and water; take out; put them into a pot; pour the li- quor upon them; or the cloth will stick to the fish ; when cold take the cloth off; add a little more vin- egar to the pickle; keep them for use. When sent to the table, gar- nish with fennel and parsley, and put some of the liquor under them. MACKEREL, to pickle.—Take six large mackerels, and cut them into round pieces. Take 1 oz. of beaten pepper, three nutmegs, a little mace, and a handful of salt; mix the salt and beaten spice to- gether. M»tke two or three holes in each piece, and thrust the sea- soning in to the holes,Breach piece, rub the pieces all over wifcjtkhe sea- soning; fry them hrown/iiftkil or butter, and let them cool^' pitt them into vinegar, and cever them with oil. They are fine' bating. MACKEREL, to pot.—Chain. season, and bake them in a pan with spice, bay leaves, and some butter. When cold, take out the bones; in pots lay them very close,