238 MAC MAC is troublesome, give some of the Cough Remedies, or the Expecto- rant Syrup, or Cough Pills. The inhalation of the steam of hitter herbs while infusing in boiling wa- ter serves to decrease the tightness of the lungs, and to promote ex- pectoration. This should be re- peated several times a day. Should there be much irritation, or spasmodic affection, use the Pidmonary Syrup. Bathe the feet occasionally in warm water. Mu- cilaginous drinks should be taken, as linseed, with a little lemon juice. An infusion of horehound, boneset, catnep, with slippery elm, sweet- ened with the finest sugar, or sugar- candy, is a very proper drink. Great attention must be paid to diet; it should be simple and easy of digestion; as arrow-root, sago, beef-tea, without or with little salt. "When the inflammation is subdued, and the tongue is clean, give ton- ics, or the Composition Powder. MACARONI, dressed sweet — Boil 2 ozs. in a pint of milk, with a bit of lemon peel, and a good bit of cinnamon, till the pipes are swelled to their utmost size with- out breaking. Lay them on a custard-dish, and pom- a custard over them hot. Serve cold. MACARONI, as usually served. —Boil it in milk, or a weak veal broth, flavoured with salt. When tender, put it into a disjji without the liquor, with bits oFbutter and grated cheese, and over the top grate ro.oi^ jrnd a little more but- .ter.a •the dish into a Dutch oven a quarter of an hour, and do not let'Riaytpp.become hard. Another way.— Wash it well, and simmer in half milk, and half broth of veal or mutton, till it is " tender. To a spoonful of this liquor, put the yolk of an egg beaten in a spoonful of cream ; just make it hot to thicken, but not boil: put it over the macaroni, and then grate fine old checso all over, and bits of butter. Brown. Another; Wash the macaroni, then simmer it in a little broth, with a little pounded mace and salt. When quite tender, take it out of the liquor, lay it in a dish, grate a good deal of cheese over, then cover that with bread grated fine. Warm some butter without oiling, and pour it from a boat through a little earthen colander over the crumbs; put the dish in a Dutch oven, to roast the cheese, and brown the bread of a fine col- our. The bread should be in sep- arated crumbs and look light. MACARONI DROPS.-Pound some sweet almonds very fine, and a few bitter ones with them; add pounded sugar, and a few drops of orange flower-water, while pound- ing, to prevent oiliness; when done, mix with them their weight of sugar, and some whites of eggs, beaten four to each lb. of almonds and sugar; work well together; drop it upon white paper in small nuts, and bake in a gentle oven a short time. MACARONI PUDDING. — Simmer 2 ozs. of the pipe sort in a pint of milk, and a bit of lemon and cinnamon, till tender; put it into a dish, with milk, two or three eggs, only one white, sugar, nut- meg, a spoonful of peach-water, and half a glass of raisin-wine. Bake with a paste round the edges. A layer of orange marmalade, or raspberry jam, in a macaroni pudding, for change, is a great improvement; in which case omit the almond-water, or ratafia, with which you would otherwise flavour it. MACARONI SOUP.-Boil l lb. of the best macaroni in a quart of good stock till tender; take out