ARO APR 27 a fine jelly. Put it into sweetmeat glasses, and tie up close. Far. APRICOTS, to dry in half.— Pare thin and halve four pounds of apricots, weighing them after; put them in a dish ; strew among them three pounds of sugar in the finest powder. When it melts, set the fruit over a stove to do very gently; as each piece becomes tender, take it out, and put it into a china bowl. When all are done, and the boiling heat a little abated, pour the syrup over them. In a day or two remove the syrup, leaving only a little in each half. In a day or two turn them daily, till quite dry, in the sun or a warm place. Keep in boxes, with layers of paper. APRICOTS, to preserve in Jel- ly.—Pare the fruit very thin, and stone it; weigh an equal quantity of sugar in fine powder, and strew over it. Next day boil very gently till they are clear, move them in- to a bowl, and pour the liquor over. The following day pour the liquor to a quart of codlin-liquor, made by boiling and straining, and a pound of fine sugar; let it boil quickly till it will jelly; put the fruit into it, and give one boil, skim well, and put into small pots. Ru. APRICOTS, to preserve Green. —Lay vine or apricot leaves at the bottom of your pan, then fruit, and so alternately till full, the upper layer being thick with leaves; then fill with spring water, and cover down, that no steam may come out. Set the pan at a dis- tance from the fire, that in four or five hours they may be only soft, but not cracked. Make a thin syrup of some of the water and drain the fruit. When both are cold, put the fruit into the pan and the syrup to it; put the pan at a proper distance from the fire till the apricots green, but on no ac- count boil or crack ; remove them very carefully into a pan with the syrup, for two or three days; then pour off as much of it as will be necessary, and boil wii h more sugar to make a rich syrup, and put a little sliced ginger into it. When cold, and the thin syrup has all been drained from the fruit, pour the thick over it. The former will serve to sweeten pies. Ru. APRICOT TART.—Use putf paste, see page 333, and put in Apricot Jam, Jelly, or Marma- lade. Ornament with little bars of paste. A. N. ARDENT SPIRITS.—Water is the natural beverage of man. Strong alcoholic liquors were for- merly kept and sold in Apothe- caries’ shops, and were by phy- sicians prescribed as medicines merely. Spirituous liquors and wines, more or less, inflame the blood, and induce gout, stone, rheumatism, fevers, pleurisies, &c. They scorch and shrivel the solids, destroy digestion, dry up the jui- ces, and bring on rapidly prema- ture old age, gray hairs, &c. Nothing has a greater tendency to destroy the coats of the stomach, to impair the digestion, destroy the appetite, and produce diseases, as inflammation of the liver, dropsy, jaundice, apoplexy,palsy, and mad- ness. Ardent spirits, &e. produce imbecility and often insanily. AROMATIC TINCTURE.— Infuso two ounces of Jamaica pep- per in two pints of brandy, with- out heat, for a few days; then strain off the tincture. This simple tincture will suffi- ciently answer all the intentions of the more costly preparations of this kind. It is rather too hot to be taken by itself; but is very proper for mixing with such medi- cines as might otherwise prove too cold for the stomach.