AST 32 AST asparagus, and when boiled cnt off all the preen in small pieces. Mix them with the eggs, and add epper and salt. Heat a slice of utter, put them in, and serve on buttered toast. Far. ASPARAGUS OMELET.— Boil a dozen of the finest asparagus, cut off the green portion, and chop into thin slices; season with salt and cayenne pepper; (soluble is best) ; beat an egg in cream, and melt four ounces of butter in a frying pan; pour half the batter into the middle of the pan, when the butter is hot; then place the asparagus tops upon the eggs, and cover with the rest of the batter. Serve on buttered toast. ASTHMA.—Thisdisea.se is well known. It manif ests itself in tem- porary fits of difficult breathing, is accompanied with wheezing, cough, a sense of suffocation, and constriction of the chest. The cause; hereditary predisposition; cold and moist atmosphere; sudden changes of temperature; intense study: suppression of long accus- tomed evacuations; certain fevers: irritation of the air cells of the lungs, by aerial acrimony, or other causes; irritation of the sto- mach, &c. When this disease is attended with expectoration, it is called hu- nt oural Asthma; and when there is no discharge, it is named dry Asthma. It is remarkable, that what will excite the disease in one patient, will often prove a moans of relieving' it in another. This peculiarity is shown in the eight pair of nerves, branches of which go to the lungs and stomach. When these branches are in a state of morbid excitement, or irritation, the muscles concerned in convey- ing air from the lungs become contracted so as to limit the ex- pansion of the chest, and by re- tarding the circulation of the blood through the lungs, the blood be- comes surcharged with carbon, causing a dark appearance of the lips, &c. Asthma may be distinguished from Pulmonary Consumption, by the former being attended not only with fits of difficult breathing, but with violent fits of suffocation; whereas in consumption the pa- tient has only shortness of breath on motion. Ashma also more generally attacks persons in ad- vanced life. • If the system is much debilita- ted, so that swelling of the legs, great oppression of breathing, and florid countenance, are predomi- nant symptoms, a more powerful tonic is requisiteTincture of Rhatany, 6 ounces; Ammonia, 2 scruples; Compound Spirit of Juniper, 2 ounces; Tincture of Squills, half an ounce. Mix. Three table-spoonfuls to be taken every four hours, with the follow- ing Pills:— Precipitated Iron, 2 grains; Extract of Hemlock, 3 grains; Gum Ammoniac, 4 grains ; Oil of Aniseed, two drops. Mix, and di- vide into two or three Pills. Keep the bowels open by any of the aforementioned Aperients. But if the patient is affected with Di- arrhoea, a frequent attendant on the last stage of this malady, the following may be substituted for the preceding tonic mixture:— Compound Tincture of Rhatany, 1 ounce; Lime water. 6 ounces; Laudanum, 30 drops. Mix. Three table-spoonfuls to be taken every three hours; if it does not restrain diarrhoea, add to the above 1 or 2 ounces of Decoction of Logwood. Should a distressing pain affect the integuments of the head, or the back of the head, a small blister will give relief. Or, take Ammo-