CUR 136 CUR cayenne pepper, large mace, gin- ger, and a table-spoonful of ground mustard. Mustard renders them wholesome. Put the cucumbers into a jar, and pour the vinegar boiling hot upon them. Cover well; after standing two days, boil the pickle again until they are green. Cucumbers keep best un- pared. CULVER’S ROOT.—A valu- able American plant. The root is a §ood purgative, tonic, diaphor- etic, antiseptic, &c. Its operation is mild, without producing weak- ness or prostration, and is most effective in fevers, to remove black andmorbid matterfrom the bowels. Good for indigestion, to purify the blood, and acts powerfully on the absorbent system, Valuable in dropsy. Dose, one or too spoon- fuls in a small cupful of water sweetened. CUMMIN PLASTER.—Take cummin seeds, caraway seeds, bay- berries, of each, 3 ozs.; burgundy pitch, 3 lbs.; yellow-wax, 3 ozs.; melt the pitch and wax together, and the other ingredients, pow- dered ; make into rolls. To be spread on leather. To be applied to the lower part of the abdomen for expelling flatulence, and colicky pains. CURDS AND WHEY may he made by putting half a drachm of citric acid into a pint of milk. CURD CHEESECAKES.— Half a pint of good curds; beat them with four eggs, some rich cream, half a nutmeg, a spoonful of ratafia, rose, or orange flower water; add 4 ozs. of sugar; 8 ozs. of currants, well washed and dried. Bake in patty-pans, with a good crust under them. CURD PUDDING.—Rub the curd of two gallons of milk, well drained through a sieve; mix it with six eggs, a little cream, two spoonfuls of orange flour water, half a nutmeg; flour and bread crumbs, three spoonfuls each ; cur- rants and raisins, half a pound each. Boil one hour in a thick, well floured cloth. CURLING of the Hair.—Use no oil; curl it when wet, and al- low it to dry in that state. Use a weak solution of isinglass, which secures a permanent form. A. N. CURRANT BISCUITS.—Su- gar, lj lb.; flour, 2 lbs. ; butter, 1| lb.; currants, 1| lb.; 1 tea- spoonful each of cinnamon and nutmeg; five eggs. Beat the but- ter and sugar together, whisk the eggs, and add to the other ingredi- ents, mix well. Roll out the dough in sheets, cut into cakes, place them on tins, strew white sugar on the top, and bake in a moderate oven. BLACK CURRANT Water Ice.—Put a table-spoonful of black currant jelly into a basin; add the juice of two lemons, a gill of black currant syrup, and half a pint of water; strain, and freeze. CURRANT CAKES.—Take 2 lbs. of flour, and 1 lb. of butter rubbed into the flour ; mix it to a paste with cold water, and two tea-spoonfuls of yeast; take 10 ozs. of currants, 4 ozs. of sugar, a little clovepepper, andalittlecinnamon: mix, and put a little into the in- side of every cake; roll your cakes thin, and cut into different shapes with a tin mould; bake them in a sharp oven. CURRANT DROPS.—Put 1 lb. of pounded loaf sugar upon a plate; then the juice of black or red currants; make into a paste of thickish consistency ; drop on tine paper, and dry. CURRANT JAM, Mack, redor white.—Let the fruit be very ripe, pick it clean from the stalks, bruise it, and to every pound put three quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar;