BIS BIS 59 They are made with rice flour, sifted as fine as possible; dried orange flour, preserved and pow- dered very fine; rasped lemon- peel ; a quarter of a pound of flour, to one pound of sugar; six yolks, and twelve whites of eggs, well beat up; finish as other biscuits. Add fruit or marmalade if you like. BISCUITS, Buttered. — Dis- solve a pound of butter in a quart of warm milk, and with eight pounds of flour make up a stiff smooth paste, roll thin and stamp out the biscuits, prick them, and bake on tins in a quick oven. BISCUIT CAKE.-One pound of flour, five eggs well beaten and strained, eight ounces of sugar, a little rose or orange-flower water: beat well, bake one hour. Bu. BISCUIT CAKE.—Rub into 1 pound of flour six ouuces of butter, and three large spoonfuls of yeast, and make into a paste, with a sufficient quantity of new milk; make into biscuits, and prick them with a clean fork. Bu. BISCUITS, Drop.—Beat the yolks of 10 eggs, and the whites of 6, with one spoonful of rose water, half an hour ; then put in 10 ozs. of loaf sugar beat and sifted; whisk them well for half an hour, then add 1 oz. of carraway-seeds crashed a little, and 6 ozs. of fine flour; whisk in the flour gently, drop them on wafer-papers, and bake in a moderate oven. Bf. BISCUIT, French.—Flour 6 lbs.; milk, Hpint; butter, 6 ozs.; sugar, lj cupful; salt, a teaspoon- ful ; 6 eggs, and half a pint of good yeast. Melt the butter in the milk, and beat the eggs. Add all the ingredients, set it to rise, and when very light, mould it into small biscuits, and bake in a quick oven. Mrs. Dr. C. BISCUIT, Spanish.—Beat the yolks of 8 eggs near half an hour, then beat in 8 spoonfuls of sugar; beat the whites to a strong froth, then beat them very well with yolks and sugar near half an hour; put in 4 spoonfuls of flour, and a little lemon cut very fine, and bake them on papers. Bf. BISCUITS, Ginger.—Take half an ounce of pounded ginger, the weight of seven eggs in sugar, and half the weight in flour; pound the sugar and sift it through a silk sieve; beat up the yolks of the eggs with the sugar until it is quite thick, then beat up the whites until they are stiff; put them together, add the flour, Stir- ling it lightly in, and bake them in a slow oven. BISCUITS, Hard.—Warm two ounces of butter in as much skimmed milk as will make a pound of flour into a very stiff paste, beat it with a rolling-pin, and work it very smooth. Roll it thin and cut it into round biscuits; prick them full of holes with a fork. About six minutes will bake them. BISCUIT JELLY. White biscuit, 1 pound; white sugar, 3 pounds; water, 2 gallons. Boil to one-half, strain and evaporate to a proper consistence, then add wine, 1 pint; cinnamon, J oz. _ BISCUIT, Light Lemon.—For eight eggs put eight spoonfuls of sugar in a basin, and a little rasped lemon; put six yolks into the sugar, and beat them well; then beat the whites of eggs to snow, and add them; mix well three spoonfuls of flour; drop them into paper cases, and sift sugar over them. Bake in a slow oven. BISCUITS, Naples and Savoy. —To one pound of loaf sugar, grated fine, add nine eggs, (take the whites out of two,) add one pound of flour, beat your eggs very well, and then whisk your sugar and eggs together with a little