MEA 245 MEA it takes the whole pool; but when held in hand, it ranks only as any other ace ] and when it is neither turned up nor held in hand, then the king, or the next superior card in order, wins the call. The game is generally played with counters, and the dealer may stake what he likes on each or any chance; the other players deposit- ing each the same quantity, except one; that is, when the dealer stakes twelve, the rest lay down eleven, and so on. After this, two cards are dealt to each; then one card is turned up to each, and if any happen to have the ace of diamonds, he sweeps all; if not turned up, all show their hands. Any holding matri- mony, intrigue, &c., takes the counters on that point; and when two or three happen to have simi- lar combinations, the eldest hand has the preference; and should any chance not be gained, it stands over to the following deal. MATCHLESS CAKE. As you whisk right well 5 eggs, very gradually add 8 ozs. of sifted loaf sugar; 8 ozs. of flour, dry and sifted; 6 ozs. of butter, just melt- ed ; the rinds of two small lemons, a little cinnamon, and candied lemon, or citron. Immediately before you mould the cake or cakes, incorporate f oz. of carbonate of soda; bake one hour in a moder- ate oven. Be sure to keep light by constant whisking. MEAD, to make.—To 7 gallons of water, put 15 lbs. of honey; boil and skim it well; take rose- mary, thyme, bay-leaves, and sweet-briar, one handful all to- gether; boil one hour; put into a tub with a little ground malt; stir till it is lukewarm; strain, and put it into the tub again; cut a toast, and spread it over with yeast, and put it into the tub; and when the liquor is covered with yeast, put it up in a barrel, take of cloves, mace, and nutmegs, H oz. of ginger sliced, 1 oz.; bruise the spice ; tie it in a cloth, hang it in the vessel, stopping it up close for use. Mead is very pleasant if cow- slips and lemon are added to the above—using water, &c. in pro- portion. MEAD WINE.—Soft water, 9 gallons, white currants, 3 quarts; ferment; mix honey, 15 lbs.; white tartar, powdered, _ If oz. ; add balm and sweet brier, each half a handful; white brandy, f a gallon. This will make 9 or 10 gallons. MEASLES, An eruptive dis- ease.— It is indicated by chilliness, shivering, pain in the head, fever, sneezing, discharges from the nose, sickness, and sometimes vomiting, hoarseness, cough, heaviness of the eyes; the eyelids frequently swell so as to cause blindness, the patient complains of his throat, and a looseness often precedes the eruption. The third or fourth day an eruption, like flea-bites, appears in the face, neck, and breast, and soon after in the body and limbs ; the eruption does not suppurate. But the spots soon run into one another, and form red streaks, giving to the skin an inflammatory appearance, and produce a precep- tible swelling on the face. The eruption may be distinguished from the small-pox by their scarcely rising above the skin. The fever, cough, and difficulty of breathing, instead of being removed by the eruption, as in the small pox, are rather increased; but the vomit- ing generally ceases. About the sixth or seventh day, and sometimes earlier, the eruption begins to fade, and gradually dis- appears, accompanied with a sepa-