INF 207 INF mattress. Keep it as dry as pos- sible. At the end of a month, the nurse may set it up, and dance it by degrees. . The clothing should be light, and not much longer than itself, that the legs maybe readily reach- ed and rubbed, for rubbing takes off scurf, and causes the blood to circulate. Rubbing the ankle- hones and inside of the knees will strengthen those parts, and make the child stretch its knees, and keep them flat. Do not keep a child too long in the arms, lest the legs should be cramped, and the toes turned in- wards. The oftener the posture is changed the better. During the first fortnight the child should sleep on a bed, except when taken up to supply its wants, which will give it early habits of cleanliness. It is injurious to be laid always asleep on a person’s knee. By slow degrees the infant should be accustomed to exercise, within doors, and in the open air. It should be carried about, and gently dandled in the nurse’s arms. Ex- ercising a child in the open air, in tine weather, is of the greatest ser- vice. Endeavour to harden the body, but without violent means. A child is constitutionally weak and irritable; hence we should try to strengthen the child, and diminish this irritability, in order to procure it the greatest blessing,—a firm body, which may resist all influ- ence of air and weather. The cold bath may be used too much, and bodily exercise may be too violent. Infants should by imperceptible degrees be inured to the cool, and then to the cold bath. If they have been accustomed to an effem- inate treatment, and should be suddenly subjected to an opposite extreme, such a change would be attended with danger. The child’s skin is to be kept perfectly clean, by washing its limbs morning and evening ; begin with warm water, till, by degrees, it will bear, and like, to be washed with cold water. After carefully drying the whole body, head, and limbs, another dry soft cloth, a little warmed, should be used gent- ly, to take all the damp from the wrinkled and fat parts of the body. Apply gentle friction to the body, but do not press upon the stomach and bowels. If (he skin is chafed, hair powder, or violet powder, is to be used, or a thin mixture of ful- lers earth. For the head, a small soft brush is safer than a comb. It should have clean linen, &c. every day. Some females in dressing an in- fant are very rough, and must harass and fatigue it much. The most tender deliberation should he observed. Never let the clothes be tight. Never use pins, for they are dangerous. The strings must be tied so slack that one might get two fingers between. Many in- stances of idiotism, fits, and de- formity, are owing to tight ban- dages. Never expose an infant to open doors or windows, especially in winter. The extreme of a summer day should also be avoided. Ex- cessive heat or cold will injure an infant. Infants should not be kept too near the fire. The wisest course in treating in- fants, is to follow the simple dic- tates of nature; yet some people are so devoid of consideration as to give them wine, spirits, spices, su- gar, and other things too strong for their tender stomachs. The first milk a baby can draw from its mother’s breast is medicine and nourishment for it, and if she is rv