POP POP 323 Elder flower oil, 4 ozs.; fine mut- ton suet, or beef marrow, 2 ozs. ; best lard, 2 ozs. Melt tbe suet and lard together, with as little heat as possible; then add the el- der oil, and beat up the mixture till nearly cold. Any other per- fume may be added before the po- matum hardens. A little eau-de- cologne makes it very agreeable, when intimately mixed. POOR MAN’S SAUCE.— Take 5 or 6 shalots; hash them fine with a little parsley; put them into a stewpan with a little gravy and a spoonful of good vinegar, a little salt and cayenne; simmer till enough, and serve. POPE JOAN, Game of—The game of pope, or as it is sometimes called, pope joan, is somewhat similar to that of matrimony. It is played by a number of people, who generally use a board painted for this purpose, which may be purchased at almost any toy-shop. The eight of diamonds must first be taken from the pack, and, after arranging the deal, shuffling, &e., the dealer dresses the board, as it is called, by putting fish, counters, or other stakes, one each to ace, king, queen, knave, and game; two to matrimony, two to intrigue, and six to the nine of diamonds, styled “pope.” This dressing is in some companies at the individual expense of the deal- er, though in others the players contribute two stakes each towards the same. The cards are next to be dealt round equally to each player, one turned up for trump, and about six or eight left in the stock to form stops; as for example, if the ten of spades is turned up, the nine consequently becomes a stop. The four kings, and the seven of diamonds, are always fixed stops; and the dealer is the only person permitted in the course of the game to refer to the stock for information what other cards are stops in that respective deal. If either ace, king, queen, or knave happen to be the turned-up trumps, the dealer takes whatever is deposited on that head; but when pope is turned up, the dealer is entitled to both that and the game, besides a stake for every card dealt to each player. Unless the game is determined by pope being turned up, the eld- est hand begins by playing out as many cards as possible ; first tho stops, then pope, if he has it, and afterwards the lowest cards of his longest suit; particularly an ace, for that can never be led through. The other players are to follow when they can, in sequence of the same suit, until a stop occurs; and the party having the said stop thereby becomes eldest hand, and is to lead accordingly, and so on until some person parts with all his cards, by which he wins the pool, which is game, and becomes entitled besides to a stake for every card not played by the others, except from any one holding pope, which excuses him from paying ; but if pope has been played previ- ously, then the person having held it is not excused. King and queen form what is termed matrimony; queen and knave make intrigue, when in the same hand ; but neither they, nor ace, king, queen, knave, or pope, entitle the holder to the stakes de- posited thereon unless played out. No claim can be allowed after the board is dressed for the suc- ceeding deal; but in all such cases the stakes are to remain on the board for future determination. This game only requires a little attention to remember what stops have been made in the course of