170 FRF, row molted butter; freely sprinkle bread crumbs over it; roast to a fine yellow. Make a sauce with butter, a chopped anchovy, a few capers, flour, three spoonfuls of broth, nutmeg, pepper, and salt; make like a white sauce. FOWLS, to truss.—Pluck them; cut off the neck close to the back; take out the crop, liver, and en- trails ; cut off the vent, draw it clean, and beat the breast-bone flat. If for boiling, cut off the nails of the feet, and tuck them close to the legs ; put your finger into the inside, and raise the skin of the legs; then cut a hole in the top of the skin, and put the legs under; put a skewer in the first joint of the pinion, bring the middle of the leg close to it, put the skewer through the middle of the leg, and through the body, and do so on the other side. Take the filth from the gizzard; put it and the liver in the pinion; turn the points on the back, and tie a string over the tops of the legs to keep them in their place. If to be roasted, put a skewer in the first joint of the pinion, bring the middle of the leg close to it,; put the skewer through the middle of the leg, and through the body put a skewer in the small of the leg, and through the sidesman and one through the skin of the feet. Cut off the nails of the feet. FOWL, the best for the Winter. —Cochins are the only birds to lay all the winter; and by their willingness to sit almost at any time in the summer, you may get pullets which will lay late in the autumn. FOWL SOUP.—Cut up two fowls and some nice ham in small pieces, with sliced onions and cel- ery ; fry them in butter till brown; then boil them in water, thicken with fresh cream, and season with pepper, salt, and mace. Boil all together; and before serving add port wine. A. N. FOXGLOVE INFUSION.— Foxglove leaves, 1 dr.; boiling water, f pint; tincture of cinna- mon, 1 fluid oz. Infuse the leaves in the water for five hours, strain, and add the tincture. A dessert spoonful twice a day. Valuable in water of the chest, and palpita- tion of the heart. See Robinson's Family Herbal. FRAGRANT ODOUR, to dif- fuse a.—A. few drops pf oil of san- dal wood dropped on a hot shovel, will diffuse a most agreeable bal- samic perfume through the room. FRECKLES.—Take 1 oz. of lemon-juice, a quarter of a drachm of powdered borax, and half a drachm of sugar; mix, let them stand a few days in a glass bottle, then rub it on the hands and face occasionally. Or, mix two-tea- spoonfuls of muriatic acid with 2 ozs. of spirits of wine; and If pint of distilled water. Or, 2 drs. of muriatic acid in 1 pint of water, and a teaspoonful of spirits of la- vender. Apply with a camel hair pencil, or linen. Or, Horse- radish steeped in sour milk for 12 hours, and a drop or two of tinc- ture of myrrh. Wash two or three times per day. FREEZING MIXTURES.~ If ice cannot be obtained, water may be cooled to the freezing point by the following mixturesSal Ammoniac, 5 parts; Nitre, 5 parts; Glauber Salts, 8 parts; Water, 16 parts.' Or, Nitrate of Ammo- nia, 1 part; Carbonate of Soda, 1 part; Water, 1 part. Or mix 1 part of Muriate of Ammonia, or sal- ammoniac powder, with 2 parts of Nitrate of Potash, or Salt-petre:— this forms one powder. The pow- der to be mixed with it is formed of Barilla, or the best Scotch Soda,