106 FLA FLA Snuff up the nostril near the affec- ted eye, powdered lobelia herb, mixed with a little blood-root. Should the eye swell, use eye- waters and the brown Ointment— FITS.—If a person falls in a fit, let him remain on the ground, pro- vided his face be pale ; for should it be fainting or temporary suspen- sion of the heart’s action, you may cause death by raising him upright, or by bleeding; but if the face be red or dark coloured, raise him on his seat, throw cold water on his head immediately, and send for a surgeon, and get a vein opened, or fatal pressure on the brain may ensue. FIXED STARS. — Nitre, 12 parts; sulphur, 6 parts; meal gunpowder, 12 parts; antimony, 1 part. Mix. The bottom of the rocket must be stuffed with clay ; one diameter of rocket composition must be then introduced, and the remainder filled with the above mixture; the case is then to be tied up, and the paste-board pierced with five holes for the es- cape of the luminous rays. FLANNEL.—Before it is made up, flannel should be immersed in hot water. FLANNELS, to wash.—Do not use boiling water, but as hot as the hands can bear. Wash with good brown soap and a little pearl-ash, or soda, and blue. FLANNEL, to wear.—Put it on at once, winter and sunnqer— nothing better can be worn next to the skin than a loose red flannel shirt—“loose,” for it has room to move on the skin, thus causing a titillation, which draws the blood to the sui-face and keeps it there, and when that is the case no one can take cold; “red,” for white fjunnel creases up, mats together, and becomes tight, stiff, heavy, and impervious. Cotton wool merely absorbs the moisture from the sur- face, while woollen flannel conveys it from the skin and deposits it in drops on the outside of the shirt, from which the ordinary cotton shirt absorbs it, and by its nearer exposure to the air it is soon dried without injury to the hody. Hav- ing these properties, red woollen flannel is worn by sailors even in the midsummer of the hottest countides. Wear a thinner mate- rial in summer. FLANNEL, Beware how you lay aside.—Never be in a hurry to put off woollen garments. Flan- nel protects against the sudden changes of temperature. When perspiration flows freely, the quick evaporation carries with it much heat from the body, and a chill may be produced, and that may be fol- lowed by derangement of some function, as cold in the head, or unnatural discharge from the bowels. Flannel is a slow conductor of cold or heat, and evaporation pro- ceeds from it more slowly than from cotton or linen; hence its excellence for clothing. Many persons wear flannel next to the skin all the year round, and find it a shield against prevalent complaints in the summer. Much depends of course upon the constitution and employment of the individual, but in all cases flannel should not be laid aside till the weather is settled permanently warm, and the change should be made in the morning, not in the after-part of the day, when the en- ergies are somewhat abated, and the air is usually cooler. Many a delicate person has sown the seeds of consumption in undressing for an evening party. FLATULENCY.—See Carmi- natives, and Colic.