215 KID KID wine, and throw fine sugar all over the dish. _ JUNIPER BERRIES—Very diuretic, and pleasant, as it is (or should be) a principal ingredient in Hollands or Geneva Gm. The oil is the best for dropsical and urinarv diseases. The dose is from 10 to 15 drops three times a day. KERNELS, to blanch.—Sim- ply put them into boiling water a minute or two ; rub them between a clean cloth, and the brown skins will soon peel off. Almonds and other kemelsmay thus beblanched. KETCHUP. See Mushroom Ketchup, Walnut Ketchup, §c. KETCHUP, to keep twenty years.—Take a gallon of strong stale beer, 1 lb. of anchovies, wash- ed from the pickle; 1 lb. of ska- lots; J oz. of mace; | oz. of cloves; | oz. of whole pepper; J oz, of ginger; 2 quarts of large mushroom flaps, rubbed to pieces; cover all close, and simmer till it is half wasted; strain; cool; then bottle. A spoonful of this ketchup is sufficient for a pint of melted butler. KETTLES, incrustation or fur- ring to prevent.—Keep in the ves- sel a clean marble, a cockle, or oyster shell; these will attract the particles of sand. KiD GLOVES, to clean.—Rub with very slightly damped bread crumbs. If not effectual, scrape upon them dry fullers earth, or French chalk, when on the hands, and rub them quickly together in all directions. Do this several times. Or put gloves of a light colour on the hands, and wash the hands in a basin of spirits of harts- horn :—Some gloves may be wash- ed in a strong lather made of white soap and warm water, or milk ; or wash with rice pulp.—Or sponge them well with turpentine. Alum powder and fullers earth well mix- ed may bo usefully used. KIDNEY BEANS. — String them; cut down the middle, and across; boil in salt and water till tender, and serve with melted but- ter. Another way.—Cut in small dice two onions; put them in a stew- pan with a little butter; when they begin to brown put in a little good gravy; flour them; give them and the flour a fine brown colour: if gravy is not used, put iu a spoonful of soup, season with salt and pepper; reduce this sauce; put in the beans already cooked; simmer till enough; dish, and serve. French. Another way.—Cut two onions in half rings, and put them into a frying-pan with butter; when they begin to brown, put in the beans which have been cooked; fry with the onions; put in hashed parsley, scallions, salt and pepper; give a turn or two more, and dish : boil a little vinegar in the pan, and pour it over them. French. KIDNEY BEANS in Salacl.— Take haricots already cooked, put them in a salad-dish; garnish them with strips of anchovy, onions, roasted in the ashes, beet root, or any thing properly hashed; season with salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar, and serve. KIDNEY, (beef) Broiled.— Cut the kidney lengthways. Sea- son with nutmeg, pepper, and salt. , Pass a wire skewer through them to prevent them curling. Have a brisk clear fire, and place on the gridiron for about ten minutes, turning them often. When dish- ed, rub them over with butter, and serve with parsley fried crisp, and a little sherry, butter, salt, and pepper. Kidneys may be minced by a sim- ilar seasoning, aud bo done in the