93 CAM CAL five minutes longer, then take the sauce-pan off the fire covered close, half an hour; then it will be so clear as to need only once running through the bag, and much waste will be saved. Calf’s feet should be only scalded to take off the hair. A little isinglass may be used to secure the firmness. CALF’S FEET LEMON JEL- LY.—Boil four quarts of water with three calf’s-feet, or two cow heels, till half wasted; take the jelly from the fat and sediment, mix with it the juice of a Sevile orange and twelve lemons, the peels of three ditto, the whites and shells of twelve eggs, sugar to taste, a pint of rasin wine, 1 oz. of coriander seeds, £ oz. of allspice, a bit of cinnamon, and six cloves, all bruised, after having mixed them cold. The jelly should boil fifteen minutes without stirring; then clear it through a flannel bag. CALF’S FEET STEWED.— Take calf's feet boiled, put into a stewpan, with a little butter, half a lemon sliced and peeled, as much broth as will simmer half an hour ; take out, and wipe dry; strain the sauce; addabitofbutterandflour, gravy, a pounded anchovy, and half a lemon cut into dice. Hu. CALF’S HEAD, boned.—Take the bones out of half a calf’s head, stuff with egg and tongue, and sew the top and bottom together. Put it into a stew-pan and the bones, a pound of good beef cut into bits, a little parsley, sweet herbs, chopped onions, salt, and half a tea-spoon- ful of cayenne pepper. Fill the pan three parts with water, and stew three hours. When you take out the head, glaize it with egg while hot. Bacon is a suitable accompaniment. •CALF'S HEAD, hashed. When half boiled, cut oft' the meat in slices, brown some butter, Hour, and sliced onion, and throw in the slices, with some good gravy, truf- fles, and morels; give it one boil, skim it well, and set it to simmer till tender. Season with pepper, salt, and cayenne, at first: and ten minutes before serving, throw in some shred parsley, and a very small bit of tarragon and knotted, marjoram cut very fine, just before you serve, add the squeeze of a lemon. Forcemeat balls, and bits of bacon rolled round. CALF’S HE ART.—Cut it open and broil like a beef-stake. When done, rub a bit of fresh butter over it, and pour into the dish half a tea-cupful of hot mushroom ketch- up and some soluble Cayenne. CALF’S HEART, Baked.— Stuff it with bread crumbs, minced suet, sweet marjoram, lemon-peel grated, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and yolk of egg, and put it into the oven. Serve up with gravy, melt- ed butter, and currant jelly. CALF’S LIVER AND BACON.—Cut the liver into slices, and fry it first, then the bacon; lay the liver in the dish, and the bacon upon it; serve it up with gravy, made in the pan with boil- ing water, thickened with flour and butter, and lemon juice; and, if agreeable, a little parsley and onion may bo chopped into it, or a little boiled parsley strewed over the liver. Garnish with slices of lemon. C A M O MIL E.—The flowers possess antispasmodic, carmina- tive, cordial, and diaphoretic effects. The infusion of the flowers greatly promotes digestion, and with the addition of a few drops of elixir of vitrol, has arrested the worst of fevers. A strong decoction proves an emetic, and greatly cleanses the stomach, CAMPHOR, Tincture of, or Camphorated Spirit of Trine.—