621 CEMETERY AT FRILFORD. that they had the command of the comforts of civilisation. Whilst the skulls in both cases present the appearances of refinement, the other bones of the skeleton are much roughened by the develop- ment upon them on the one hand of ridges for the insertion and origin of muscles, and on the other of rheumatic (?) exostoses. And these same bones show, in the one case, with considerable proba- bility, and in the other with absolute certainty, that their owner had been exposed, or exposed himself, to personal injury and violence, and had, probably, been a soldier of much service in the stormy times to which, in one case, the antiquarian relics enable us to assign his remains with perfect certainty. The left collar-bone belonging to the skull of the more globose and flatter outlines had undergone and repaired a comminuted fracture during life, and the left metatarsal of the second toe of the foot of the same side, a bone but rarely broken, had been broken, though less severely, than the collar-bone, and had, like it, been repaired during life. A fall from a horse may break a collar-bone, but injuries such as war entails are suggested to us by a history like this. The other skull, which was found with five coins, and which I have said may probably be looked upon as having been produced by the action of Roman influences upon the more roughly-hewn dolichocephalic Britons, was found in company with a left first rib, which had anchylosed with its ossified costal cartilage, which again, like the clavicle just above it, had its sternal articular end greatly enlarged. It is possible that these peculiarities may have been the result of exostotic disease, of which the other bones bear evidence, though less marked evidence than the bones of the other skeleton with which we are comparing them ; but for the reason conveyed in these last words, as also because the abnormal appearances are not repeated on the opposite side, I incline to ascribe them to the working of some mechanical injury inflicted, possibly, in war, and certainly many years before death. The owner of this skull had lost, and was at the time of his death losing, teeth by caries ^, and was suffering and had suffered from exostosis in sympathy with it; the owner of the other had lost two of the molars of the right side of the lower jaw early in life, and the molars of the corresponding side in the upper jaw are little worn and suggestive of youth till we ' For an intere.-ting liiHtory of dental caries, as observed in the ancient inhabitants of Britain, see a paper by J. R. Mummery, Esq. 'Trans. Odont. Society,' 1869.