800 MODIFICATIONS OF ASPECTS OF ORGANIC NATURE observable in an isolated mass of leaves, or in a single isolated tree, does not give us a measure of the rate at which the same process will go on in a wood when the exposed and evaporating surface is relatively so much smaller. And this difficulty, which lies in the geometrical nature of the case, may account for the great dis- crepancies in the estimates which various writers have given of the amount of watery vapour given off by masses of wood ^. It must, however, be allowed that the cases in which the cutting down of trees, and the consequent putting into abeyance of the functions of their leaves, have been followed by the drying up of springs, are much more numerous, even if they are not better established, than those in which the reverse effect has been recorded, as by Mr. Abbay. The explanation of this apparently self-anta- gonising or capricious operation of the same primary cause is not far to seek. When a tree is cut down, the area once protected by its leaves is exposed to the uncounteracted action of the summer sun, and rainfall may run off it when thus hardened, just as it runs off an imperfectly thawed surface in the spring, or may sink away into chinks and fissures which that exposure may, and very often does, produce, and in either case such rainfall is lost to the summer- ^ Professor PfafF, for example (cit. Ebemiayer, I.e. p. i86), gives us 120 kilo- grammes as the entire amount evaporated by an oak with 700,000 leaves, each of a square surface of 2325 mill, during the period from May 18 to October 24. Vaillant (cit. ibid.) gives the amount of watery vapour given off by an oak of 21 mfetres height and 2.63 mfetres girth at a height of i mfetre above the ground, as 2000 kilogrammes on a fine day. Hartig (cit. ibid.), the author of a ' Lehrbuch fiir Forster,' Stuttgart, 1861, calculates that a German morgen (=2-3895 acres), carrying a thousand trees of nine different kinds of conifers and broad-leaved trees of twenty years' planting, exhales daily during the period of vegetation 3000 pounds weight of water. Professor Prestwich, in his 'Water-bearing Strata,' 1851, p. 118, gives us as an estimate for tlie amount of watery vapour given off by the leaves of 'a tree of average size ' two and a half gallons per diem. Mr. Lawes (cit. in loc), from ' Journal of Horticultural Society,' vol. v. pt. i., 1850, gives us as a foundation for an estimate of the relations between the amount of water taken in by vegetable organisms, with the matters it held in solution, and the solid residue thence extracted and retained by the plants for its uses or for ours, a state- ment to the effect that three plants of wheat or barley gave off i| gallon, 250 grains of water for every grain of solid residue in the adult plant. HeUriegel, on the other hand (cit. Ebermayer, I.e. p. 187), gives us as his estimate that for the production of i lb. of dry barleycorns, 700 lbs. of water, inclusive of the water evaporated from the soil, are all that is necessary, and that other cerealia have their demands limited within somewhat similar proportions. Intcrvalla vides humane commoda.