EXCAVATIONS IN AN ANCIENT 620 I must say that the skull from the leaden coffins, of which I am speaking, as also a more or less authentic bust of Julius Caesar, and such works of art as the Roman figured in Lindenschmit's ' Alter- thiimer,' Heft vii. Taf. v. have convinced me that too much weight may be laid upon breadth of forehead. In these heads the broad character which they present does not depend upon the frontal but upon the parietal region, and the vertical view of the cranium pre- sents very much such an outline from back to front as the broad side of the flint axes or celts, so familiar to antiquaries, presents from front to back. The head of the first Napoleon must have presented such a contour when viewed from above; and I believe, in spite of our tendency to connect a narrow forehead with foolish- ness, that a truer analysis would connect it in many cases merely with premature closure of the frontal suture, which seems hereditary in some families. This premature closing is consistent with the possession of a lai-ge cerebrum, and of great mental powers, and we cannot arrogate for it any ethnological significance, at all events in cultured races. His and Riitimeyer (' Crania Helvetica,' p. 34) hold that their 'Sion' type of cranium, which seems to me to be represented by the broad, flattish, globosely contoured skulls, of which I have just been speaking, was the type of skull possessed by the Helvetii, their ' Celtic forefathers,' and by the inhabitants of their Pfahl- bauten. And, as there is evidence to show that this same form of skull existed in pre-Roman times even in these islands, we must not suppose that the flatter and more globose skulls which we find at Frilford belonged exclusively to Roman immigrants, or to im- migrants from Southern Europe, who may have been commanding as ofiicers, or settled as upper-class decuriones or equites in the neighbourhood of this cemetery. The loftier and narrower crania, however, may with less hesitation be supposed to have belonged to men of similar station, but of British birth and blood, who had acquiesced in Roman rule, and identified themselves with Roman institutions. Differing in the particulars specified, the osteological remains of the two occupiers of leaden coffins do nevertheless present certain important points of resemblance. Both belonged to men who were beyond the middle period of life, who were possessed of great muscular strength, but whose skulls, teeth, and jaws seem to show