CEMETERY AT FRILFORD. 593 remote from the great centres of life. The fact, however, that money to the amount of no less than three hundred pieces of Roman coinage was placed in the tomb of Childeric is more conclusive than any mere speculation from the analogies furnished by ancient or modern times. A kindly instinct induced persons, who probably enough had never heard of Charon, to bury with their deceased friend or relative that which they knew him or her to have valued most, and the presence of coin in a grave may convey thus to us a satire upon the departed, which it was never intended to hint at. The Abbe Cochet seems to me ^ to lay too mnch stress upon ' la coAtume Cliretienne de rendre a la terre les hommes nus comme ils y sont entres.' For this principle would have prevented the burial with ornaments 2, of which, however, we are told in the ' Capi- tularia Regum Francorum,'ii. 852 (cf. also p. 701), ' Mos ille in vulgo obsoletus in funeribus episcoporum et presbyterorum re- tinetur.' In many of these semi-oriented graves nails with woody fibre still adhering to them were founds and from their presence, as also fi'om that of a piece of cofl3n-hooping (see also Dr. Thurnam, 'Catalogue, Osteological Series, Royal College of Surgeons,' ii. 881, 5712) in one of these graves, we may argue with considerable prob- ability for the employment of coffins in some, at least, of these interments. The custom of throwing shards, and flints, and pebbles into the grave is common both to Romano-British and to Anglo- Saxon interments in England. That it was pagan and even of very early origin seems probable, and that it persisted into Christian periods is pretty certain. Shakespeare's well-known lines^ (Hamlet, V. i) show, however, that its pagan origin had somehow or othei? so strongly impressed itself upon the public mind that it was no ' 'Noimandie Souterraine,' p. 194. See also Keysler, ' Antiq. Select.' p. 174. ' See also the account of the plundering of the gorgeously-arrayed corpse of Pope Adrian I. in Mabillon, 'Museum Italicum,' i. 41 ; Gretzet, 'De Funere Chrisitiano,' i. 28; Chrysostom, Horn. 84; Guicbard, 'Fun^railles,' 1581, p. 581, where the Council of Auxerre is said to have condemned ' toutes ces bobancea.' ' Douglas, in his ' Nenia,' appears to be the first pei'son who drew attention to the lines of Shakespeare, referred to, see p. 10, and also p. 34. For other references to the custom, see Keller, 1. c. p. 65 ; Wylie, 'Faii ford Graves,' p. 25 ; Akerman, ' Pagan S-ixondom,' Introd. p. xvii; Weinhold, ' Sitznngsberichte Kais. Akad. Wiss. Wien. Hist. PhiL Kla HBB,' 1858, bd. 29, hft. i. p. 166 ; Fried. Simony, ' Die Altertiiiimer vom Halstatter Salzberg, Sitzungsberichte Kais. Akad. Wiss. Wien. Phil. Hist. Klasse,' 1851, p. 7; Keysler, 1. c. p. 106; Eev. G. R. Hall, ' Nat. Hist. Trans. Northumber- land atid Durham/ i. 2, iS06, p. 167.