MEDICINE IN MODEKN TIMES. 695 Interdependence of Medicine and Physiology. That title runs thus:—'Lehrbiich der speciellen Patholog-ie und Therapie, mit besonderer Riicksicht auf" Physiologic und pathologische Ana- tomie, von Dr. Felix von Niemeyer. Siebente vielfach vermehrte und verbesserte Auflage,' Berlin, 1868. From this work I will take my first illustration of the nexus and connection of which I have to speak; and I believe that, though I am obliged to dissent from the explanation therein given of the facts I shall refer to from its pages, the explanation which they seem to me to bear, or rather demand, shows even more clearly than the one there given the intimacy of the alliance which is now becoming so close between the experimentalist and the practitioner. In writing (vol. ii. p. 334) of a form of neuralgia, the pain of which those who have suffered from it themselves, or, indeedj have seen others suffering from it, will allow is not exaggerated by the application to it of the words 'fast uuertragliche,' Niemeyer remarksthat the physiologists Dubois-Reymond and Dr. Mollendorff refer its origin to the ex- istence of a dilated state of the arteria carolis cerehralis. This state of dilatation these authorities explain by a reference to certain facts in the physiology of the cervical sympathetic as discovered now some seventeen years ago by Bernard, and elucidated still further by Waller, Budge, and Brown-Sequard. And in like spirit, or at least by a reference to certain anatomical facts in the arrangement of blood-vessels, which he supposes to become dilated and distended, the great Gottingen anatomist, Henle (cited by Niemeyer, vol. ii. pp. 319-339), explains the causation of certain neuralgiae. The neuralgia which is apt to haunt the sixth, seventh, and eighth intercostal spaces of the left side, he has suggested may be ex- plained by the peculiar arrangement of the left or smaller azygqs vein in that region; and the greater relative frequency of neuralgia of the first than of the second and third divisions of the fifth cerebral nerve, he refers to the greater quantity of dilatable veins with which it is beset in passing from the inner to the outer surface of the sphenoid. Now I venture, though with some diffi- dence, as I find myself in opposition to such names and authorities, to dissent from the explanations thus given of these facts, whicli I ' Incorrectly however; Dubois-Reymond himself explaining hemicrania as due to a tetanus of the muscular coat of the arteries. See Eeichert u. Dubois-Reymond's Archiv, i860; Brown-S^quard, 'Journal de la Physiologic,' iv. 13, 1861.