THE HARVEIAN ORATION. 754 of Harvey's College to satisfy himself abundantly, and within our own walls, as to the real merits of the claimant before us, if the College will allow it to find a place in their library. In the words of Harvey's favourite poet, ' His saltern accumulem donls et fungar inani Munere.' In all seriousness it is something to know what a contemporary of Harvey, and he a mathematician of some eminence, could write less than ten years before the actual demonstration of the circula- tion of the blood was given to the world. Let me say, however, that I do not think it by any means im- possible that Harvey may have read this treatise of Warner's, hard though the labour of gathering hints, or rather warnings, from its many guesses must have been to him. For in many parts of Harvey's treatise, ' De Motu Cordis,' we meet with phrases which seem as if they had been used with a special reference to Warner's views; and his dissertation has at least this claim upon my grati- tude, that it has made me think that I understand Harvey's mean- ing the better for having read it. I fancy, in fact, that I recognise such phrases in Harvey's words (' De Motu,' pp. 58^ 61, ed. 1766; p. 56, ed. Willis), ' Absque dolore vel calore vel fugd vacui,^ and in such words as ' longe plus est quam partium nutritioni congruens est,' p. 64 ; ' avTo\l/Ca, non mentis agitatio,' p. 133. He might have been alluding to almost any page of Warner's MS. in his repudia- tion (p. 116, see 'Epistola Secunda ad Riolanum') of the hypothesis of various sorts of spirits. But there is one of Harvey's many noble and candid, whilst measured and well-balanced utterances, which seems to me to be admirably suited to serve as a text for an exposition which perhaps some future Harveian orator may under- takc; of the exact relation which his discoveries held to the know- ledge and the ignorance, not only of Walter Warner, but of all others of his contemporaries or predecessors. These words run thus (' De Motu,' p. 34, ed. 1766; p. 33, ed. Willis):—' Sed et hoc' (viz. the transmission of the blood by the action of the heart, from the veins into the arteries, through the ventricles of the heart into the whole body), ' omnes aliquo modo concedunt et ex cordis fabriea et valvularum artificio positione et usu colligunt. Verum tanquam in loco obscuro titubantes caecutii-e videntur et varia subcontraria et non cohaerentia componunt et ex conjectura plurima pronunciant