CEMETERY AT FRILPORD. 629 g-osted to us at once in the very probable hypothesis of intermarriages taking- place between foreigners and the, possibly aboriginal, in- habitants of the country, who may have been actually slaves, but must certainly have been in a lower state of civilisation. And in this hypothesis the paucity of male River-bed skulls would also find an explanation. The Roman immigrants had all but certainly a preponderating proportion of males amongst them, and it would be natural to suppose that the same disproportion prevailed similarly among the swarms of the less settled, less civilised, Saxons. But I am bound to say that the craniological evidence before me leads me to think that the reverse of this very reasonable anticipation was what actually took place, at all events here ; for the crania found buried with the Anglo-Saxon insignia of the female sex are most distinctly different, both as to signs of culture, and as to type and contour, from the crania which belonged to the Romano-British women exhumed here. I do not think these Rowenas vpith somewhat prognathic jaws, and small unhandsomely contoured calvariae, could have been ' exceedingly fair and goodly to look upon;' and I am certain that Martial, though he may not have been a physiognomist, would never have said of these Saxon females what he said of the British lady, Claudia Rufina ^, that she might have been taken by a Roman matron for one of her own country-women. M. Serres, on the other hand, appears ^ to have convinced him- self that in the Merovingian cemetery of Londinieres the males belonged to the Scandinavian and the females to the Celtic race. And, upon the general considerations which have been very clearly and convincingly put forward by Professor Pearson ^ and by Mr. L. O. Pike I should be inclined to think that wholesale massacres of the conquered Romano-Britons were rare, and that wholesale im- portations of Anglo-Saxon women were not much more frequent. Still Anderida was levelled with the ground, and its women and children, as well as its male inhabitants, were put to the sword. ' Claudia caeruleis quum sit Rufina Britannis Edita, quam Latiae pecfcora plebis habet! Quale decus formae! Romanam credere matres Italides possunt.—xi. 53. * Cochet,' Normandie Souterraine,' p. 188, ed. i; ' Comptes Rendus,' xxxvii. p. 518 ; 'L'Athenaeum Fran9aiB,' Oct. 22, 1853, p. 1013. ' Op. eit. p. 100. * ' The English and their Origin/ pp. 59, et seqq.