THE HABVEIAN ORATrON. distended in the way of natural injection with chyle, as it is easy enough to see them distended in an animal, such as a rat, which can be got to feed on fatty food, and can be killed at a proper interval of time afterwards. He appears to have had very serious as well as reasonable doubts as to the existence of any foramen in the apices of these 'ampullulae' ; but the authority of Lieberkiihn, whose 'Dissertatio Anatomica' (p. i8) he had himself edited, ap- pears to have weighed with him more tlian his avTo\\fia. Near, therefore, as Sheldon came to seeing the whole truth, he just failed, of doiug so entirely and completely; and the views which Lieber- kiihn had put forward (p. lo, loc. cit.) as to the great number of the Peyerian glands in the lower segment of the small intestines, being a proof that they held relation to secretion or excretion rather than to absorption, prevailed and have prevailed, even into our own day. These are Lieberkiihn's words : ' Quare ad finem ilei plures ^aam in integro intestino positi erunt? Nonne propter faeces jamjudum exsuccas et indurescentes nt lubricatae valvulam facile transeant nec laedant?' In Henle's ordinarily and marvel- lously excellent treatise on Anatomy, of date 1841, I find (p. 895) the excretory character of the Peyerian follicles taken as something certain; the only thing left uncertain being the question as to whether their contents found their way into the cavity of the in- testine by a constantly patent, however small, duct, or by dehiscence, as ova from an ovary. In 1850 the real meaning, the true physio- logical import, of these glands was proved by Briicke. The method of injection, of which I have sj)oken, enables us to demonstrate or exhibit what was then proved, and that with the greatest ease. It is difficult to understand how any one can now doubt that the Peyerian glands are really but the pileorrhizae of the roots, the glands the tubera, and the thoracic duct the trunk or stem of the absorbent tree. If any apology be needed for my dwelling so long upon a point of anatomy which has not merely much historical, but also much practical, interest—the Peyerian glands being the part of the organism especially affected by the poison of typhoid fever, which I see has, amongst other aliases, that of 'Peyerian fever' (Walshe, ' On Diseases of the Heart,' 3rd ed. p. 208)—I would add that I was till recently under the impression that the actual demonstration, the doing, of that which my Figure i, p. 734, represents as done, 3 B