777 PKODUOED BY MAN. of sucli changes as those which the embankment of our rivers has effected, referring those of my hearers who may feel an interest in this particular change to Sir Christopher Wren's disquisition upon the subject, which may be found with very much else very well worth reading in the ' Parentalia,' p. 285. But I have to say that changes of proportionately equal magnitude have been effected in our landscape by the interposition of man in the way of intro- ducing into it trees which, though now naturalised^ are demonstrably not indigenous to our soil. The most striking of these changes are those which have been effected by the introduction of the common elm, JJlmus campestris; next, if indeed not equal in magni- tude, those effected by the introduction of certain conifers ; and then, at a long distance behind as regards numerical importance, those effected by the introduction of the horse-chestnut and the sycamore. I do not of course forget that such trees as the walnut, and a host of other trees which are now entering into the picturesque, if not into the economical aspect of Great Britain, are as foreign to our soil as their names remind us they are ; but I am not delivering a treatise upon our forest trees, and I shall confine myself within the limits which the three or four trees or orders of trees specified in the preceding sentence mark out for me. Let me begin with the simpler cases, those of the horse-chestnut and the sycamore first. I should indeed be ungrateful, living as I do within such easy sight of the beautiful, if not unrivalled, horse-chestnuts of New College Gardens, if I did not express my sense of gratitude to the men who introduced that tree into England. There is, of course, as little question as to its non-indigenousness as there can be as to its beauty. Botanists, however, differ as widely as possible as to what its native land may have been. I have not been able to satisfy myself that Hehn, 1. c, pp. 348 and 457, is right in saying that we owe the introduction of this tree into Europe to the Turks. All but certainly this was not the case if D. Hawkins, as cited by Fiedler in ' Eeise durch alle Theile des Konigreiches Griechenlands,' 1840, vol. i. p. 649, is right in saying that this tree grows wild on Pindus and Pelion. There are not wanting species on either manigfaltig gegliederten Gebirgeketten, welche die Lander .im Mittelmeere erfiillen, au8 dem Innem ihrer FelHrnaaeen unerschopfliche und durch das fiiessende Wasser stetig ausgebreitete Vorrathe, urn die Erdkrumen der Thiilen und Tiefebenen iinmer wieder auf Neue zu befruchten,'