CEMETEKY AT FRILFORD. 615 Anglo-Saxon contingent wliicli possessed itself of Frilford. I may- remark that the two types are recognisable in specimens of both, sexes, and a very fairly perfect female cranium from a grave in which a pair of fibulae and a number of beads were found, as it shows at once, and distinguishably, the tribal and the sexual characters, which have very often been confounded, and as from the surround- ino^ with which it was found there is no doubt as to its value as a standard of reference. This skull appears to have belonged to the shorter and broader type of Anglo-Saxon crania, which was, I am inclined to think, the less cultivated of the two types. A second Anglo-Saxon female cranium found here belongs to the same type. A single female and a single male cranium of a more elongated form were also found with Anglo-Saxon insignia. The female skeleton, it may be remarked, belonged to an old person, and in. this point, as also in the possession of cruciform fibulae, instead of circular ones, this skeleton differed from the two others with which we have compared it. It was chiefly from a comparison of the female Anglo-Saxon skull, with the first cranium described by me as ' cranium (male) marked A' for Mr. Akerman in his ' Report of the Proceedings of the Society of Antiquaries,' May 2^, 1865, that I came to see that my assignment of this latter to the male sex had been in all probability erroneous. This cranium was re- ported as having been found with a fibula two feet above it, and though this by no means proves it to be an Anglo-Saxon skull from the archaeological point of view, the very close anatomical approximation of this skull to the indubitably Anglo-Saxon skull does, when coupled with this fact, lend some considerable probability to such a conclusion. In justice to myself, I may be permitted to say that the cranium and lower jaw were the only bony relics upon which I had to form my judgment as to sex, and that in my report I did draw attention to the small development of size and strength which they seemed to show that their owner must have possessed. And the authority of anatomists of no less repute than His and type have been found in the Frilford cemetery subsequently to the writing of this paper, viz. March 22, 1869 (Nos. iv and v). Both had belonged to young men. In both the body had been buried with the head raised ; and in one the grave, though semioriented, was only 18 inches deep, and the arm lay across the body, and not by the side, aa in the burials of Latinised populations (see Cochet, ' Normand. Souterr.' p. 193). There were no relics, and we have not therefore more than probable evidence for their nationality.