RELATIVE VALUE OF CLASSICAL AND SCIENTIFIC TRAININa. 939 other of the two sets of studies, and without injury to the physical or mental health of the learners. But it is time, perhaps, that we should let Von Pettenkofer speak for himself; and this he does (at p. 12, I.e.) to the following effect:—'I am convinced that philology and mathematics furnish precisely the material for teaching and intellectual discipline which is essential for our Gymnasia, and I look upon the material furnished by other sciences as mere accessories. • I know that in putting forward this view, which I do not do now for the first time, I put myself into opposition with the tide of opinion which is prevalent just at present, and which anticipates great advantages from the introduction of additional subjects of instruction, and especially from the introduction of instruction in natural science into " Latin schools (Lateinschulen) and Gymnasia."' Further on (p. 16) he proceeds as follows:—' The results of actual experience appear to me to favour my views. In other parts of Germany experiments have now, for a long while, been made with Gymnasia and similar institutions, in which much natural science is taught. But I cannot as yet discover that any remarkable number of persons who have subsequently distinguished themselves in natural science have come from these schools. In this matter reliable statistics of the pupils leaving {cler Abiturienten) a Berlin Gymnasium, the so- called " Old Cologne Gymnasium,^' in which natural science has for a long while formed part of the curriculum, would be very instructive. Distinguished men come, from time to time, from this Gymnasium, but certainly not in greater numbers than from any other classical (^Humanistischen) Gymnasium where no natural science at all is taught. It would long ago have been a notorious fact if a disproportionate number of the younger professors of natural science in the Prussian Universities could have been shown to have been formerly students in the Cologne Gymnasium.' We imagine that this ' Old Cologne Gymnasium' thus referred to by Von Pettenkofer is none other than th^i'' mixed ' [simtiUan) school described by Mr. Matthew Arnold under the name of the Friedrich WilheMs Gymnasium at Cologne, in his ' Schools and Universities of the Continent,' pp. 218—221; and but that more antagonism and less familiarity subsisted between North and South Germany six months ago than, we are happy to think, subsists now, we appre- hend that more would have been made of the history of this