APPENDIX. 941 Messrs. Johnson and Clarke say that close to the dogs in the same hole were— ' remains of ox, pig, roe-deer, pike and some other sort of fish, teal, crane, wild swan, and hoi-se, and various sorts of pottery. One mass apparently consisted of woody fibres and oxidized iron. "We also found half a spindle-whorl, and Johnson picked up a bone needle on a rubbish-heap close by, which may have come from the alluvium or gravel. The long bones of the ox were split and broken, as if for the purpose of getting the marrow out. Some few pieces of bone show signs of having passed through the fire.* The following note on a skeleton exposed in a grave opened in 1875 was made by W. Hatchett Jackson, Esq.:— 'Wytham, Sept. 17, 1875. The body lay with the head pointing S. E. by S. It was stretched at full length, perfectly straight. The head was about I ft. 6 in. below the surface, and lay with the upper part of the body in mould, while the legs and feet lay in the gravel. The feet were about 2 ft. 3 in. below the surface, as nearly as could be judged. 'The head was fallen forwards on the breast. The thyroid cartilage was slightly ossified, but tumbled to pieces in the carriage, the bony matter being barely of paper thickness. The left arm lay along the side of the body, palm uppermost. The right arm had been folded across the body, and its fingers lay partly in, partly across the pelvic cavity. When I saw the body, the workmen had broken one leg, and the feet were gone from both legs. The position of the bones however showed that the left leg had lain across the right, in the position of the recumbent figures commonly called Knight Crusaders. The workmen had saved some of the bones of the feet. The skull and pelvis had been cracked. ' No pottery or any other remains lay upon the body, or very near it. A small piece of broken pottery lay in the gravel.' The skeleton in relation to which the amber-beads were found was exposed on March 18, 1878, in a grave about one foot in depth, the superficial gravel being slightly excavated. The head was at the south, the jaw pointing east; body on .right side, hips and knees bent. On this find Dr. E-olleston has noted:— 'This is a semi-contracted position such as is usually supposed to characterise the British skeleton. But some Saxon bodies, or Teutonic at least, are found in the East Riding thus contracted, and there can be no doubt that the amber-beads with worked flattened approximal surfaces are Saxon.* In addition to the graves two lai-ger openings were found in the gravel. In a plan of the "Wytham gravel-pits, prepared in January 1870 by Sir Henry Drj-den, the one of these pits which is said not to be excavated is marked on the east side of the pit: another and larger pit was on the south side. On it Sir H. Dryden has made the following note:— ' Opening excavated J an. 26, and appeared to be the remainder of a circular pit, pro- bably covered in and used as a habitation. The floor was hardened gravel, partly a naturally hard bed in the gravel, partly hardened artificially and by exposure. In