PHYSIOLOaY IN KELATION TO 724 The second great principle for the regulation of the understanding of which I wish to speak, is one which, I believe, possesses less currency and notoriety, and is less observed than it deserves. This canon bids us, in considering a complex phaenomenon, to be most careful that we omit none of the circumstances which can by any possibility be of the essence of the case. And as the possi- bilities of Nature are all but infinite—as, for example^ the investi- gator of problems of Geographical Distribution knows well that a ' secret bond' may bind up together, and that inextricably, the interests of organisms removed as far as possible to all appearance from each other in the scale of life ; as a fly or a plant may, by its increasing and multiplying, make half a continent uninhabitable or inhabitable by the highest mammals ; I apprehend that in bio- logical and medical problems, by the phrase ' all the circumstances which can by any possibility be of the essence of the case,' we mean practically, ' all the circumstances of the case,' without any quali- fying limitation. But we will let Descartes, to whom the enuncia- tion of this rule is usually and, so far as I know, rightly assigned, enunciate it for us in his own words. These run thus (CEuvres, torn. xi. 1826, ed, V. Cousin, p. 23): 'Regie Septieme pour la Direction de I'Esprit. Pour completer la science, il faut que la pensee parcoure d'un mouvement non interrompu et suivi tons les objets qui appartiennent au but qu'elle veut atteindre et qu'ensuite elle les resume dans une enumeration m^thodique et suffisante.' Some of the very greatest advances which have been made of late in practical diagnosis have been made in the spirit of this recom- mendation. The application of a chemical test to the urine for information as to the expediency of giving or withholding wine in the case of a sinking life, would have seemed to Swift, could he have had any idea either of such a procedure or of the employment of a sphygmograph for the same object, more absurd than any of the follies he ascribed to the philosophers of Laputa. But as Archbishop Whately—a name to be greatly honoured here, and, indeed, wherever else liberality, and fearlessness, and ability are held in respect—has well pointed out, the absurdities of Laputan aspirations are less wonderful than the actual attainments of modern science. And to these results science has attained, because her votaries have known that what may seem to Swift, and such as Swift, to be but curious and dilettante, otiose, or even disgusting.