CEMETERY AT FRILFORD. 601 I should add that it is possible that half-converted Saxons may have relapsed into cremation in the absence of the missionary, and under the temptation which the licence of the ' lyke-wake' created. But the practice of such a transitional period, if it ever existed, would not affect the historical argument for the overrunning" of this country by heathens, which the discovery of these urns in so many parts of it furnishes. A piece of Samian ware was found in the Roman rubbish-pit already mentioned as having been discovered within about aoo yards of the cemetery. The resemblance of its pattern to that on the Anglo-Saxon urns is very striking, though the execution and finish are as different as is the material. A pattern of vandykesj scored zones, and stellate impressions, is one which, by its sim- plicity, would suggest itself to the rudest nations, and I do not, of course, mean to hint that the urns found here by me were figured after the pattern of Roman ware found here by the Anglo-Saxons. Still the similarity of the two patterns is very striking, and when we consider that urns with Latin inscriptions and of Roman manu- facture have been found with Anglo-Saxon patterns upon them ^, it is less difficult to imagine that the Teutonic races, years before the period we are dealing with, and while yet in their North German native country, imitated with a stick on coarse hand-fashioned clay-paste the very simple but still beautiful pattern which the Gallo-Romans imprinted on finer and lathe-turned materials. Another illustration would thus be furnished of the extreme readi- ness already alluded to with which the Germanic natives imitated the arts and refinements of the Romans. Burnt human bones have been here and there met witli without any urn in relation with them, but within my experience at Fril- ford they have been merely scattered or even single bones, the presence of which may be explained by the disinterment of an urn, and the subsequent replacing of its fragments and its contents with less care than was sometimes bestowed upon this task ^. In none of the urns were any other contents than human bones mingled with earth and stones discovered, except in the case of the ' See Roach Smith, 'British Association Reports for 1855,' p. 145, and the same writer's ' Collectanea Antiqua,' v. 115, pi. x. where such an urn, bearing the inscription D.M. Laeuae RUFINAE vixiT. A.m. M.iii.D.vii. is figured. ' See ' Inventorium Sepulchrale,' Introd. p. xvi, pp. 8, 9, 12, 17, 18, 19, 40, 156, 159. 175.