882 ADDRESS ON ANTHROPOLOaY. He does so (pp. 435-438 of his work on the Great Ice Age) in language which shows us that Colonel Lane Fox's lecture just re- ferred to, with its diagram No. i (printed, it is true, for private circulation), could not have met his eye. Colonel Lane Fox's paper will relate to further explorations carried on at Cissbury during the present year by a Committee of the Anthropological Institute with the kind permission of Major Wisden, the owner of the soil. It will raise more than one large question for us to address ourselves to. I shall, when Colonel Lane Fox's paper comes before the Department, contribute towards its discussion by showing a number of flints from Cissbury, given me by my friend Mr. Ballard, of Broadwater. Mr. Pengelly will, on Monday, give us an account of the ' An- thropological Discoveries in Kent's Cavern.' A more interesting subject will not often have been treated in a more interesting manner. Polynesia and Australasia generally have always been an in- teresting field for the anthropologist. Our recent acquisition of Fiji makes it doubly interesting to us just now; and a flood of literature has burst forth upon us to meet that interest. Professor Dr. Carl E. Meinicke is to be heartily congratulated on having, in the present year, brought out a work on the islands of the Pacific (' Die Inseln der Stillen Oceans, eine geographische Monographic,^ Erster Theil, Melanesien und Neuseeland, Leipzig, 1875), in which he can, with not unbecoming pride, say that he is still working upon the same principles which guided him nearly fifty years ago in the composition of his works on the continent of Australia and the South-Sea races. Though I possess Professor Meinicke's works, I am not as yet entirely in possession of all his views; but so far as I can see, they are well worthy of attention. I do not hesitate, however, at all in saying that the most important contribution to the ethnology of Polynesia which has been made recently is the article on that subject in the ' Contemporary Review' for February 1873, by the Rev. S. Whitmee, of Samoa. And I may say that I am not without hopes that we shall be favoured with some papers upon the ethnology, anthropology, and future prospects of the Polynesian race by other persons eminently qualified to speak upon the subject, as having spent many years usefully among them, and on the spot, I observe that writers who