PKODUCED BY MAN. 789 M. de Laver£rne, in his work on tlie '^eonomie rurale de la France depuis 17H9,' does not mention the name of any individual ' As regards the depreciation in agricultural value caused by alkali works, a great deal is to be said. ' Pages S and 9 of the Report. Major Cross, " for seven years a member of the Widnes Local Board, and five years its chainnan," states the average selling value of land in and about the present site of Widnes in 1854 not to have exceeded 50Z. per acre. The greater part of the site of the town and works of Widnes was bought in i860 at from 30Z. to ipl. per acre. Since that time favourable sites within half a mile of Widnes h.ive been sold at the rate of 1600Z., 2400Z., and 4800Z. per acre. 'Land at Ditton, a mile and a half from Widnes, which in 1858 was not worth 60Z. per acre, was sold for 300Z., and of late particular lots in Ditton and Cronton, the one being two miles and a half, the other three and a half, from Widnes, were sold at 600L per acre. These purchases were made for building cottages, villas, &c. As regards letting land for agricultural purposes, Major Cross adduced several extracts from the poor-rate books, showing that the estimated rental of land situated near the works had steadily and often largely increased. For instance, at Cuerdley, on which the principal Widnes works are built, and which contains 1573 acres, mainly the property of Sir Eichard Brooke, the estimated value of agricultiiral land per acre was, in 1S61, iL I2S. ^d.; 1871, \l. i6s. 3(Z.; 1875, 2Z. 3s. At Ditton the value of land for agricultural purposes had risen during the same period from \l. 13s. per acre to 3Z. 5s. Id. (page 9). ' Major Cross meets the allegation of the deteriorated value of farm produce, by stating that in the near neighbourhood of Widnes milk sells at from 30!. to 4cZ, a quart; hay at from 6Z. to 8Z. per ton. He states he has known hay and straw grown within a mile of Widnes fetch the highest price in the Liverpool market, and that in 1875 the Manchester and Liverpool Agricultural Society gave to the tenants of a farm of 80 acres within two miles of Widnes the prize for the best cultivated land. 'Page 10. "Mr. Wigg, while admitting the damage done in past times to Sir R. Brooke's estate, asserted that the value of his property, through the proximity of the alkali works, had enormously increased." That estate consists of 1200 acres on the Lancashire side and 5600 on the Cheshire side ; and Mr. Wigg stated his reason for believing that the selling value of the Lancashire estate was at this moment greater than that of the two estates together in i860. ' Mr. H. Beswick and Mr. H. Linaker, both agents to important estates near the works at Runcorn, Weston, and Widnes, and long and intimately connected with the district, bore witness to the same effect as Major Cross, Both, while admitting occasional visitations from gas, and consequent injury, declare that they have never had any difiBculty in finding suitable tenants at invariably increased rates. " I can more readily," says Mr. Beswick, " let land at better rents within 5 or 6 miles of Runcorn than I can on other portions of Lord Cholmondeley's estates 20 miles away. . . Within the last few years I have refused 4Z. a statute acre for land for agricultural purposes clo.se to Widnes works. The rentals on the property in the neighbourhood of the works under my care have gradually increased during my time, but they have increa.sed more rapidly during the last few years. The rental of two farms at Rock Savage, near to the Weston works, has increased from 1013Z. in 1863 to 1503Z. in 1876 and 1877. I regret that I cannot say the same for estates under my care at the distance of 20 miles." (Page 11.) ' I think, therefore, I may fairly assert that when the Report on Noxious Vapours, 1878, comes to be fairly examined and discussed, as most certainly it will be where 80 extensive an industry is at stake, it will prove that, great as may be the nuisance