856 BIOLOaiCAL TRAINING AND STUDIES. of evidence not proper to the subject, and so hindering their weigh- ing fairly what belongs to it. No scientific study of the pheno- mena which imply a reign of law could ever have issued iu the discovery of the kingdom of God. But neither can it issue in any discovery which contradicts the existence of that kingdom ; nor can any mind in the light of the kingdom of God hesitate to con- clude that if such seeming contradictions arise there is implied the presence of error either as to facts or as to conclusions from the facts.' These are valuable words and weighty testimonies. But in a matter of this importance one must not forbear to point out what may seem to be wanting even in the dicta of such men as the two I have quoted. Neither of them has allowed the possibility of error attaching itself to the utterances of more than one of the two parties in such issues as those contemplated. Neither appears to have thought of the cases in which religious men, if not theo- logians, have brought woe on the world because of the offences they have with ill-considered enunciations created. And whilst fully sympathising with all that the Archbishop and Mr. Campbell have said, I must say that they appear to me to have left some- thing unsaid ; and this something may be wrapped up in the caution that there may be faults on both sides. But at any rate this Section cannot be considered a fit place for the correction of errors save of the physical kind; and all other considerations are for this week and in this place extraneous. In some other week or in some other place it will be, if it has not already been, our duty to give them our best attention. To come now to the kind of considerations which are the proper business of Section D : let me say that for the discussion of Spon- taneous Generation very refined means of observation, and, besides these, very refined means of experimentation are necessary. And I shall act in the spirit of the advice I have already alluded to as given to the world by one of her greatest teachers, if I put before you a simple but a yet undecided question for the solution of which analogous means of a far less delicate character would appear to be, but as yet have not proved themselves to be, sufficient. Thus shall we come to see very plainly some of the bearings, and a few of the difficulties, of the more difficult of the two questions. "What an uneducated person might acquiesce in hearing spoken of as spon- taneous generation, takes place very constantly under our very eyes,