ON THE THREE PERIODS KNOWN AS 676 deposit of lime, probably the remains of quicklime whicb the Komaus often put into their cofRns, as may be seen to great advan- tage in the museum at York. I did not observe this till the bones were cleaned in the museum here; and I did not note whether there was any hole in the bottom of the coffin, whereby an exit would be possible for this lime as dissolved by carbonated water passing- down into the coffin. Some of the other bones were blackened in places by carbonaceous deposit from the leaves and other vegetable matters, such as, if my memory serves me, beech- nuts, which had found their way into the coffin and decayed there, and also from the decay of the soft parts of the body and the wrap- lings of it. The nail found in the coffin may, indeed, appear to indicate that some sort of coffin of wood was used, as well as the coffin of stone; there would have been plenty of room for one, as the length of the Roman body was but five feet one inch, whilst the internal length of the stone coffin was 5' 8"; but I think this nail may have worked its way in from without, through the same chinks which gave inlet to the other foreign bodies abeady men- tioned. The left arm lay alongside the body, and the left hand rested on the pelvis; the right arm was stretched upwards with the hand at the face ; the left leg was drawn up to the centre of the body, or thereabouts. The distance from the end of the coffin to the pelvis was 3' 11", leaving a space of about 4" between the sole of the foot and the end of the coffin. My thanks are eminently due to Professor A. H. Church and to E. C. Sewell, Esq., for their help before, after, and during this disinterment. For the measurements and descriptions following, I am more entirely responsible than for what has preceded. MEASUREMENTS AND DESCRIPTION OF SKELETON, FROM STONE COFFIN IN OAKLEY PARK, On the Estate of the Eabl Bathurst, August 27, 1877. Measurements of Skull. External length Eronto-inial length Extreme breadth . Upright height Absolute height Circumference 7-3" Frontal arc . 6-2" 7" Parietal arc . 4-5" .vs" Occipital arc . • 4-5" 5-5" Greatest frontal width . 4-9" 5-2" Greatest occipital width . . 4-8" 21.3" Basicrauial axis . . 3-75"