CEMETERY AT FRILFORD. 595 as great affection to bury or throw on to the funeral pile an earthen vessel as it was in after ages to burn his gorgeous insignia with Pompey^ I take this opportunity of quoting a passage from a curious work, the only one ^ of very many old books which I have looked through in the Bodleian and elsewhere for some passage parallel to the one quoted so often from 'Hamlet' in which I have found one. This book is entitled ' Funus Parasiticum, sive L, Biberii Curculionis Parasiti Mortualium, Ad ritum prisci Funeris, Auctore Nicolao Regultio, Lubeccae,' mdcxxxvii. In describing the imaginary funeral of the parasite whom he is satirising, the author uses the following words: ' Cum quisque certatim in rogum dona cumulat, et partim trullas, cantharos, lances^ alii struices patinarias, cyathos, ciboria coquinaria^ omnia flammae committunt.' It is obvious, of course, that the author may be representing the throw- ing in of these articles as being the most natural thing to do at the funeral of a glutton, as they had been his instrumenta artis ; and Peniculus, it may be recollected, in the ' Menaechmi' of Plautus, i. 1. 25, speaks in terms of unctuous affection of his hosts' struices patinarias—the very words employed by Regultius, Still, I am inclined to think that Regultius may have had some recollection, or at least some tradition, of the custom considered as so dis- tinctively heathen by the priest in 'Hamlet' when he introduced this particular feature with so much iteration into his burlesque ad ritum prisci fimeris. Writing at Liibeck, he may well have been familiar with the Baltic provinces further eastward, which the Teutonic knights had so much difficulty in civilising and Chris- tianising. Roots of plants had twined themselves about and around the bones contained in these graves, and the minute mollusc * Achatina acicula was found inside the skulls in such abundance as to make it ' See Lucan, ix. 175. ' Since writing as above I have met with the following passage in Keysler's ' Anti- quitates Selectae,' p. 173 : ' Inde Nimischae, in pago uno railiari a Gubena distante nniversuB adparatua culinarius erutus, cacabi, ollae, catini, phialae, patinae, urceoli, lagenulae, testante D. Christiani Stieffii Hpistola.' This Epistola was published in 4to. in 1704, and treats of ' Lignicenses atq^ue Pilgramsdorficenses umas.' See Keysler, loc. cit. p. 113. * See Wylie, ' Arcbaeologia,' xxxvii. 467. * See SchiiafThausen, ' Die Germaniscbe Grabstiitten am Rhem,' p. 125 j and ' Col- lectanea Antiqua' (vi. 201), a work with which I was not acquainted when I wrote, as above, for an account of a cemetery at Kempston. Q q a