718 PHYSIOLOQY IN RELATION TO translated by W. Daniel Moore, M.D., p. 24), has shown how the history of insects bears on the question which we are about to have expounded to us of the ' Relation of Food to Force;' and the very title of BischofF's and Voit's work, 'The Laws of the Nutrition of the Carnivora,' shows how this subject, to which I shall no further allude, but leave it to the able handling- to which it has been entrusted, is dependent on the life, and the modes of life, of the lower creation. But I would say that it was from a study of the structures of the class of animals last mentioned—viz. the Carnivora—that I first came myself to be convinced that the uterine mucous membrane would, if properly looked for, be found in all animals alike to stretch after delivery over the area previously occupied by the placenta; and assuredly there is no one of the many complex and hard to be investigated problems of human physiolog-y to which we are more bound to be thankful for light whencesoever obtained; and this, though the light come, as, in justice to Dr. Matthews Duncan and Dr. Priestley, 1 must say it did, in the way of illustration and confirmation rather than in that of discovery. (See ' Zoological Society's Transactions,' V. 1863, p. 289, Article X; Dr. Duncan's ' Researches in Obstetrics,' p. 206.) These facts of the structural and functional arrangements of the lower animals have been used recently to illustrate some other points of uterine pathology and therapeutics in our own species. In a work by Dr. F. A. Kehrer, of Giessen, in two parts, the former of which was published in 1864, and treats of 'Die Zusam- menziehungen des weiblichen Genital-canals,' and the second of which was published in the year 1868, and treats of ' Die Ver- gleichende Physiologic der Geburt des Menschen und der Sauge- thiere/ I find no little light thrown upon the question of relative position, whether as cause or eflTect, in which early and late abortions respectively stand to imperfect involution of the uterus. And I find also in loco a very distinct admonition as to the inexpediency of allowing fear of decomposition to terrify us into what is called * meddlesome midwifery.' These extracts I think you may be in- terested to hear ; I will simply quote them, and leave you, who are so well able to do it, to make the application of them for yourselves. ' Finally, let it be remarked that in rabbits in the earlier stages of gestation I saw the foetus with its foetal envelopes protrude entirely out of the OS uteri, whilst the placenta still remained firmly attached