MEDICINE IN MODEKN TIMES. 719 in the uterus; a phenomenon which indicates either that in the earlier stages of preg-nancy the placenta materna is less lacerable, or that the motor power of the uterus is a relatively smaller one, and one which finds its analog-y in the occurrences which take place in abortions and premature deliveries in the human subject.' Heft i. p. 5a. In his second Heft, p. 166, Dr. Kehrer, in speaking- of the retention of the placenta being sometimes followed by symptoms like septic poisoning and sometimes not, has wise words to the following effect: — 'What chemical changes may be set up in the retained placenta is clearly dependent hereon, whether the after-birth is shut off from contact with the air by the genitalia or not; for, if air find access to it, the membranes^ of the ovum putrefy; if the air be excluded, a process of decomposition, prob- ably identical with one of maceration of the foetus, but wanting farther chemical investigation, is set up. The occurrence of the one or the other eventually is so far of importance, as thereupon hangs the after-effect of a retention of the placenta upon the general health. In fact, we observe in women, just as in the animals mentioned, sometimes only insignificant symptoms, some- times emaciation and sickness; sometimes, as after the absorption of putrilage from the decomposing membranes, a violent, even a fatal pyaemic fever. In the face of these facts, it seems to me to be rational in ruminants, in which the cotyledon can only be detached from the uterus by considerable violence, and scarcely even then, completely to avoid all introduction of the hand into the cavity of the uterus after delivery^ just with the object of keeping it free from the ingress of air, and to leave the separation of the placenta rather to the natural forces. We shall thus best avoid putrefaction being set up in the cavity of the uterus, and so expose the animal the less to the risk of pyaemia.' I have not quoted from the recently pub- lished works of Dr. Matthews Duncan and of Dr. Graily Hewitt, though I have specified in my notes the pages of those works which bear upon what I have just q^uoted from a foreign source. I have forborne to do this, not because I think those works less valuable, but because I think them more so, and I presume they will be in your hands as they have passed through mine ^. * Dr. Graily Hewitt, 'The Diagnosis, Pathology, and Treatment of Diseases of Women,' second edition, 1868, pp. 32, 342, 393; Dr. Matthews Duncan,' Researches in ObstetricB,' pp. 276, 28.^, 285 ; Ciizeaux, 'Traits des Accouchemens,' pp. 334, 349.