767 THE HARVEIAN ORATION. amongst us, to point out, as a matter for congratulation, in how many directions his discoveries have been extended and added to, and how well replaced had been the many works the loss of which had been so ' crucifying' to him. There was not in Harvey's mind that defect in the way of a deficiency of interest in theological questions which constitutes in the minds of some eminent scientific, and some eminent literary, men such a lamentable void. He has, on the contrary, in several places taken pains to state his views upon this highest of subjects. To one of these passages (from the work ' De Genera- tione,' Exereit. Quinquagesima, p. 385, ed. 1766 ; p. 370, ed. Dr. Willis), as Mr. E. B. Tylor has pointed out to me. Professor His of Leipzig, a worker whom Harvey would have hailed as a colleague, has referred in one of his always excellent papers, published in the ' Archiv fiir Anthropologic,' Bd. iv. 1870, p. 32o, on 'Die Theorien der geschlechtlichen Zeugung.' It is just in the investigation of the problems indicated in these last words that, as has often been remarked, the question of the existence of other than purely material forces presses itself most closely upon the mind; and hence, perhaps, the repetition by Harvey of his views regarding it, more than once or even twice, in his treatise just referred to (see Exereit. 49, p. 730; Ex. 50, p. 385; Ex. 54, pp. 419, 430). These statements are all to the same purpose. I have chosen one of them—the last one of the three just cited (not the one quoted by Professor His)—to repeat here, because, besides its philosophical and other interest, it has some literary claims upon our attention, it being not quite impossible, considering its line of thought and arrangement of words, that Pope, who borrowed on all sides, and made acknowledgments on none, may have had it before him when he composed his Universal Prayer. It runs thus :— 'Nempe agnoscimus Deum, Creatorem summum atque omni- potentem, in cunctorum animalium fabrica ubique praesentem esse, et in operibus suis quasi digito monstrari; Cujus in procreatione puUi instrumenta sint gallus et galHna. Constat quippe in genera- tione pulli ex ovo omnia singulari providentia, sapientia divina, artificioque admirabili et incomprehensibili exstructa ac efFormata esse. Nec cuiquam sane haec attributa conveniunt, nisi omni- potenti rerum prineipio; quocunque demum nomine id ipsum appellare libuerit: sive mentem divinam cum Aristotele; sive cum