ON THE DOMESTIC PIG OF 526 The wild Sus jpapuensis has been found by Europeans, as we are informed by M. R. P. Lesson (' Voyage de la Coquille,' 1826, vol. i. p. 176), to be more thoroughly domesticable than the half-wild state in which some of the natives are content to leave it would have led us to expect, and to set up relations of mutual amity, not only with the human, but also with canine companions. As regards the Aethiopian region, the wild hog is reported to us by Dr. Barth ^ as consorting on terms of perfect amity, and, indeed, intimacy, with other domesticated animals than the dog, and also with the natives. These are his words relating to a district in Central Africa:— ' Naked young lads were splashing and playing about in the water together with wild hogs in tlie greatest harmony ; never in any part of Negroland have I seen this animal in such numbers as here about the Sh<lrl. Calves and goats were pasturing in the fields with wild hogs in the midst of them.' It is impossible to be perfectly certain what wild hog this may have been; still it can scarcely have been any other than Sus sen- naariensis, which has been supposed (see Darwin, ' Domestication,' i. p. 71, and ed.) by J. W. Schiitz to have been the parent stock of Sus scrofa, var. palustris, of Riitimeyer, but underneath the entry of which, in the British Museum Catalogue of 1869, p. 338, I find the following note :— ' Dr. Murie says he has often seen and eaten the true wild boar of the genus S^is in A-frica, as well as the Potamochoerus, on the west coast. I have never seen any, or the skull of one.' Like Dr. Gray, I have had no quite satisfactory opportunities for forming an opinion, such as inspection of authentic skulls gives, as to the relations of Sus sennaariensis to Sus scrofa ; but whilst going over the series of skulls of Suidae in the British Museum, I came upon one which, though entered under the head of Potamochoerus afrkanus, ought, I make no doubt, to be entered under the head of Sus sennaariensis, or, as I should prefer to call it, Sus scrofa, var. africamis. This skull is numbered 715«; and of it we have the following history from Dr. Gray ('Proc. Zool. Soc' 1868, p. 35; Brit. Mus. Catalogue, 1869, p. 342) :— • A skull without its lower jaw (715 a) was brought home by Captain Alexander from his expedition to Damara, and presented to the British Museum. It is recorded in Mr. Gerrard's " Catalogue of the Bones in the British Museum " as Sus capensis 1 Referred to by Xathusius, p. 147, L c.; or see his 'Travels in Central Afifica/ vol. iii. p. 311. 1857-