584 EXCAVATIONS IN AN ANCIENT the interments I have examined at Frilford, and that they are Romano-British is, to omit for the present other evidence, proved by the fact that superficially to them in the soil I have found Anglo-Saxon urns containing- burnt human bones, and belonging, therefore, to the first periods of Anglo-Saxondom in England. About half of the Anglo-Saxon interments discovered here were interments in the way of cremation. The other half are cases of inhumation with the well-known Anglo-Saxon relics, and, in adopting inhumation, the Anglo-Saxons either dug shallow graves without regard to the points of the compass, independently of, though often superficially to, those of their conquered prede- cessors ; or, secondly, they dug deeper graves pointing to or towards the East, following thus Christian precedent both as to depth and as to direction, but diverging from the practice of the Romano-Britons in setting stones round the graves instead of pro- tecting the body in a wooden or other cofiin; and whilst doing this, they sometimes—all supposed scruples as to secondary inter- ments ^ notwithstanding—displaced one body, probably that of one of their predecessors, to make room for the corpse they were in- terring with the same orientation. I say it is probable that where an Anglo-Saxon skeleton is found to have displaced another set of remains, the primary interment was a Romano-British one, because I think it improbable that the half-heathen custom of interring with insignia should have been combined for a sufficiently long time with the Christian method of deep and oriented interment to allow of one body thus interred being sufficiently forgotten to be safely displaced. Burial with insignia was early discontinued by Christianised populations, except in the cases of distinguished per- sonages ecclesiastical and temporal 2, and the Anglo-Saxons I have exhumed do not appear by their insignia to have belonged to either of these classes. * The Abb^ Cochet, in the first edition of his 'Norraandie Souterraine,' p. 185, had stated that ' I'usage d'enterrer plusieurs fois au mSme endroit est ^minemment mo- deme but in the second edition of that work, pp. 209, 432, 436, and also in the ' Tombeau de Childeric,' p. 55, he has receded from this untenable position. Grimm, towards the conclusion of his paper, ' Ueber das Verbreunen der Leichen,' ubi supra, p. 269, quotes the words of Sidonius ApoUinaris, 'Jam niger caespes ex viridi, jam supra antiquum sepulchrum glebae recentes,' to show that the practice was only too well known to the Christians of the later Eoman Empire. See also Friedr. Simony, 'Die Alterthiimer Halstatter Salzberg,' Wien, 1851. ' See ' Capitularia Eegum Francorum,' ii. 852,