726 PHYSIOLOGY IN RELATION TO March 15, 1862, Articles I, II), coincides with an utterance which I am gUicl to see in Mr. Herbert Spencer's recently issued first number of his new edition of 'Principles of Psychology.' There (part i. chap. i. p. 48) Mr. Spencer says, ' It may safely be aflSrmed that Physiology, which is an interpretation of the physical processes which go on in organisms in terms known to natural science, ceases to be Physiology when it imports into its interpretations any psychical factor, a factor which no physical research whatever can disclose or identify, or get the remotest glimpse of.' But, I appre- hend ^, if the Physiologist wishes to become an Anthropologist, he must qualify himself to judge of both sets of factors. There is other science besides Physical Science, there are other data besides quantifiable data. Schleiden, a naturalist well known by name to all of us, compares the Physical Philosopher Materialismus der neueren deutsehen Naturwissensehaft/ p. 48), who is not content with ignoring, without also denying the existence of a science based on the consciousness, to a man who, on looking into his purse and finding no gold there, should not be content with saying, ' I find no gold here,' but should go further and say, ' there is no such thing as gold either here or anywhere else.' It is interesting to note that here in Oxford, till within a few years of the present time, we narrowed the application of the word ' Science' in what seems now to be a curiously perverted fashion. For, ignoring all the physical world as entirely as though we had been already dis- embodied, we used the word to denote and connote only Logic, Metaphysics, and Ethics. By a ' student of science' in my under- graduate days was meant a student of the works of Aristotle, Kant, and Sir William Hamilton. The wheel has since made somewhat of a circle; our nomenclature, like much else belonging to us, is altering itself into a closer correspondence with the usages and needs of the larger world outside; the so-called 'student of science' of the year 1850 is now said to go into the 'School of Philosophy;' and ' the student of science,' as our terminology runs in the year 1868, will be found at the Museum studying the works of Helm- holtz, Miller, and Huxley. I do not say this by way of triumph, but rather in that of regret, little disposed or used though I am, ' In the 'Anatomical Memoirs of John Goodsir,' edited by his successor, Professor Turner, and published subsequently to the delivery of this Address, some remarks to the same effect as these may be found ; vol. i. pp. 268 and 292.