824 MODIFICATIONS OF ASPECTS OF ORGANIC NATURE America. What is of importance, however, to point out, is that to anybody living", not merely before the time of Columbus—whose discovery has been said to have acted upon the Old World much as the approximation of a new heavenly body, planet, or other, might act upon the whole earth—but before the time, say, of Tacitus and Agricola, what Africa and India had given him in the way of cultivated plants, would have seemed just as insignificant as what, putting the ass and the gallinacean birds out of sight, they had given him in the way of domestic animals. He might, if living in Italy, have said, as did Columella (iii. 9. 5, cit. Hehn, p. 423, 1. c), ' Curae mortalium obsequentissima est Italia, quae paene totius orbis fruges adhibito studio colonorum ferre didicit,' and pointed out beforehand the airy inaccuracy of Goldsmith's apostrophe to that country in his 'Traveller.' He might, I am inclined to think, with the evidence available to him, have pointed out, and correctly, that the middle zone of deciduous trees which girdled then, as now, so many of the Italian hills with a belt of chestnuts, and much, therefore, of its distinctive character, was due to the intercourse of Rome withPontus and Galatia in pre-Christian times. And he might have drawn thence the same conclusions which we may, I think, also draw as to the area on the world's surface whence man set forth westward on his career of occupation, having, as he had, available for his wants, vegetables, plants, and trees of no less value, and of no less prominence in the landscape, than are these of Palaeartic, though not of Italian, origin, viz. wheat, barley, rye, oats, spelt, buckwheat, millet {Panicum), peas, beans, hemp, flax, cabbage, turnip, plum, walnut, vine, cherry, olive. Of tea, coffee, sugar, even of rice, of oranges, and of several other of the gifts of the Indian region; or of coffee, or any one of the three, or four if we include Musa eyisete, now flourishingly growing in Sicily, gifts of Africa proper, a man living at that time had as little knowledge as he could have had of the gifts to come from the still undiscovered New World, of the potato, of maize, of the pineapple, to which his all alien stone pine was to lend its name, of the equally incorrectly named artichoke, of the tomato, now somewhat variously obtrusive or intrusive in Mediter- ranean regions, or of tobacco, or of the prickly pear, or of the affave, though of the two latter in reference to what was then, and is still, such a large part of human activities, it can be said, as by