TYPHOID OR ENTERIC FEVER 930 'In an extract from Dr. Fairweather's valuable report on the fevers which prevailed in the spring of the year in the Eawulpindi gaol, which is printed, will be found con- clusive proof that typhus fever must henceforth be regarded as one of the endemic diseases of that district.' On the next page we find that Dr. De Renzy uses the most modern nomenclature, and contrasts typhus with typhoid and relapsing- fevers. Upon reading this, I determined to come forward, though a most 'unwilling witnessi,' yet without delay—as, from not having seen any notice of this Report, I believed, and believe, I must have been one of the first persons in England to receive a copy of it,—and state that I had received information which led me to believe, in accordance with Dr. Buchanan's suggestion, that typhus—a disease as little, though also as much, affected in its con- tagiousness and spread by the use of earth-closets as small-pox— did really exist, though alongside of typhoid, in one of the Indian gaols of which I had written. But on turning to Dr. Fair- weather's Report, at page 80 (Appendix) of Dr. De Renzy's volume, I could not thereby convince myself that it did furnish conclusive proof of the existence of typhus in that gaol. In Dr. Fair- weather's Report notes are given of eight cases, of which five only ended fatally, and with a post-mortem examination. Of these five fatally ending cases, we find it recorded of one (Case 6) that ' his symptoms were more those of enteric than of typhus fever'; and as the intestines, in the account of the post-mortem examination, are described as * having the lower part of the ileum one mass of ulce- ration, enlargement and thickening of Peyer's patches,' we' need only remark that the diagnosis formed during life was very abundantly confirmed by the autopsy, but that neither seems to ^ I see from one of Dr. Buchanan's notes, p. 96, that some objection can be raised to my employment of the words ' an unwilling vritness' when speaking of a person who, like Dr. Mouat, comes forward and publishes, with the truthfulness which we expect and find in such oflBcials, facts which are, or seem to be, scarcely reconcilable with theories he has advocated. I am not aware that ordinary usage attaches any offensive insinuation to the words alluded to and employed above. Still I may express regret for having employed a phrase which could be misinterpreted. After a 'very critical reading,' however, of my letter in 'The Lancet' of March 20th, 1869, I think that another of niy expressions used there does require amendment. Though John Hunter said that nothing was so difficult as to know when a fact was a fact, I still am sorry that I said that Dr. Mouat's facts had been called in question, as that expression does, T must acknowledge, admit of a harsh interpretation. I do not suppose Dr. Mouat puts this upon it; I should regret it if any future commentator should do so.