798 MODIFICATIONS 07 ASPECTS OF ORGANIC NATURE soil, whilst rain which falls in larger masses runs off and forms torrents. The roots making up an interlacing fibrillar mass by their multitudinous divisions, entangle and detain the moisture which comes to them in capillary columns; and from the loaded sponge which they thus come to represent, they dole or issue out in rations the supplies necessary for keeping springs and streams in constant and perennial volume ^. It is, I must say, a considerable marvel, that upon a third func- tion of that part of a tree which man can affect, either by his own hands or through the intermediation of his domestic animals, with the greatest results in the way of mischief at the least cost of labour to himself, so much room for dispute and doubt should still be left open by the botanists. Upon this third function of the leaves, their power as evaporators, the most important perhaps of all their functions, both as regards the tree's own economy and as regards ours, it is little less than marvellous that a Professor of Botany should have to write thus in 1875. Professor Koch, how- ever (' Vorlesungen iiber die Dendrologie,' 1875^ p. 284), following Ebermayer, I.e., p. 183, saj^s:— ' The question of the evaporation of water througb the tissues of a plant is very like the question in me'.licine of the treatment of diseases. The more there is written nbout a disease, and the more we have so-called infallible remedies recom- mended for it one after the other, the less do we get of any real knowledge of it. There is scarcely a single point in the life of a plant on which so much, and indeed often so much that is intrinsically self-contradictory, can be specified as having been written, as this point of evaporation. Whilst Unger, and indeed certainly with right on his side, owns that a surface of (so much ?) water gives off by evaporation three times as much as (an equal surface of?) a tree, Schleiden says that on the contrary the tree gives off three times as much as the open surface of water It is true that Professor Koch goes on to say that nevertheless, as * It is of course possible to exaggerate the preventive power of arboriculture, as of other beneficial agencies. If a mountain is sufficiently high, and can be blown upon by sea breezes as yet undeprived of the full proportion of moisture which a warm latitude can give them, you will have from time to time destructive torrents rushing down their sides, however well wooded they may be. But what is an occasional occurrence only in a well-woi)ded mountainous country, is a very common one in a district where the charcoal-burner, the wood-merchant, and the goat have been allowed to have their wasteful will unchecked. Homer's lines, II. xi. 492-495, show that however striking the phenomenon he describes, it was nevertheless not so very common as the complaints with which so many of the Reports I have referred to prove it to be now in so many countries in Europe and elsewhere. ' The German words, which I have not attempted to translate quite literally, are as follows:— . • Mit der Verdunstung des Wassers durch die Pflanze geht es, wie in der Medizm