BIOLOGICAL TRAINING AND STUDIES. 849 educators; you must start from some previously existing? basis of kuowledg-e, and keep your communications with it uninterrupted if your knowledge is not to be unreal. And my concrete application of these generalities is contained in the advice that no sudden jump be made from observations carried on with the naked eye to ob- servations carried on with the highest powers of the microscope. I am speaking of the course to be pursued by beginners, and beginners we all were once; and if our places are to be filled (and filled they will be) by better men, as we hope, than ourselves, they will have to be filled, we also hope, by men who have yet to become beginners. It is in their interest I have been speaking; and I say that a beginner does not ordinarily get an intelligent conception of the revelations of the microscope except in Bacon's words, Ascen- dendo continenter et gradatim, by progressing gradually from ob- servations with the naked eye through observations dependent upon dissecting-lenses, doublets by preference, and the lower powers of the compound microscope, up to observations to be made with the higher and highest magnifying-powers. Unless he ascends by gradations from organs and systems to structures and tissues and cells, his wonder and admiration at the results of the ultimate microscope analysis, of what he had but a moment before knowledge of only in the concrete and by the naked eye, is likely to be but unintelligent. There are three other agencies which can be set into activity with nearly as little trouble and difficulty as the simple apparatus of which I have just been speaking, and which will, like it, secure for us the necessary preliminary discipline or ' Propddeutik^ for the rational comprehension of Biology. These are Local Museums, Local Field Clubs, and Local Natural Histories. Local authorities, persons of local influence, should engage and interest themselves in the starting into life of the two former of these agencies; and if some such person as Gilbert White could be found in each county to write the Natural History of its Selborne, I know not at what cost it would not be well to retain his services. As the world is governed, upon each particular area of its surface tliere is to be found a certain percentage of the population occupying it who have special calls for particular lines of study. It is the interest of each country to have such means and such institutions in being as will render it possible to detect the existence of persons gifted with such 31