868 BIOLOGICAL TRAINING AND STUDIES. fitting dress to thought, and an accurate representation of actual fact. If we are told that the attempt to harmonise the results, not merely of cranioscopy, but of any and all natural science investigation, with the results of literary and linguistic research, is needless and even futile, this is simply equivalent to saying that one or other of these methods is worthless. For as Truth is one, if two routes purporting both alike to lead to it do not sooner or later eonversre and harmonise, this can only be because one or other of them fails to impinge upon the goal. It is true that by certain lines of investigation light is thrown upon a problem only at a single point, and that all further prosecution of investigation along that line will but lead us off at a tangent. Still the throwing of even a single ray upon a dark sxirface is an achievement with a value of its own ; and it is a cardinal rule in our sciences never to ignore the existence of seemingly contradictory data, in whatsoever quarter they may show themselves. For what would be said of an investigator of a subject such as physical geography, who should declare that he would pay no attention except to a single set of data, when he was discussing whether a particular archipelago had been formed by upheaval, or should be held to be the fragments and remnants of a disrupted continent; and that if geological evidence was in crying discord with his interpretation of the facts of the distribution of species, it was not his business to reconcile them ? He would be held to have neglected his business, as you may see by a reference to Mr. Bentham's 'Address to the Linnean Society,' May 24, 1869 ('Linn. Soc, Proc' for 1869, p. xcii^). The argument from identity of customs and practices to identity of race is liable to much the same objections, and to much the same fallacies, as is the argument from identity of cranial conformation. The case may be found admirably stated in Mr. Tylor's work on the 'Early History of Mankind,' p. 276, ed. a ; and I may say that the means of bringing the problem home to one's-self may be found by * The following references to passages of the kind referred to above as to the un- truatworthiness of craniographical evidence may be useful:—Geographisches Jahrbuch, 1S66, p. 481, Hyrtl,'Topograph. Anatomic,'i. p. 13. Henle, ' System. Anat.'i. 198. Krause, i. 2, p. 251. 'Archiv fttr Anthro, ologie,' Holder, ibid. ii. i, p. 60, See also His and Eiitimeyer, and Ecker in their systematic works severally, the ' Crania Hel- vetica ' and the ' Crania Germaniae meridionalis.'