783 MODIFICATIONS OF ASPECTS OF ORGANIC NATURE side of/ even when by the aid of a negative, expressed or im- plied, it comes to be more conveniently translated by the word ' except.' It would be perhaps showing as much over-anxiety to vindicate Caesar's accuracy, as has been shown of over-readiness to impute inaccuracy to him, if I were to point out, after Parlatore^, that Caesar might have been familiar with the Scotch fir itself, Finns si/lvestris, even in Italy, to say nothing of the other European countries traversed by his victorious eagles. An historian who was or was not a professed botanist, might without any sensible man blaming him, speak now-a-days of all the common pines, ' Scotch,' ' umbrella,' ' cluster,' &c., as ' pines'; my present belief is that Julius would similarly have spoken of them all as abiefes, and would probably have included the ' firs' proper under the same name as these ' pines.' But I wish hereby to retract the suggestion 1. c. as to his having meant the silver fir, Abies pectinafa, by the word abies, in the much vexed passage in question ; though that suggestion was made in the best possible spirit, and is scientifically unanswerable as against those unhappy persons who feel male- volently towards Caesar, which I never did, and are at the same time, as I was when I made that suggestion, unable to translate him correctly^. I have yet a couple of points to mention regarding the use which man has made of the Coniferae, and the alteration which he has in comparatively recent times effected, firstly by, and secondly upon, the distribution of this order of trees. The same number and the same article on Coniferous Trees in the ' Edinburgh Review,' October, 1864, gives the interesting his- tory of the recovery by Br^montier and his followers, from the condition of blown sand, of the vast area (100,000 acres) in the Landes of Gascony, which should in justice to him bear his name. 1 ' iltudes sur la G^ograpliie Botanique de I'ltalie,' p. 37,1878. * Mr. J. A. Froude cannot be accused of any want of loyalty to the subject of his ' Biography '; still we may say to him Nec te tua plurima, Pentheu, Labentem pietas, nec ApoUinis infula texit— for in that work, 'Caesar, a Sketch,' 1879,1 read, at p. 271, of Britain when invaded B.C. 54, that' the vegetation resembled that of France, save that he saw no beech and no spruce pine.' Caesar must have seen the beech, but not even Caesar could have looked either far enough forwards or far enough backwards to have seen the spruce fir growing in Britain.