CEMETERY AT FRILFORD. 599 in it of Hengist and that of Augustine. The legend which makes Hengist land in Thanet and be buried at Conisborough, in South Yorkshire, tells obviously in the same direction, but it is always well to strengthen a conclusion based on the interpretation of such a history as this by evidence drawn from actual, tangible, and verifiable facts. And it is worth while, consequently, to put on record here certain ' finds' of Anglo-Saxon urns which have been made subsequently to, or, for other reasons, have not been enumer- ated among those already referred to. In the year 1859 five urns of the Anglo-Saxon type, which are now to be seen in the museum of the Philosophical Society in York, were found by F. W. Calvert, Esq., in his garden, which is about half-a-mile outside of Mickle- gate Bar on the right side of the road from York to Tadcaster, Several Roman urns and sarcophagi were found at the same time and place, the Anglo-Saxons having in this, as in so many other Homan stations, used the cemeteries of their predecessors. An urn with an inscription, which I have not seen, was found at the same time. Five other undoubtedly Anglo-Saxon urns are mentioned in ' The Descriptive Account of the Antiquities ' of this Museum (p. 95, n. 34), as being found in tumuli on the Wolds. An urn ^ as in- dubitably Anglo-Saxon has been discovered at Kempston, in Bed- fordshire, for a sight of which I am indebted to the kindness of Canon Greenwell of Durham. Lastly, in the ' Illustrated London News' of Jan. 25, 1868, Supplement, p. 93, some excellent figures of several urns found by Dr. Massey of Melbourne, at King's New- ton in Derbyshire, may be seen; and though I have not as yet had an opportunity of personally examining these specimens, I ap- prehend they will be recognised as belonging to the same class as the North German urns of the ' Horae Ferales;' the South Jutland or Slesvig urns figured by Engelhardt, loc. cit. and plates 14 and 17 ; and those from the sixteen English counties above enumerated. If, as Mr. Kemble has said, ' wherever Christianity set foot crema- tion was to cease we may be doubly sure that wheresoever cremation was practised in a country which had been previously Christian, Christianity had for the time become extinct. Of the were subjected by the Saxons may be found in 'Ammianus Marcellinua,' xxvi. 4, zzviii. 2. * See ' Collectanea Antiqua,' iv. i6i, vi. 166, 201 seqq. ' 'Horae Terales,' p. 95.'