831 PRODUCED BY MAW. entur palmarnm sylvae tanqnam in prima palria gnatae. Earum fructus sunt frequentissimi et sapidissimi.' Professor Robert Hartmann ("Die Nigritier,' pp. ii6, 117, 1876) gives the most recent account with which I am acquainted of the date-palm as cultivated in Africa. His remarks as to the existence in Africa of really wild forms of Tlioenix, e.g. Fhoenix spinosa s. Jinmilis, the 'Kjom-kom' of Senegal, with small well-flavoured fruits, and the PJioenix reclinata, a very variable form, to set off against the PJioenix sylvestris inclica which has so often, though not correctly, been said to be botaaically indistinguishable from the cultivated Phoenix daciylifera, are specially valuable. He insists, as I had also done previously to becoming acquainted with his views, upon the priority of date, which the Egyptian monuments, with date-palms figured upon them, can show us compared with the Assyrian or Babylonian similarly adorned. The only argument which I can imagine—I have not seen or read of its being suggested by any one else—to be likely to be set against this one based upon the monuments, is one, partly indeed based upon ancient Egyptian records, but partly also upon stories recorded for us, with every indication of their being true, by Herodotus. It might run thus, Brugseh (cit. Unger, 1. e. 1839, p. 106; 'Geographic der alter Aegypten,' p. 74} tells us that palm-wine is enumerated in the Egyptian Tribute-lists as having been one of the articles received from Babylonia. Herodotus, i. 193, informs us that wine was made from dates in Babylonia; and iii a couple of passages, iii. 20, 22, he relates what has become, since his time, the very commonplace to the most cultured of mankind. [Since writing as above I have met with an address delivered September 24, 1879, ^1 traveller Nachtigal before the German Association for the Advancement of Science at Baden-Baden. In this Address, de- livered in deprecation of certain schemes for the utilisation of certain parts of the Sahara, Herr Nachtigal insists that whatever other results might accrue from the letting in of the waters of the Mediterranean upon the salt marshes of the district referred to by Martius, as cited in the text above, the ruin of the date-culture, the most valuable treasure of that region, would probably be one also. For ' the date- palm,' says Herr Nachtigal, ' wants fresh water for its roots, solar rays for its crown, and fears rain and atmospheric moisture. It is well known that date- plantations in the neighbourhood of the sea produce only second-rate fruit; and there is sorne ground for doubting whether the regions exposed to the doubtful benefits of the Mediterranean are really the regions which produce the best dates in the world and thereby have earned the name Beled el-Dscherid, that is, literally, the Land of the Date-palm. Would it not be rash to endanger a cultivation, the pro- dace of which is counted by millions of money, for very uncertain results ?']