521 PREHISTOEIC TIMES IN BRITAIN. nieinals auch bei dem fettesten wiklen Schweine, die gestroifte Farbe des Frischlings ist ROgar merkwurdig, die Stirn der wilden Schweine ist mehr gewiilbt, die Ohren sind kurzer, mehr ziigeriindet, der Eiissel liinger, andere Verhiiltnisse an den innern Theilen zu geschweigen. Es fehlt ganz an Beispielen, dass die Ziihmung solche Veriinderungen hervorgebracht. Vielleicht stammt das zahme Schwein von einer orientalischeu Art ab, welohe gross aber unschiidlich sain soil, und bin und wieder ia einigeu Reisebeschreibungen ervvahnt wird ^ Doch erfordert die Sache noch eine genauere Untersuchung. Das siamische Schwein aus dem iistlichen Asien abstam- mend, ist ohne Zweifel eine besondere Art.' Precisely tlie opposite view was held by Mr. Youafct, who at p. 35 of his work on 'The Pig,' London, 1847, says, when speaking of the wild boar^ ' No one can for a moment doubt that it is the parent stock from which the domesticated breeds of swine originally sprang.' Blasius ('Saugethiere,' 1857, p. 509), Fr. Cuvier ('Hist, des Mamm.,' 1824). and Giehel ('Saugethiere/ p. 225, 1859), would, I apprehend, agree with the extreme view enunciated by Mr. Youatt. An intermediate view is put forward by Riitimeyer in his inestim- able work, 'Die Fauna der Pfahlbauten,'pp. 186-190: according to him, what, owing to the slow spread in Germany of improved breeds, may still be called das gemeine Hausschwein has originated from Sus scrofa, \&x.ferus; whilst the Berkshire breeds, he thinks, may owe their origin to Sm celehensis; and his Sus scrofa, var, palustris, ' das Torfschwein,' a domestic pig known as ' das Biindt- ner Schwein,' and Sus indicus may represent a distinct stock, if not species. Nathusius, in his ' Schweineschadel,'p. 175, agrees with Biitimeyer as to the origin of the large-eared race common in Central Europe, but suggests Sus vitiatus, of the islands of Java, Borneo, Ambo}Tia, and Batchian, as the parent stock of the widely- spread domestic broed known as Sus indicus. In this latter point he agrees with S. Miiller. Fitzinger (1. c.) differs from Nathusius in supposing, without perhaps adequate reasons, Sus leucomystax to be the parent stock of the Chinese, Cape, Portuguese, and Cleve- land breeds, whilst Sus cristahis, the wild pig of Hindostan, he suggests as the parent stock of the Siamese and Sardinian races. Temminck ('Fauna Japonica,' p. 57, pi. xx, cit. Nathusius, I.e. p. 167) suggests that Sus leucomystax may be the parent of the domestic Sus indicus; and though Nathusius, p. 167, demurs to ' Otter, ' Voyage en Persie,' t. i. p. 207; D. Maillet, ' Description de I'Egypte,' t. ii. p. 176.