EXCAVATIONS IN AN ANCIENT 596 very evident that air and moisture had very free access even to the bottom of these graves, and consequently we should not be justified in arg-uing from the want now in many of these graves of any traces of such perishable materials as the wood and metal-work of a coffin, to the conclusion that no coffin had been put into them 1400 years ago. The wonder, indeed, is not so much that such substances should in some instances and in such circumstances have vanished, as that they should in any have persisted to the present day. Still I am inclined to think that evidence is not wanting to show that in some cases the Romano-Britons, like other races in ancient, medifeval, and modern times, interred their dead sometimes with, sometimes without, coffins. This evidence lies mainly in the fact that in some eases a large stone has been found so near the head as to render it difficult to think any coffin, however thin its walls, can have been interposed between the stone and the body. (See Cata- logue, xv^, Sept. 26, 1868; xvii^, Sept. 26, 1868.) But even in these interments, where coffins may not have been employed, and which consequently so far resemble the Anglo-Saxon burials by inhumation shortly to be described, three important and easily recognisable differentiating peculiarities are present. First, stones do not appear to have been placed by the Romano-Britons under the head of the corpse, as they were placed in. Anglo-Saxon inter- ments, and consequently we do not find in the former, as we do in the latter so very commonly, the cervical vertebrse impacted along the base of the skull from the occipital foramen, up to the symphysis of the jaw. Neither do the Romano-Britons, at least at Frilford, appear to have set stones along the sides of their graves, as the Anglo-Saxons did. Thirdly, the Romano-British graves, when recognised as such, in contradistinction to the Anglo-Saxon inter- ments, by the help of these external peculiarities, are found to con- trast with them in a point of even greater, as it is of more intrinsic, interest, viz., in the very large proportion of aged skeletons which they contain. The male Anglo-Saxon skeletons are invariably, or all but invariably, the skeletons of young men: quite the reverse is the case with the Romano-British. To this point, as resting upon anatomical evidence, I shall have to revert in the second part of my paper ; it is sufficient here to say that the difference is just what would be observed now between the cemetery of a settled civilized Christian village and that of an outlying station on the