MEDICINE IN MODERN TIMES. 713 wliat reasoning and reasons are in one subject, will be apt to look for similar reasons and similar reasoning" when he has to deal with another, and especially and rig-htly if that other be a closely allied subject. And when natural knowledge shall have become more widely and generally diffused, an end which we may hope to help towards accomplishing by means of our School of Physical Science, quackery, with its painful spectacles of reputation and confidence unfairly withheld and more unfairly bestowed, will cease to flourish in its present rank exuberance. A worker in Biology gains repu- tation accordingly as he is acute enough to observe and generalise for himself, and accordingly as he is conscientious enough to make himself master of and duly acknowledge the labours of others. It cannot be said that learning, talent, and labour are equally certain to secure prominence either for a medical doctrine or a medical practitioner. The medical doctrine obtains currency, acceptance, and popularity, and the confidence of an ill-educated public, by virtue ordinarily either of the effect on the imagination which its paradoxical character secures for it, or of the eff'ect on the ear of the alliterative ring of the phraseology in which it is em- bodied. The success of persons, again, in the medical profession, and in some other walks of life too, may depend on personal quali- ties quite other than any connected with diligence, attainment, or ability—upon, say, certain peculiarities of manner, either in the way of polish or in that of roughness. The greatness of the stake, his own health, for which a man is playing when he adopts a par- ticular doctrine or doctor of medicine, no doubt disturbs the balance of such powers of judgment as he may have, much as in Gessler's hopes the placing of an apple on the head of TelFs son disturbed the steadiness of the father's hand and eye. But habits of thought, as of other things, may be acquired by a proper course of educa- tion, and habits, like drill, steady a man under emergencies; and a scientific training enables a man to set about forming a right judgment in a right way and upon proper and legitimate grounds, even when nothing less than life itself is at stake. If a know- ledge of such a subject as Comparative Anatomy, and of its external aspect, scientific Zoology, is a knowledge which will give the lay- man more power of forming right decisions, it is perhaps needless to labour long at showing that this self-same knowledge may be of the like service to the professional man. A sort of practical proof