938 APPENDIX. bottles, vases, flat round dishes or mortaria, and a saucer or small cup. Two uninjured jars were procured 2.4" high and 8" in maximum width, and a fui-row ran round each jar at the plane of maximum width. The pottery has been preserved in the University Museum, Oxfoi-d. Tlie mortaria were frosted internally with fine quartz-sand. Coarse flatfish pieces of burnt clay marked as if with impressions of straw, like a cream- cheese, were found in considerable abundance; they were believed to be the wrappers used in covering the pots over during the baking. A few fine shards with an encrusting filagree pattern were also obtained. In colour the pots and shards were either red, grey, or black and yellowisli, usually unglazed. Some pieces had a hard bright glaze not unlike Etruscan, but there was no attempt at the red figures one sees on real Etruscan ware. As a rule they were like the Roman pottery made at Castor and Upchurch. Pieces of Samian-like ware were also obtained ornamented with figures of wild animals, which were interesting as showing a not very successful attempt at copying the continental Samian. The shards were found not only in immediate proximity to the kilns, but scattered over various parts of the farm. Along with them were a good many masses of half-burnt or less than half-burnt clay. A sort of mask representing a semi-comic face was found with some of the shards, and along with it some teeth of bos and cervus. Potters' marks, not names, but consisting of circles, crosses, horizontal and vei'tical lines, were seen on some of the shards. The well was situated to the north of No. i kiln. Nos. i and 2 kilns were to the north of a quarry made in the year 1878, and traces of two other kilns were to its south. Two of the kilns, one of which was double, were made of rough stones set in clay, and a thii'd was made of clay burnt in situ. On a plan of the kilns constructed by Mr. Cobbold it is stated that the double kiln had a floor of burnt clay with holes in it, and contained coarser rubbish than the outside, also two whole pots and many large pieces with a layer of white ash at the bottom. The two divisions of this kiln were separated by a partition of rough stones, and they both opened into a common passage. This k'dn including its passage was about 8 feet long, and the two divisions, including the intermediate partition wall, were about 7 feet wide. The kilns had apparently been dug out of the natural sand, and were covered over with black earth containing shards and rubbish; and in the earth adjoining the double kiln two human skeletons and a few ox-bones were found. The human bodies had apparently been flung into a rubbish-pit close to the double kiln, a potter's field wherein strangers or slaves were buried.