760 THE HARVEIAN ORATION. Of Harvey's, as of Berkeley's sojourn in Oxford, we know little; little, indeed, has been recorded, with the exception of the some- what uncertain gossip of the gossiping Aubrey. But what we do know of the place during those years which elapsed between the battle of Edgehill and 1646, makes us certain that scientific, and indeed any other work, must have been carried on in it under great disadvantages. We read of the plague, and of the ' morbus campestris,' described by a former Harveian orator and Linacre lecturer as desolating the town and driving people out of resi- dence. It was, besides^ a centre for military operations ; and military life has been shown, by the experience of all ages (though this experience appears to have been lost upon the heedlessness and ignorance of this), to be out of harmony with the habits of men, old as was Harvey then (aet. 64-68), young as our undergraduates are now, who are, or who ought to be devoted to study. What- ever else of Aubrey's tales of Harvey I may disbelieve, I can believe that the words addressed to Charles Scarborough,' Prithee leave off thy gunning and stay here,' are his. If, however, we wish to have a real and truthful picture and image of Harvey before us, we must do by him as we have to do by Shakespeare, by Aristotle, by Butler, and several other great writers.: we must lay our minds alongside of his, as it is revealed to us in his works. It is only the writings of great men which will bear or repay such treatment: no commentary nor any bio- graphy can give us the real and vivid sensation of having the men before us which we get from a perusal and reperusal of their books. Having used for this purpose what Mr. Tom Taylor has recently spoken of ^ as 'the invaluable three hours before breakfast,' I have come to persuade myself that I have obtained something like a trustworthy idea of what Harvey really was. Previousl}'', how- ever, to doing this, I gave Christian burial to much of what 163 and p. 502, ed. 1766; p. 148 and pp. 481, 482, ed. Willis) had recorded the loss of his ' adversaria multorum annorum laboribus parta,' and especially of his work 'De Generationa Insectorum," when his house was plundered in the Civil War. Later again I came upon the following passage in Lower's work, ' Tractatus de Corde,' ed. 1669: 'Quid quod et Harveius si per aetatem et otium licuisset plura poUiceri vide- tur ipse, Lib. de Circulat. Sanguinis, cap. 9 Sed quod inaxime dolcndtim est ct ille voto suo et nos spe nostra excidimus.' Hence I fear there is now little hope either of recovering or of discovering the lost MS. ^ See speech at Eighty-fourth Anniversary Dinner of the Eoyal Literary Fund, 'Times,' Thursday, May 29, p. 12.