541 PREHISTORIC TIMES IN BRITAIN. and S. Muller, which resembles it in the great transverse develoj)- nient of its skull, the verticality of its forehead, of its occiput, and its temporal fossae, in the height of its zygomatic arch, and specially in the remarkable height and massiveness of its lower jaw. There is no doubt that Sus celelensis is very closely allied to Sus verrucos2(s, having not only the same general facies but the same peculiarities, though on a smaller scale, as those whence the Java pig has taken its name. The chief point of difference which Eiitimeyer points out between the figured S^ls celebensis and the Berkshire breed depends upon the artist, I apprehend—being, as it \s, a greater length of the molar series, which, however, consists of eight teeth in the figure of Sus celehensis (Verhandlungen, pi. 28 bis, fig. 3); and it is possible enough that the young of Sus celebensis (the contrary not having been definitely recorded) may be like the young of Sus verrucosus in not being striped, and that they may thus have resembled the young of the Irish greyhound pig, as when old they actually do resemble it in the development of the man- dibular warts. As regards the skulls Sus verrucosus, figured tab. 33 by Miiller and Schlegel, the lacrymal in fig. 4 appears to have the favourable relation of length to height which is characteristic usually of the other Suidae with facial warts; whilst in fig. i, which was taken from a very old individual, the height and length would appear to be subequal, as in the skull (fig. 6) of Sus vittatus, on the same plate. I should have set less store by this variation in the two drawings than I do, if Nathusius had not distinctly recorded (p. 179) ^- ^^^^ this latter is the relation in the Sus verrucosus skull in his possession. On the other hand, all the undoubted Sus verrucosus skulls which I have been able to measure have presented the elongated form of this bone ; and the closely allied species Sus celebensis, as figured in Miiller and Schlegel's fig. 3, tab. 28 bis, may or may not have the long lacrymal usual in that pig. But, on the whole, I should certainly accept the position that the elonga- tion of the lacrymal was not constant in Sus verrucosus, though it has been so in the skulls I have seen; and with this position I should hesitate to assign to this peculiarity all the value which Nathusius's insistence might lead one to assign to it. Taking, in the second place, this variability in the proportions of the lacrymal bone, and coupling with it, first, the absence of striping