PRE-REQUISITES OP CANDIDATES. 909 and if we pass the allotted time it is too late for that work to be done. If you are idle here at school, it may for a short time make little difference, perhaps no perceptible difference at all. But you know perfectly well that that is not so always. After a time it becomes too late to recover what you have not chosen to take when it was within your reach. There are things which can be learnt when you are not twelve which can never be learnt so well after- wards; there are still more which must be learnt before you are seventeen or eighteen, or you can never really learn them at all. You may afterwards wish very much that you had not missed the chance ; but your wishes will not give you back the power that is gone ; you are too late. And the same holds good long after. Each time of life, as it comes, marks off the foundations of certain studies as done with ; if you have not laid them by that time you never can. And precisely the same thing is true of other things besides studies ^/ So much for the good to be expected and attained by the observ- ance of a regular curriculum. It admits of no question. What does, I think, admit of question, and what is, I think, capable of improve- ment, is the method for securing such observance. The method at present in vogue for this end is known as the ' signing up' of cer- tificates of attendance at lectures. Now such a certificate can only really depose to the fact that a student was present at the delivery of particular sets of discourses or demonstrations ; it cannot depose to his having profited by them. What the public wish to be assured of is the latter matter, and its results in the shape of the possession by him of a certain amount of attainments and dexterity. But this can only be done by an examination held by one set of authorities or another ; and the very first and the very last principle of any and every examination which deserves the name is the prin- ciple of English law—Be non existentihus et de non appai-entibus eadem est ratio. Nothing, in the words of the examination statutes of my own University, should influence the result of the examina- tion except what forms part of or directly results from the ex- amination itself. I do not question the good to be had from attending lectures; I am well assured that good lectures, not over numerous, bless both him who gives and him who takes. The giver is benefited by having to put his knowledge into a compact form, ' Temple, 'Sermona/ Ser. II., Serm. xl. p. 308. 1871.