PEODUCED BY MAN. 799 Sachs also has said, such observations and the results deduced from them have a scientific value. As it seems to me, they have not only a scientific value, as all observations which are reducible to weights and measures have, but that they have also a very distinctly appreciable practical value and applicability. Anybody who will read the account given by my friend the Rev. Richard Abbay in 'Nature,' May i8, 1876, of the formation of a lake in a district in Australia, 150 miles from Sydney, and 2000' above the level of the sea, subsequently to the destruction of the woodlands round about a particular area of depression, will be con- vinced that this occupation by water of what had been habitable land was not only posterior to, but caused by, the disforesting operations of the various agents specified, namely, squatters, grubs, cattle, sheep, and opossums, not unaided by disease of the trees themselves. The surplus of the water forming the lake corresponds to the enormous quantitative disproportion between the evaporating surface which it exposes when thus collected, and that which" it would have exposed when dispersed through all the myriads of leaves which man and his allies had destroyed \ It is not, however, necessary to take such a long voyage as that to Sydney to get an unmistakeable illustration of the evaporating power of leaves. This power can be illustrated e contrario by observing the construction on the treeless Yorkshire or other English wolds of the perennial so-called ' dewponds.' It is not even necessary to travel as far as the nearest down or wold to make this observation, and fill in the necessary details as to extent of feeding ground to catch, and puddled ground to catch, the rainfall. A very simple experiment with plants no farther to fetch than cabbages, will show, as Pro- fessor Wellington Gray tells us (I.e. supra, p. to), that 3000 square inches of their succulent leaves will give oflF as much as a pint of water per diem. It may, however, be fairly objected that the rate of evaporation niit den Krankheiten. Je mehr fiber sine Kxankheit geschrieben ist unci je melir nach unci nach sogenannte untrugliche Mittel empfohlen wurden, um so weniger ist ?.ie erkannt. Kaum mochte fiber einen Gegenstand im lebenden Pflanze so viel, und zwar oft einander wideisprechendes, geschrieben worden eein, als fiber die Verdim- stang. Wahrend linger, und zwar wolil mit Recht, behauptet, dass eineWasserfliicbe ilrei Mai so viel verdunstet, als der Bauin, siigt Schleiden, dass umgekehrt dieser drei Mai 80 viel verdunste als die offene Wasserfliiche.' * See also Ebermayer, 1. c. pp. 184, 185.