829 PRODUCED BY MAN. whicli I find in Herodotus, though other writers have not quoted him ad hoc, that it is not unreasonable to sug-g-est yet another site for the one where man first intermeddled with the self-preservation and the species-preservation of the date-palm Kaempfer, from whose opinion I dissent with the greatest reluctance when I consider the thoroughness with which that model traveller availed himself of his opportunities, and the abund- ance of those opportunities themselves, gives us his views as to the place in which the palm in question was first cultivated by man, in the following words (p. 714) of his 'Amoenitates Exoticae,' Fascic. iv. 3, published in 1714: ' Ejus patria in Asia quidem, nam Africam non moramur.' Ritter ('Erdkunde,' Theil xiii. p, 771 seqq.) considerably narrows this area by selecting the Babylonian Nabataeans in the valley of the Tigris and Euphrates as having been the people who dis- covered and first practised the art of improving the date-palm. But Professor Rawlinson, in a letter to me, gives 'B.C. 150O) ov even earlier' as the possible date of a probably early Babylonian cylinder figured with palms in his ' Ancient Monarchies,' iii. p. 23, 2nd ed., and 'B.C. 883' as the earliest date for Assyrian figures representing palms; whilst the Egyptian Twelfth Dynasty, which possessed the tree, carries us back to from i860 B.C. to 3200 B.C., according to Wilkinson and Brugsch respectively. ' It is a little amusing to find twenty-two pages, 289-311, of Seemann'a 'Popular History of Palms' devoted to discussing the questions whether the date-palm was an ' endemic (genuine) member of the Canarian Flora,' and ' whether it was indigenous to the Canary Islands.' This book was, however, published in 1856, and though something, and perhaps too much, was even then ascribed to ' occasional causes' in the explaining of anomalies in geogi-aphical distribution, a good deal has been learnt since that time which would have rendered that dozen of pages impossible. It is re- markable that the author did not use the arguments supplied him by Dr. Carl Bolle in support of the Atlantic hypothesis, which since those days has been buried as deeply as the Atlantic itself was supposed to have been. Of course another question, not rai.sed indeed by Dr. Seemann, as to whether the art of artificially cultivating the date could have originated in what we now know to be oceanic islands and spread thence eastward is, by the knowledge we have since 1859 gained as to ' Man and Nature' in their independent as well as in their mutually interacting operations, rendered all but an impertinence. We (see Darwin, ' Animals and Plants under Domestication,' i. p. 328, 2nd ed.) ' do not believe that any edible or vahuible plant except the Canary grass has been derived from an oceanic or uninhabited island.' It is only just not an impossibility that the date-palm .should have been so derived; if it had bften, this would indeed have been something more surprising than all tlio usefulness of the tree, than all its beauty, and even than all the blunders which have been made about it.