ON THE THREE PERIODS KNOWN AS 670 the adoption of improved weapons of war, as ex hjpoiJmi they were in the Bronze Age, and de facto in the Iron Ag-e, of the inhabitants of these islands, Schleswig-Holstein might still have been an appanage of Denmark. I take this opportunity of remarking that anybody who will take the trouble of reading the few lines which come in Hesiod's ' Works and Days,' 144-148, just before the often-quoted line as to the sequence of the Bronze and Iron Ages, will find that he had somehow become as much impressed with the vast size and brute strength of the bronze-using people as \, in spite of the currently accepted statements as to the small hands of the men of that era, have become from actual handling of the bones. Bronze Age tumuli, however, may have been excavated, indeed, as the history of the examination of the Tomb of Theseus, at Scyros, shows, they actually were excavated in the days of the very early bards, such as the one just referred to. VirgiFs line * Grandiaque efifossis mirabitur ossa sopulcris ' expresses the tendency to magnify the size of such trouraiUes ; still there was solid fact for what Hesiod wrote, I. c, and Ovid might have given more space to insisting upon this very distinctive cha- racteristic of the Bronze Age, than he has in his reproduction of Hesiod, Metamorph. i. 125-127 :— 'Tertia post illam successit ahenea prolea, Saevior ingeniis, et ad horrida promptior arma ; Non scelerata tamen: de duro est ultima ferro.' In modern Europe we have but some half-dozen millions of men under arms at the present moment, and we have lost by war in the last twenty-five years something under a couple of millions only, by the accidents inseparable from modern fighting; and it is difficult for us, consequently, to realise, even approximatively, the terrible conditions prevalent in the ' bella, horrida bella' of the Bronze Age. Hesiod appears to have been much impressed by what tra- dition told him of it; he does not, however, appear to have thought his own time so very much better, as we have such good reason for thinking ours is. I have sometimes thought that the comparison (for which see Max Miiller, Lectures, ii. p. 256, 8lh edition, 1875) by the Sanskrit