PREHISTORIC TIMES IN BRITAIN. 523 that of the European wild boar, thoug-h this has been laid down by Colonel Sykes ('Proe. Zool. Soc' 1831, p. 30) as being the state of the case ; for in measuring the relative lengths of the nasal and fronto-parietal regions of the Indian wild hog, I have come to think that precisely the reverse of this statement is usually, though not invariably, the case, the Indian hog having the nasal bones shorter relatively to the rest of the roof-bones of the skull than Siis scrofa, var. ferus. Neither do I agree with Colonel Sykes in holding that the straightness of the plane of the forehead will differentiate the Indian at least from modern European wild boars: some concavity is produced in the mesial eontour-line of large prehistoric wild boars, not by any angulation at the junc- tion of the facial with the cranial bones^ as in modern tame swine of highly cultivated breeds, but by the upgrowth of the back por- tion of the skull roof-bones and the occipital transverse crest; modern European wild boars, however, which are much inferior in size to their prehistoric and, indeed, to their mediaeval pre- decessors, have the fronto-parietal and nasal lines forming one unbroken straight line. Colonel Sykes's words, ' Tail never curled or spirally twisted,' appear to me (I.e. p. 11) to be said of the tame variety of the Indian hog; but though Fitzinger (' Sitzungsberichte Akad. Wiss. Wien,' 1864) specifies the form in which the caudal vertebrae are carried as one of the specific marks in each of his descriptions of the Suidae, and though Linnaeus uses the words (Ed. xiii. ' Syst. Nat.' p. 65) ' Cauda sinistrorsum recurvata' for differentiating Canis famillans from Canis luptis, s. Canis cauda incurvata, I am inclined to think too much weight may be laid upon this point. Thoroughly trustworthy figures of the European wild boar, such as that given by Schreber Saugethiere,' taf. cccxx), or that in BufFon's 'Hist. Nat.' v. pi. xiv, and Fred. Cuvier, ' Hist. Mamm.,' represent it as having the root and tip of its tail lying evenly be- tween two points ; though the Vienna zoologist just referred to says of this appendage in this animal, ' Schwanz geringelt, kurz, nicht ganz bis zum Fersengelenke reichend.' And as an indication of the trifling value of such a point as this, it may be remarked that of two female specimens of the very well- marked species, Sm barbalus, one young, the other old, figured by