563 PEEHISTOKIO TIMES IN BEITAIN. is straight, and not convex backwards ; the portion of the frontal which is bounded in- ternally by the supraorbital channel, and externally by the lachrymal bone, is markedly convex. The nasals are broader, as is nearly always the case, and shorter also, which is not by any means always the case, relatively to the fronto-parietal region of the vertex, than in Sus scrofa, var. ferus. Measurements op Indian Wild Boae, No, 72, Sir Walter Elliot's Collection, inches. Extreme length . . .16-9 Extreme height . . . 5'i Base-line from anterior margin of foramen magnum to apex of intermaxillaries . • 13 Length of nasals • . • 7*3 Length of fronto-nasal suture to middle of occipital ridge , 8 Width of nasals at apex of frontals . . , . a Maximum interzygomatic width 6 Maximum frontal (interector- bital) width . . , 4-4 inches. Minimum vertical width . i-8 Height of lachrymal along rim of orbit .... I Length of lachrymal along malar suture , , . 0-9 Interpremolar transverse dia- meter of palate , . . 1-6 Intermolar , , , . 0-25 Length of posterior upper molar , . . . . i'35 Breadth . . . . , 0-9 Length of third lower molar , i-6 Breadth . . . . 0-8 Fig, 7. Orbito lachrymal region of skull of Sm hariatue, Borneo. 1519^, Oxford University Museum. This skull, like the other three skulls of the same species examined by me (of which two are in the British Museum), differs from those already described in large points as well as in small ones; and there can be little reason for hesitating to accept it as specifically distinct from them, and indeed from all other Suidae. The contour described by the middle line of its nasal and fronto-parietal regions superiorly, the relations of the greatest width and greatest lengths both of the entire skull and of the nasal bones, the position of the plane of its greatest interzygomatic width, not posteriorly, but in the middle of the zygomatic arch, are points of large difference. The exceeding simplicity of its third molars and the persistence of the mesopterygoid as a distinct bone, are points of small difference, but yet of great mor- phological imjiortance. In the shortness of its lachrymal bone it resembles the other Suidae without facial warts. Its naso-frontal suture and lachrymo-frontal ridge are more like those of these piga than those of Sus scrofa. Measdeements op Skull op 'Sus barbatus,' No. 1519c?, Oxford Universitt Museum, Extreme length . . . Height Ease-line , , . , Length of nasals from plane of postero-lateral tips . . inches, 19.7 6.7 167 10.5 inches. Fronto-parietal region in verti- cal aspect from same point as preceding measurement to occipital ridge in straight line 9.0 0 0 2,