711- MEDICINE IN MODERN TIMES. one field, spreads iuto the weedy acres of his slothful brethren on the right and left; and the improvement of the microscope has but been accompanied by a more thorougb and accurate working out of human dissection. Let us leave metaphor and general state- ments, and come to facts. I have in my possession a work written for the use of anatomical students in the University of Edinburgh —a place then, as now, at least on a level with tlie most advanced centres of such education elsewhere in Great Britain. Its title is, ' The Anatomy of the Human Bones and Nerves, with a Description of the Human Lacteal Sac and Duct, by Alexander Monro, M.D., late Professor of Anatomy in the University of Edinburgh. A new edition, carefully revised, with aditional Notes and Illustrations, by Jeremiah Kirby, M.D., author of " Tables of tbe Materia Mediea." 1810.' The date of its appearance takes precedence, therefore, by a dozen years at least, of the first appearance of an achromatic com- bination ; and if the development of microscopic zeal had really been injurious to the difi'usion of thorough anthropotomical know- ledge, we should find here in perfection that precision and fulness which ex hypothesi are the exclusive fruits of individual attention and undistracted concentration. Now, a few weeks ago, I was pursuing some anatomical researches into the homologies of the shoulder-joint muscles, and by the suggestion of one or two of my friends, amongst whom I may mention Dr. Boycott, I took up the line of argument for homological identity which innervation furnishes. Being deep in the country, I was reduced to consult, in the absence for the moment of other books, the work I have just mentioned, for a small matter in the composition and decomposi- tion of the brachial plexus. This is what I found to satisfy my enquiry in a book expressly treating, you will please to recollect, of the nerves, and written by one of those ' famous old anthro- potomists' who were not distracted by ' microscopische Spielereien.' 'The fourth cervical nerve, after sending ofi" that branch which joins with the third to form the phrenic, and bestowing twigs on the muscles and glands of the neck, runs to the armpit, where it meets with the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervicals, and first dorsal, that escape in the interstices of the musculi scaleni, to come at the armpit, where they join, separate, and rejoin in a way scarcely to be rightly expressed in words; and, after giving several considerable nerves to the muscles and teguments which cover the i/iorasc, they