934 TYPHOID OR ENTERIC FEVER raortems. Much the same applies to the utterances of this Report (p. 15) as to Peshawur, another of the places the gaols of which were referred to by me and Dr. Buchanan after Dr. De Renzy (see Dr. Buchanan's ' Report/ p. 96, note), thirty-nine cases of death among- the soldiers being ascribed to a ' continued fever, which bears the strongest resemblance to, if it be not identical with, the enteric fever of Europe.' Though the Report never names the gaol fever, it would appear that it was regarded as identical with that raging outside, for we have great stress laid on the befoulment of the water-supply of the whole population ; and at p. 281 we are told, 'all classes appear to suflFer from this bad water. Prisoners in gaol have nothing else to drink.^ The gaol fever of the third gaol, that of Umballah, in which a fever was found to spread in spite of an earth conservancy, Dr.De Renzy appears to hold (p. 128), upon the Report of Dr. Bateson, to have been relapsing fever. But the jjrecautions he lays stress upon in the case of the town of Arabalah (Umballah), pp. 133—135, are such as would be efficient against enteric rather than against typhus or its congener, relapsing fever. Two cases of typhoid, one verified by a post-mortem, are reported by Dr. De Renzy (p. 125) from Simla. I will now proceed to comment upon another statement of Dr. Buchanan's. At p. 91 of his Report, after quoting the opinions of seven gentlemen—the Rev. Henry Moule^ Mr. Oswald Foster, Mr. Garnett of Lancaster, the Governor of Dorchester Gaol, the late Dr. Meyer of Broadmoor, Surgeon-Major Wyatt, and Captain Mervin Drake,—he says: ' From this favourable expression of opinion there are some very few dissentients;' and he proceeds to enumerate three—namely, Dr. Geo. Johnson, Prof Pettenkofer, and myself. I have to say that to our three names Dr. Buchanan should have added: Firstly, eight names of the Army Sanitary Commissioners—namely, those of General J. H. Grant, Captain Douglas Galton, Dr. John Sutherland, H. H. Massy, Esq., T. A. L. Murray, Esq., W. E. Baker, Esq., Sir J. R. Martin, and Robert Rawlinson, Esq. For the Commission composed of these eight gentlemen issued, on March 8, 1869, a memorandum on a ' Report and Order of the Madras Government upon the Dry- Earth System of Sewage in the Madras Presidency,' which was circulated more or less freely in England, which was republished in