804 MODIFICATIONS OF ASPECTS OF OEGANIC NATUBE from the leaves ; or is it due in the Coniferae to the action of the thousands of points which the whorls of their leaves develop every year? This is a. complex question which the present data of physical science do not enable us to answer. One thing one can say, and that is that the transpiration of the leaves cannot by itself produce this phenomenon. For, as a matter of fact, the transpiration in Coniferae is less active than it is in broad-leaved trees. This fact has been made clear by M. Grandeau in his "Essais historiques et critiques sur la Theorie de la Nutrition." (M. Fautrat might have added, 'as also by Hales, cit. Boussingault, "Ann. Chim. et Phys." a6r.v. torn. xiii. 1878, p. 314, and Sachs, " Handbuch der Exp. Physiologic der Pflanzen," 1865, p. 225.') It then follows that if the vapour of water dissolved in such great abundance in the atmosphere enveloping the pines was the result of the evaporation from the trees, this phenomenon ought to be much more striking over the mass made up by the broad-leaved trees than in that made up by the Coniferae, whilst observation shows that exactly the contrary is the actual fact. We must therefore ascribe to tlie soil and io other unknown causes this remarkable property which pines have of attracting watery vapour.' If it had appeared from M. Fautrat's tables ttat this excess of watery vapour was more marked ia rainy than in dry times, it would have been easy to explain the fact by figuring to ourselves the all but infinite area which the fine films of water clothing every needle-shaped leaf of a coniferous tree would make up and offer for evaporation. For the leaves of our common Coniferae wet readily; and it is owing to this property I apprehend that they intercept as much as one-half the rain which falls upon them before it reaches the ground, whilst broad-leaved trees intercept but one-third. But, as it appears, the Coniferae possess the hygrometric advantage inde- pendently of the rainfall. And I have to say that the phenomenon in question, needing, as it thus confessedly does, some additional explana- tion besides and beyond that which our usually accepted views furnish, appears to me to become more intelligible by reference to the theory as to ' The Cause of Rain and its Allied Phenomena ' which was put before the world in 1839, and subsequently published in a separate volume twenty years later, by Mr. G. A. Rowell. This theory may I think be stated as follows, the author of it having slightly modi- fied it in 1872, and restated it in a ' Brief Essay on Meteorological Phenomena,' published in 1875. He supposes that the molecules of watery vapour are completely enveloped in a coating of electricity, to which they owe their buoyancy. This coating and this buoyancy he supposes to increase and decrease in ratio with the temperature of these molecules. Efficient conduction therefore of electricity will suffice on this theory to precipitate watery vapour either as rain, or as dew, or as mist. And I apprehend that Mr. Rowell would, in