864 BIOLOGICAL TRAINING AND STUDIES. stimulus, not thither but thence, to the medulla oblongata, which stimulus is then radiated downwards by a route formed distally by the splanchnic nerve, so as to produce inhibitory vascular dilatation in the neighbourhood of the peptic cells, as worthy of attention i. A considerable number of the papers which will be read before this Section, indeed a considerable part of the Section itself, will be devoted to t he Natural History of man. Nothing, I apprehend, is more distinctive of the present phase of that 'proper study of mankind' than the now accomplished formation of a close alliance between the students of archaeology strict and proper and the biologist with the express purpose of jointly occupying and cultivating that vast terri- tory. Literature and art and the products of the arts furnish each their data to the ethnologist and anthropologist in addition to those which it is the business of the anatomist, the physiologist, the palaeontolo- gist, and the physical geographer to be acquainted with; nor can any conclusion attained to by following up any single one of those lines of investigation be considered as definitely absolved from the condition of the provisional until it has been shown that it can never be put into opposition with any conclusion legitimately arrived at along any other of the routes specified. In political alliances the short- comings of one party necessarily hamper and check the advance of the other; a failure in the means or in the perseverance of one party may bring the joint enterprise to a premature close; mutual forbearance, not to dwell longer upon extreme cases, may finally be as effectual in slackening progress as even mutual jealousies. No such disadvantages attach themselves to the alliance of literature with science, as the German 'Archiv fiir Anthro- pologic/issued to the world under the joint management of Ecker the biologist and Lindenschmit the antiquary, will show any one who consults its pages, replete with many-sided but not superficial, multifarious but never inaccurate, information. The antiquary is a little prone, if he will allow me to say so, when left alone, to make himself but a connoisseur; the historian, whilst striving to avoid the Scylla of judicial dulness, slides into the Charybdis of political partisanship; and the biologist not rarely ' Since writing as above I have seen, but have not read, a paper by Dr. Coats in Ludwig's 'Arbeiten aus der physiologisohen Anstalt zu Leipzig' for 1870 which would seem to treat of this subject. The Wurzburg Phj'siological Laboratory Eeports for 1867-68 contain, as is well known, a series of papers upon it.