901 APDEESS ON anthropology; EnMish reader by Professor Pluxley, two years later, in the ' Pre- historic Remains of Caithness.' I have made a list, perhaps not an exhaustive one, but containing some dozen memoirs by Dr. Beddoe, and having- read them or nearly all of them, I can with a verv safe conscience recommend you all to do the like. I can say nearly the same as regards Broca and Virchow, adding that the former of these two savants has set the other two with whom 1 have coupled him an excellent example, by collecting" and publish- ing his papers in consecutive volumes. But I should forget not only what is due to the place in which I am speaking, but what is due to the subject I am here concerned with, if in speaking of its literature, I omitted the name of your own townsman, Prichard. He has been called, and, I think, justly, the ' father of modern Anthropology.' I am but putting the same thing in other words, and adding something more specific to it, when I compare his works to those of Gibbon and Thirlwall, and say that they have attained, and seem likely to maintain per- manently, a position and importance commensurate with that of the ' stately and undecaying' productions of those great English historians. Subsequently to the first appearance of those histories other works have appeared by other authors, who have dealt in them with the same periods of time. I have no wish to depreciate those works ; their authors have not rarely rectified a slip and cor- rected an error into which their great predecessors had fallen. Nay, more, the later comers have by no means neglected to avail them.selves of the advantages which the increase of knowledge and the vast political experience of the last thirty years have put at their disposal, and they have thus occasionally had opportunities of showing more of the true proportions and relations of even great events and catastrophes; still the older works retain a lasting value, and will remain as solid testimonies to English in- tellect and English capacity for large undertakings as long as our now rapidly extending language and literature live. The same may be most truthfully said of Prichard's ' Researches into the Physical History of Mankind.' An increase of knowledge may supply us with fresh and with stronger arguments than he could command for some of the great conclusions for which he con- tended ; such, notably, has been the case in the question (though ' question' it can no longer be called) of the Unity of the human