771 PRODUCED BY MAN. 3 Da ne font pas croire,' has been made to the effect that man's inter- ference has been potent, even over the sea, to an extent which men of science have not usually claimed, and poets have denied to be possible. Mr, G. P. Marsh, the author of a well-known work on 'The Origin and History of the English Language,' 1862, as well as of the highly interesting work on physical geography which appeared in 1864, under the title of' Man and Nature, or Physical Geography as modified by Human Action,' and as a second edition, ten years later, under the title of ' The Earth as modified by Human Action : a new edition of Man and Nature,' suggests in this latter work that the phosphorescence of the MediteiTanean, unknown to, or at any rate scarcely noticed by the ancient writers, may have been greatly increased since their days through human action in the way of extirpating the whale. ' Is it not possible/ writes Mr. Marsh ^, ' that in modern times the animalcula which produce it (the phosphorescence of the Medi- terranean, the most beautiful and striking of maritime wonders) may have immensely multiplied, from the destruction of their natural enemies by man^ and hence that the gleam shot forth by their decomposition or by their living processes, is both more frequent and more brilliant than in the days of classical antiquity?'' In a more utilitarian spirit Middendorff, in his ' Sibirische Reise points out that a continuance of the wasteful destruction of the whalebone whale in the northern seas will render it impossible to utilise for man's profit the innumerable small Crustacea and mollusca of the Polar seas which that whale converts into train oil! The profligate inconsiderate slaughter again by the Kolushes of the sea-cow, Bi/tina Stelleri, a sirenian ' whale ' of the region of Behring's Straits, which lived upon sea-weed, has reduced these savages to the necessity of using this self-same sea-weed for manuring their potatoes, which useful vegetable, howeverj gives them a much less savoury and sustaining food than was manufactured, so to say, for their forefathers in the organism of the sea-cow they extirpated. It is perhaps a little ungracious to point out that the most elegant of th ese three correlations and interdependencies is not so definitely demonstrable as the other two. In the first place, it may be objected as regards Mr. Marsh's suggestion, that the Mediter- * Loc. cil., iBt ed. p. 114; 2nd ed. p. 104. Band iv. t. 2. p. 848, 1867.