EXCAVATIONS IN AN ANCIENT 602 urn found Sept. 1867, in which a few pieces of glass were found together with the bones, and in that of the small unpattemed urn found Jan. 1867, in which the incisor of a hare or rabbit was also found in company with the human remains, and like them had been subjected to the fire. The urns were in most instances at but a verv short distance from the surface of the ground, and, shallow as the furrows are (some five inches or so) which it is usual to make in this soil, the upper rims of the urns have in several instances received injury from the plough-share. This superficial position of cremation urns enables us to understand how the many superstitions^ as to their puUulation in the spring, &c. arose, and it is paralleled, we may re- mark, by the shallowness of the inhumations of the same race, to the consideration of which I now proceed. IV. Of Anglo-Saxon Interments in the way of inhumation without orientation, hut with insignia and in shallow graves. The Anglo-Saxons appear to have discontinued cremation, prob- ably at the urgent request of the Christian missionaries, without at the same time adopting the direction of the grave which the usage of their teachers, as well as of their predecessors, would have led them to adopt. The shallowness ^ of many graves containing skeletons extended at full length and adorned with Anglo-Saxon insignia may again be referred to the retention by half-converted proselytes of some of that carelessness as to the disposal of the corpse which marked many heathen races then, as, indeed, it does now. The now well-known insignia of the male and female Anglo- Saxon respectively—to wit, the umbo, the spear, the buckle, and the knife; the fibulae, the perforated beads, the similarly per- forated glass ornaments; the ear and tooth picks, the scoops, the 1 For the belief as to urns being ' natural productions pullulating from the earth like bulbous roots,' see ' Horae Ferales,' p. 86, For other superstitious relating to them, see Cochet, 'Normandie Souterraine,' p. 124; Wylie, ' Archaeologia,' xxxvii. 46. ^ For the shallowness of Anglo-Saxon and other Teutonic interments, see Cochet, ' Tombeau de Childeric,' p. 41 ; Bloxam,' Fragmenta Sepulchralia,' p. 47 ; Engelhardt, 'Denmark in the Early Iron Age,'p. 9 ; Akerman, ' Archaeologia,' vol. xxxviii, Long Wittenham; Kemble, Ibid. vol. xxxvii. 1856 ; Wanner,' Alemannische Todten- feld bei Schleitheim,' pp. 10, 20.