CEMETERY AT FRTLFORD. 639 xsvi. Lower jatr of old perso7i, with six teeth. xxvii. Hones of old tvoman, Dec. 31, 1867. Elongated British type. Femur, 15 in. Stature, 4 ft. 8 in. Coffin hooping and nails found in grave, x.wii'. Fragments of an urn of Anglo-Saxon ware, said to have been found with a burnt bone, Dec. 31, 1867. I old womiin, 3 old men, i old person (sex ?), 3 young women, 2 young persons (sex ?), I young man, 2 children, i middle-aged woman, = 14 bodies. Septemher 16, 17, 18, 1867. IV Set. i. Calvaria and hones of old woman from a grave running from N.N.W. by N.W. to S.S.E. by S.E. 3 ft. 2 in. deep down to the coralline oolite. A burnt flint, some pseudo Samian ware, and some gray lathe-turned pottery, were found in the grave with her. Femur, i6|in, Radius, 8^ in. Stature, 5 ft. in. Of enlarged 'River-bed' type. Lower jaw nearly destroyed by water-wear. ii. Similar calvaria from continuation of same trench. ' CyUndrocephalic' female skull. Stature, 5 ft. 4 in. Femur, 17 in. iii. Sl'idl and long hones of young man of elongated British type, from continuation of same trench. A sheep's tooth close by his jaws, and two flints. Stature, 5 ft. 10 in. Right fibula a good deal curved, epiphyses not fused. iv. Slcull of young Anglo-Saxon, found with spear and umbo. The spear at right side of head with point upwards. This had been a secondary interment, the upper jaw of a very old man (iv') having been found close to this skull, as also a manubrium sterni with articular facet for first left rib much enlarged, which could not have belonged to this skeleton. The grave was broader tiian the others, and had large stones set along its sides. Its direction was W.N.W, to E.S.E. iv'. Upper jaw of old person, prdbahly male. Sternum and large head of humerus and OS calcis with it. V. Skull of very old man, with skeleton, from continuation of trench whence the Anglo-Saxon No. iv came. The direction of the grave the samO: but no relics nor any stones set around it. Skull like iv and xi of March 17, and i of March 23,1868. A mixed form combining the Hohberg with the Sion type. Can these skulLs have belonged to Christian Anglo-Saxons ? See p. 616, supra. Femur, 18 in. Stature, 5 ft. 8 in. vi. Slcull of old man of 'Sion' type, found with skeleton at a depth of 15 inches below the patterned urn ix, the urn occupying a space corresponding with the top of the sacrum of the skeleton below. Skull bones a little roughened by water-wear, but also strongly made, and indicating, as do the other bones also, both age and great strength by their various outstanding processes. Ceph. index, 78. Stature, 5 ft. 8 in. Found with several pieces of flint and with pieces of pottery. vii. Skeleton of very old man, of elongated Romano-British type. A typical skull such as No. 5709 in Royal College of Surgeons, which belonged to an ' ancient aboriginal inhabitant of Scandinavia regarded as the Celt;' and called 'dolicho- cephalic by the donor. Professor Retzius.' Found in a trench between the trench with skeleton No. vi in it to the south, and the one with the Anglo-Saxon No. iv in it to the north. Femur, 19] in. Stature, 5 ft. 11 in. Osseous upgrowth of acetabulum, and hypertrophy of head of femur to correspond. Cephalic index, 72.