883 ADDRESS ON ANTHROPOLOGY. have little respect for most things else, and by no means too much lor themselves, speak still with something like appreciation of the work done in those regions by the London Missionary Society; and we here shall value highly any papers which we may be favoured with from men who have had such long and such favour- able opportunities for forming opinions on matters which touch at once our national and our scientific responsibilities, What question can be of closer concernment than that of the possibility of rescuing the inhabitants of Polynesia from that gradual sliding into extinction which some writers appear to ac- quiesce in as the natural fate of such races? As a text for our discussions upon this subject, I will here quote to the Department a passage from the continuation of Waitz's ' Anthropologic' by Dr, Gerland—the author, be it remembered, of a special Mono- graph upon the Causes of the Decrease and Dying-out of Native RaceSj which appeared in 1868 (' Ueber das Aussterben der Natur- volker,' Leipzig), and has been often referred to by writers on an- thropology since that year, and is referred to by himself in the passage I now lay before you. It runs thus Anthropologic der Naturvolker,' von Dr. Theodor Waitz, fortgesetzt von Dr. Georg Gerland, 1873, vol. ii. pp. 512, 513):— ' The decrease of the Polynesian populations is not now going on as fast as it was in the first half of the century; it has in some localities entirely ceased, whilst in others the indigeneous popula- tion is actually on the increase ^. From this it is clear that the causes for that disappearance of the native races which we discussed at length in the little book above referred to, are now less or no longer operative. For, on the one hand, the natives have adapted themselves more to the influences of civilisation ; they are not so amenable as they were at first to the action of diseases, although, we still from time to time have instances to the contrary at the' * See 'Times* of Saturday, August 21, 1875, p. 6, where the Natal correspondent, writing of the Caffres, tella us,' we shall have to begin civilising the natives some day. We had better have begun with them ten years ago at 200,000 strong, than now at 350,000; but we had better begin with them now at 350,000 than ten years hence when they may number half-a-million.' Since writing as above I have received through my friend the Kev. W. Wyatt Gill a long extract from a paper written in 1861, by the Rev. A. W. Murray. This paper fully confirms Garland's more recent views as to the prospects of the native races. Mr. Murray, having spent forty years in Polynesia, baa the best possible right to be heard upon it. 3^2