EXCAVATIONS IN AN ANCIENT 614 itself to me is that the part of the burial-ground which has fallen under my inspection may have been used by preference, though by no means exclusively, for male interments. The hypo- thesis of a battle is excluded by several considerations, and notably by that of the age of the skeletons. Of the thirty-five skeletons assigned by me to the female sex, thirteen were of aged, and no less than nineteen of young, women. The great dangers of child-birth may be supposed to be indicated by these figures, and the osteophytic intracranial growths ^ so often observed in the puerperal state, and noted here in four cases, may point in the same direction. Under the head of children I have reckoned all persons below the age of thirteen or fourteen. The numbers of this class, viz. twenty-eight, which I have identified, holds a much smaller proportion to the whole number, 123, than we should expect from modern statistics. But the greater perish- ability of children's bones, and the lesser depths of their graves, which, if not more chemically, is yet mechanically more dangerous to their preservation, must be bm-ne in mind in considering these figures, and should prevent us from basing any argument upon them over-hastily. Still, we may perhaps be justified in thinking that there could not have been at Frilford, even in days when glazed windows and coal were as little used as China-ware and 'China drink,' that great infantile mortality which, by weeding out all the weakly in early life, produces a population of adults with a great proportion of aged individuals. The Anglo-Saxon remains which I have procured from Frilford have suffered much from the mechanical and chemical agencies to which the shallowness of their graves, and, secondly, the shallow- ness of the soil, exposed them; and the youth of their owners has still further rendered them amenable to these destructive and distorting forces. But, thanks to the reconstructive ability of Mr. Charles Robertson, I have been enabled to see that the two types of crania which have been shown by Dr. Barnard Davis to have been found with Anglo-Saxon insignia^ both at Long Wittenham ^, and at Linton, in Cambridgeshire ^, co-existed side by side in the * Rokitansky, 'Path. Anat.,' Sydenham Soc. Trans. iiL 208; Bock, 'Pathologic,' p. 209. ' See ' Archaeologia,' xxxviii. No. 107, 770 k. Oxford Univ. Museum. ^ See ' Crania Biitannica,' Dec. 4, pi. xlvi. Two other crania of this ' platycephalic'