665 THE IRON, THE BEONZE, AND THE STONE AGES. One of many other convincing- avg-uments for the concUision that iron came into general use later than bronze, is, to my mind, the fact that in Switzerland you find, as in the museum at Berne, bronze bracelets ornamented with beads of iron, and, as in a knife from Morigen, the blade of a cutting instrument made mainly of bronze but similarly inlaid with strips of steel. On this, Desor and Favre (' Le bel Age du Bronze Lacustre,' 1874, p. 16) remark, ' Or pour qiCon ait employe le fer en guise cVornement il fallait lien qxCon le tint en grande estime et qui il ne Jut pas tres commiin.^ The larsrer use of iron when a thin blade of it was carried on a handle of bronze, the retention by such iron blades of the leaf-shape of the bronze blades which they displaced from their bronze pommels, and finally the exceedingly rich ornamentation of the pommels of the iron swords found at that most instructive discovery at Hallstatt, are all similarly indications that iron was of later introduction than bronze; that at first it was the scarcer of the two materials. If, afterwards; iron was made a servant of all work, and bronze was retained simply for the manufacture of ornaments, as by our Anglo- Saxon forefathers, this is but a history which can be paralleled by that of many other household goods! Copper, as distinguished from bronze, is, on a priori grounds, likely to have been discovered and used long before metallic iron. For it is much more abundant in the metallic state in nature, as for example in Siberia, in the Faroe Islands, in many Cornish and in some Welsh mines, in Brazil, Chili, and Peru, and, above all, in large masses near Lake Superior, in North America. And, in addition to being there available and obvious as a red metal—or, indeed, the red metal—;Copper is malleable and ductile immediately after fusion, and acquires considerable hardness 2v7ien mixed with other metals. These last five words from the 'Dictionary of Chemistry,' siib vac. ' Copper,^ bring us face to face with the question: Where was made the discovery of the advantages to be gained from alloying copper with tin, and so obtaining bronze ? It was of course likely to be made in some district in which the ores of these two metals were to be found in proximity. There are three such areas. Firstly, Cornwall: but as against the claims of our westernmost county are to be set, not only the ratiocinatively weighty words of Caesar as to pigs or ingots of bronze. Acre utuntnr iynportato, but many materially ponderable arguments in the shape