MEDICINE IN MODERN TIMES. 701 come uuder his own observation. His words run thus in trans- lation: 'After a long'-continuing stagnation of blood at the end of the small intestine and the beginning- of the large, in consequence of which exudations and adhesions of the peritoneum ensued, the entire right half of the body became weaker than the left, was tired sooner by exertion; the right foot became cold sooner, under the same circumstances, than the left; the right ear became much more rapidly the seat of vascular dilatation than the left; and other similar phaenomena developed themselves. After a great abscess under the right gluteus maximus, and an immense loss of pus, the right hand and the entire right arm became not only evidently thinner to the eye than the left, but also actually smaller.' These cases are decisive as to the interference of the nervous system in the process of nutrition; and, though organs and structures, such as the epithelial and the cartilaginous, both physiological and, I suppose, morbid, may and do exist and grow in animal bodies being as devoid of blood*vessels and nerves as though they were found in vegetables, still any arguments based upon these undoubted facts can be met at once, if so we care to meet them, with the more or less accepted physiological axioms, ' The interdependence of parts augments with their development; the solidarity of organs increases and is more intimate with each superaddition of a fresh factor to the entire economy.' But these cases do not, of course, touch the question of the way in which this nervous influence comes to act on the tissues, whether mediately through the blood-vessels, or immediately on the tissues with which they are supposed, in the case of the salivary glands by Pfliiger, though not, as I apprehend, by Dr. Beale ('Phil. Trans.' 1865, p. 447), to become continuous. Nor does such an experiment as that of Bidder, in which a salivary gland, under nerve-stimulation, picked out two-thirds of the entire quantity of iodide of potassium in the circulation, to one-third picked ont by the substance of its fellow, not so stimulated. For a more innervated gland is also a more vascular gland; and of the two antecedents, greater nerve- current and greater blood-current, we have no right from this experiment to say that the one rather than the other is the cause of this particular consequent. And much probability will come to attach itself to Virchow's views, according to which innervation is not proven to increase nutrition directly, but works only mediately