870 BIOLOGICAL TRAINING AND STUDIES. sequences in the course of reflex nutrition and reflex secretion, as of g-astric juice, may flow. A curious book was written, or at least publislied, on the subject of these practices, and others akin to them, in 1653, by Dr. John Bulwer, a benevolent doctor, who paid attention to the care of the deaf and dumb previously, I tliink it is stated, to Dr. Wallis, and who consequently, with proper pride, if this precedence really belongs to him, signs himself ' J. B. cogno- mento Chirosophus.-' The title of the book is ' Anthropometamor- phosis; Man Transformed, or the Artificial Changeling.' I was made acquainted with its existence by my friend Mr. Tomlinson, of Worcester College, from the library of which society I procured a copy for consultation : the book is not rare I think, but I believe it is little known; it contains much that is curious, and it is, in- asmuch as it was written more than 200 years ago, or' aK-qparos Tiv en KetiJ-wv, from some, though not from all points of view, the more valuable. It is, I apprehend, to some of these customs, as well as to others, that Zimmermann (not the author of the work on Solitude, but Zimmermann the zoologist) alludes in a rather amusing passage, which may be found in the third volume of his larger work on the ' Distribution of Species and on Zoology' (see p. 257). I speak of the passage as amusing; it is more than that, or I would not quote it; indeed you will not see that it is particularly amusing unless I tell you that volumes ii and iii are of date 1783, and are dedicated to his own father, whilst volume i, of date 1778, is dedicated to 'His Most Serene Highness and Lord, Ferdinand Duke of Brunswick, my Most Gracious Lord.' Its quality of amusinguess depends upon these dates, and the speculations they set us to make as to how the Serene Duke, his ' Most Gracious Lord,' had offended the man of science in the interval between 1778 and 1783. It runs thus :— 'If you argue from similarity of customs and ceremonies to identity of origin of two tribes under comparison, you must first show that these customs are not such as would naturally tend to the ameliora- tion of the conditions of the inhabitants in the two countries under consideration, and would probably therefore, or can naturally, sug- gest themselves to each of the races in question. Or there may be customs founded on innate folly and stupidity, and thus, for your argument to be valid, you must show that, of two peoples widely separated, each cannot by any chance come into its own country to adopt the like foolish and stupid customs. For whilst two wise