CEMETERY AT FRILFORD. 589 been interred at the same time, as after a battle bodies are buried one above another in trenches. The funeral feast, and the visit to the burial-place of a beloved relative, will account sufficiently for the presence of the teeth and bones of the domestic ruminants, and the pig, in these graves. In the Romano-British cemetery at Helmingham in Suffolk, which I had an opportunity of examining through the kindness of the Rev. George Cardew, relics of this kind were more abundant than I have found them to be in the Frilford cemetery. Oj^ster-shells were found in considerable abund- ance in both these cemeteries, as the other indications of Roman occupation would have led us, a 'priori, to expect. I may perhaps here say, that it does not seem clear to me that any great proba- bility attaches to an argument for the heathen character of an interment from the discovery there of such evidences of a funeral feast as the bones of domestic animals. The instinct so beautifully* alluded to by Wordsworth, in his well-known poem 'We are Seven,' has in itself nothing repugnant to the spirit of Christianity, though the actual practice at the grave-side may and often did degenerate from that of the ' little Cottage Girl' ' Who took her little porringer And ate her supper there.' Scandal arose out of the abuse of the funeral feast; but, inas- much as the Church in all ages has acquiesced in the retention by newly-made converts of customs which, though heathen in origin, may not have been intrinsically immoral, it is easy to understand how a custom intrinsically laudable may have been tolerated when kept within due limits. As to the actual practice being rife amongst Christians^ the numerous denunciations and inhibitions issued relating to it afford very abundant evidence. ^ The following passages may be cited in addition to those so often referred to from the ' Capitularies' of Charlemagne. In the collection of the Canons of the Greek Synods, by Martin, Bishop of Braga in Portugal, who died in 580, we find the follow- ing words, 'Non oportet, non liceat Christianis prandia ad defunctorum sepulchra deferre et sacrificari mortuis.' See the ' Corpus Juris Canonici,' where the passage is adopted as the text of Decretum Gratiani, De Consecr. dist. i. cap. 29, § 2, under the title • Ex Concilio Martini Papae.' Hardouin, ' Acta ConciHorum,' &c. 1611, iii. 390, ha» printed Martin of Braga's Collection, and, according to the margin of his edition', this particular canon comes from the third Council of Aries, and not from a Greek source. See al.so Gretzer, ' De Funere Christiano,' to which work I owe the foregoing quotation, lib. iii. pp. 159, 164, 166, ed. 1611, where Ambrose, Augustine, Cyprian, Gandentius, and Faustus the Manichee, may aU be found deposing to the fact of the