775 PRODUCED BY MAN. Befflnninor at home, let us consider first of all what are the most prominent changes which man has effected in the landscape, octavo volumes which appeared in the years 1864, 1873, and 1876, and contain much of geogra])hical as well as of other interest. This illustrious scientist was for some years from 1S39 onwards concerned, together with v. Helmersen, in bringing out, at the cost of the St. Petersburg Academy, a periodical, 'Beitrage zur Kenntniss des Russischen Eeiches.' In one of the volumes (xviii. 1856, pp. 111-115) of this periodical, a short paper by v. Baer appears, the purport of which is shown by its title, 'Die Uralte Waldlosigkeit der Sud-iiissischen Steppe,' 'The Aboriginal want of Wood on the South Russian Steppe.' This paper was written in supplementation of a paper which had appeared in the fourth volume of the same periodical, 1841, pp. 163-198, with the same object of deprecating a useless and essentially nugatory attempt to make these steppes timber-bearing. From it I will give an extract, partly because it is so characteristic of the manner of the great biologist, and partly or mainly because it shows how pure natural history can be brought to bear upon political questions and may save a Government from engaging at great expense in chimerical undertakings. V. Baer says. I.e.:—'At that time (1841) I had forborne to bring up a piece of evidence (in favour of the South Steppe never having been wooded) which is much older than Herodotus ; and the present communication has only just the purpose of putting out this evidence, for doing which I have had no earlier opportunity. This piece of evidence is furnished by the squirrels. They are found throughout the Russian empire, so far as trees are found to grow, even in the Caucasus, but with the exception of the Crimea and Kamtchatka, although both these peninsulas have the food which the squirrel wants, and the south coast of the Crimea has it in great abundance. Now from these facts the following conclusion can clearly be drawn, namely, that when these animals reached the southern borders of the forests in South Russia, and the eastern borders of the forests in Siberia, the wide expanse of the open South Russian steppes and also the bare levels northward in Kamtchatka were already in existence. When was it, it may be asked, that the squirrels came to these borders of the forests ? I don't know, but that they did come to them before any historical period nobody will be inclined seriously to dispute.' Oscar Peschel, in his ' Neue Probleme der vergleichenden Erdkunde,' 1876, p. 1881, adds in explanation of this curious and convincing argument, 'A climbing animal dependent for food upon seeds of the trees could not of course travel across the sunny plaitLS of grass; and consequently the South Russian districts in question must have been treeless ever since there were squirrels on the south boundary of the Russian forests; and there can scarcely be any doubt that they were there thousands of years before the time of Herodotus.' Oscar Peschel gives no specific reference to v. Baer'a works: and v. Baer himself, or his printer, curiously, a wrong one in his ' Auto- biography,' p. 644. Nor have I found any reference to it in Professor Stieda's ' Karl Ernst von Baer, eine biographische Skizze,' 1878. I have therefore another*justifica- tion for the giving of these details, and am glad if I have thus saved others trouble which I had to take for myself, not unhelped, however, herein, by the staff of the Bodleian Library. If Oscar Peschel has made one trifling omission, he has per contra made some of the most important additions to geographical and anthropological knowledge, separately and combined, which have been made since the time of Ritter. I need scarcely specify his ' Volkerkunde,' 1874. ' Abhandlungen zur Erd- und Volkerkunde,' 2 vols., 1877-1878.