BIOLOaiCAL TRAINING AND STUDIES. 855 Anatomy, in the Department of Ethnology and Anthropology, and, thirdly, in the Department of Scientific Zoology. Under the head and in the Department of Physiology proper and Anatomy, our list of papers and, I am happy to add, the circle of faces around us suggest to us the following subjects as being the topics of main interest for the present year :—the questions of Spontaneous Generation ; that of the influence of organised parti- cles in the production of disease ; that of the influence of particular nervous and chemical agencies upon functions; that of the localisa- tion of cerebral functions ; that of the production and, indeed, of the entire role in tbe economy of creation of such substances as fat and albumen ; and, finally, that of the cost at which the work of the animal machine is carried on. The question of Spontaneous Generation touches upon certain susceptibilities which lie outside the realm of science. In this place, however, we have to do only with scientific arguments, and I trust that the Section will support the Committee in their wish to exclude from our discussions all extraneous considerations. Truth is one; all roads which really lead to it will assuredly con- verge sooner or later: our business is to see that the one we are ourselves concerned with is propei-ly laid out and metalled. Upon this matter I am glad to be able to fortify myself by two authorities; and first of these I will place an utter- ance of Archbishop Whately, which may be found in the second volume of his Life, pp. 56-68, and appears to have been uttered by him, aet. 57, an. 1844: 'A person possessing real faith will be fully convinced that whatever suppressed physical fact appears to militate against his religion will be proved by physical investiga- tion either to be unreal or else reconcilable with his religion. If I were to found a church, one of my articles would be that it is not allowable to bring forward Scripture or any religious considerations at all to prove or disprove any physical theory or any but religious and moral considerations.' My second quotation shall be taken from the great work of one of the first, as I appre- hend, of living theologians, John Macleod Campbell, ' The Nature of the Atonement,' pp. xxxii, xxxiii, Introd., and it runs thus: There are ' other minds whose habits of pure scientific investigation are to them a temptation to approach the claim of the kingdom of God on our faith by a wrong path, causing them to ask for a kind