MEDICINE IN MODERN TIMES. 697 that organisation; and the two things are well-nigh equally ex- clusive the one of the other in both cases. Perhaps the mere apposition of the two sets of occurrences side by side is sufficient to justify my conclusion that the congestive stage of the physiological experiment is not the homologue of the painful one of the morbid history, mere apposition being sometimes sufficient to decide us on more difficult homologies, at least in the negative. But I may add, that the argument from the juvantia ac laedentia, as the older physicians and physiologists phrased it, gives some confirmation to the view which teaches that spasm and starvation go in company with pain ; relaxation and congestion only with tenderness, I will put the facts before you as premises; you will piece them together into an argument for yourselves. Chloroform^ is the greatest of juvantia in neuralgia ; chloroformj indeed, and ether, in equal parts, as recommended ^ by Mr. R. Ellis, may be safely entrusted to a safe person for self-administration; and, if taken persistently as well as prudently, may keep the attack in suspense until the enemy, from weariness or chronometric obligations, retreats or withdraws ^. But this great reducer of neuralgia, this great and blessed producer of 'indolence,' as Locke called it, is also the great reducer of muscular spasm, as we know from its action and our employment of it in cases of hernia, and, indeed, of tetanus. Now, if it relaxes muscles which we can see in the limbs and trunk without the aid of a microscope, we may think it not improbable that it will do the like by muscles which we cannot see without the aid of that instru- ment, in the arterioles. Chloroform, secondly, has the reverse action to that of the sympathetic, in dilating the blood-vessels of the head*; as, indeed, also has alcohol, itself too a producer, though ^ For action of chloroform, see further, 'Chloroform, its Action and Administration,' by A. E. Sansom, M.B., 1865 ; 'Asthma,' by Hyde Salter, M.D., 1868, p. 216. " See 'Lancet,' February, May, June, 1866, and pamphlets published by Hardwicke and Brettell. ' The anaesthetic effect of bisulphide of carbon in various kinds of headache, as pointed out by the late Dr. Kennion ('Medical Times and Gazette,' July i8, 186S, p. 77), may, perhaps, be similarly explained. * I find that both Mr. Durham ('Guy's Hospital Reports,' iii. vi. i860, p. 153) and Hammond ('On Wakefulness,' p. 25) are agreed that, in animals under chloroform, the veins of the brain become distended. I do not, however, lay any great stress upon this fac-t; firstly, because the veins may become distended under the influence, not so much of the chloroform, as of the more or less partial hindrance to respiration which its inhalation implies; and, secondly, because we have, as yet (Funke, vol, ii, pp. 769-773)) °o very distinct evidence for the production of effects on the veins by the