DOMESTIC CATS. 503 up agaiu. It is not likely that any direct alliance subsists between any musteline and any rodent, but the more arboreal and egg- loving- mustelines, such as the martens, may by robbing the nests of the rapacious birds, such as the carrion crows^ the great enemies of the squirrels, indirectly but most efhciently favour the spread of these latter creatures. But the subject of the interdependence of the two kingdoms of animal and vegetable life is a much larger one than the one I propose to deal with here; and I have but intro- duced the mention of it to show what broad and distant views may be gained by attentive gazing through what may seem to be but narrow casements. I shall arrange what I have to say under two heads. I shall first attempt to prove that, though the ancient Greeks and Romans had not domesticated the cat, Felis domesticus, in classical times, this animal was nevertheless domesticated in Western Europe at an earlier period than is commonly assigned^. And secondly, I shall address myself to showing that the white- breasted marten, Musiela foina, which is known also as the ' Beech Marten' or ' Stone Marten,' was functionally the ' Cat' of the ancients. A list of the different works and memoirs which I have consulted or read upon the topics I have written upon will be found appended to this article. Either my conclusions or my premises, or both, will be found by any one who will verify the references I have given to differ more or less from those of most or all the writers I have quoted, in all or most of the points which we treat of in common; but I have abstained from the invidious task of specifying in detail the various errors, small and great, into which, I think, my predecessors, great and small, have. Sir G. C. Lewis not excepted, fallen. A few words may be employed at the outset in elucidating one of the few universally conceded points in this history, and showing that the classical writers knew nothing of any domesticated Felis in their own countries, and that Mr. George Scharf ^ has consequently fallen into an anachronism in introducing a figure of our cat into his vignette in illustration of the telling of Lord Macaulay's tale of the Battle of the Lake Regillus. In Egypt the cat was domesticated ' Link, 'Die Urwelt und das Alterthum,' pp. 199-201, Berlin, 1821 ; Klemm, 'Colturgeschichte,' i. I, quoting Link ; Isidore Geoffroy St. Hilaire, 'Hist. Nat. Geu.' tom. iii. 96. ^ ' Lays of Ancient Rome,' p. 78, 1860.