ADDRESS ON ANTHEOPOLOQY. 899 this, partly because writers on such subjects as ' Literature and Dog-ma' have already made use of the phrase ' occipitally dolicho- cephalic,' as if it represented one of the permanent acquisitions of science; and I say it with even more regret, as it concerns the deservedly honoured names of Gratiolet and of Broca, to whom Anthropology owes so much. What is true in the doctrine relates, among- other things, to what is matter of common'observation as to the fore part of the head rather than to anything which is really constant in the back part of the skull. This matter of common observation is to the effect that when the ear is ' well forward' in the head, we do ill to augur well of the intelligence of its owner. Now the fore part of the brain is irrigated by the carotid arteries, which, though smaller in calibre during the first years of life, during which the brain so nearly attains its full size, than they are in the adult, are nevertheless relatively large even in those early days, and are both absolutely and relatively to the brain which they have to nourish, much larger than the vertebral arteries, which feed its posterior lobes. It is easy therefore to see that a brain in which the fore part supplied by the carotids has been stinted of due supplies of food, or however stunted in growth, is a brain the entire length and breadth of which is likely to be ill-nourished. As I have never seen reason to believe in any cerebral localisation which was not explicable by a reference to vascular irrigation, it was with much pleasure that I read the remarks of Messrs. Wilks and Moxon in their recently published ' Pathological Anatomy,' pp. 207, 208, as to the indications furnished by the distribution of the Pacchio- nian bodies as to differences existing in the blood-currents on the back and those on the fore part of the brain. These remarks are the more valuable, as mere hydraulics. Professor Clifton assures me, would not have so clearly pointed out what the physiological up- growths seem to indicate. Any increase, again, in the length of the posterior cerebral arteries is jjro tanto a disadvantage to the parts they feed. If the blood-current, as these facts seem to show, is slower in the posterior lobes of the brain, it is, upon purely physical principles of endosmosis and exosmosis, plain that these segments of the brain are less efficient organs for the mind to work with ; and here again ' occipital dolichocephaly' would have a justification, though one founded on the facts of the nutrition of the brain-ccUs, not on the proportions of the brain-case. In many 3 M 2