ON THE DOMESTIC Pia OP 533 affiaity to the Stts indicus long before the frontal sinuses are fully developed; and I am inclined to think it may sometimes, thoug-h certainly not always, be detected in very young specimens of Sus scrofa, yaw/"encs, such as the one figured by Natliusius, I. c. (Taf. i. fig. I, Taf. iii, fig, 13). Though the fulness of this region is due in the adult partly to its being underlain by frontal sinuses, which are relatively small in the early stages of the animal's life, there is still some justification for regarding this structure as an instance of the retention by the adult of an early structural ar- rangement ; for it is easy to understand that the contour described by the external tables in early youth may be carried out conform- ably by the blood-vessels of the scalp as the animal grows older. A parallel to such a process is furnished to us very frequently, though by no means so nearly universally, by the retention in the adult Sus cristatus of that fulness and convexity of the vertical aspect of the fronto-parietal region which is characteristic of Sus scrofa both wild and domestic, as well as of Sus cr'isiatus and Sus indicus, at birth ^. Lieutenants W. E. Baker and H. V. Durand, in their paper on ' Subhimalayan Fossil Uemains of the Dadupur Collection,' in the ' Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal,' vol. v. J 836, p. 664, observe of the two fossil skulls which they describe, that in both ' there is in the frontal plane a total absence of convexity. As this plane ascends there is a tendency to concavity, in consequence of the parietal crests being more strongly marked than in the existing species, and thus producing the appearance of a gentle liollow where, in the common wild hog, there would be a gentle swell.' Further on, in the same paper, the authors remark :— ' From the form of the cranium, the shape of the canines and incisors, and the other points in which the fossil differs from the existing species of the country, a specific difference may be inferred; for the dissimilarity, although less than that which occurs between the Bahyrima, the 5. larvatus, and the Sus scrofa, or common hog, is too remarkable, particularly in the shape of the canines of the lower jaw, to admit of the fossil being considered as a mere variety of the Sus scrofa.' Sir Walter Elliot, however, to whom I owe this reference as well as other things, writes me to the effect that the skulls sent by him to me ' do not seem to differ much from the Subhimalayan fossil specimens figured and described,' as above specified. And it is worthy of being put upon record that » See Nathusius, pi. i. figs i and 3, pi. iii. fig. 13, and pp. 3 and 13. Compare the mesial fulness in the frontals ot S. papuensis.