784 MODIFICATIONS OF ASPECTS OF OEOANIC NATURE products of this plantation form now an important article of commerce; their sale and the planting of more of the previously- barren, shifting, sandy waste, received a great impulse, as did many alien interests, by the interruption to American imports caused by their great Civil War \ and they occupy a large space in some of our various public exhibitions of economic products. Some little uncertainty appears to hang about the question as to the person to whom the chief credit of this work, which has been compared, and not unjustly, with that of the recovery of Holland from the empire of the sea, is really due. The ' Edinburgh ' reviewer assigns it, apparently with good grounds for so doing, to M. Bremontier, and to a period beginning with the year 1789. Professor Koch 2, Palmarum,' iii. 1823-1850; vol. iii. pi. 120, of the ruins of the ancient Agrigentum, with their modern surroundings. It is thus described by Martius himself, p. 249, note :—' Chamserops humilis, alia depressa, alia elata octodecimpedalis, in agro Agri- gentino, antiquissimis ruinis celebri, depicta a 01. Frid. Gaertner, architecta. Muros conspicis magnifici templi quod Jovi Olympio olim consecratum, nunc inopis palrase, opuntiae et agaves domicilium factum est. Junonia Lucinae, Concordise et Herculis templa diruta remotiores tenent coUes.' It would be difficult, except possibly by the introduction of the orange and olive into the picture, to give a more instructive view of a Mediterranean landscape as altered by man's interference. The ruins of what Pindar called the fairest city raised by earthly men, of what Virgil called ' maxima longd moenia,' speak to man's power for destruction; the agave and the prickly pear teU of his discovery and utilisation of America ; the fan-palm with its spreading, far- reaching roots and suckers stands as it did in the far-oflF times when tlie priscan inhabitants of Sicania fed upon its roots, as Cicero (In Verrem, Act. ii. lib. v. 38, 39) suggested they did before Ceres gave them in that very island thp gift of Cerealia, and as it did in the much later days when Verres, by malversation and maladministra- tion, reduced Roman sailors on the shores of what was called the granary of Rome, and was but a few days' sail from Rome, once again to pacify hunger by feeding on that characteristic Mediterranean plant. The importance which plants imported from the New World have assumed in the.Old, forms a subject by itself; of the two just specified, besides their other applications, we learn from Admiral Smyth's still nnsuperseded 'Memoirs of Sicily and its Islands,' 1834, p. 17, that they 'form impenetrable palisades for fortifications, and in the plains they present very serious obstructions to the operations of cavalry.' * Lavergne's 'Economic Rurale de la France,' ed. iv. p. 296. ^ Professor Koch, of Berlin, who seems to consider the planting of the vine to be the climax of attainment in the way of utilising a previously desolate region, writes thus of it, after visiting the spot: 'Weniger mochte es bekannt sein, dass unsere btliebten rothen Bordeaux-Weine ebenfalls in diesem Departement der Haiden wachsen, und dass der Boden vor nicht sehr langer Zeit hier erst fiir die Weinfelder urbar gemacht wurde. Die guten Weine wurden friiher auf dem gegenliberliegenden Ufer der Gironde gewonnen.' p. 294. See also Clav^, '^Itudes sur I'ficonomie Forestifere,' 1862 ; cited by Marsh, I.e., pp. 595-606; Reclus, 'Earth,' Eng. trans., i. 82; Edmond About, 'Le Progrfes,' chap, vii; Lavergne, ' ilconomie Rurale de la France,' 1877, p. 297 seqq.