828 MODIFICATIONS OF ASPECTS OF ORaANIC NATURE where it still grows, to Gibraltar. The solitary, and for this as for other reasons unfertile, palms which we still see here and there in the Aegean and along- the region of the west and north shores of Asia Minor, short of the Black Sea eastward, and which still- strike us as being something as alien to that landscape as was the seedling-palm at Apollo's Delian temple to the eyes of the much- travelled Ulysses (Odyss. vi. 162), have been planted there not as ' food-plants,' but ' animi voluptatisque caussa.' As regards the particular and single spot in the vast botanical region, if particular and single spot there really was, upon the longitudinally vast area of which the date-palm was brought under that human influence which has since caused it to effloresce into so many varieties, very various opinions have been advanced, and I propose to add a fresh one to their number. It may appear at first sight that such a discussion and such an attempt have in them- selves an intrinsic futility. We do not need to refer to King Juba's report of his exploratory voyage to the Canaries to learn that the date-palm will bear dates even in an oceanic and un- inhabited island, and some persons may think that we need only, like the wits of Charles's time, to study ourselves and our sen- sations to see how the forefathers of the Guanches, when they in some post-Juban or post-Augustan period occupied the island, would, under the stimulus of hunger alone, come to learn the art of date-culture, even if they had not brought the knowledge of it with them. Still, I think, on the doctrine of chances, or, what comes to the same thing, the principle ' Frustra fit per plux'a quod fieri potest per pauciora,' as well as upon certain concrete arguments furnished by the Egyptian monuments on the one hand, and by certain curious but still life-like and truth-like stories on the other, et fructus fert, sed fructuum caro non plane excolitur, quum acerbi sit saporis, fructifi- catio nulla, semina cassa : hue pertinet tractus littorum maris Mediterranei in Gallia meridional!, in Italia, in Sardinia, item regionis Dalmatiae, Insulae lonicae, Graeciae- que septentrionalis. Cujus zonae terminum septentrionalem posueris fortasse4i° 20'- 45° lat. bor. In tertia linea palam durat quidem sub divo, sed Acres aut raros aut nuUos emittit : immo frondescit tantum ; cujus zonae terminus septentrionalis tendit ut commemoravi, per insulas lacus Verbeni sub lat. bor. 46° media anni temperie a 12° usque ad 13° C. Arbor hie provivere potest, etiam si hiemis teniperies inter- dum sub frigoris gradum deprimatur dummodo ne nimis (forsan ad—3° vel 4 C.) accedat, quo frigoris etiam mali medicae, citri, aurantii, et myrti extingui atque opprimi solent. Superior altitudinis terminus in monte Aetnae usque ad pedum 1400 vel 1680, teste viro cl. Philippic, adscendit.'