PEEHISTORIC TIMES IN BRITAIN. 529 There would be little weig-ht to be laid upon mere difTerences in size, even if mucb greater differences did exist between Sus scrofa, \ar. ferus, and Sns cristatus than a comparison of the measurements given in the British Museum ' Catalogue of Carnivorous Pachyder- matous and Edentate Mammalia,' 1869, pp. 334, 337, 338, or a comparison of the skulls themselves shows to be the case; for Pallas's'^ words and Nathusius's^ are both clear to the effect that differences of as much as 50 per cent, do exist between individuals of the Sus scrofa, yax. ferus; and a comparison of what I believe to be the skull of an old wild sow, from the alluvium of the Thames, near Oxford, with that of a modern wild boar, will put the matter beyond all question. According to Nathusius^, the differences in size between the larg-est and the smallest wild swine are so considerable as to have caused them to be distinguished by such names as ' Hauptschweine' and ' Kiimmerer' respectively; the latter of which terms has an equivalent in the word ' Wreckling/ applied in some parts of Eng- land to the supernumerary pig in a litter, i, e. to the one which, makes the litter exceed the number of available teats, and fares accordingly. Two or three of the commonly reported facts ^ as to the pairing and period of reproduction of the wild swine account very sufiBciently for these great differences in their size. Though the males are monogamous, severe battles nevertheless take place between them for the possession, it is said, of the largest females ; the smallest females consequently are left for the vanquished, which will usually be the smallest males. Hence a great difference in the two sets of offspring would be reasonably expected. But, further, it is known that the wild, like the tame ^ swine, will breed long that animal food must have been supplied by one or other of the three animals named. And his reason for such truth as his conclusions contain is, it is to be feared, but a poor one ; it runs thus, ' le Cochon dtant I'animal qui sympathise le mains par ses qualites affectives avec respece humaine a d<i etre celui qu'elle aura le moins r^pugne k tuer de sangfroid pour s'en nourrir; ce qui aura eu lieu plus tard et avec bien plus de repugnance pour le Moutou et pour le Bceuf.' * ' Zoographia,' 1837, p. 267. " ' Schweineachadel,' 1864, p. 65. ' See Richard'ion, 'Domestic Pigs,'pp. 18, 19 (Wame, London); Samuel Sidney, 'The Pig,' p. 4 (Eoutledge, London); Blasius, 'Saugethiere,' p. 509, 1857 ; Wagner, ' Saugethiere/ p. 426, 1835 ; Brandt and Ratzeburg, ' Medizinische Zoologie,' p. 88, 1829. * For the period at which tame sows will breed, see Sidney, c. p. 61 ; Low, 'On the Domesticated Animals of the British Islands,' p. 415. M m