753' THE HARVEIAN ORATION. the title, '4394, Birch Collection/ numbered on in continuation o£ the Sloane Collection. Mr. E. Maunde Thompson, by the employment of various scientific methods, the observation of which went some way to compensate me for the tedious labour entailed upon me by the result to which they brought him, identified the MS. as being really Warner's, and brought its date down to a year close upon 1610, half-a- dozen years or so, therefore, before Harvey first lectured at the College of Physicians. The MS. being thus identified I set myself down to look through its 416 folio pages, the average number of lines in a page being thirty-three or thirty-four; the average of words, many of them idle ones, being eight or nine in a line. I do not think it is very likely that I have missed any clearer exposition of Warner's views than the one which I am about to read from page 138 ; nor do I think that, by choosing it, I can in any way misrepresent them, for they are stated elsewhere in the treatise in very much the same words, e.g. page 137. These, then, were his views:—' By this spontaneall pulsatory motion the bloud is con- tinually extracted from the vaines (propter fugam vacui) as well originally exsuctory as secondarily circulatory and propelled into the arteries (propter fugam penetrationis), but with some diversity in the distribution, some part thereof being propelled up into the head by the internal jugular arteries, ad plexum choi'oideum for spirito-faction, the rest into all the rest of the arteries in universum corpus for organo-faction. Out of that part of the blood that is propelled by the jugular arteries up to the head, the spiritus con- fusus or immersus thereof being expressed and segregated in plexu choroidi, either by excussion or exhalation, and animal spirits, thereof made by the self-operation of the prae-existent in somno, it is again distributed as before, one portion thereof being still de- rived and transmitted to the heart, ad motum spontaneum pulsa- tionis ciendum, and so about again, perpetua circulatione durante fabrica eorporea, and all violent destructions or impediments ab- stracted.' It is, perhaps, needless to dwell further upon Warner's claims— certainly I do not propose to trouble you with reading to you any more of his speculations and conclusions. I have, however, had a copy made of pages 140, 141, 142, 194, and 195, and, though the gift may not seem a very valuable one, it will enable any fellow 3C