778 MODIFICATIONS OF ASPECT8 OF ORGANIC NATURE side of the Greek Archipelago which no naturalist would divide or bifurcate, nor, I imagine, has the Greek Archipelago existed in its disconnecting discontinuity as long as the species JEsmdus Jiippocastanum. The sycamore is another undoubtedly non-indigenous tree, but it is thoroughly naturalised and abundant in certain parts of England; and notably in the Lake District it forms a veiy characteristic feature of the landscape, when it is massed round the equally distinctive old farm-houses. In the Lake District its leaves have assumed a somewhat darker colour than they ordinarily bear in the southern and midland counties ; and its bark often exhibits what some naturalists would call a mimetic analogy to that of its fellow-countryman the Oriental plane. The sycamore has yet other claims upon our attention, as the readiness with which its seeds take root might have long ago destroyed, even to the eyes of the least observant, that ' idolon theatri molestissimum et ineptissimum' which taught that if a plant could be proved to be non-indigenous in a country it was useless to expect it to flourish there ^. I will now turn to the Coniferae. In another place ^, I drew attention to the well-known and universally accepted fact, that till comparatively recent times the Scotch fir [Pinus syhestris), the yew [Taxus haccata) and the juniper {Juni/penis communis), had been the only representatives in these islands of the natural order Coniferae. I did not dwell then, and I will not dwell now, upon the greatness of the difference which has, in the last three hundred years, been effected in the general aspect of our countiy by our successive importations of the spruce, the larch, and the silver fir from other European countries, and the multitudinous trees be- lonsrina' to the same order from North America, from North India, from California and Mexico, from Japan, from China, and from Chili, the names of which ' plants of the fir tribe suitable for the 1 For an example of the operation of this notion, so opposed to the most obvious facts, see ' Viti (Fiji), by Berthold Seemann,' p. 426, where, apropos of the statement • the cotton plant is not indigenous in Fiji,' we have the following note:— ' Most of the newspapers took this fact to be a serious drawback to the successful cultivation of cotton, quite forgetting that cotton is not indigenous to the United States and many other countries in which it flourishes. I made exactly the same statement (cotton is not indigenous in Fiji), but added that, notwithstanding, it had become almost wild in some parts, so well is the country adapted for its growth,'—B.S. « ' British Barrows,' p. 724. Article XVII, pp. 326.