CEMETERY AT FRILFORD. 6.25 The osteological peculiarities of this ' elongated oval Eomano- British type,' as seen at Frilford, show us that we have to deal, there at least, with times of civilisation. For civilisation differs from heathendom in nothing- more markedly to the eye of the craniologist than in the age to which persons who have lived under its influences attain; and the long skulls of which I am now speaking differ very strikingly from the long and narrow skulls described by Dr. Thurnam in this very particular, that in very many cases they belonged to very aged individuals ^. The greater average stature of this variety of Celt (5 feet 8 inches as against 5 feet 6 inches of the older form) may perhaps be in like manner ascribed to the greater civilisation and command of the means of sustenance which we know them to have possessed. I have referred eleven female skulls to this type as against twenty-one male; the female skulls in many cases approaching very closely to the pro- portions of the medium-sized skulls^. A much greater difference, on the other hand—viz., as much as 8-5 inches^ judging from the average approximatively obtained from the measurement of the long bones of ten women referred to this type—appears to have existed between the statures of either sex in this type than exists between the statures of modern ^ English men and women. It may be said that the estimation of the stature by the various methods which take one or more of the long bones as their standard, is amenable always to several sources of fallacy, and more especially in the case of female skeletons; but in savage races ^ at the present ^ See Dr. Thumam, op. cit. p. 60. ^ Huschke, ' Schiidel, Hirn, und Seele,' p. 48; Holder, ' Arch, fiir Anthropologie,' ii- I. P- 55- ^ The average height of 295 adult male patients examined in the Somerset County Lunatic Asylum by Dr. Boyd, and recorded by him in the ' Philosophical Transactions' for 1861, p. 261, varied from 67-8 to 65 inches; that of 233 females from 63-2 to 6i-6 inches. The average height of the modern German male is given by Vierordt in his 'Grundriss der Physiologic,' 2nd ed. p. 460, as 172 centimetres (5 feet 3^ inches); that of the German female as 164 (5 feet 2^ inches). In the long barrow explored by Dr. Thurnam (I.e. p. 27) at Tilshead, three male skeletons varied in length from 5 feet 5 inches to 5 feet 8 inches, and three female skeletons from 4 feet 9 inches to 5 feet 3 inches. The average height of the dolichocephalic men from megalithic and other long barrows is given by the same author (1. c. pp. 40, 41) as 5 feet 5 inches as against 5 feet 9 inches for the brachycephalic men from circular barrows. ♦ Sir Andrew Smith, K.C.B., has kindly informed me that he can safely state from extensive observation made during seventeen years' residence in South Africa, that the Aniakosa Kaffirs to the eastward of the Colony, average, men 5 feet 8| inches, women 5 feet inch. S S