THE HAEVEIAN ORATION. 764 his imagination was vivid and active enough, his study (for to this perhaps we may ascribe it) of the excellent models mentioned saved him, as such a study can save a man, from falling into the use of false or extravagant imagery. Harvey, besides the advantages accruing from acquaintance with the great minds of the past, enjoyed also those which may be gotten from familiar intercourse with great contemporary minds. These advantages constitute in themselves a second education ; and they were at Harvey's command for the period of more than forty years during which he was prominently before the public. It is recorded as one of the many distinctions of John Greaves (see ' Life,' by T. Smith, 1699, p. 44), the once celebrated astronomer and anti- quary, and a man whom we can well believe to have done more, as a Fellow of Merton, than give a silent vote for Harvey when he was chosen Warden, that he was one of the friends of Harvey as well as of Archbishops Laud and Usher. It is indeed in a letter to this latter dignitary, and in answer, we may suppose, to an appeal from him on behalf of Harvey, that we find John Greaves pledging himself in a postscript, under date Sept. 19, 1644, the year before Harvey's election as Warden of Merton, to the following effect: ' If I may serve Dr. Harvy (sic) I shall be most ready either here or at Leyden to do it.' (See 'Life of James Usher,'' by Richard Parr, D.D., 1686, p. 510)^. His well-known connection ^ I owe this last reference to the 'Biographia Britanniea,' suh voc. Greaves. For a further account see Wood's 'Athenae Oxonienses,' vol. iii. ed. Bliss, 1817. To the former of these sources I owe a second and more interesting reference, viz. to Birch's edition, 1737, of the 'Miscellaneous Works of John Greaves,' where, at the end of Greaves' ' Treatise on the Pyramids' (pp. 136, 137), we have given us an account of a conversation between him and Harvey. It runs thus: ' That I and my company should have continued so many hours in the Pyramid and live (whereas we found no inconvenience) was much wondered at by Dr. Harvey, his majesty's learned physician. For, said he, seeing we never breathe the same air twice, but still new air is required to a new respiration (the succus olibilis of it being spent in every expiration), it could not be but by long breathing we should have spent the aliment of that small stock of air within, and have been stifled ; unless there were some secret tunnels con- veying it to the top of the Pyramid whereby it might pass out and make way for fresh air to come in at the entrance below.' The Fellow of Merton was not wanting in an answer to the future Warden, assuring him, amongst much else not wholly correct, that' as for any tubuli to let out the fuliginous air at the top of the Pyramid none could be discovered within or without.' Harvey replied, ' they might be so small as that they could not easily be discerned, and yet might be sufficient to make way for the air, being a thin and subtil body.' It has, indeed, been left to our own times and to v. Pettenkofer to demonstrate and exhibit the action of the capillary pores in the