ON THE ROT IN SHEEP. 569 slugs, all told, out of which to choose the guilty pai-ty or parties. These are, as enumerated in Siebold and Kolliker's ' Zeitschrift' for 1873 (vol. xxiii. p. 339), Limax agrestis, Limax marginatus, Vitrina pellncida, Hyal'ma alliaria, Limnaeus pereger, Limnaeus trnncatulus, Arion ater. Avion cinckts. That the fluke of the Faroe Islands sheep spends a considerable part of its life as a parasite in one or more of these mollusca admits of about as much doubt as the statement that the 'giddy' disease—the ' sturdy,' as the Lake District shepherds pronounce the French word etourcli—of the sheep is similarly dependent upon a to-and-fro shuttlecock alterna- tion of one animal between two others. I do not say that it is necessarily in one, and one only, of the specified eight mollusca. Undoubtedly the fluke, like other parasites, may, in its sporting tour, infest many hosts. As a matter of fact, this particular fluke [Fasciola Iiepatica) in its adult stage infests some dozen mammals beside the sheep and ourselves. But, as a matter of speculation, I incline to think that the fluke in its younger days is, like some other animals, a little, or indeed a good deal, more particular as to where it lodges than it is in later life. As a matter of practice at any rate there is no need to tell farmers to be on their guard against snails which do not infest their pastures, and of the eight just specified they need usually in England only look to the black slug and the gray slug. Willemoes-Suhm suspected the gray slug, I suspect the black slug; partly on account of its very wide distribution in space (it having been found as a ' spectre noir' in Prince Jerome Bonaparte's voyage to Jan Mayen's island), partly from the facts furnished to me by Mr. D. Gresswell, M.E.C.V.S., of Louth, to the eflfect that sheep which have been feeding on turnips harbouring ' black jacks' will die of rot even when shifted on to salt marshes. Any inhabitant of the Shetland Islands who will inform us that sheep-rot does infest his country, or any inhabitant of Siberia who will inform us that it does not infest his, will settle the question, in a preliminary way at least, in favour of the black slug. For 'this very common, beautiful, and exceedingly variable slug,' as Forbes calls it, is not found in Siberia, and the Limax agrestis is ; while in the Shetlands the case of distribution is precisely reversed. Whoever will furnish us with the information required will be indeed a ' true farmers' friend.' Anyhow, the line of prevention indicated in my previous letter of