PHYSIOLOGY IN EELATION TO 722 or gemmation; through two different series of metamorphotic changes. And such a phaenomenon as the produetiou of a par- ticular tissue may depend—in the case of adipose tissue, for example—upon the employment in Nature's laboratory of one or the other of two different chemical compounds. Pain may be, as Dr. Handfield Jones has shown paralysis is, produced in one case by the impact of shock upon nerve-centres, in another by the cur- tailment of their supply of blood. In each and all of these cases, the maxim which has many a time been sonorously enunciated in these Schools, 'Entia non sunt multiplicanda praeter necessitatem,' would, if listened to, have closed our ears and eyes to at least one- half of the truth. That Bacon would have classed this maxim with his ' Idola Theatri,' I think I am justified in saying, for that in the very next section (Section xlv) of the 'Novum Organon' to that in which he treats of these delusive notions, I find these words:—' Intellectus humanus ex proprietate sua facile supponit majorem ordinem et aequalitatem in rebus quam invenit;' and if I am told, as by Mr. Mill ('Logic,' vol. ii. p. 379, ed. 1846), that Bacon, in the actual practice of investigation, acted as though there were no such thing as Plurality of Causes, I need only answer that herein his practice did not differ from his pi'ecepts at all more widely than does the practice of many other writers, of many practising, of many teaching doctors, differ from theirs. I have a satisfaction in quoting the living De Candolle, who enjoys one of the first and best deserved scientific reputations of the day, in repudiation of Maupertais' famous principle of ' least action.' De Candolle writes thus in his ' Geographie Botanique,' vol. ii. p. 115 : 'Nous aimons a croire aux moyens simples, peut-etre unique- ment a cause du pen de port^e de notre esprit.' "What, then, is the legitimate application? where does Nature really bind herself to the observance of a ' Law of Parsimony' ? In, as I think, three distinct lines of her operations. Where an organ can be diverted from one and set to discharge another function, there Nature will spare herself the expense of forming a new organ, and will adapt the old one to a new use. She is prodigal in the variety of her adaptations, she is niggard in the invention of new structures (Milne-Edwards, cit. in Darwin's 'Origin of Species,' p. 232). The complicated arrangement of co- operating muscles whereby the bird's third eyelid is drawn across