808 MODIFICATIONS OF ASPECTS OF ORGANIC NATURE furnislied to us by the fact that a certain island of blue colour, placed by Professor Huxley in the * Dark Continent' of Africa to indicate the presence in Upper Egypt, Nubia, and Abyssinia of some traces of the Australioid type, corresponds with the area in that continent whence most or all of her few gifts of valuable cultivated plants and valuable domesticated animals have come to us, viz., the cotton plant, and, very probably, the date-palm ; the ass, from the native stock Asinus taeniojms; and the eat, from the native stock Felis maniculata. Of the two arms into which the eastward end of this area bifur- cates, the upper or northward one would correspond with the Kuenlun range, and the southward with the Himalayas; Ladak, and part of the table-land of Thibet, lying between them. It is in the Kuenlun range that Jade mines are found. The third map, being one of Johnston's Charts of the World on blank Mercator's Projection, has been coloured so as to illustrate the following facts in the distribution of certain plants and certain minerals connected with the ancient development and subsequent progress of human civilisation. One region is coloured as it is in the ' Planteogeographisk Atlas,' tav. ii, of Professor Schouw, Copenhagen, 1824, so as to show the distribution of the Vifis vitj/em over the countries forming the northern and southern shores of the Mediterranean and Black Seas, over Asia Minor, Palestine, and Mesopotamia, over the lowlands both of Astrakhan and Turan, and along the southern slopes of the Himalayas, so as to end at the eastern extremity of that chain. In nearly the same latitude as that eastern extremity, and about in the same longitu- dinal line as the long axis of the Peninsula of Malacca, a spot of another colour marks the situation of the amber mines of Burmah^, while four spots of yet a third colour in British Burmah, Banca ^, Celebes, and Khorassan ^, respectively indicate localities in * For the Amber mines of Burmah see Balfour's ' Indian Cyclopaedia,' s. v., 1S71; and Keith Johnston's ' Eoyal Atlas,' map. 28, in loco lat. 26° 20'. 2 For the existence of tin together with copper in Burmah see Mortillet, ' Revue d'Anthropologie,' i. 1875, p. 653. * For the similar collocation of the two metals which when combined make bronze in Khorassan and elsewhere in Central Asia south of the Caspian, see v. Baer,' Archiv fiir Anthropologie,' ix. 4, p. 262, 1877. know from the same irrefragable authority. Bulletin Acad. Sci. St. P^tersbourg. torn. xvii. p. 417-431, 1859, and torn, i., i860, PP- 35-37. that the date-palm is still represented a little to the north of these deposits of tin and copper, at Sari, in the as yet Persian province of Mazanderan on the south