637 CEMETEKY AT FRILFORD. Calvaria E. Asymmetrical and with a partly«open frontal sutui-e. It is possible, though this calvai-ia came into my lianda a month later than the lower jaw C, that it belonged to it. Mr. Akerman says (p. 3, 'Proc. Soc. Ant.' I.e.) that the remains from the two cofHiis were handed over to me for examination. Calvuna D. Incomplete. From a second leaden coffin. Middle-aged man. Capacious. Fragments of second lower jaw, possibly belonging to calvaria D. January 25, 1867. II Set. i. Skull of ' Hohberg' type of His and Riltimeyer, with long and other bones, from a leaden coffin, in which were found five coins, one of whicli was of Con- st.-mtine the younger, a second of Valens, and a third of Gratian, obiit a.d. 383. Femur 19^, humerus 13-9. Old man. ii. Slcull of 'Sion' type of His and Riitimeyer, with long and other bones, from a leaden coffin, in which no coins were found. Clavicle and second left metatarsal broken and repaired during life. iii. Coins (some of which were lost in sending by post), and leaden coffins. iv. Plain imi, which contained the bones of a child probably two to three years old. 3 old men, 2 middle-aged men, 2 middle-aged women, i child, = 7 bodies. April 16, May 9, 16,1867. in Set. i. Skull of old man, of 'Sion' or globose Romano-British type. Skull circum- ference, 22^ in. Femur, 20^ in. Tibia, 15^ in. Height, 6 ft. i in. ii. Skull of young woman, of 'enlarged River-bed type,' see p. 625, supra, with some osteophytic deposit internally, set. 20 to 25. Humerus, 10.3 in. Tibia, ii-j in. Stature, circa 4 ft. 6 in. iii. Loicer jaw, and frontal hone, platycephalic, said to have been found with umbo No. V. Old man. iii'. Second lower jaw, also said to have been found with umbo. Very old man. iv. V. Umbo, reported to have been found with jaws iii and iii', but in the grave in which the unfbo was reported to have been found a secondary interment was supposed to have taken place, a tibia and femur having been observed in it lying with their relative positions reversed. vi. Calvaria of young icoman, of 'enlarged River-bed type,' with cephalic index 77, and some leaning towards the smaller type on the one side, as well as to the globose Romano-British male skull vi of September, 1867, on the other. It resembles skulls vi of April I, 1868, and xi of same date, and very possibly may be the female form of the Romano-British globose type. It is mainly in length that these female skulls are inferior to the smaller male skulls of the ' Sion ' type. N.B.—8 millimetres is the average excess of male length. Femur, 13 in. Humerus, 10 in. Mean stature from these two bones, 4 ft. 2.5 in. A phalanx of an ox and a piece of pottery were sent with this skull. Tljis skuU was found very near an infant's. vi. Child about lime of birth. vii. Skull of very old man, of Romano-British elongated type. Humerus, 13-2 in. Radius, 9-2 in. Exostotic growths on humerus. Stature, 5 ft. 10 in.