PRODUCED BY MAN. Admiral Smyth (p. 17 of his 'Memoir of Sicily and its Islands,' 1824), that they ' form impenetrable palisades for fortifications, and in the plains present very serious obstructions to the operations of cavalry.' My third map, with the distribution of the vine after Schouw, should be compared with my picture from Kaempfer's ' Amoenitates Exoticae,' Fasc. iv. p. 711, 1713, of what he calls, p. 714, the Messis dactylifera, the date-harvest of Persia, and speaks of as being 'lusus magis quam labores,' The distributional limits of the 'fruitful' vine and the 'fruiting' date-palm now, as of yore, overlap each other, as was pointed out by Arago in his ' M6moire sur TEtat Thermom^trique du Globe terrestre' (' CEuvres,' v. 216, ed. 1858) in Palestine, when from this fact he, with much ingenuity, argued that 3300 years have not appreciably altered the climate of Palestine. For ' la limite thermom^trique en inoins de la datte difffere trfes peu de la limite ther- momdtriqiie en plus de la vigne and, what makes the argument, especially to those who have Kaempfer's picture of the luxuriant date-harvest before their eyes, entirely and beautifully perfect, he further (p. 217, 1. c.) tells us, ' a Abusheer (Bushire) en Perse, dont la temperature moyenne ne surpasse certaine. ment pas 23°, on ne pent, suivant Niebulir, cultiver la vigne que dans les fossils ou a I'abri de I'action directe des rayons du soleil.' A more simple, but also a more conclusive proof that the Syrian climate has not materially changed within the historic period cannot be imagined ^ I began this Lecture with details as to the distribution of pines ' It is strange to find that Arago could, when dealing with France, have swerved so far from the line of evidence he employed as to Palestine, as to have told the Chamber of Deputies (February 27, 1836), ' Vous serez peut-6tre dtonn^s d'entendre que dans les environs de Paris, il y a quelques sifecles, il faisait beaucoup plus chaud qu'aujourd'hui.' vol. xii. ' QEuvres, Melanges,' p. 434. But for the context one might have been tempted to take the last of the words just quoted as applying to the month of Feb- ruary only ; and in all gravity the title of chapitre xix. in the memoir already quoted, vol. viii. ' CEuvres,' vol. v. ' Nat. Scient.' p. 239, ' Observations prouvant que I'ancien climat se maintient dans une partie des Gaules,' might seem to justify such an inter- pretation of words spoken under some provocation in debate. And the more so as a few pages previously (p. 214) we find Arago recognising the essential deceptiveness which must attach to ' une foule de documents historiques ' in the following words : ' On remarquera que je devrai rdsoudre le problferae que je me suis pos^ sans avoir recours k des chiffres certains, k des observations num^riques. L'invention des ther- mom^jtres ne remonte guere qu'k I'annee 1590; on doit mfime ajouter qu'avant 1700 ees instrumenta n'^taient ni exactes ni comparables.'