511 DOMESTIC CATS. Length of Body. Length of Tail. Common Genet, Viverra genelta 20" 16" Pharaoh's Eat, Herpestes ichneumon 18" 18" Spanish Iclineumon, Herpestes widdringioni...... 22" 20" White-breasted Marten, Mustela foina 16" 8" Yellow-breasted Marten, Mustela martes 18" 12" Polecat and Ferret, il/wsieZcB pt<<orii4s ei/mj'o 18" 6" Sardinian Weasel, Mustela boccamela 8j" 4" Stoat, Mitsiela erminea 10" 4" Common Weasel, Mustela vulgaris 7z" 2" The upshot of this paper then is to show that in classical times the word ya\fj was used by the Greeks to denote the musteline marten and ferret, but not the polecat probably, though probably the genet, and that in later times, but not till later times, it was used also for the Felis domesticiis. The word mustela does not seem to have been transferred together with the office when the latter was handed over from the marten to the felis, in Italy. In the East the felis took both the name and the work of the rival it supplanted. It did succeed in supplanting the marten as the domestic mouse-killer, probably partly by virtue of its greater attachment to man and to place, partly by virtue of its less pro- nounced tendency to burglary and petty larceny, partlj' by virtue of its more even temper, and partly by its greater cleanliness and less oflPensiveness. The very points also in which as a wild animal it is inferior make it superior as a domestic one to a musteline. Its constitution being less plastic it cannot fit itself as easily as the latter to varying climates, in many of which, as Reugger has shown of Paraguay, it cannot run wild. Its range of foods is more limited, and its faculty for, and its courage in adopting new methods of purveying for itself, less conspicuous than theirs. Hence 'the poor cat of the adage' being more dependent on man, has been obliged to render itself more useful to him than the marten, and it has very successfully turned its inferiority to ' commodity,' The question as to how, in the trivial language of two different nations, English and Greek, in modern as in ancient times, Viver- rines^, Mustelines, and Felines have each had a representative called by the same name as a couple of animals, one in each of the two other families, is a little harder to understand for the ana- tomist, or for the anatomical artist, than it is for anybody who, being devoid of either of these accomplishments, will stand inside * We speak of a civet cat as well as of a marten cat and common cat.