MEDICINE IN MODEKN TIMES. 721 In this part of my address I propose to consider, mainly by the light of recently attained biological results, the value of two great rules for the conduct of the understanding, each of which has a legitimate sphere of application, but the former of which enjoys, it seems to me, more and the latter less than its deserved promi- nence. The first of these two regulative principles has received the endorsement of Newton, and it stands as his first ' Eegula Philosophandi,' at the commencement of the Third Book of the Principia. It was known in the days of the schoolmen as the ' Razor of Occam,' and in later days it has been styled the ' Law of Parsimony' or 'Economy.' Newton enunciates it as follows:— ' Causas rerum naturalium uon plures admitti debere, quam quae et verae sint et earum phaenomenis explicandis sufficiant. Dicuut utique philosophi: " Natura nihil agit frustra ; " et " Frustra fit per plura quod fieri potest per paueiora," Natura enim simplex est et rerum causis superfluis non luxuriat.' I know that this Regula has great influence on the minds of many biologists, and I believe that this its influence is by no means always for good. This is not a subject in which authorities ought to count for much; but I may say that, while the names of Aristotle, Malebranche, Maupertuis, SL Hilaire, Goethe, Bichat, and Dugald Stewart may be quoted in' approval of this rule, the names of Bacon, Mill, and De Candolle may be brought forward by those who repudiate it or curtail its application. Our motto, however, is, 'Nullius addictus jurare in verba magistri;' and our business is to ask, not .what men have laid down, but how Nature operates. Can a phaenomenqji- have more than one cause, or can it not ? Is it possible, for example, and to put the question in a concrete and most practically interesting point of view at once, that a fever which we know can spread by infection or contagion, can also originate spontaneously? I rather incline, though but doubtfully, arid after an imperfect examination of imperfect data, to anticipate that a negative answer to this latter question will turn out some day to be the true one; but I do not know that there is anything in the analogy of Nature to compel us to incline towards this negative conclusion a priori. Such a phae- nCmenon, at all events, as a living animal, is often enough produced by two or more distinct processes, within the limits of the same species: as, for example, from ova of different character, summer ova or winter, ova, impregnated or unimpregnated ova; by fission 3 A