PRODUCED BY MAN. 809 which copper and tin are still found in such proximity to each other and in such accessible abundance as to sug-gest that it is not improbable that in some one of those districts prehistoric man may- have come upon the invention of bronze. A fourth colour marks the position of the Kuenlun Jade mines whence, in still earlier than bronze times, stone weapons may with great probability be supposed to have been procured by man before he migrated into the jadeless regions westward. (See Article XXXIX, p. 686.) The New World was colovired as it is in Schouw's tav. viii, 1. c, to show the area of distribution of the Cactaceae, a region com- prehending South America north of the Tropic of Capricorn, the Isthmus of Panama, the Peninsula of California up to 30° N. lat., the West Indian Archipelago, the northern shores of the Gulf of Mexico, and the strip of Gulfstream-washed North American coast between the Alleghanies and the Atlantic up to about 40° N. lat. From this area more than 25 per cent, of all our cultivated plants have been procured, as the annexed table shows; and, of course, since the time of Columbus. This table (based, so far as it deals with the vegetable kingdom, mainly upon De Candolle's ' Geographic Botanique,' pp. 986-987) gives approximatively the proportions in which the several 'regions' of the globe established by that phytogeographer and by several zoogeographers have contributed to make up the lists of such culti- vated plants and domesticated animals respectively as are of con- siderable, even if not always of cosmopolitauj importance. Of (approximatively) 160 Cultivated Of (approximatively) 21 Domestic Plants. Mammals. Per cent. Per cent. The Palaearctic species are .. 50 50 are Palaearctic. „ Oriental i) . 25 14 „ Oriental. „ Afirican 11 35 14 „ African. „ Nearctic n 2-S 0 „ Nearctic. „ Neotropical St 25 14 ,, Neoti-opical, Australian 0 0 „ Australian. Of some of the great facts which these maps and this table put shore of the Caspian. This tree is supposed to have been carried thither, as to so many other places, by the Arabs during their career of conquest, which contrasts to such advantage and in so many ways with th.at of other Mussulman conquerors. ' For an account of the Jade mines in the Kuenlun Eange see Cayley, 'Macmillan's Magazine,' October, 1871; and for J^de generally, Eudler 'Popular Science lleview.,' October, 1879.