MEDICINE IN MODEKN TIMES. 703 But, in spite of all this, I am inclined to think that the direct action • of nerves on cells is a vera causa; and, even if our highest micro- scopic powers do succeed in proving that nerve-tissues are never continuous with any other tissues in any part of their distribution, it must still be recollected that such intervals as may be demon- strated will be, if not insensible, at all events infinitesimal; and nerve-force may well be sufficient to act across such gaps as these. (See Dr. Radcliffe's 'Lectures on Epilepsy,' 1864, pp. 13 and 330.) I can appeal for my justification to Professor Lister's experiment, recorded in his paper on the Cutaneous Pigmentary System in the Frog ('Phil. Trans.' 1858, pp. 6^6-6^g), in which certainly the nerve-system is shown to have some control over the molecular movements of concentration and difi'usion quite independently of the blood-vascular system. The cessation of the circulation in a frog's web entails the concentration of the pigment; therefore Professor Lister took a pale frog—i. e. one in which the pigment was already concentrated; and, tying a ligature above the ankle, so as to eliminate the condition of cessation of the blood's circu- lation, he then eliminated the condition of nerve-influence from the cranio-spinal axis by amputation above the ligature. Cessante causa, cessat et effectus; the nerve-force is removed; and the pigmentary diffusion which it'had held in check is set up and continues, until superseded by the post mortem concentration which ordinarily takes place, and produces that lightening of the dark hue usually seen in the frog after death. This experiment, which I have not given in full, nor in Professor Lister's own words, is a very striking one; and I hope I may remark, without offence to any representatives of the German Fatherland, to which physiology owes so much, that much that has been recently written and worked at there might have been spared, had Mr. Lister's papers been as well known to them as they will be to their successors. They seem to me to mark an era in the literature and in our knowledge of the essence of inflammation. Here, if I may be allowed to digress somewhat, I would remark that Professor Lister's suggestion made in 1858 (loc. cit. pp. 619 and 640) as to the probability of the existence in the limbs of a ganglionic apparatus co-ordinating molecular and other movements at the periphery, sometimes independently, sometimes subordinately to the cranio-spinally placed nerve-centres, may seem to have found