PHYSIOLOGY IN -RELATION TO 696 suppose must be acknowledged, with perhaps an exception as to the relative statistical frequency of neuralgia of the first division of the fifth, to be only too real facts. By laying the physiology of the cervical sympathetic alongside of the natural history of an attack of neuralgia, we shall be enabled, I believe, to see that there are stages in each corresponding with stages in the other, but that it is a stage of spasm in the one, and not a stage of relaxation and congestion, which corresponds with the stage of pain in the other. Stimulation of the upper cervical sympathetic produces, more or less immediately, contraction of the blood-vessels of the head and dilatation of the pupil, and diminution of the temperature. This is the first line of operation, resulting in what Brown-Sequard (' Lectures on the Physiology and Pathology of the Nervous Sys- tem,' i860, p. 142) calls 'Decrease of Vital Properties.' But after a while the reverse of all this takes place, and the vessels dilate. Now whether this be so in consequence of exhaustion, as is ordi- narily said (e.g. Funke, 'Physiologic,' vol. ii. p. 772), or not, as Dr. Loven (who says in Ludwig's ' Arbeiten Phys. Anst.,' Leipzig, 1866, p. II, that the sympathetic is not so easily tired) thinks, is of no consequence, or of little consequence, as the fact of the sequence of events is accepted as I have stated it on all hands. Indeed, similar alternations of alteration in the calibre of vessels take place, as is well known, spontaneously, as the phrase goes— whether rhythmically or not, still chronometrically in relation to the needs of the animal and its tissues; in the arteries of the rabbit's ear (Funke, loc. cit. ii. p. 771, citing Schiff and Callenfels), in the veins of the bat's wing (Wharton Jones, 'Phil. Trans.' 1852), in the arteries of the frog's web (Lister, 'Phil. Trans.' 1858, p. 653); and the occurrence of these latter alternations makes the occurrence of the former more intelligible. Now, a similar alterna- tion from a stage of contraction of blood-vessels, of coldness of skin, of shivering, of total absence of heat, redness, swelling, or tenderness, to one of increased circulation, swelling, heat, and tenderness, constitutes two stages in an attack of neuralgia, homo- logous with the two described as occurring in irritation of the sympathetic. It is rare, I believe and Dr. Anstie teaches (' Stimu- lants and Narcotics,' 1864), for pain, as opposed to tenderness, to persist after congestion; and pain in tissues differs as much from tenderness as remorse in a conscience differs from tenderness in