574 ON THE GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION its coloration might be supposed to have been likely to give it, is beaten in the struggle for existence in circumpolar districts by Arion /loriensis, of about the same size, but of such different colour in other districts, if not in the North \ as not only to have been called fiisciis and siil-fuscics, but even to have been confounded with the true Arion ater (from which, indeed, it is mainly distinguished by its more mesially placed respiratory orifice and its small size), it surpasses Arion hortensis ^ in more southern latitudes. Middendorff indeed expressly says, 1. c.: ' In Siberien traf ich diesen Limax [Arion hortensis) nicht, sondern nur einen einzigen kleinen Limax in Starowoj Gebirge, welcher dem Limax agresiis, L, recht ahnlich sehe.' But this absence from Siberia, to which F. Schmidt's silence as to its presence bears some testimony, may be paralleled by the similar absence of Paluclina vivipara (Middendorff, I.e., p. 426) and of crayfishes from the Siberian river basins^, and, as in those two cases, when compared with the facts of a distribution elsewhere does not disprove a circumpolar character. Gerstfeldt, 'Mem. Sav. Etrang. St. Petersbourg,' 1859, 515 (11), refers to some few, small, ill-preserved specimens, 'einige wenige kleine und schlecht erhaltene Exemplare ' of slugs from Irkutsk and Wilni and from the Amur, and speaks of them under the name Arion ater. Their small size may justify us in supposing them to have been Arion hortensis; and the bad state of preservation in which they were, and which makes Gerstfeldt himself speak doubt- fully of his identification, p. 535 (31), makes this note of their presence less authoritative than it otherwise would have been, and has caused Schrenk to suggest that they were in reality specimens of Limax agrestis. An illustration of the paucity and rarity of Limax agrestis in circumpolar regions is furnished by the entry made by Friedrich Schmidt in his list of Animals from the Region of the Lower * Even in England, where the Arion hortensis is often of a ' deep blue-black,' and is, I susiject, the ' Black Jack ' of agriculturists, it is not rarely ' yellowish,' somefimes 'gray or greenish-gray' (Lovell Reeve's 'British Land and Freshwater Molluscs, p. 11). In Amoorland it is ' graugelblich,' with three stripes, one dorsal and two lateral narrower ones; whilst its rival the Limax agrestis is described as ' hell-braunlich- oder bliiulich-grau.' See Schrenk, 1. c. ' See Schrenk, 'Amurlande,' ii. 690-693, 1869; Middendorff, 'Sibirische Reise,* ii. p. 424, 1851. * See Huxley,' On Crayfishes,' p. 305.