814 MODIFICATIONS OF ASPECTS OF ORGANIC NATURE memories by tliese names. The European names for the ox, on the other hand, are said by M. .Toly (cit. Isidore St. Hilaire, ' Hist. Nat. G^n.' iii. p. 89) to have an Asiatic origin, and M. A. Pictet (' Des Origines Indo-Europeennes,' pp. 330-343) has declared his views to the same effect. This, however, is only what would have been expected in the European languages of the Aryan division. What is of importance as regards the domestication of the ox is to note that, though such languages as the Finnic may use loan words taken from Aryan tongues to express the general idea of Ox (= Bovine animal), they frequently have true Turanian vocables to denote such particularities as we have in view when we speak of heifers, calves, cowSj bulls^ and the 'ox,' sensu strictori, confirming in the last matter the statement of Strabo (vii. 4, 8) that castration was learnt from the eastern Europeans and Sarmatians. There is in fact a good deal of evidence for a view which should hold either that the Turanian races domesticated the wild ox, or rather the wild calf, independently; or that the human species did this great work before the differentiation into Aryan-speaking and Turanian- speaking men was carried out. That the Scythian breed of cattle should have been hornless in the time of Herodotus (iv. 29) appears to me to be explicable, not on the hypothesis taken up by later observers that it is an effect of cold, but as being a result of long-sustained domestication; and if what Hehn, p. 413, 1. c, suggests as to the South Russian breed of small red steppe cattle being descendants of those Scythian oxen is true, we should have a further confirmation of this view furnished in their persistency. There is, at any rate, another breed of cattle in the South Russian steppes, which goes by the name of the ' Kalmuc' cow, and is sup- posed to have accompanied the Mongolian or Tartar hordes in their invasion of Europe. Some writers, in defiance of the arguments that have just been glanced at, and of many others, have advocated the claims of Africa to be considered the parent country of the domestic ox. The main fact, as it seems to me, which has induced or seduced them rather into this conclusion, is the great extent to which boviculture has developed itself through the length and breadth of the ' Dark Continent.' But without wasting words in pointing out the curious conclusions to which this reasoning would lead us in other cases, I would refer such persons to Middendorff's account of the