APPENDIX. 939 NOTES ON ARCHiEOLOGICAL DISCOVERIES MADE AT WYTHAM, BERKSHIRE. In the year 1869, in the course of digging gravel on Lord Abingdon's property a little to the north of the village of "Wytham, graves containing human remains were found, and between that date and March 1878 many others were exposed. The graves were in the gi-avel, 5 feet or even 11 feet deep, and in some instances so far down as even to reach the subjacent clay. One grave is noted as about 3 feet long; another 7 feet 7 inches long and 4 feet i o inches in greatest width; a third I o feet long and 5 feet 6 inches wide. Some of the graves were filled in with humus, others with gravel; probably the gravel dug out in making the grave had been thrown in again. In some instances it is noted that the ' head was lying at the east rather than towards the east;' in one the head was at the south with the jaw pointing east; in one the head was at the south-west, the feet at the north-east; in another the skeleton was lying "W.N.W. by E.S.E. The bodies were in the contracted or semi-contracted position, with the knees approximated to the face; and it is noted that the skeleton or head was lying sometimes on its right side, sometimes on its left, and with the hands sometimes up to the face. The skeletons were of both sexes and of different ages, from old age to childhood. One grave on the south side of the gravel-pit, exhumed in January 1870, contained the skeleton of a child about six years of age. As many as three skeletons were in one instance exposed in a single grave, but usually only a single body was in each grave. The skulls are described as ' large, very like my globose Eomano-British type, and like the Sion type of His and Riitimeyer.' The following objects are noted as having been found in graves along with the bodies:—the bones of a pig, the split tusk of a boar, another split tusk (i. I. 19, 70) with a hole worked through it in company with a worked flint, the horn of a red-deer, pottery both coarse and fine in texture, amber-beads which had probably formed a necklace, and charcoal about the head. Additional details are given in the following extracts from Dr. Rolleston's notes:— 'January 28, 1870. Found a large stone like a segment of a mill-stone, with many traces of burning, above the gravel, with another smaller stone 4' 2" below the surface in mould. Also many animal bones, some burnt through and through. A large