675 THE IRON, THE BRONZE, AND THE STONE AGES. To this disquisition on the several Ages of Iron, Bronze, and Stone, I will here append an acconnt of the disinterment of a skeleton of the Iron (Roman) Period, which took place by the permission of the Earl Bathurst, on August 27, in Oakley Park, during heavy rain, in the presence of the Hon. Mrs. Lennox, the Hon. Miss M. Ponsonby, Professor A. H. Church, Christopher Bowley, Esq., R. A. Anderson, Esq., E. C. Sewell, Esq., and myself. The skeleton was contained in a stone coffin, covered by a flat stone slab, much of the same character as the undoubted Roman coffins found at York and elsewhere in England, though, unlike many of them, it contained no relic besides the skeleton itself, and a Roman nail, of a type known at Cirencester. The dimensions of the coffin were:— f Length .... 7' 2" External ] Width at N.E. end . . 2' 8"5 ( Width at S.W. end . . 2' 4" f Length . . . . 6' 8" Internal ] Width at N.E. end . . i' 5"5 ( Width at S.W. end . . 1' 5". Its bearings were from N.E. by E. to S.W. by W., a rather imusual orientation, it being more common to find the feet at a point a little south, than at a point a little north, of the rising sun, deaths being more numerous in the winter than in the sum- mer quarters of the year. The head, however, was at the north- eastward end, and this appears to make it probable that this coflan dates as far back as the time when the Romans had relinquished the practice of cremation, without accepting the religion, or, at least, the religious practices of Christianity; to a time, that is, between the death of Severus, in the first decade of the third, and the accession of Constantine, in the first decade of the fourth century, a.d. The skeleton was in good preservation; the only disturbance to which it had been subjected, of a violent kind, previous to our exploration, having been quite recently inflicted by some gay young anthropologists from the day school, whoj in defiance of the school-board's inspector, had, in their zeal for science, been poking sticks through a chink at the north-east end of the coffin, and had slightly displaced the skull inwards, besides damaging its outer table and exposing the diploe. The lower jaw, however, had not been displaced. On the back of the skull, and also around the first cervical vertebra, there is a considerable X X 2