THE HARVEIAN ORATION. 741 if not the sole criterion of homology—may be spoken of as being but trabeeulae flaked off from the inner surface of the wall of a muscular sac, and subsequently made more or less membranous in the way of specialisation and its correlative economy. Thus, as Ge- genbaur (Vergleichende Anatomie, and edition, p. 836) has remarked, the inter valvular space in these animals corresponds to the entire cavity of the spongy-walled heart of fishes and amphibia; and the sinuous intertrabecular cavities in the spongy walls of these latter animals correspond with the chief part—viz. the extravalvular part of the ventricular space—in mammals, birds, and Crocodilina. Now, the musculi papillares represent the disposal or destination of the inner- most layer of the right ventricle, according to Dr. Pettigrew (see his paper, Phil. Trans. 1864, p. 479) ; and I would submit that the moderator band is but a specialisation of the next layer in order from within outwards—to wit, Dr. Pettigrew's sixth layer, which he has figured (Plate XIV. fig. 33) as proceeding in a spiral direc- tion from right to left, much as the fibres of the moderator bands I have figured do. A study of the heart of the rabbit will put this matter in a very clear light, and further open our eyes to see and recognise the rudimentary representation of this moderator band in our own hearts. If we look at the outer aspect of that very con- stant musculus papillaris, which passes in man from the outer and movable wall of the right ventricle to distribute its chordae ten- dineae to the two more anteriorly placed of the three segments of its auricular valve, we shall frequently see that its longitudinal fibres are crossed nearly or quite at right angles by a slender fibrous band, so that we have before us an appearance not wholly nor essentially unlike that presented by the striae longitudinales of Lancisi and the fibres of the corpus callosum when viewed in their mutual connection. This band of fibres can sometimes be traced up towards the conus arteriosus, and be seen not to die away until close upon the point of origin of the most anteriorly or upwardly X^laced of the chordae tendineae which arise from the septum to pass to the hindermost of the three segments of the tricuspid. The points between which this line of fibres lies may be observed to be the very same as those between which the moderator bands in the cassowary and the sheep stretcH as free columns in the diagrams before you. It is not altogether rare to see this band raise itself from the position of fusion, like the ventricular wall, and assume