920 RELATIVE VALUE OF CLASSICAL AND SCIENTIFIC TRAINING. institution by the Munich Professor. For Dr. Jaeger, the director of this mixed school, who, as he had been refused a nomination to another scliool, the Bielefeld Gymnasium, by the Education Minister, on account of his politics, cannot be suspected of re- actionary leanino-s, spoke to Mr. Arnold iu the following sense (see p. 221, I.e.):—'It was the universal conviction with those competent to form an opinion, that the Realschulen were not at present successful institutions. He declared that the boys in the corresponding forms of the classical school beat the Realsehule boys in matters which both do alike, such as history, geography, the mother tongue, and even French, though to French the Realsehule boys devote far more time than their comrades of the classical school. The reason for this. Dr. Jaeger affirms, is that the classical training strengthens a boy's mind so much more. This is what, as I have already said, the chief school authorities everywhere in France and Germany testify. In Switzerland you do not hear the same story.' With regard to Switzerland, we learn from the Owens College Report, above mentioned, that Professor Zellner, of the Polytechnic School at Zurich, holds that the establishment of ' Real Gymnasia,' or High Schools of Science, to take equal rank with the old classical Gymnasia, and to put pure and applied science on the same footing for educational purposes as that which the classics enjoy in these schools, is a desirable thing, but that he allows that by the introduction of a 'bifurcation' system into the older schools, they might be made equal to meeting all modern requirements. Helmholtz, on the other hand, may in the same report be found pleading strongly for ' the foundation on equal terms of complete academic institutions for science' as a 'counteraction of the tendency of classical men to lean on authority alone.' 'Philological culture,' says the eminent physiologist of Heidel- berg, ' has an ill effect on those who are to devote themselves to science ; the philologist is too much dependent on authority and books, he cannot observe for himself, or rely upon his own con- elusions, and having only been accustomed to consider the laws of grammar, all of which have their exceptions, he cannot understand the invariable character of physical laws.' Granting with all respect the premises laid down by Professor Helmholtz, we should demur to the conclusion which he would base upon them, and profess our-