603 CEMETERY AT PRILFORD. sliroiul-pin, the perforated coins, and the knife, found both with women's and men's skeletons—have been found with several skele- tons at Frilford, which were interred in graves varying* in depth from eighteen up to twenty-seven and thirty inches, and varying still more in their compass bearings. In four of these cases, skeletons, which must be supposed to have been Romano-British, have been found to underlie these Anglo-Saxon remains, just as similarly inhumed skeletons have been already spoken of as under- lying cremation urns. In one case a large fragment of a large unpatterned urn, which resembles in style the urn found at Long Wittenham, containing human bones (figured by Mr. Akerman, ' Archaeologia/ xxxviii. 352, pi. xs. fig. 4), was discovered lying over the pelvis of an Anglo-Saxon woman, buried with disc-shaped fibulae, beads, and shards. The fragment was itself in seven pieces when discovered; but, as they have admitted of readjustment, the fragment must have been put into the grave in the condition which it is in as now restored, in accordance with the custom of carefully replacing the fragments of a disturbed funeral urn, which has been several times noted in other Saxon burials ^. In another of these interments some Roman tiling was found set along the side of the grave, a practice which other Teutonic tribes, in their imitation of the Roman civilisation, adopted, as has been observed by Wanner ^. In another, a spear-head with the raised ridge, which Mr. Akerman (' Pagan Saxondom,' p. x.) has observed is to be seen on the assagaye of the modern Hottentot, was found ac- companying a skeleton, the sex and nationality of which were spoken to by the presence of an umbo and a buckle ^, as well as by its osteological characters. Fibulae were not found with the male skeletons; with the female skeletons the common disc-shaped fibulae were the most usual. In one case, however, the cruciform variety, such as Mr. Akerman has figured (' Archaeologia,' xxxix. pi. xi. figs. 8, 9) from Long Wittenham, or (' Pagan Saxondom,' pi. xviii. fig. i) from the neighbourhood of Rugby, was exemplified in two fibulae found with a female skeleton, which was accom- * See ' InveBtorium Sepulchrale,' Introd. p. xvi, &c. ' 'Das Alemannische Todtenfeld bei Schleitheim,' p. 13. See also Lindenschmit, ' Archiv fur Anthropologie,' ii. 3, p. 356. ' For the indications which the presence of a buckle furnishes as to nationality, see Akerman, 'Pagan Saxondom,' p. 58; Cochet, 'Tombeau de Childeric,' pp. 228, -234.