751 THE HARVEIAN OEATION"." I.e. p. 368, the world called the Earl of Northumberland's mag-i) was ' Mr. Warreuer.-* And the MS. proceeds, ' He was the in- ventor, probably, of the circulation of the blood, of which subject he made a treatise, consisting of two books^ which he sent to Dr. Harvey, who epitomised and printed them in his own name; he usually said that Dr. Harvey did not understand the motion of the heart, which was a perfect hydraulik Dr. Pain, that very ingenious and learned canon of Christ Church, told me that he had seen and perused this book of Warrener's.' Finally, the excellent ' Biographia Britannica' has embalmed Wood's and Aubrey's story, in the articles 'Harriott' and 'Harvey,' pp. 2543 and 2550, ed. 1757. Many a priori improbabilities will at once be seen to attach to this story, and it is easy enough to discredit more than one of the witnesses. But I have better than indirect evidence to bring forward, and I will have the agreeable mental exercise of ex- cogitating it to the ingenuity of my hearers, which ingenuity will be sharpened, no doubt, by their regard for their own Harvey, and strengthened by the belief that 'Whatever records spring to liglit, He never shall be sliamed.' I may be asked, after this quotation, why I should have thought it worth while to investigate Walter Warner's claims at all. I will shelter myself, in the first instance, behind the example of Sir George Ent, who, feeling and acting by Harvey as Launcelot in his better days felt and acted by Arthui", took similar pains to set aside the similar fable as to Harvey's indebtedness to Father Sarpi. And, in the second place, I will remind my hearers that it was but as recently as 1838 that an article appeared in the ' London and Westminster Review,' in which the claims of the Italian monk just mentioned were once again brought forward with surprising con- fidence, plausibility, and ignorance. It was possible, I thought, that the same paltry but evil spirit which animated Dutens in writing his ' Inquiry into the Origin of the Discoveries attributed to the Moderns ' (1767 and in coming ' Duten.s was as well acquainted with the excellent work of William Wotton> 'Reflections upon Ancient and Modem Learning,' published in 1694, on the other ride of the question, as a little bitter mind can ever be with a work or the working of a noble and generous one. His repeated references to it stow this, as also the unimprovable character of his shallow poverty-stricken spirit.