780 MODIFICATIONS OF ASPECTS OF ORGANIC NATURE where tlie Welshman—in spite of the traditional hatred for ti-ees which his race, like some other ancient races, as, for example, the Spanish, is said to entertain—has allowed the ancient flora to remain, and left it unmixed with foreign importations. The inter- vention of the glacial period will easily account for the wiping out of the spruce from the list of post-glacially indigenous British trees; but it is not so easy to explain how it has been that the silver fir (Abies pectinata), which is found in the Scottish peat, was absent from at least historic Britain till the year 1603 ; and that the Pinus muglms, the Taecla of the Romans, should be found in the peat-bogs of Ireland, and should subsequently have become as thoroughly extinct there as the Irish elk, Cervus megaceros. On the other hand, it is not diflScult to understand how it has been that the Scotch fir, with characteristic pertinacity and hardiness, followed up the retreating glacial forces more closely than even the ' Norway' spruce ; for at this day it propagates itself, either by self-sown or by squirrel-sown seeds, much more surely and widely than does this equally or more than equally hardy tree. I must not leave the subject of the Scotch fir without rectifying an error relating to it which various writers \ from the time of Caesar's Greek translator down to those of Evelyn and of myself inclusively, have fallen into when writing about it. Julius Caesar, in an often-quoted and as often mistranslated passage 2, says of Britain, ' Materia cujusque generis, ut in Gallia, est praeterfagum atqtte ahiefemand these words are ordinarily taken to mean, ' There is wood of all kinds to be found in Britain, as in Gaul, excej)t the beech and the fir.' Poor old Planudes of course blundered, ' Planudes fl. 1327 a.d. See p. 46 of Appendix to Cambridge edition of Caesar's Works, 1706. Evelyn, 'Silva, a Discourse of Forest Trees delivered in the Eoyal Society, Oct. 19, 1662.' Ed. Hunter, 1776, p. 139. Hasted, 'Phil. Trans.,' vol. Ixi., for year 1771, pt. 2, 1773, p. 166. De Candolle, 'G&gr. Botanique,' pp. 154, 689. 1S55. Johns, 'Forest Trees of Great Britain,' p. 42. Eolleston in 'British Barrows,' pp. 722-724. To do myself justice, I did not err so widely as my companions in this matter. I was as ignorant of Latin as they; but I accused Julius of only one blunder, while they accused him of two. If I had really believed that 'Caesar doth not wrong but with good cause' it would have been better for me. As it was I made a poorish ' explanation' for Julius as regarded tlie aUes, but confessed that I felt some doubt as to the accuracy of his statement as to the beech. See Article XVII, pp. 325-6. * De Bello Gallico, v. 12.