PKODUCED BY MAN. 835 trees play so essential a part, may remind us of Linnaeus's often- quoted saying-, ' Man dxoells naturally within the tropics, and lives on the fruit of the palm-tree; he exists in other parts of the world, and makes shift to feed on corn and flesh.' But it may suggest a little more than this. It may cause us to think seriously on the question what will be, not the effect on external nature which man's action will produce, but what will be the effect which external nature will produce upon man, if by some recrudescence of a glacial period, either in a geological sense, or in the economic sense, which an exhaustion of our supply of Nearctic as well as Palaearctic coal would, in the absence of any substitute, bring about, we should be driven southwards, and become tropico- instead of cosmopolitan. What will be the effect of the easy terms upon which life can be maintained in the tropics upon the species which has hitherto never developed a lasting civilisation except under the stimulation ' curis acuens mortalia corda' of northern latitudes or mountain elevation ^ ? How will it fare with intellectual culture when and where, not to speak any further of our date-palm, the cocoanut-palm, the banana, the breadfruit, will make exertion so all but superfluous for the dura a stirpe genera who now govern the world ? If we are to guide ourselves as we peer into the twilight of the future by what we can see going on in the broad Mediterranean noonday of the present, the example of the idle Corsican is not altogether en- couraging. A Corsican family, we are told by their French fellow- citizens 2, with a couple of dozen of chestnut-trees, and with a herd of goats which 'find themselves,' to the great disgust of all botanists, have no aspirations left to satisfy beyond that of being able to buy a gun, to the great disgust of all sportsmen. In a matter of prophesying. Sir, the argument from authority and authorities has its legitimate place, and upon the present occasion it happens to have a very legitimate time ^. I have in a work on •Hereditary Genius,' published in the year 1869, found it stated that 'No Englishman of the nineteenth century is purely nomadic:' and that even the most so among them have also inherited many civilised cravings which are necessarily starved, and thus entail ' Wallace, 'Natural Selection,' p. 318; and Bonstetten, 'L'homme du Midi et Itomme du Nord/ 1826, passim. " Hehn, 1. c. p. 346. ' [On the evening when this lecture was delivered the chair was occupied by Francis Galton, Esq., F.R.S., author of a work on Hereditary Genius.—Editor.] 3 H a