823 PRODUCED BY MAN. 'Ssanang Setzen now goes on to tell a story which crystallises for us a very curious phase of old Mongol uianiiei-s. Altan Khakan had a son called Pubet Paidshi. The young man died, and his mother determined to kill loo boys and loo foals of camels, which were to be buried with him, and to accompany him as an escort to the other world. She had killed over forty boys when a tumult arose among the people.' Here I think I may leave this part of my subject, the signi- ficance of this series of facts being sufficiently self-evident. For as against these seven domesticated mammals which Central Asia may with so much probability claim as being her gifts to mankind^ inasmuch as she either herself furnished their parent-stocks, or at any rate furnished the necessary opportunities for gaining the knowledge subsequently used in domesticating similar stocks else- where, what can all the rest of the habitable globe set either as regards cosmopolitanism or as regards importance ? As regards importance the other thirteen are all but insignificant; as regards cosmopolitanism, universal importation, that is, either for purposes of practical utility or ' animi voluptatisque caussa/ as Caesar put it, we can mention but the African eat and the African ass. I come now to the consideration of the facts and views with which botanists have supplied us as to the original homes of our cultivated plants. Our own inspection and recollection of the landscapes of the various countries in which we have travelled will enable us to estimate the greatness of the change, which man's migrations and transportations have effected in the sphere of all his labour under the sun. And I will begin what I have to say under this head by the apparent paradox that the argument which our cultivated plants furnish us with for determining the locality whence man issued to occupy the world and subdue it, and alter its external appearance, would, like some other arguments, have appealed with greater force to one of the civilised races of antiquity than it does at first sight to us. It is, herein also like some other arguments, cogent for all that. Let us state it. Fifty per cent, of our cultivated plants have been shown by De Candolle, ' Geographie Botanique,' pp. 986, 987, and by filisee Reclus, ' The Ocean (English Trans, ii. chap. %'], 292), following him, to belong to ' Europe' and ' Asie septentrionale et occidental,' that is to say, to the Palaeartic Region of Zoogeography. So far the figures are equal for cultivated plants and for domestic animals, and I do not feel it necessary to dwell upon the differences which the other proportional numbers show as regards Africa proper and South