902 ADDEESS ON ANTHROPOLOGY. species; and by the employment of the philosophy of continuity and the doctrine of evolution, with which the world was not made acquainted till more than ten years after Prichard's death, many a weaker man than he has been enabled to bind into more readily manageable burdens the vast collections of facts with which he had to deal. Still his works remain, massive, impressive^ enduring— much as the headlands along our southern coast stand out in the distance in their own grand outlines, whilst a close and minute inspection is necessary for the discernment of the forts and fosses added to them, indeed dug out of their substance, in recent times. If we consider what the condition of the subject was when Prichard addressed himself to it, we shall be the better qualified to take and make an estimate of his merits. This Prichard has himself described to us, in a passage to be found in the preface to the third volume of the third edition of the ' Physical History,' pub- lished in the year 1841, and reminding one forcibly of a similar utterance of Aristotle's, at the end of one of his logical treatises (' Soph. Eleneh."' cap. xxxiv. 6). These are his words :— ' No other writer has surveyed the same field, or any great part of it, from a similar point of view. . . . The lucubrations of Herder and other diffuse writers of the same description, while some of them possess a merit of their own, are not concerned in the same design, or directed towards the same scope. Their object is to portray national character as resulting from combined influences —physical, moral, and political. They abound in generalisations, often in the speculative flights of a discursive fancy, and afford little or no aid for the close induction from facts which is the aim of the present work. Nor have these inquiries often come within the view of writers on Geography, though the history of the globe is very incomplete without that of its human inhabitants.' A generation has scarcely passed away since these words were published in 1841; we are living in 1875 ; yet what a change has been effected in the condition of Anthropological literature I The existence of such a dignified quarterly as the ' Archiv fiir Anthro- pologic,' bearing on its titlepage in alphabetical order the honoured names of V. Baer, of Desor, of Ecker, of Hellwald, of His, of Lin- denschmit, of Lucae, of Riitimeyer, of Schaaffhausen, of Semper, of Virchow, of Vogt, and of Welcker, is in itself perhaps the most striking evidence of the advance made in this time, as being the