THE HARVEIAN ORATION. 761 Aubrey has left on record about him, feeling- more and more strong-ly as I grew better aquainted with Harvey that— ' These were slandei's : never yet Was noble man but made ignoble talk.' I will speak first of his scientific character, though it may seem strange to speak of scientific character, as character implies, perhaps, a moral element; and science, so far as it is really science, and based exclusively upon sound reasoning, has no moral element in it; reasoning, so long as it is sound, being of one kind always, and devoid therefore of all distinctive or personal factors. It is neces- sary for me to say that I do not forget that Harvey was but eighteen years junior to Bacon, 'Whom a wise king and Nature chose Lord Chancellor of both their laws.' But neither do I forget that the Novum Organon was published in 1620, subsequently to the discovery and actual demonstration of the circulation (see Dedicatio to the treatise ' De Motu Cordisif not to the publication of the treatise on the 'Motion of the Heart;' and that the Royal Society^ with its motto,' NuUius addictus jurare in verba magistri,' was a foundation of a much later date. And consequently, I think, we may feel justified in saying that, so far as the purely scientific factor of a man^s nature can be said to have any distinctive or personal character at all, independence, or robust- ness, or manliness, whichever word we may like to choose, as shown in superiority to mere authority and the weight of great names, was a distinctive character of Harvey as a man of science. With Riolanus in full vigour, and Van der Linden growing towards maturity, as champions of antiquity, it required not a little manli- ness to assert, ' contra receptas vias per tot saecula annorum ab innumeris iisque clarissimis doctissimisque viris' (Riolanus was often thus spoken of), ' tritam atque illustratam' ('Dedicatio,'p. 5), the claims of simple Nature ' qua nihil antiquius majorisve auctori- tatis' ('Epistola Secunda ad Riolanum,' p. 123). This element of real manliness shows itself again, I think, in Harvey's power of abstaining from suggesting a rationale of what he felt he did not understand; as, for example, in what is known (out of England, at least) as the ' Problem of Harvey ' (see ' De Partu/ pp. 132, 549, ed. 1766; p. 530, ed. Willis)—a problem which, I think, could not