CEMETERY AT PRILFORD. 591 with any salt of iron or other mineral so as to have been preserved by such impregnation from the decay which would otherwise have befallen it, we are justified in considering- it exceedingly prob- able that it was put into the grave in the condition either of yet burning embers, or of charcoal. The test mentioned by the Abbe Cochet, 'Normandie Souterraine,' p. 198 ed. i. (p. 229 ed, ii.), for differentiating charcoal from decayed wood, viz. that the latter gives a sherry colour on boiling with potash, is a little unsatis- factory, inasmuch as the purest charcoal would give a similar reaction after being surcharged and sopped through and through for ages with water, more or less laden, ex hypothesis with im- purities. "Without losing sight of the possibility that blackened woody matter may be tbe remnants of a coffin, it is well to con- sider the different explanations which may be given of the presence of true charcoal in an interment. Four such have been given, two of which refer the practice to the operation of Christian beliefs; the third refers it to the working of feelings wbich are neither distinctly Christian nor yet distinctly heathen; whilst the fourth explanation is applicable to heathen interments only. The two first explanations may be expressed in two separate utterances of Du- randus, the first being the often quoted one, vii, c. 3,5, as to the placing of embers and incense, pnmae cum thure, in the grave; and the second, a few lines further on, speaking of a Christian practice of placing charcoal in the grave to serve there as an imperishable protest against using the soil of the grave thereafter for secular purposes, 'in testimonium quod terra ilia in communes usus amplius redigi non potest; plus enim durat carbo sub terra quam aliud.' The third of the four explanations refers the presence of charcoal in the graves to the holding of feasts by their side in replacement of the pagan sacrifices of former times. The fourth explanation refers us to the overt and recognised performance, or to the stealthy con- tinuance of the eminently heathen practice of burning the body or of lighting a fire in the grave to prepare it for the reception of the corpse. Any one or all of the three first explanations are admissible in the case of the E,omano-Britons ; the fourth may very probably apply to the interments of the half-converted or apostatising Anglo- Saxons, to whose history we shall return ^. * For the discovery of carbonaceous matter in graves, see Cocliet, 'Normandie Sonterraine,'ed. i. pp. 198, 255, 256, 304; Kemble, 'Horae Ferales,' pp. 98, 104;