THE EXAMINATION SYSTEM AND THE 912 alluded. Examining^ is scientific work; indeed, in these days, it is a work which occupies a very larg-e portion of the time of many a scientific man, whether to his benefit or that of science I do not stop to discuss. But I submit, and without any fear of contradic- tion, that there is no work which calls for more exercise of conscience; no work—not even that of the judge on the bench—which, when well done, illustrates more completely the truth of the old doctrine,' In justice, all moral virtue lies involved.' An examiner has many temptations to strive against: the temptation to idleness; to give way to weariness ; to meet the sameness of his subject-matter with perfunotoriness in dealing with it; to give way to feelings of pique when he finds that his own pet views or papers are entirely un- known to the examinee. Of course a strong and upright man resists all these temptations; but strength and uprightness are largely or entirely moral qualities. I need not labour, however, at what is self-evident. Let me say a few words about the way in which a man's moral nature is, or ought to be, called into activity, not now when he is engaged in testing, but when he is engaged in communicating or acquiring, knowledge. As regards the duties of a teacher when teaching, he is bound to beware of leaving any one side of a question, any one set of facts, in neglect and inadequately expounded. Imperfection of exposition in a teacher, not only pro- duces, in the second generation, so to say, imperfection of investi- gation in the hearer, but—as words terribly shoot back, like the Tartar's bow, mightily entangling and perverting the judgment— such imperfection and want of fulness in the communication reacts by producing imperfection and want of fulness in investigation in the teacher himself. It is (trite remark) diflScult to estimate the consequences of any one action; but it is easy to see that an ex- ample set by a person, himself set in authority, of slovenliness and inadequacy in his methods of woik may hurt the consciences of his younger brethren, and have widely and lengthily ramifying conse- quences in neutralising chances for neutralising evil and sufiering. I have said thus much about the responsibilities of students and teachers in praesenti. I will, with your permission, say a little more upon the responsibilities which will gather round the former in, futuro. Of the students of any hospital at any one time we may safely say that, making a small deduction for accidental relinquishments