THE HARVEIAN ORATION. 733 sentiiiat non vulg-aris peritiae medici Harveius, Veslingius, Con- ringius, Bartholinus, aliique complui-es; nec melior ipse Joannes Eiolanus (quod mirari subit pro eximia viri, qua in rebus anatomicis caeteros anteivifc, sagacitate). Audi banc in rem illius sententiam.' p. 4, 1. c. This, I think, I will spare you ; but I will remark that, after this singular—or perhaps, alas ! not singular—inst^ance of the blundering judgments which contemporary writers may pass upon each other, no young man, nor indeed any old one—for Harvey was in bis seventy-fifth year when be first read Pecquet's work (see 'Ep. Tert.' p. 620, ed. 1766; p. 604, ed. Willis)—should overmuch fret if his own age, in his own estimation, do him scanty justice. Posterity ordinarily—I do not say always—rectifies these false judgments; it has done so, at all events, in the cases of the men so grotesquely grouped together by Pecquet^. Haller, for example, writing in 1774 ('Bibliotheea Anatomica/ i. p. 301), speaks of Riolanus as ' vir asper et in nuperos suosque coaevos immitis ac nemini parcens, nlmis avidus suarum laudum praeco, et se ipso fatente anatomicorum princeps.' The duty of attacking and abolish- ing such a man may, or indeed must, have been a disagreeable one to his contemporaries. They appear to have shirked it: it was their duty to have faced it, notwithstanding it might have been disagreeable. Harvey used for these experiments a somewhat rough injecting apparatus, 'quemadmodum in clysteribus iujiciendis fieri solet' (p. 614, ed. 1766; p. 597, ed. Willis). The modern experiment which I wish first to introduce to your attention rests for its accomplishment upon the employment of the delicate injection- syringe (for E'mstichung) of Ludwig, and of the fine soluble Berlin blue for the substance to be injected. Here, as in many other instances, our superiority to our forefathers rests mainly or wholly upon our possession of more delicate, or upon our command of more powerful agents; and the delicate syringe and the penetrating soluble injection-mass help us to discoveries and demonstrations impossible in default of such means; just as the superior lenses of Malpighi and Leeuwenhoeck helped them to the discovery and ' See also, I would add, Gregoriua Horst, the father of Harvey's correspondent of the same name, in his ' Opera Medica,' i. p. 83 (1661), where Eiolanus is spoken of ns 'anatomicorum hujus saeculi fere primum ;' and consult Bartholinus himself, who, in his woric 'De Lacteis Dubia ' (1654), refers to 'muhis Riolani observationibus qUibus rem anat<;uiicani immortali nominis cclebiitate auxit.'