613 CEMETERY AT FRTLFORD. 'frames^ of coins bearing" such names as those of Gratian tempts us to exphiin the phenomenon by the hypothesis of the young- men having" been taken away to fight and die in distant countries under such commanders as Magnus Maximus. Persons who some years ago had the opportunity of seeing village after village on the continent of Europe inhabited by forms like that of Tithonus, will be ready to accept this explanation as sufficient to account for the foct. Till I came to add up the various individual identifications of the two sexes which I had made from time to time, and without any reference to any historical relations which the skeletons or their owners might have possessed during life, I held this hypothesis myself. But on adding up the numbers of males and females severally, I find that I have assigned no less than 48 of the 123 bodies to the male sex, and only 34 to the female. Even if we add to the female series the 11 individuals as to whose sex I have felt myself unable to pronounce, the force of this arithmetic is but little impaired, or, indeed, not at alP. The fact of the great pre- ponderance in number of aged remains may be explained by a reference to the present condition of the population on the spot. Frilford is renowned for its salubrity and the longevity of its inhabitants at the present day. The fact of the great preponderance of male skeletons is not so easy of explanation, and it is especially difficult of solution when we note that more than half of these male skeletons are aged ones. Barracks and prisons furnish an excess of male skeletons in their burial-grounds, I apprehend, but not an excess of aged male skeletons. I am not aware that the monks of the west had established themselves among the Atrebates before the time of Cerdic ^. And the only hypothesis which has suggested ' It has been suggested to me that the soldiers, who, on the hypothesis before us, are supposed to have left their bones in foreign lands, may have taken wives with them. But it could not have been often in days of such difficulty in traveUing that Lycoris ' Perque nives alium perque horrida castra secuta est.' The soldiers of Gustavus Adolphus were, very many of them, married men, but I do not know that their wives accompanied them to his famous battle-fields. The men, too, who fought and won at Liitzen had very different motives and incentives from those of the recruits who followed the standards of the various ' tyrants' and pre- tenders of the later Eoman Empire, and it is only by means of such motives and incentives that men can be got in any large numbers to break away from family ties and join distant military expeditions, * See, however, 'Hist. Mon. de Abingdon,' i. pp. 2, 3.