858 BIOLOGICAL TRAINING AND STUDIES. to life when the deep strata into which they are thus introduced, and in which they are sealed up as the chasms close up, come in any way to he laid open to the unimpeded action of the sun and moisture. Squirrels, again, and some birds resembling herein the rodent mammalia, burj'^ seeds and forget to dig them up again ; and it is supposed that they may bury them so deep as to be pro- tected from the two physical agencies just mentioned. Now ger- mination cannot take place in the absence of oxygen ; and I would add that well-sinkers know to their cost how often the superficial strata of the earth are surcharged with carbonic acid. The rival explanation and the less popular (I do not say the less scientific) looks to the agency of transportation as occurring constantly, and sufficing to explain the facts. By accepting this explanation, we save ourselves from running counter to certain experiments, some of which were carried out, if I mistake not, under the auspices of this Section (see ' Brit. Assoc. Reports'), and which appear to curtail considerably the time during which seeds retain their vitality, and to multiply considerably the number of conditions which must be in fo^ce to allow of such retention for periods far shorter than those which have to be accounted for, A better instance of the expediency of checking the interpretations based merely upon observations, however accurately made, by putting into action experiments, cannot be furnished than by recording the fact put on record by Mr. Bentham, when discussing this question in his last year's Address to the Linnean Society :— ' Hitherto direct observation h far as I am aware, only produced negative results, of which a strong instance has been communicated to me by Dr. Hooker. In deepening the lake in Kew Gardens they uncovered the bed of an old piece of water, upon which there came up a plentiful crop of Typha, a plant not observed in the immediate vicinity; and it was therefore con- cluded that the seed must have been in the soil. To try the question, Dr. Hooker had six Ward's cases filled with some of the soil remaining uncovered close to that which had produced the Typha, and carefully watched; but not a single Typha came up in any one of them.' (Note in President's Address, May 24, 1869, p. Ixxii of ' Linnean Society's Proceedings.') To this I would add that experiments with a positive result, and that positive result in favour of the second hypothesis, if hypothesis