BIOLOGICAL TRAINING AND STUDIES. 877 suffering or death which anti-sanitary conditions entail^ as surely as, though less palpahly and rapidly than, a fire or a battle ; and I might, if there were time for it, take my stand simply upon what is measurable by money. This I will not do, as it is less pleasant to speak of what has been lost than of that which has been or may be gained. And of this latter let me speak in a few words, and under two heads—the intellectual and the moral gains accruing from a study of the Natural History Sciences. As to the intellectual gains, the real psychologist and the true logician know veiy well that the discourse on method which comes from a man who is an actual investigator is worth, even though it be but short and packed away in an Introduction or an Appendix, or though it cover but a couple of pages in the middle of a book, like the ' Regulae Philoso- phandi' of Newton, more than whole columns of the ' Sophistical Dialectic' of the ancient Schoolman and his modern followers. ' If you wish your son to become a logician,' said Johnson, 'let him study Chillingworth'—meaning thereby that real vital knowledge of the art and science can arise only out of the practice of reasoning; and as to the value of actual experimentation as a qualification for writing about method, Claude Bernard and Berthelot are, and I trust will long remain, living examples of what Descartes and Pascal, their fellow-countrymen, are illustrious departed examples. (See Janet, ' Revue des Deux-Mondes,' tome Ixii. p. 910, 1866.) I pass on now to say a word on the working of natural science studies upon the faculty of attention, the faculty which has very often and very truly been spoken of as forming the connecting-link between the intellectual and the moral elements of our immaterial nature. I am able to illustrate their beneficial working in pro- ducing carefulness and in enforcing perseverance, by a story turning upon the use of, or rather upon the need for, a word. Von Baer, now the Nestor of biologists, after a long argumentation (' Mem. Acad. Imp. Sci. St. Petersbourg,' 1859, p. 340), of the value which characterises his argumentations generally, as to the aflinities of certain oceanic races, proceeds to consider how it is that certain of his predecessors in that sphere, or, rather, in that hemisphere, as Mr. Wallace has taught us Oceania is very nearly, had so lament- ably failed in attaining or coming anywhere near to the truth. This failure is ascribed to something which he calls ' Ungenirtheit/ a word which you will not find in a German dictionary, the thing