THE HAEVEIAN OEATION. 765 with the court must have constantly brought him into relation with the statesmen of those stormy times. His legacy to his 'good friend Mr. Thomas Hobbs, to buy something to keepe in remembrance' of him, is touching, even if trifling, evidence in the same direction. Travel, which even in our day confers a kind of culture peculiar to itself, must have been doubly necessary in days when, in the absence of the steamship and the railway, an insular position must have kept its inhabitants very nearly as inaccessible to ' the thoughts that move mankind,' as it had happily kept them to the Armada. Sir George Ent's interesting and entirely trustworthy account of the interview with Harvey which resulted in the publication of the treatise 'De Generatione,' will show any one who will consult it that Harvey had drawn from his opportunities an insight into what might be expected, and what since his time to some extent has been realised, from enlarged opportunities of observing not only ' men, manners, cities, climates, governments,' but also the wonderful facts of the unequal allotment, in the various parts of the earth, of useful inorganic products, and of that mystery of mysteries, the distribution of organic life. (See 'Works/ ed. i']66, p. 162; ed. Dr. Willis, p. 146.) Having been thus fortunate in securing for himself all the advantages which the various educational agencies of his age would furnish, he added on to all that they had effected, or could effect, the yet more elevating and glorious discipline of long sustained and finally successful labour. He attained a position of mental dignity in which he could feel neither unduly anxious for the applause of his compeers, nor unduly moved by the repi'oaches and misrepre- sentations of his enemies (see 'Dedicatio,' p. 164; 'Epistola Secunda constituents of a mass of ' solid' masonry (see his ' Beziehungen der Luft zu Klei- dung, Wohnung imd Boden,' 1872, pp. 41-45, and especially the figures p. 42). What Leeuwenhoek and Malpighi did for the capillaries of the animal body in supplementa- tion of Harvey's work, and in correction of one of his few errors, that v. Pettenkofer has done in supplementation of Harvey's suggestion as to 'tubuli so small as that they could not easily be discerned' in structures like the Pyramids. It is, perhaps, not more than curious to note that Harvey was equally right in suggesting the existence of larger ' secret tunnels': an account of the discovery and opening of them may be found in Colonel Howard Vyse's ' Operations carried on at the Pyramids of Gizeh,' 18.37. j- PP- 3. 263, 285-288; ii. pp. 160, 161; and an amusing history of the incon- veniences endured in the interior of the Pyramids previously to the discovery of these 'air-channels' is given by Colonel Coutelle in 'Description de I'Egypte, Antiquito%, M^moires,' ii. p. 46,1809.