EXCAVATIONS IN AN ANCIENT 594 longer practised in Christian burials. They show also that the pre- sence of these shards cannot he explained as being- due to accident. Indeed, upon several occasions, I have found fragments of pottery in such relations to the bones of skeletons, in company with which nails were found, as to make it seem highly probable that the shard, when thrown in, must have clanked upon the boards of the coffin, which the nails show us was present there. The thought that our own custom of throwing earth into the grave during the burial service may be connected with this custom, and again, that both may be connected with the classical custom referred to in Horace's line, ' Injecto ter pulvere curras,' and also Virgil, ' ^neid,^ vi. 365, and in Sophocles, ' Antigone,' 256, ke-nri] b' ayos (ptvyovro^ As kisr^v KovLs, will at once suggest itself; but only to be dismissed on mature consideration; for to the modern antiquary it is no paradox to say that the custom of throwing in shards was probably much older than that of scattering earth over the corpse; and I would suggest, as it is very likely others may have done before me, that the throwing in of the broken pottery may be the perfunctory re- presentation of the deposition in the grave of the entire vase, and that the throwing of earth, for which Archytas and Palinurus begged, may in like manner represent the toilsome but unattempted process of inhumation ^. Massillon, long before prehistoric archae- ology had been thought of, argued for the conclusion that a belief in a future state is a naturally implanted conviction from the fact that ' nulle part vous n'en rencontrez des peuples sans sepultures et sans vases,' and the Abb6 Cochet, in his ' Arche'ologie Ceramique,' p. I, says that the custom of placing earthen vessels in tombs is one of the most ancient of all customs, and, as just noticed, that it still exists in secluded and remote parts of France, as in Morvan and La Bresse. This coexistence with the custom of our modern burials seems to disprove any interdependence of the two practices. Again, the fact that fragments of pottery were used in interments by cremation, as well as in interments by inhumation, seems to show that the shard and the handful of earth were not set in motion by the same impulses. In very early times earthen vessels were of great value, and it was in those days a proof of at least ^* ' For the tendency of customs involving expense to assume cheaper forms, see Sir John Lubbock, 'Nat. Hist. Kev.' Oct. 1861, p. 801; ' Prehistoric Times,' p. 98 ed. i, p. 142 ed. ii.