BIOLOGICAL TRAINING AND STUDIES. 867 'The human, like other hig-hly organised types of life, admits of g-reat variety; aberrant forms arise, even in our own species, under conditions of the greatest uniformity possible to humanity : amongst savages great variety exists (see Bates, " Naturalist on the Amazons," ii. p. 129), even though they all of them may live the same "dull grey life" and die the same "apathetic end ;" and conse- quently it may never, except in the case of Australian or Esquimaux, and perhaps a few other crania, be quite safe to pledge one's-self as to the nationality of a single skull. Still there is such a thing as craniographical type; and if half a dozen sets, consisting of ten crania apiece, each assortment having been taken from the cemeteries of some well-marked nationality, were set before me, I would venture to say, after consultation and comparison, that it might be possible to show that unassisted cranioscopy, if not invariably right, even under such favourable circumstances, was nevertheless not wrong in a very large number of cases,' If it is true on the one hand that in ge7irralibus latet error, it is true on the other that security is given us by the examination of large numbers for the accuracy and reliability of our averages, a principle which Gratiolet informs us is thoroughly recognised in Chinese metaphysics, and which he has formulated in the following words :—' L'invariabilite dans le milieu s'applique a tout. La v6rite n'est point dans un seul fait mais dans tous les faits; elle est dans les moyennes, c'est-a-dire dans une suite d'abstractions formulees apres le plus grand nombre d'observa- tions possibles.' (' M^moire sur les Plis cerebraux,' p. 93.) The natural history sciences do not usually admit of the strictness which says that an exception, so far from proving a rule, proves it to be a bad one ; rather are we wise in saying that in them at least the universality of assertion is in an inverse ratio to that of knowledge, and that the sweeping statements dear, as Aristotle long ago remarked ('Ehetoric,' ii. 21. 9 and lo; ii. 22. i), to a class which he contrasts with the educated, are abhorrent to the mind of organic nature. It is true enough, as is sometimes said, that when opinions and assertions are always hedged in by qualifications, the style becomes embarrassed, and the meaning occasionally hard to be understood; but this difficulty is one which lies in the very nature of the case, and the real excellence of style does not consist in its lulling the attention and relieving the memory by throwing an alliterative ring on the ear, but in the furnishing a closely 3 K 2