PRODUCED BY MAN. 839 sunwincllugs of Siberia as Middendorff has done, nor, Sir, in those of South Africa, to be convinced that the numbers of domesticated animals, I do not say of species of domesticated animals, will assuredly, and at no such very distant period, gain a relative mag- nitude of which our forefathers, who so patiently won them for us from savagery, could have had no conception. And that earlier than the attainment of this relative preponderance, the domestic animals on this world's surface will be nearly the only large land animals left upon it, and that the wild ones will be but pigmy vermin, 'winziffe TJngeziefer^ in Middendorff's words, or, at least, less noble animals, is equally evident. For example, we can see as regards the \\ou, the king of beasts, that the breach-loading rifle is now rapidly completing what the smooth-bore, with flint and steel, began; for whereas he loses his life by his boldness in coming out into the open, we have in one part of the Old World the tiger, and in another the hyaena, substituted for him, a change in neither case much or at all for the better. I have no reason for doubting that in these days we all consciously strive to act up to what has been spoken of, though not wholly cor- rectly, as 'the new commandment of the nineteenth century,' 'Thou shalt not be crueland I sincerely trust, that as regards all animals, domestic and wild, whether in the fields or in the streets and shambles, whether in the woods or within walls, this command- ment may, like some others, attain greater extension in practice, as its many-sided applicability becomes more and more manifest. But I think that, even without our intending it, the extension of domestication has increased the sum total of lower animal happiness. A South African traveller. Sir, whose authority you will not repu- diate, and we shall not even question, has told us (Galton, 'Domestication of Animals,' Trans. Ethnog. Soc. iii. N. S. 1865, p. 122), from his own observation of the still very really wild life of those regions, that it is not after all such unmixed happiness as persons might think, who have never crouched by night by the side of pools in that thirsty land, and watched how nightly drink- ing, even of water, may lead to much misery. 'The life of all beasts,' says that writer, 'in their wild state, is an exceedingly anxious one. From my own recollection, I believe that every antelope in South Africa has to run for its life every one or two days upon an average, and that he starts or gallops under the