ON THE DOMESTIC PIG OF 546 II. Sus serofa, \a,r. fenis, and its allies. ' Sus lihycua.' British Museum, 713 a. 'Hah. Asia Minor, Xanthus (Sir Charles Fellowes). The skull is very distinct from all the skulls of the wild boars from Ger- many in the British Museum.' The animal was just about eighteen months old: its interectorbital region is still convex; but it has no very marked lacrymo-frontal ridge; its naso-frontal suture is convex backwards, as in Sus scrofa, var. ferns; its nasals are 8 in. long, as against 14^ of total skull length ; and the height of the lacrymal is less than its inferior length. Here it resembles Sus scrofa rather than Sus cristatus. Height of lacrymal i in.; malar border 0-15 in. Wild boar irom Germany, Sus scrofa, var. ferns, 3253 a, R. C. S. England. Adult. Height of lacrymal 0-9 in.; malar border i-^ in. Wild boar from Germany, Sus scrofa, var. ferus. 0. U. Museum, 1513 a. All teeth in place.- Height of lacrymal i in.; malar border i'5 in. Wild boar from Germany, Sus scrofa, var. ferus. 0. U. Museum, 1513. Presented by Professor Max Miiller. With all the teeth, except third molar, in use; sixteen months old. Height of lacrymal 0-75 in.; malar border 1.05 in. Young wild boar, Sus scrofa, var. ferus. R. C. S. England. With first molar only through, therefore between five and six months old, with frontals still very convex in vertical aspect, but with flat lacrymo-frontal ridge. Height of lacrymal 0.7 in.; malar border 0-7 in.; frontal border 1-5 in. Skull of old wild sow, Sus scrofa, v&r. ferus, from alluvium near Oxford. Figured plate xli. fig. 2, from the Geological Collection, 0. U. Museum. Height of lacrjrmal 17 milUms.; malar border 18 miUims. Skull, from peat, of wild sow, Sus scrofa, var. ferus. British Museum. With third molar through. Height of lacrymal o-8 in.; malar border i-os in. Skull from silt of old bed of Lea river, shown to me in British Museum Geological Collection by Mr. Davis. Under eighteen months. Height of lacrymal o-6 in.; malar border 0-5 in. Second skull from same locality, and in British Museum, with all the teeth in place, and the third molar with considerable complexity in its posterior lobe. Height of lacrymal o-6 in.; malar border 0-8 in. Skull of Sv^ scrofa, va,r. ferus 1 British Museum, 713 i. The animal was about sixteen months old, all the teeth being in place except the third molars above and below. There is still some convexity across the frontals, though flattening is begin- ning on either side towards the ectorbital processes. The lacrymo-frontal ridge is not markedly convex; the nasals are convex backwards in the middle line. Height of lacrymal 0-9 in,; malar border 0.75 in. Skull of Sus scrofa, var./erus? British Museum, 713 k. The frontals are convex from the level of the supraorbital foramina backwards 7 the fronto-nasal suture is straight, nearly as it is represented in the young German wild boar (Nathusius, i. c, Taf. iii. 12). Lacrymo-frontal ridge is slightly convex. Height of lacrymal 0-75 in.; malar border o-S in.