900 ADDRESS ON ANTHROPOLOGY. (but not in all) parts of Continental Europe, again, the epithet ' long-headed' would not have the laudatory connotation which, thanks to our Saxon blood, and in spite of the existence amongst us of other varieties of doliehocephaly, it still retains here. And the brachycephalic head which, abroad^ at least, is ordinarily a more capacious one, and carried on more vigorous shoulders and by more vigorous owners altogether than the dolichocephalic, strikes a man who has been used to live amongst dolichocephali by nothing more forcibly, when he first comes to take notice of it, than by the nearness of the external ear to the back of the head ; and this may be said to constitute an artistic occipital brachy- cephalism. But this does not imply that the converse condition is to be found conversely correlated, nor does it justify the use of the phrase 'occipital doliehocephaly' in any etymological, nor even in any ethnographical sense. I shall now content myself, as far as craniology is concerned, by an enumeration of some at least of the various recent memoirs upon the subject which appear to me to be of pre-eminent value. And foremost amongst these I will mention Professor Cleland's long and elaborate scientific and artistic paper on the Variations of the Human Skull, which appeared in the Philosophical Transactions for 1869. Next I will name Ecker's admirable, though shorter, memoir on Cranial Curvature, which appeared in the ' Archiv fiir Anthropologic,' a journal already owing much to his labours, in the year 1871. Aeby's writings I have already referred to, and Ihering's, to be found in recent numbers of the 'Archiv fiir An- thropologic ' and the ' Zeitschrift fiir Ethnologic,' deserve your notice. Professor Bischoff's paper on the Mutual Relations of the horizontal circumference of the Skull and of its contents to each other and to the weight of the Brain, has not, as I think, obtained the notice which it deserves. It is to be found in the Proceedings of the Royal Society of Munich for 1864, the same year which witnessed the publication of the now constantly quoted ' Crania Helvetica' of Professors His and Riitimeyer. Some of the most important results contained in this work, and much im- portant matter besides, were made available to the exclusively ' See upon this point:—Broca, 'Bull. Soc. Anth.' Paris, ii. p. 648, 1861; ibid. Dec. s, 1872 ; Virchow, 'Archiv fur Anth.' v. p. 535 ; ' Zeitschrift fur Ethnal.' iv. 2, p. 36; 'Sammlungen,'ix. 193, p. 45, 1874; Beddoe, 'Mem. Anth. Soc. Lond.'ii.p. 350.