736 THE HARVE1A.N ORATION. attainment; for many years ago—in 1784, in fact—and three years before the appearance of Mascag-ni's splendid work, with similar figures and histories of similar experiments ('Vasorum Lymphati- corum Historia et Iconographia,' 1787), the continuity of the lacteal radicles upon the walls of the intestine with the 'lymph- paths'—to borrow a word of later coinage—in the mesenteric glands, and finally, after passing through successive lines of these apparently solid structures, with the thoracic duct itself, had been demonstrated by Sheldon, then Professor of Anatomy in our Royal Academy of Arts. These are his words (from p. 49 of his work, 'Of the absorbent System,' 1784), describing his plate No. 5 : ' In the fifth plate of this work, wpon a portion of human jejunum from an adult female subject, seventeen lacteal vessels are injected with quicksilver, by inserting pipes into them upon the intestine. They were remarkably large and varicose in this subject, aifd as the quick- silver was poured into the lymphatic injecting-tube to fill these vessels, it frequently ran out in a full stream by the jugular vein, w'hich was opened. This circumstance rendered it evident that the mercury had passed through the whole course of the lacteals and. thoracic duct, and had penetrated even into the venous system. It is, I believe, the only instance in which the thoracic duct has been injected from the lacteals on the intestines^.' Sheldon's first plate, I may add, when compared with his letter- press on p. 37, appears to show that what he calls 'ampullulae' were really Peyerian glands, and that he had repeatedly seen these glands ' I have some pleasure in pointing out that by making a reference to the plates of the venerable Professor Arnold, fasc. i. tab. i. fig. 2, 1838, it may be seen that the qnicksilTOr injection could .sometime.s give as correct results as the 'silver method' of modern microscopy for the detection of lymphatics by their epithelium. The figure I refer to shows the fourth ventricle plexus without, the velum interpositum on the contrary with, lymphatics injected with quicksilver. The use of the silver method has enabled me to prove that this representation is correct: abundance of choroidal villi can be procured—and very beautiful objects they are when treated with o-%^ per cent, solution of nitrate of silver—from the plexus in the fourth ventricle, but no lymphatic vessels. These can Ije shown from the velum interpositum by the use of the same reagent. The use of quicksilver as an injection-substance has not always led to as happy results as in the instance just given. Not to specify other cases, it is curious to note that the penetration of this material into the parieto-splanchnic ganglion of the LamelHbranchiata when thus emjiloyed by the skilful Itahan anatomist, Poli, and its distributing itself thence into the nerves given off from it by displacement of their granular ncurine, seduced him into supposing these structures to constitute a lymphatic system, ' cistemam lacteam et vasorum lactiferorum surculos.' See 'Tes- tacea Utriusque Siciliae,' torn. i. p. 39, 1791. •