PREHISTORIC TIMES IN BRITAIN. 555 tici/s, whieli show that in S. cristatus the antero-posterior length of the third mohirs is much greater in relation to that of the rest of the molar series than it is in either of the other Suidae named. I have above, p. 534, noted that the sexual differences in this matter are very considerable in S. cristatus ; and those produced by domes- tication are also not insignificant—points which somewhat impair the value of these statements of relative proportions, though no less an authority than Riitimeyer avers, ' Fauna der Pfahlbauten,-' p. 188, that 'mit viel grosserer Zahigldt das Gebiss den Specien-Typus ausseren Einfiussen ge- geniiber au/recht halt als die Schddelbildung.' (Cf however Nathusius, c. pp. 49, 103, and Studer, ' Mittheil. Ant. Gesell. Ziirich,' xix. 3, 1876, p. 67.) Professor Busk also observes that in S. cristatus nearly all the teeth, except molar 3, are wider in both jaws in proportion to their length than they are in the other two, and that from this we may suppose that the Indian pig is more exclusively herbivorous than the tame or wild animals with which he has compared it. Jerdon speaks of S. cris- tatus, I.e. p, 343, as being in general almost entirely 'vegetable feeders.' Captain Baldwin's views ('The Gamie of India,' pp. 154-5, 1876) are to the same effect. Professor Busk's drawing and description of this Etruscan pig, coupled with a similar figure of a pig found in the ruins of Hercu- laneum (see Nathusius, I. c. p. 142, fig. 33, and Darwin, I. c. p. 71), furnishes a good illustration of Riitimeyer's saying ('Fauna der Pfahlbauten,' p. 190), that though the modern breed of domestic pigs is recent enough to have been introduced by steamboats, it nevertheless had been represented continuously from former ages by the Biindtner-Schwein in the valleys of the Grisons. A figure of a sow suckling three young ones may be seen on an Umbrian medal of probably the third century B.C. at latest, figured by M. Sambon, in his 'Monnaies Antiques de Tltalie,' 1870, pi. v. 5, with the short snout bent on the chanfrin, the pendent ears, and the mane limited to the nuchal region, which justify us in considering it to have been intended to represent a tame variety. A pig, figured ibidem, pi. iv. 4, from Etruria has a snout of such slenderness as to correspond very closely with the description given of S. scrofa, var. palvMris, whilst it contrasts in other points very strikingly with the wild boars represented from Apulia and Lucania, on the other side