770 MODIFICATIONS OF ASPECTS OF ORGANIC NATURE 'Urwelt und Alterthum,' ii. pp. 128-160, 1822. into account, to be confined within much narrower bounds than some writers are willing- to admit. It is possible to overstate the extent to which man can go in the direction of exhausting the soil by wasteful or neglectful agriculture, and to fall over-easily, not to say over-willingly, into despair as to the restoration to fertility and political consideration of countries so mismanaged. And if it is possible to overstate man's influence upon the dry land and its inhabitants, it is necessary to be very cautious as to asserting for him any power of altering, except iufinitesimally, the vast area of marine life. Now, as the surface of the sea is to that of the land as four to one, and as I feel somewhat desirous of showing that the extent of the subject I have chosen is not quite so disproportionately large in relation to your time and my abilities as the mere words in which it is announced might seem to indicate, I should like to dwell a little upon this delimitation of it before entering upon the subject itself. For one of those striking suggestions ' qui font peuser si elles excite general interest, it is well to hear Mr. Eobert Eawlinson as he spoke in a lecture on Meteorology, delivered November, 1868, before the Eoyal Enijineers at Chatham (p. 7) :— 'It is certainly true that man modifies cliiiiate over tracts that have been cultivated; but it iti asserted, further, that in various parts of the world, through cutting down forests, and in consequence of other opei'ations, the works of man, climate has been so far modified as to have had its character absolutely changed. " The Thames is not now frozen over as in times past," one place has more rain than formerly, another place less, and so on. If by assertions such as these it is intended to be implied that any works of human hands have actually altered the current course of nature, I must meet such allegation with a positive denial. The most stupendous of human works can affect only the comparatively small and narrow space of the earth's surface upon which they may have been executed. Evaporation has only an indirect and inci- dental reference to the land—its real dependence being on the great ocean and the greater sun. And so, while man may exert an influence upon climate over the little area of his operations, his works can avail nothing to affect the grand features of nature even over that small area, or to disturb the majestic scale on which she accomplishes her purposes. Cosmical meteorology is unaffected, and must continue to be unaffected by human agency. The powers of man can never seriously modify the heat of the sun, cloud, rain, or climate, as these have reference to the world at large; all statements, therefore, which would assign cosmical atmospheric effect to the cutting down of forests, to land drainage, land cultivation and such-like agencies, must be treated with practical disregard.' For other discussions on the same subject, see Eeclus, 'The Ocean,' sect. ii. pp. 93-95, ihique ciiata : Unger, as regards Egypt, 'Sitzungsberictite Akad. Wiss. Wien,' xxxviii. pp. 89-93, 1859; De CandoUe, 'Hist, des Sciences,' 1873, p. 412; Link,