626 EXCAVATIONS IN AN ANCIENT day an average difTerence nearly equal to that just given, as de- duced from my measurements, has been observed to exist between the statures of the two sexes. And though the Ilomano-Britons must be considered to have been a civilised population, it must be borne in mind that the physical comfort, upon which such matters as stature depend, of their times was something very different from that of ours, when coal and glass ^ are more or less within the reach of the poorest settled inhabitants of our country. The greater relative stature of the males of this variety of the Romanised Celt may perhaps be accounted for by their having been more exposed to and invigorated by the influences of an out-of-door life; whilst the stature of the females, which is so disproportionately smaller as compared with modern ratios, may have been due to their spending their lives inside houses which, if light must have been cold, if warm must have been dark—which had no chimneys, and only in the case of the rich, hypocausts, and even in their case probably no glass. Fourthly, a second form of cranium diff'ering from the one just described is found with similar archteological surroundings. It resembles this form in its noble proportions and indications of culture; it equals or exceeds it in length, and is distinguished from it by its greater breadth, and, whilst considering it to cor- respond to the ' Sion Typus' of His and Riitimeyer, I have spoken of it in my catalogue and tables as the ' globose Romano-British' type. A very large proportion, six out of the eleven female crania, and seven out of the ten male crania, referred by me to this type, belonged to persons of considerable age. The men attained an average stature of 5 ft. 8*5 in. The crania and the other bones of this variety of men enjoying Romano-civilisation have resisted the ravages of time better than those of the other form. There is no reason, however, for supposing that this valuable peculiarity is referable to any conditions not intrinsic to the bones themselves. The mode of their sepulture is identical with that of the other form, and one of the best-marked specimens of the type in question was taken from a grave over which an Anglo-Saxon urn containing the burnt bones of an adult was found. The larger skulls in this series ' For introduction of panes of glass, or at least of the manufacturers of them, into England in 680 a.d., see Wylie, ' Fairford Graves,' p. 17, and per contra Corbet Anderson, ' Uriconium,' 1867, p. 69, ibique citata.