857 BIOLOGICAL TBAINING AND STUDIES. v.hen a plot of g-round which has for many years, or even genera- tions, been devoted to carrying some particular vegetable growth, whether grass or trees, has that particular growth removed from it. When such a clearing is effected, we often see a rich or even a rank vegetation of a kind previously not growing on the spot spring up upon it. The like phenomenon is often to be noted on other sur- faces newly exposed, as in railway-cuttings and other escarpments, and along the beds of canals or streams, which are laid bare by the turning of the water out of its channel. Fumitory, rocket, knot- grass or cowgrass {Polygomm aviculare), and other such weeds, must often have been noted by every one of us here in England as coming into and occupying such recently disturbed territories in force; whilst in America the destruction of a forest of one kind of wood, such as the oak or the chestnut, has often been observed to be followed by an upgrowth of young forest trees of quite another kind, such as the white pine—albeit no such tree had been seen for generations growing near enough to the spot to make the transport of its seeds to the spot seem a likely thing. In one case referred to by Mr. Marsh, 'Man and Nature,^ p. 289, the hickory, Carya poTcina, a kind of walnut, was remarked as succeeding a displaced and destroyed plantation of the white pine. Now the advocates of spontaneous generation must not suspect me of hinting that there is any question, except in the minds of the grossly ignorant, of the operation of any such agency as spontaneous generation here ; no one would suggest that the seeds of the Polygonum aviculare, to say nothing of those of the hickory, were produced spontaneously; but what I do say is, that the question of how these seeds came there is just the very analogue of the one which they and their opponents have to deal with. And it is not definitely settled at this very moment. Let us glance at the instructive historical parallel it offers. For the very gross and palpable facts of which I have just spoken there are two explanations offered in works of considerable authority. The one which has perhaps the greatest currency and commands the largest amount of acceptance is that which, in the words of De Candolle, regards la coiiche de terre vegetale cTun pays comme un magasin de graines, and supposes that in hot summers and autumns, such as the present, the fissures in the ground, which have proved so fatal this year to the young par- tridges, swallow up a multitude of seeds, which are restored again