928 TYPHOID OR ENTERIC FEVEK Dr. Morehead's suggestion, which Dr. Murchison thinks * not unreasonable,'as to the superaddition of an infectious to a malarious factor in the formation in such cases as those of the Agra gaol, be accepted, I have to say, in the second place, that it makes my case stronger instead of weaker. For what we know of such com- binations of an ' earth-born ' or ' earth-sown '—to use Dr. Bryden's expressive synonym for malarious poison—with a personally in- fectious element is based upon experience of two diseases only— typhoid, to wit, and cholera,—and of these two diseases precisely it is known that they spread ' by the operation of decomposing excreta.' We suppose the same to be the case with dysentery. But I must say that the supposition of remittent fever becoming in- fectious appears to me to be purely hypothetical, and, as yet at least, far too unsubstantial to carry even the weight of an objection without tottering. Boudin, Guyon, and La Roche are quoted by Keith Johnston, in the second edition of the ' Physical Atlas of Natural Pheno- mena,' 1856, pi. 35, p. 121, to the effect that 'typhus' was limited to the northern temperate zone. The date of this work reminds me that in those days it was thought necessary (as by myself in a Report on Smyrna, p. 59) to insist on the reality of the distinction, then a comparatively novel one, between typhus and typhoid fevers ; and I have referred to Keith Johnston's article, not so much for his own or his authorities' opinions as to what they called typhus, as for the sake of quoting his valuable and suggestive, even though not wholly accurate, remark—' The geographical and climatal limits of typhus in Europe and America will be found to correspond nearly with those of the glutinous Cerealia and potato.' The organic world, whether pathological or physiological, whether animal or vegetable, must be looked at as a whole. Facility in colligating facts can always be obtained ; the power of detecting their rationale can sometimes be obtained by the employment of this method. I should not, however, accept Keith Johnston's suggestion of this particular geographical phytographical corre- spondence ; a nearer, though still only partially correct, boundary would be obtained by taking the northern limit of the Palmaceae as the southern limit of true typhus; a botanist who would supply us with a botanical expression for the words 'annual isotherm of 68° Fahr.' would very nearly meet the case.