ADDEESS ON ANTHROPOLOaY. 894 rules of the British Association, like the laws of England, have more or less of an abhorrence of perpetuities. The largest result which craniometry and cubage of skulls have attained is, to my thinking, the demonstration of the following facts, viz., first, that the cubical contents of many skulls from the earliest sepultures from which we have any skulls at all, are larger considerably than the average cubical contents of modern European skulls; and secondly, that the female skulls of those times did not contrast to that disadvantage with the skulls of their male con- temporaries which the average female skulls of modern days do, when subjected to a similar comparison'^. Dr. Thurnam de- monstrated the former of these facts, as regards the skulls from the Long and the Round Barrows of Wiltshire, in the Memoirs of the London Anthropological Society for 1865 ; and the names of Lez Eyzies and Cro-Magnon, and of the Caverne de I'Homme Mort, to which we may add that of Solutr^, remind us that the first of these facts has been confirmed, and the second both indicated and abundantly commented upon by M. Broca. The impression which these facts make upon one, when one first comes to realise them, is closely similar to that which is made by the first realisation to the mind of the existence of a subtropical Flora in Greenland in Miocene times. All our anticipations are precisely reversed, and in each case by a weight of demonstration equivalent to such a work; there is no possibility in either case of any mistake; and we acknowledge that all that we had ex- pected is absent, and that where we had looked for poverty and pinching there we come upon luxuriant and exuberant growth. The comparisons we draw in either case between the past and the present are not wholly to the advantage of the latter : still such are the facts. Philologists will thank me for reminding them of Mr. Chauncy Wright's brilliant suggestions that the large relative size of brain to body which distinguishes, and always, so far as we know, has distinguished the human species as compared with the species most nearly related to it, may be explained by the psycho- logical tenet that the smallest proficiency in the faculty of language » The Bubeqiiality of the male and female skulls in the less civilised of modem races was pointed out as long ago as 1845, by Eetzius in Miiller's 'Archiv,' p. 89, and was commented upon by Huschke, of Jena, in his ' Schadel, Hirn und Seele,' pp. 48-51, in 1854.