PKODUCED BY MAN. 797 quarters of the world we have more or less well-established histories of belts or curtains of trees protecting towns from malarious and anti-sanitary influences. Secondly, though doubt may be raised (e.g. by M. J. Bellucci, cit. 'Athenaeum/ March 14, 1874, p. 360) as to the giving off by trees of ozone into the air, there can be no doubt as to another mechanical effect besides the one already dwelt upon in the way of breaking the force and the fall of raindrops, and thereby preventing, pro tanto, the over-rapid flowing away of such rain and the over-violent wash- ing away of the soil. Simple as this action is, it is, when coupled with the action of the roots and their spongioles, to which it gives a fairer chance of coming into play, one of the most important which a tree in leaf exercises. Finely divided rain sinks into the West Indies, and from Guiana. Lord Mark Kbit (see ' Eeport on Measures adopted for Sanitary Improvements in India for June 1871 to June 1872,' p. 14) did much planting in Delhi in 1864, and, on coming eiglit years later to take stock of the effects of his hygienic work, was able to persuade himself that the almost entire dis- ai)pearance of the Delhi boil was due to this particular cause. But the Indian Government had to report in the succeeding year's volume of the same series, p. 17. that they had not received from the authorities they had consulted ' reliable data to warrant any general conclusions being drawn as to the effect of trees and vegetation on these sores.' Still they proposed 'to institute a more particular inquiry into the matter, and to submit a Eeport on the investigations in due course.' Upon this subject something may be found in Mr. Menzies' 'Forest Trees and Woodland Scenery,' 1875, p. loi, q. v. ibique ab ipso auctore necnon a me citata. Since the appearance of Mr. Menzies' work the literature relating to the Eucalyptus globulus as an agency for ' purging the unwholesome air' has attained a great development. Especially to be recommended is a paper, ' The Eucalyptus near Rome,' by Dr. R. Angus Smith, F.R.S., published in the ' Proceedings' of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester, vol. xv.. No. 9, pp. 150-164, 1876, as also some papers in the 'Edinburgh Medical Journal," February 1878, and May 1879, pp. 1052-1053, by Dr. Bell. And what is better even than good memoirs, good progress has been made in the way of actually planting this tree by no less conspicuous warriors than Garibaldi in the Roman marshes, and by Sir Garnet Wolseley in Cyprus. I have not, however, heard of any further development of the use of the Helianthus annuus as an anti- malarious agent, nor of the adoption of Mr. Menzies' recommendations of the employ- ment of the horse-chestnut, the sycamore, or the balsam poplar and white poplar for the same purpose. To the references given 1. c. may be added, as speaking in the same sense, Becquerel, 'M^m. Institut,' xxxv., 1866, p. 444, and Boudin, 'Gdographie et Statistique Medicales,' vol. i. p. 229. Much has been written by the two last- named writers on the electrical action of trees; I will quote the following sentences from the Litter of the two, I.e. : ' Enfin le ddboisement doit etre consid^rd comme (Equivalent k la destruction d'un nombre de paratonnerres 6gal au nombre d'arbrea qu'on abat; c'est la modification de I'dtat dlectrique de tout un pays ; c'est I'accumu- lation d'un des dldments indispensables h, la formation de la grfile dans une locality oii d'abord cet dldment se dissipait indvitablement par Taction silencieuse et incessante des arbres. Lea observations viennent h, I'appui de ces deductions thdoriques.'