538 ON THE DOMESTIC PIQ OF As the interpretation I suggest of the proportions observed to exist between the length and height of the lacrymal bone dei)ends upon the method of gradations, as applied not only to several varieties, but indeed to several species of Suidae, as well as upon a history of the development of the bone, it will be well now to give a short list of those species—pointing out the particulars which justify their claim to that rank, and contrasting them with the aggregate of characters which do enable us, as a matter of fact, to differentiate such forms as Sus cristatas from Sus scrofa, possibly without justifying us in considering them distinct species. And first of Sus barbatus. I am in no way inclined to give too much weight to differences in colouting or in character of hair or bristles; still a glance at the drawing of this animal in S. Miiller's ' Verhandl.' taf. 30, showing its half-black, half-tawny, wavily, not crisply, curling beard, its ochraceous dorsal stripe, and its tail ending in a considerable brush, impresses one with the idea that it is impossible that the bony substructures should not make some approach at least to a similar diversity from other forms of Suidae. This anticipation was fully borne out by an examination of four skulls, two of which are in the British, and one in the Oxford Museum—and of Schlegel's figure of the skull described by him, and S. Miiller, 'Verhandl.' pp. 173, 179-181, and taf. 31. figs. 4 and 5. The skull of Sus barbatus is absolutely longer than the skulls either of Sus scrofa, var. ferus, or Sus cristatus; and relatively to the body its length is considerably greater, being, as given by Fitzinger, no less than | of the length of the trunk. The contour described by its sagittal suture is strikingly different from that described by the corresponding suture in most other Suidae ; its highest point is some way in front of the plane of the occipital squama, and occupies a level far above the plane occupied by the anterior half of the frontal or by the nasal bones ; and these latter bones make up more than one half of the entire length of the skull, resembling herein the typical Sus scrofa, whilst the naso- frontal suture resembles that of Sus cristatus. Its maximum inter- zygomatie width is in the middle of that arch, not at its posterior border as in most other Suidae. In addition to these larger points, the following may be men- tioned as having a great morphological importance, though relating