897 ADDKESS ON ANTHROPOLOGY. former times. But those times were times of a sevoi-er struggle for existeuce than even the present; and inferior intelligences, and specially the inferior quickness and readiness observable in such cases, it may well be supposed, would have fared worse then than now. There is, however, no need for this supposition ; for, as a matter of fact, the brain-case of brains so hypertrophied ^ has a very readily recognisable shape of its own, and this shape is not the shape of the Cro-Magnon skull, nor indeed of any of the prehistoric skulls with which I am acquainted. As regards the second suggestion, to the effect that a large brain-case may have contained a brain the convolutions of which were simple, broad, and coarse, and which made up by consequence a sheet of grey matter of less square area than that made up in a brain of similar size but of more complex and slenderer convolu- tions, I have to say that it is possible this may have been the case, but that it seems to me by no means likely. Very large skulls are sometimes found amongst collections purporting to have come from very savage or degraded races; such a skull may be seen in the London College of Surgeons with a label, ' 5357 Bushman, G. "Williams. Presented by Sir John Lubbock ^ ;' and, from what Professor Marshall and Gratiolet have taught us as to other Bush- man brains, smaller, it is true, in size, we may be inclined to think that the brain which this large skull once contained may never- theless have been much simpler in its convolutions than a European brain of similar size would be. This skull, however, is an isolated instance of such proportions amongst Bushman skulls, so far, at least, as I have been able to discover ; whilst the skulls of pre- historic times, though not invariably, are yet most ordinarily large skulls. A large brain with coarse convolutions puts its possessor at a disadvantage in the struggle for existence, as its greater size is not compensated by greater dynamical activity; and hence I should be slow to explain the large size of ancient skulls by suggesting that they contained brains of this negative character. I may, perhaps, be allowed to express here my surprise at the statement made by Messrs. Wilks and Moxon, in their very valuable 'Pathological Anatomy,' pp. 217, 218, to the effect that they have not met with euch cases of Cerebral Hypertrophy. They were common enough at the Children's Hospital in Great Orniond Street when I was attached to it. ' [This skull ia evidently 1299 of the new Catalogue of Crania prepared by Professor Flower, where it is named 'The Cranium of a Koranna.'—Editok.J 3