773 PRODUCED BY MAN. A story relating" to the natural history of these true ' fishes' will showj in the way of a parallelism, the facility with which mis- taken views may obtain currency, ' si modo imag-inationem feriant aut intellectum vulgarium notionum nodis astring'ant,' quantitative measurements^ statistics^ relative proportions of masses to other things, and even literature itself, notwithstanding. In the Oxford University Museum we have a large skeleton of a tunny {Scomber ilipinus), brought from Madeira, before my time, by my friend Dr, Acland. A foreign naturalist, whose name, under the cir- cumstances, I think well to withhold, but whose reputation is commensurate with his very extensive performance, going over the Museum with me one day, remarked, after paying a not undeserved compliment to the skeleton, 'That fish never came from the Mediterranean.' I answered that, as a matter of fact, it had belonged to an ocean-going individual; but I also asked how it was possible to differentiate a Madeiran from a Mediterranean specimen. My friend answered, ' The Mediterranean is too closely fished by man to allow of any tunny attaining such dimensions.' I was silent, though very vivid recollections of long, however pleasant, days of coasting on those shores, without meeting any considerable number of vessels, or passing, as on the south coast of Asia Minor, any considerable towns except in ruins, might have conspired with my recollections of St. Paul being driven up and down for fourteen nights in. Adria, to make me question this ex- planation. Some time after, I found that Cetti records tunnies of no less than from looo to 1800 lbs. as being caught now-a-days in the Sardinian fisheries ^! The results of investigation into the extent to which man's interference may have told injuriously upon the propagation of fish smaller in size^ if not smaller in importance, such as the herring, may possibly show us that here too we have exaggerated our own powers for mischief. Not only is the sea a large field, but cyclical oscillations in the ' Frequenz' of its inhabitants are at least as possible, irrespectively of our interference, as are the similar varia- tions observable in air-breathing animals; and many an animal, as for example the horse in South America, has become extinct even in recent, not to speak of earlier geological times, owing to quite other than human agencies. Man has no monopoly of ' See Lenz, 'Zoologie der alien Griechen und Eomer,' iSsG, p. 485.