CEMETERY AT FRILFORD. 619 former of these types, which he has also spoken of as the aristocratic type of head, is really the Roman skull par excellence. First, as it seems to me, the Romans themselves considered theirs to be a broad rather than a lofty-headed race. In looking at Roman monuments as reproduced for us in such works as Lindenschmit's 'Alterthiimer unserer heidnischen Vorzeit,' we cannot fail to be struck by the great angle at which the ears stand out from the head; and this feature, a very striking and obvious one, is, as observation on living ' eurycephalic' persons will show, correlated with a globose and bossy rather than with a vertically-walled and narrow tempore-parietal region. The engraving of the beautiful monument to Manlius Coelius, an officer in the army of Varus, given at Heft vi. Taf. v. of Lindenschmit's work, just referred to, shows this peculiarity in the attachment of the external concha of the ear in each of three heads it represents; and much the same may be said of the figures given Heft iv. Taf. vi., Heft ix. Taf. iv., and especially of the uppermost of the two figures in Heft viii. Taf. vi. Busts also of the Roman emperors and of other Romans which are recognised as more or less authentic speak to the same effect. Secondly, we do find the broad and flat form of the cranium very commonly in cemeteries of undoubted Roman character in England, and the arched and centrally-ridged and narrow cranium we do find in as undoubtedly British barrows. A skull, most singularly re- sembling one of my globose platycephalic crania from Frilford, was recently shown me by Canon Greenwell from a cemetery at Mar- gate, where it had been found with Roman pottery, whilst the ' Hohberg' type of skull is the very form which Retzius describes as the less common Celtic form, and calls, for the sake of dis- tinguishing it, by the name 'Belgic^' Thirdly, through the kindness of Thomas Combe, Esq., M.A., of Oxford, I have had put into my hands, and into the Oxford Museum, a skull, ' found in excavating a house of the time of the Roman Republic, discovered below a vineyard, near the baths of Caracalla, on the Via Appia,' and this skull, though it belonged to a person of not more than between twelve and fourteen years of age, enables me to understand how the modern Italian anthropologist Maggiorani speaks of the ancient Roman skull as a long but broad skull, oblong and four- cornered, with broad interparietal and broad frontal regions. But ' ' Ethnologische Schriften,' p. io8.