PEE-REQUISITES OF CANDIDATES. 911 rio"ht to demand. No examination, however lare-e a factor of it the practical part may be, can give entirely satisfactory proof that a man knows his subject thoroughly and practically : the elasticity of words, the power of verbal memory, the possibility of ' preparing-' and 'grafting' a candidate for examination, as, in America and elsewhere, a mine is ' prepared ' and ' grafted' for unwary speculators, are not all the heads under which sources of fallacy in examina- tions miofht be enumerated. Hence I should wish to secure for the public what a system of roll-calls can secure—namely, the attend- ance of a student in a particular spot where particular opportunities for learning particular things should be available for him in a par- ticular order and succession. This system of requirements should be made to tally with the system of examinations, and thereby teachers and pupils, examiners and candidates, would all alike be relieved from much that is onerous, unreal, and a snare. The examination system would dignify the system of the roll-call, which, indeed, as aiming at something definitely attainable and attaining it, even if nothing more, would at any rate possess the dignity which truth possesses, that of Hncorrupta fides nudaque Veritas! Common sense would consider the advantage, sense of duty would enforce the necessity, of using opportunities whilst they were available, and the two systems, that of examinations and that of the pre-requisites for them, would be brought into a more harmonious and less burdensome solidarity than they at present enjoy. I have been speaking of the duties of young men and of learners, but do not suppose that I think that older men and teachers, like myself, have not their duties too. I know that I have mine, and that I often perform them very much otherwise than I should and wish to do. One hears talk sometimes which makes one think that the talker supposes that morality belongs to one sphere and science to another, and that the two may impinge upon or collide with one another, but cannot otherwise influence each other. This is an entire mistake. ' Faith ' and ' duty' are words which may, when we see them on the outside of a tract, prepare us for finding ethical and other disquisitions in pari maierie within its covers ; but faith and duty, faithfulness and thoroughness, are also things which can no more be left out of the world of scientific work than they can or ought to be left out of ' that other world' to which I have just