668 ON THE THBEE PERIODS KNOWN AS the shipwreck of the vessel laden for them. On the other hand, masses of bronze in the rough, pigs, that is, or even ingots, have also been found in this country, together with smelting apparatus and moulds ; so that bronze must also have been worked up here, as there is abundant evidence (see Klemm, 'German. Alterthuras- kunde,' 1836, p. 151) to show it'was also in Germany. Every nation, the most refined, perhaps, not more than the most bar- barous, has its own fancies as to the patterns of its own weapons, as much as its own clothes, its own architecture, and its own ceremonials; and this feeling of independence would shortly evoke a demand for the raw material and a production of moulding apparatus. A very instructive story, bearing upon the possible working of this desire for variation, is told by Major-General Lane Fox, F.R.S., in a paper on ' Primitive Warfare,' read by him June 5, 1868, at the Royal United Service Institution. As the paper in question was printed only and not published, it may be allowable here to reproduce it. It runs thus:— ' The next principle which we shall have to consider is that of variation. Amongst all the products of the most primitive races of man, we find endless variations in the forms of their implements, all of the most trivial characters. A Sheffield manufacturer informed me that he had lately received a wooden model of a dngger-blade from Mogadore, made by an Arab who desired to have one of steel made exactly like it; accordingly my informant, thinking he had found a convenient market for the sale of such weapons, constructed some hundreds of blades of exactly the same pattern ; on arriving at their destination, however, they were found to be unsaleable. Although precisely of the same type as those in general use about Mogadore, all of which to the European eye would be considered alike, their uniformity rendered them unsuited to the requirements of the inhabitants, each of wliora prided himself upon possessing his own particular pattern, the peculiarity of which consisted in having some almost im- perceptible difference in the curve or breadth of the blade.' Persons who, like myself, incline to the belief that the regions round the Bay of Bengal were probably the seat, not only of the discovery of the stream-works oxide of tin, but also of that of its alloy with copper, will be tempted to assign more weight than is due to the fact, or supposed fact, of the bronze-swords having such small handles, as it may be thought Hindoos or people like them would have. I am not quite clear that this bronze sword, leaf-shaped or other, bas always a very small hilt; certainly in some cases, if we imagine the hilt to be wrapped round with leather or other material suitable for the purpose, it will not turn out to be at all too small for the grip of an ordinary English hand of the present day. At any