513 DOMESTIC CATS, after having been shot at once and missed. The cat has, Eeug-g-er informs us ('Siiugethiere Paraguay,' p. 314), learnt to kill the rattle- snake in Paraguay, and I have read that the felis acquired this self-same snake-killing dexterity in the island of Naxos, but I ^ have not the reference at hand at this moment. Herein it has by practice under the stimulus of constant provocation come to re- semble the mustelines in what is instinctive to them; but though it will steal cream, as Falstaff told us, it will never, like the martens, steal eggs nor honey nor take to burrows in the way of refuge. I am aware that there are both scholars and men of science to whom disquisitions such as these will seem but the strenua inertia hominis male feriati. Critics such as Pope, and,, I regret to have to add, such as Hallam (see ' Literature of Modern Europe,' i. 277), speak of such attempts to preserve the unities of time and place in Faunae as in dramas, the one with the cynical sneering giggle, the other with the elevated and refrigerating yet half-compassionate contempt congenial to their respective schools of literature and of politics. But to the scholar I would say that, thoug'h in. these matters as in many others by increasing knowledge we increase also sorrow, or at least our susceptibility for annoyance, it is rare indeed to find a writer of the classical periods making blunders in the way of putting animals into places which they never were found in, except in connexion with the circus of olden or the menagerie of modern times, which are so rife in all but our very best modern writers. Modern catalogues of African mammals show that Virgil did not deserve the criticism as to the presence of the stag there which Pope in the ' Martinus SeriUerus ' puts into the mouth of Bentley as unworthy of any one else; and that Lipsius need not have ex- plained away, as he does ('Elect.' ii. 4), the phrase L'lbystidos ursae. The placing of the lion by Theocritus, i. 72, trivov xm 'k lpv\ioio Aewi; aviKkavcre OavovTa, is in fact the only anachronism or ana- topism of the kind which my memory furnishes me with from the writers of the best periods of Greek and Eoman literature. To the man of science I may say in the words of Goethe :— ' Miifiset im Naturbebrachten Immer eina wie alles achten Nichta ist drinnen, nichts ist draussen : Denn was innen, das ist aussen ' So ergreifet ohne SaumnisB Heilig ofifentlich Geheimuisa.' Li