MEDICINE IN MODERN TIMES. 725 may turn out ultimately to be essential elements in problems, the solution of which promotes directly and greatly the interests of man, and the glory of Him to whom nothing is common or un- clean. Could anything have seemed at first sight to be more impertinent, more otiosely curious and trifling, than to enquire during- an epidemic of cholera what was the nature of the subsoil in the area it was ravaging, to what depth it was porous, and at what level the water was, and had been previously, standing in it ? Yet^ as I think. Von Pettenkofer has at last fought out and won his battle on these points (see 'Zeitschriffc fiir ]3iologie,' Ed. I, Heft iii. und iv. 1865 ; Bd. II. Heft i. 1866 ; Supplemental Heft, 1867, p. 54; Bd. IV. Heft iv. p. 400); and the distinguished President of our ' Public Medicine' section, Mr. Simon, who is as little prone as most men of science to take up over-readily with any new wind of doctrine, has told us (' Eeport of the Privy Council for i856,' pp. 366 and 457) that certain of his carefully observed eases of the distribution of this disease seem to illustrate and find their explanation in Von Pettenkofer's theory. I have pleasure in adding that I see, by papers published by the illustrious Professor of Munich in the ' Allgemeine Zeitung'^ for June last, that he has been able to show that, amongst all the other circum- stances of the case at Gibraltar and at Malta, there were still to be found, all guessing and objections notwithstanding, the porous subsoil and the retreating ground-water, as factors in the complex constituting an area or arena for cholera. Let us attend to and note always all the circumstances in every complex phaenomenou which we have to investigate, but let us not betake ourselves over- hastily to the process of eliminating antecedents, until we are quite sure that they do not enter as factors into its causation. I may say, in conclusion, that attention to this seventh rule of Descartes might have saved such students of Natural Science as have fallen into materialism from falling into it. The Physiologist, as such, has nothing to do with the data of Psychology which do not admit of being weighed or measured, nor of having their force expressed in inches or ounces. This language, which I long ago employed myself ('Nat. Hist. Kev./ April 1861; 'Med. T. and Gaz.' * See also 'Allgemeine Zeitung,' December 8, 1868, No. 343. Ueber das Ver- haltnias der "amtlichen Choleraberichte " zum Boden und Grundwasser.' Von Dr. Max von Pettenkofer.