667 THE IRON, THE BRONZE, AND THE STONE AGES. between Birmali and Banca, inclusively. This is what Mortillet writes, ' Revue d'Authrop.' i. v. 1875, p. 653 :— 'Eeste le groupe de I'extrtoie Orient Asiatique. C'est la ^videmment oh il faut chercher I'origine du bronze. Las principaux gisements soiit dans la presqu'Ue de Malacca et surtout dans I'ile de Banca, niais ils s'dtendent dans d'autrea iles de la Sonde et remonteut jusque dans I'empire Birman oil I'l^tain est encore exploits ac- tuellement dans le district de Mergny. Ce min(^ral dans tons ces gisements se recueille de la maniere la plus simple et plus facile dans les alluvions. Ce sont bien certaine- uient les alluvions les plus riches du monde en dtain et celles qui occupent la plus grande «5tendue. 11 est done tout natural que ce soit celles qui les premiferes aient attii-e' I'attention de I'liomme. La cuivre se rencontre dans les memes regions. Tout le monde connait les gisements de cuivre des iles de la Sonde, Timor, Macas-sar, Borueo. La Birmanie anglaise pri^seiite des mines de cuivre a cdt6 des ses exploita- tions d'etain. Le pays se trouve done dans les meilleures conditions pour avoir vu naitre I'industrie du bronzed' Yon Baer himself, I. c, thinks that Ceylon may very prohably have been one source whence tin was procured by the Phoenicians trading for it with the Malays, as they traded doubtless with them, at second, if not at first hand, for the cinnamon which still retains its Malay name, little altered though it has passed through the mouths of so many Western races. I a little doubt the correctness of the introduction of the Malays into the picture ; for if the Malays brought bronze, or even only the ores of either or both of the metals forming it, to meet the Phoenicians at Ophir, it is difficult to understand how they should have failed to carry the knowledge they could not thus have failed to gain, with them on their colonising expeditions over Polynesia. Yet Polynesia was in the Stone Age till quite recently, though the common fowl and the pig had been carried to some of the most remote of its islands, aad the dog even to New Zealand, in times beyond the memory, if not beyond the traditions of the natives, and long before they came into rapport with Europeans; and we learn from Mr. J. Craw- furd, 'Traus. Ethn. Soc./ iii. 1865, p. 353, that it was the Gentoo traders of the Coromandel coast who brought tin from Malaysia to India, when the Europeans first came into relation with Malaysia in the early years of the sixteenth century. There can be no doubt that many of the bronze weapons now found in this country were imported as made up; if my memory does not deceive me, hollow bronze weapons have been found upon our south coasts, containing still the cores on which they had been moulded for the use of our natives, who were balked of them by