ArPENDIX. 940 quantity of bones of cow, also sheep's bones and horn cores, also pigs' and stags' bones; also a bone double-pointed needle. Subjacent to the earth containing these objects was a grave 8' deep, the width across level of head 56" ; the length of the grave was 7' 7 '. The length of skeleton from astragalus to top of head 33". Head at S.W., feet at N.E, ; black carbonaceous matter a little above vertex. Left hand close to face, proximal end of metacarpals in relation with teeth, but digits pointing downwards. Eight ulna in line and under leg bones, extended and in articulation with humerus. Head of right liuraerus lying on right upper maxilla. Skull and whole body on left side, the right scapula lying close to coracoid of left scapula, which coracoid was looking upwards. Body curled round. Patella present, knees 8" from upper jaw. Distal end of left radius 1" from upper jaw. Right fibula projected beyond distal end of right femur proximally to head, outer trochanter in relation to os calcis. Two highest cervical vertebrae between condyles of lower jaw. Spines of dorsal vertebrae pointing upwards close to left coracoid. Centres of lumbar vertebrae much eaten away. Ribs pressed away from head. Sacral spines looking upwards. The left tibia the most superficial of the long bones. 'June 6, 1870. Went over to Wytham with result of bringing back one human skull with long bones from a grave 8 feet deep, 10 feet long, 5 ft. 6 in. broad, in the gravel: with lower end of worked celt, and two more or less doubtful worked flints, and pig's jaw; also a great number of various styles of pottery, (i) Saxon with thumb marks, (2) very coarse British, (3) much Roman, (4) some angular pottery with vandyck figuring, very like Saxon, but said not to be Saxon by Prof. PhiUips. Also bones of cow, sheep, deer, horse, pig; also bones of hippopotamus from the gravel. The skeleton was that of an adult man, head of humerus detached, teeth much worn, exostosis on right upper jaw and on right mandible, and tartar on teeth. Both patellae in situ. Lying W. N.W. by E.S.E., doubled up, from head to knee 21 inches. Both arms with elbow flexed, humerus parallel with upper vertebrae, lumbar vertebrae with spines looking upwards. Between chin and knee, flint, pig's jaw. The left os inno- minatum is much blackened internally, also the head of the corresponding femur; to a less extent also the right innominate bone and femur. Probably a fire was lighted in the grave superficial to the body and the fine ashes subsequently worked their way into the bones more or less cracked by the heat. Femur 18-2" inches long; tibia 14 inches. Stature calculated by length of femur 5' 6", by length of femur and tibia together 5' The stature is lower than is usual in the brachycephalic Britons. Extreme length of skull "j-i; extreme breadth 5-8 ; cephalic index 82. The concep- tacula cerebelli touch the same surface with the teeth. Teeth all present, but much worn. Lower jaw very powerful. Sutures extensively obliterated externally. Frontal sinuses and supraciliary ridges largely developed. In contour the skull is typically brachycephalic; the posterior half of the parietals dip precipitately, and though the upper occipital squama does lie in a plane a little posterior to that of the posterior half of the parietals, it nevertheless does not project behind the inion, which forms a coarse transverse ridge without any differentiation of the lineae supremae,* In March 1871, E. Johnson and W. B. Clarke, Esqrs. found the skele- tons of three dogs in a hole, about 4 feet below the surface of the ground and about 2 feet in the gravel. At the bottom of the hole the earth was black and mixed with charcoal, and several stones were found which showed traces of fire : the dogs' skeletons were immediately on the top of this blackened earth. The skeletons were close together as if they had been thrown into the hole in a heap.