ADDRESS ON ANTHROPOLOGY. 888 If, however, the Department can find time to listen to me a second time, I shall be glad to read a short paper myself upon this very subject, mainly in the hope of getting Mr. Freeman to speak upon it also. I come now (perhaps I should have come before) to the consider- ation of the subject of craniology and craniography. Of the value of the entirety of the physical history of a race there is no ques- tion; but two very widely opposed views exist as to the value of skull-measuring to the ethnographer. According to the views of one school, craniography and ethnography are all but convertible terms ; another set of teachers insist upon the great widtli of the limits within which normal human crania from one and the same race may oscillate, and upon the small value which, under such circumstances, we can attach to differences expressed in tenths of inches or even of centimetres. As usual, the truth will not be found to lie in either extreme view. For the proper performance of a craniographic estimation, two very different processes are neces- sary : one is the carrying out and recording a number of measure- ments; the other is the artistic appreciation of the general impressions as to contour and type which the survey of a series of skulls produces upon one. I have often thought that the work of conducting an examination for a scholarship or fellowship is very similarly dependent, when it is properly carried out, upon the employment of two methods—one being the system of marking, the other that of getting a general impression as to the power of the several candidates ; and I would wish to be understood to mean by this illustration not only that the two lines of inquiry are both dependent upon the combination and counterchecking of two different methods, but also that their results, like the results of some other human investigations, must not be always, even though they may be sometimes, considered to be free from all and any need for qualification. Persons like M. Broca and Professor Aeby, who have carried out the most extensive series of measurements, are not the persons who .express themselves in the strongest language as to craniography being the universal solvent in ethnography or anthropology. Aeby, for example, in his ' Schadelformen der Menschen und der Affen,' 1867, p. 61, says:—'Aus dem gesagten geht hervor, dass die Stellung der Anthropologic gegeniiber den Schadelformen eine ausserordentlich schwierige ist;' and the per-