843 PKODUCED BY MA.N, name Prince Bismarck would, I apprebend, as little object as it would seem he does to adopting- his principles, sighing for the time when he would get back to his farm, the articles consumed in whicb at least were ' reserved for native industry.' The amount of difference between these views and those of the statesman just mentioned, or those of M. Pouyer-Quertier, or of another country- man of MM. Quesnay, Turgot, and Chevalier who is reported in the same ' Times' of Friday^ May 2nd, no time having- been lost in giving these valuable views to the world, to have averred that an increase in the imports denoted the impoverishment of a country, I must, as did Captain Lemuel Gulliver under some- what similar circumstances in Laputa, profess myself to be ' not skilful enough to comprehend.' What is shown seems to me to be that in modern not less than in ancient times men will run their heads against the multiplication table, and that for the passing moment, at least, it is not always the heads which come off second best in the encounter. Of the second difference between the old world and the new which our command of methods and means, our recognition of the futility of attempting enterprises with a manus nuda and an. intel- lecttis siii jpermissus, has created, the gas, glass, and coal around us in this room speak, and I need not. As regards the third great point of contrast upon which Herr Hehn insists, that of natural science, we are all probably at one with him. Our agreement may be illustrated by contrasting the different factors which two poets, each an artist capable of taking a wide view with due perspective and proportion of the sum of man's activities, have in ancient and modern times respectively enu- merated as making up that sum. When Juvenal specifies what he means by ' Quidquid agunt homines,' the comprehensive title of his satires, he enumerates nothing—because, I suppose, he considered all else beneath the dignity of a poet—but 'Votum, timor, ira, voluptas, Gandia, discuraus'— large enough matters, but imponderables all of them. Contrast these items,—I purposely speak in Philistine phraseology—with latter enjoined, i. 22. i, in words which the Chambers of Commerce aforesaid re-echoed in their roodified Roman tongue,' Quae nasci in fundo ac fieri a domesticis poterunt, eorum ne quid ematur,'