735 THE HARVEIAN ORATION. It gives a figure of the lacteala injected, by the means just specified, as they exist upon the terminal segment, here widely globular, of the ileum, upon a single disciform patch upon the commencing colon, and, finally and chiefly, upon and all around the walls of the colossal vermiform appendix of the rabl)it. In this latter place it is but what the Germans call, and have called (Frey, ' Das Mikroskop und die mikroskopische Technik,' 4th ed. 1H71, p. 255), a Kinder- spiel, to insert the point of the fine Einstichung syringe charged with the soluble blue injection just beneath the peritonal coat at the caecal end or elsewherCj when, upon pressing the piston, a reticulation of blue will spread itself over the surface of the tube, enclosing as islands the solid substance of the Peyerian follicles. It needs but a little perseverance in the way of gentle pressure to cause superficial tubular lymphatics to arise into view, and to declare their true character by their contrast with and distinctness from the blood-vessels, as well as by their moniliform character speaking of their richness in internally placed valves. Passing over the convex walls of the appendix, they join larger trunks which run along its mesenteric border; these larger trunks in their turn enter the mesenteric glands, and form in their substance reticulations strikingly like those formed previously in the walls of the intestine around the solid substance of the Peyerian follicle— suggesting thus to the naked eye the similarity, and by consequence the homology, which a microscopic examination enables us to prove to exist between the Ij'raph-sinuses and the solid masses they surround in the Peyerian follicles and in the mesenteric glands respectively ^. It is the demonstration of the relation of the lymphatic or lac- teal vessels, or sinuses, as the case may be, in different animals, to the solid ampulla-like mass in the Peyerian follicles which the modem method of puncture can claim as being eminently its own * I take this opportunity of expressing my surprise that Henle has not seen his way towards accepting tliis view of the real nature or Bedeutumj of the Peyerian follicles. In his ' Gefasslehre' of 1868 (p. 404) he refers us back to his ' Eingeweide- lehre,' p. 57, of 1862, where, as also in the second edition, 1873, p. 62, the absorbent character of these structures is denied, just as it was by Hyrtl in his ' Handbuch der Tojjograpliischen Anatomic,' i860, p. 646, and by Teichmann, 'Das Saugadersystem,' 1861, pp. 86-91. The view which I have adopted was accepted by a distinguished Fellow of this College, Dr. Burdon-Sanderson, in the Eleventh Report of the Medical Officer of the Privy (Jouncil for 1868, p. 96.