PEODUCED BY MAN. 815 development which this same boviculture has attained in Siberia, and to his statement that not only have the nomads of the southern steppes, the Bursts, the Mongols, and the Kirghiz, herds number- ing thousands and tens of thousands wintering out in the open, but that even the Jakuts (by, it is true, taking more care of their cattle) have, from being simply nomads, become a pastoral people of dis- tinction, and even 'improved cattle-breeders!' (' Sibirische Reise,' iv. 3, 3, p. 1323.) Coming, in the second place, to the consideration of the sheep, I must allow that considerable hesitation has been expressed by many writers as to the question of its parent-stock; and that doubt may be not altogether unreasonably felt as to whether that stock may not have become extinct, as the parent-stock of the cow has all but entirely done. But what I know of the deerlike agility and watchfulness of some of our European mountain breeds of sheep, and in the second place what I see of the smaller size of the animal as giving it a less severe battle to fight for its survival, makes me slow to think that their parent-stock need be thought likely to have perished as has that of the larger ruminant. And setting this view aside, we may say that either the Mouflon (^Ovis musimon and cyprius\ with a range from Majorca to Cyprus, and not without footings, occupied by such varieties as Ov'is orientalis and Ovis vignei, on the mainland on various points of the mountain- ranges of the Taurus and of Armenia to those of Tibet; or the Argali, Ovis fera Sibirica s. Ovis ar(/ali, with an all but equally extensive range from the Pamir plateau above Samarcand and Bok- hara to the Sea of Okhotsk as Ovis nivicola, or Ovis poUi, must be credited with having given to the world this inestimable gift. If it shall really turn out to be correct that a true Argali, that is to say a variety of wild sheep, in which both sexes carry horns, had been found in the Taurus, as Ainsworth (cit. A. Wagner, ' Die Geo- graphische Verbreitung der Saugethiere,' Abhandl. d. ii. kl. d, Ak. d. Wiss. Miinchen, Bd. iv. Abth. i. p. 139) and Bitter ('Erd- kunde,' xi. 506), have averred is the case, the claims of the Argali would to some persons, I apprehend, appear to be stronger than they might if its range should, as I incline to think it will, be shown to be confined to the more easterly limits just given. But under any and all circumstances, the fact that the female Mouflons have no horns, whilst the female Argalis have them, though