590 EXCAVATIONS IN AN ANCIENT A few bones of the dog and some teeth of the horse were found in some of the interments, but not in such numbers or positions as to make it at all probable that the former were the relics of a favourite animal interred with its master, or that the latter were remains which, in like manner, had been buried from similar, or from superstitious notions, or which had been the leavings of the practice of eating horseflesh which we know existed in those days in spite of the efforts of the Christian priests ^. Fragments of carbonaceous matter are to be found in Romano- British as also in Anglo-Saxon and undoubtedly Pagan interments. It is a little hazardous to pronounce quite positively as to a piece of black woody tissue that it was put into the grave as charcoal; and that its blackness is not due to the ' eremacausis,' which it has been exposed to for so many hundreds of years. If, however, such "matter be in masses of considerable size, which possess on fracture the peculiar lustre of charcoal, and if it have not been impregnated funeral feast being abused by the Christians into an occasion of great licence. I do not happen to have met with any evidence to show that food or drink was put into the graves of the early Christians from any influence which any pre-Christian belief may have had upon them as to its possibly being of some use to the departed in the new world. This superstition was of course operative in the case of heathens, and amongst certain of the Scandinavian races (see Lubbock's ' Prehistoric Times,' p. 89) it has lasted even down to our own times. Weinhold tells us ('Altnordisches Leben,' p. 493) that the tobacco-pipe, pocket-knife, and filled brandy flask were placed in Swedish graves (it is to be supposed only in remote districts), if not up to the present time, at all events up to the beginning of the present generation. Heathen customs, however, and customs as markedly heathen as cremation, retained their vitality to a very late period in the Baltic regions. (See for this Grimm, loc. cit.; Wylie, ' Archaeologia,' xxxvii. 467 ; and Lindenschrait, ' Alterth. heidnisch. Vorzeit,' Heft ii. Bd. ii. ad Taf. vi., for long persistence of heathen customs amongst the Ale- manni. See also Wylie,' Graves of Alemanni.') ' For the interment of favourite animals with their masters, see Von Sacken, •Heidnisches Alterthum,' 1865, p. 155; Weinhold, ' Sitzungsberichte Phil. Hist. Klass. Akad. Wien,' Bd. 29, p. 203, 1859. The bones of a large dog were found at Long Wittenham in a Romano-British interment so near to certain human remains as to make it seem possible that the animal had been purposely so placed. For the burial of the horse {Das Trauer-Pferd) in Teutonic graves, and those of other races, see Keysler,' Antiq. Select.' 1720, p. 168 ; Wylie,' Graves of the Alemanni,' Archaeo- logia, vol. xxxvi, ibique citata; Cochet, ' Normandie Souterraine,' p. 298. For the suspension of the skull of the horse over graves, see ' Pagan Saxondom,' p. 23. For the practice of eating horse-flesh, see ' Confessional of Archbishop Ecgbert,' c. 38 ; the Decrees of Council held a.d, 785, under the presidency of Gregory, Bishop of Ostia; and ' Penitential of Theodore,' c. xxx. s. 17. See also Lubbock, 'Prehistoric Times,' p. 115; Keysler, I.e., pp. 322, 340; and Pearson, 'History of England,' i. 138.