PHYSIOLOGY IN EELATION TO 698 less directly, of the ' indolence' we desire, as well as of much that we deprecate. And chloroform, thirdly, antagonises the sympathetic in its very obvious action on the pupil. It may be bold in me to venture further in this direction; yet, as a member of the British Medical Association, and as a reader of our admirable Journal, I may perhaps be allowed to say, before I re- turn to my own more immediate subjects, that the account given by Dr. George Johnson in that periodical for March 21st, 1868 \ seems to me to indicate that epilepsy itself is but a frightful caricature of neuralgia, and of the results of vaso-motor irritation and contraction. The presence of dilatation of the pupil in all those sets of cases may be thought perhaps but a slight indication in the direction of identity of cause. High spirits and great vivacity are not rarely, in both diseases alike, precursors of an attack; while counter-irritation, which both Schiff and Setsche- now^ are agreed in considering a strong and universal reflex de- pressant, is not rarely, in both diseases alike, both, ex hypothesis dependent on reflex vascular constriction, a preventive ^. sympathetic. But, taking the facts as given, we must allow that venous fulness, though inferior doubtless to arterial replenishment, is still, as the growing prostate of the aged, the rank hairs shooting up round old ulcers, and the cock's spur trans- planted to the cock's comb, show, a more or less favourable condition for growth and nutrition; whereas pain is correlated always with malnutrition and ordinarily with atrophy, and is now always spoken of as a 'depression' rather than as 'an exaltation of function.' ' See Brown-Sdquard, ' Lectures,' 1. c. p. 179, ibique citata. ''■ Setschenow's words are these ('Neue Versuche,' p. 23, 1864): 'Es giebt endlich bei meinen Gegnem einen Versuch, an dessen Richtigheit ich keinen Grund zu zweifeln habe, an welchem die einseitige Trigeminus-Reizung eine starke allgemeine Reflex- Depression hervorrief.' These words seem to furnish something like a rationale of the picking of the nose in helminthiasis, as also of much of that counter-irritation of the fifth nerve at its periphery which so-called 'nervous irritable' persons practise on themselves in the way of ' tricks.' Malgaigne practised similarly on his patients, as certain savage races do upon themselves with their labrets, ear- and nose-rings. ^ These views I came to entertain without any knowledge—or perhaps I should rather say without any conscious recollection—of those which Dr. RadclifFe had put before the world in his lectures delivered at the College of Physicians, and published in 1864 in his work on Epilepsy, Pain, and Paralysis. I have not altered what I had written in consequence of my consultation of this most valuable work, to which I re- sorted after seeing a reference to it in Dr. Anstie's book. This latter work I have already quoted in the text, and I found it most useful and suggestive to me. I believe, indeed I hope, that what 1 have written is more or less in accordance with Dr. RadclifFe's views. But it is as much inferior for purposes of consultation, and in- deed from other points of view also, to what Dr. RadclifFe has written, and I have read of his, on the same subject, as a skull when just removed, and that in a somewhat