556 ON THE DOMESTIC PIG OF of Italy {ibidem, plates xiv. xv. 17 and 37, xix. 4), which have as close a zoological as legendary connexion with the wild hoar of Calydon, on the other side of the Adriatic (see ' Thesaurus,' Bran- denburg, i. pp. 318 and 464, 1696, and 'Thesaurus Numismaticus,' i. p. 400, and tab. xl). Of the two bronze statuettes given me by Mr. John Evans, one has the long slender snout, and the mane reaching the whole length of the convex back, from the prominent ears to the curled tail, which may justify us in considering it as intended for a wild boar; the other combines the sturdy straddle, and the long and large erect mane, beginning on the forehead and in front of the erect ears, characteristic of a wild boar, with a snout as dispropor- tionately short, and tusks as reduced as we ever see them in the highest-bred modern Chinese pig. The characters of the wild and tame varieties, however, being thus inaccurately and inartistically combined in these statuettes, cause them to contrast disadvan- tageously with the Italian works of art just mentioned; but they furnish us with a conclusive answer to the weak reasoning of De Blainville (' Osteographie/ Sus, p. 170), expressed in the following words:— ' Du temps de C^sar, il paralt cependanfc qu'elle (la culture du cochon) n'^tait pas encore parvenue dans les Gaules, car il n'est nuUement question de cet animal dans ses Commentaires; elle s'y est done propagt?e depuis la conquete, d'od elle a passd eu Angleterre, qui ne poss^dait pas m6me de sanglier dans ses forets!' If further answer were required to this astounding statement, a reference to Mr. Evans's work on British Coinage would furnish it—figures of the boar, some of which are exceedingly characteristic, being given there on pis. vi, viii, xi, xii, and xiii, from those ancient coins. But all well-informed antiquaries are aware that the wild boar is one of the earliest animals figured in Celtic works of art (see ' Horae Ferales,' p. 185, pi. xiv; Montellier, ' Memoires sur les Bronzes Antiques,' Paris, 1865; and Stephens, 'Literature of Kymry,' p. 230). Professor Riitimeyer's paper in the ' Verhandlungen der natur- forschenden Gesellschaft in Basel,' iv. i, 1864, is, I apprehend, re- ferred toby Mr. Darwin when he says ('Animals and Plants under Domestication,' i. p. 71, 2nd ed. 1875) that 'Rutimeyer himself seems now to feel some doubt' as to whether the ' Torfscliweiu ' ex- isted as a wild animal during the first part of the stone period. No