XLVII. THE EAETH-CLOSET SYSTEM. I VENTUEE to think that Von Pettenkofer's opinion of the earth- closet system may be worthy the attention of the readers of ' The Lancet' at the present moment. It may be found to the following effect in the' Zeitschrift fiir Biologic,' 1867, bd. iii. hft. ii. and iii. p. 298 :— ' As to salubrity, I not only do not look forward to any gain as being likely to arise from disinfection with earth and peat, but, on the other hand, I fear the greatest danger from it, especially as regards cholera. If it is, as it is now pretty generally believed to be, actually the fact that the porosity of the soU and its impregnation with excreta do, at all events at particular seasons, bring about a local disposition for cholera, and that the immunity from cholera which a rocky soil enjoys depends upon the circumstance that such soils cannot be so impregnated, I cannot see my way towards recommending the disinfection of privies with earth and peat.' NoWj I apprehend that it will be allowed that the same line of reasoning' will apply to the localisation and diffusion of typhoid fever. And I would add that certain observations which I made recently in a fever-stricken village, with the aid of the light which Dr. Budd's and Dr. T. K. Chambers's writings had given me, have induced me to think that of the two recognised foci for infection— the bespattered privy and the contaminated well—the former may be the one which is more commonly at work. For though it is said that the larger proportion of women- and children-sufferers points to the water, of which they are said to drink more, being the cause at work, the facts are, not that the women and children drink more water in tea, &c. than the men, but that they get less beer; whilst many of the men in our semi-savage villages never use a privy at all, or at least not habitually. This last is the true differentiating condition. What applies, howevei-, to the wood- work and contents of a privy applies to the like elements in the