CEMETERY AT FRILFORD. 605 taining an Anglo-Saxon skeleton, but I have never come upon nails in sueli numbers as to make me think it probable that they had come there otherwise than accidentally, nor have I ever found in such interments that all but infallible sign of a coffin having been employed, namely, coffin-hooping. The shallow Anglo-Saxon graves do not appear to have had stones set round their edges; and the absence of such stones is another, and complementary, illustra- tion of the carelessness which appears to have characterised the performance of these burials. Wherever stones have been found set round a grave, the grave has had the semi-oriented bearings of the Romano-British interments, and has all but universally the same depth as these graves, and may hence be considered to belong to a distinct era of inhumation. V. Of Anglo-8aT07i Interments in the wai/ of inhumation in graves of the same compass-hearings, and %isually of the same depth, as the Romano-British graves; but differing from them in having stones set along the edges of the grave, and in containing insignia to- gether with the skeletons. I have not at Frilford come upon a grave with stones set round its edges which had not the Romano-British direction towards E.S.E., and which did not contain a skeleton with the insignia of the Anglo-Saxon race. Following the Romano-Br'tiish direction, these interments have followed the same pi'ccedent ordinarily as to depth also, and the like, it may be noted, has been observed by Wanner of the Alemannian interments at Schleitheim ^. The closeness of the stones to the sides, head, and feet of the skeleton seems to preclude the notion of coffins having been employed in these interments, and the fact that the sides of these stones, which looked towards the skeleton, were in some cases reddened in a way in which actual experiment shows that similar stones of the neigh- bourhood do redden under the action of fire, makes it appear all but certain that the charcoal found in these graves around and even under the skeleton must have been produced by a fire lighted in the grave before, or indeed after, the corpse was put into it 2. * ' Das Alamannische Todtenfeld bei Schleitheim,' pp. 11,18. ' In a note from Professor Pearson to me, in which he gives much valuable infor- mation upon other points relating to the history of this country in the times with