624 EXCAVATIONS IN AN ANCIENT present day, with the elongated but narrow form which he sup- poses to have belonged to the 'Belg-ae,' Retzius speaks first of 'the common Celtic form,' and says it differs from the ' Belgic,' in being less narrow and compressed. The Cimbric variety, he adds, which is found in South Sweden and Denmark, is even somewhat broader still; is very like the Scandinavian Gothic form, and is of an elon- gated oval shape, with a greatly developed occipital region. And Retzius has, by the gift of a ' plaster cast of the cranium of an ancient aboriginal of Scandinavia regarded as the Celt' to the easily accessible and invaluable ethnological series in the London College of Surgeons \ enabled us to understand most unambiguously what was the type of skull to which he alluded. To this type, most assuredly^ the large majority of the adult Romano-British crania found in this cemetery are referable. And I may here say that a skull obtained by me, with many others, from a barrow at Dinning- ton, near Rotherham, in South Yorkshire (Article xiii), of which casts have been made and presented to various museums in this and other countries by Dr. Thurnam, corresponds very closely with this cast presented to the College of Surgeons by Pi'ofessor Retzius, and more closely still with some of the very fine skuUs obtained by me from Frilford. Professor Ecker, in writing of this cast^, observes, apparently without having Retzius' comparison above quoted of such skulls to the Scandinavian Gothic type before his mind, that it resembles the skulls he has described as ' Grave Row,' ' Reihen- Graber' skulls, and assigned to the ancient Germanic and modern Swedish peoples. Very similar skulls, again, I have obtained from Romano-British cemeteries of the later times of the Empire, as testified to by archaeological evidence, at Long Wittenhara, in Berkshire, through the kindness of the Rev. J. C. Clutterbuck; from Helmingham, in SuflFolk, through the agency of the Rev. G. Cardewj and from Towyn-y-Capel, Holyhead, by that of the Hon. W. O. Stanley. The ancient British skull from a cist at Winter- borne Monkton, North Wilts, figured by Dr. Thurnam, 'Crania Britannica,' Plate 58, is closely similar in contour and proportions, as taken by measurement, to the variety of which I am here treating. 1 See ' Catalogue,' Osteological Series, ii. 880, Prep. 5709. = 'Archiv fur Anthi-opologie,' i. 2, p. 283. As Professor Ecker considers his ' Reihengriiberfonn' to correspond with the ' Hohberg' type of His and Rutimeyer, it would appear that he would consider this cast as belonging to that class, from which, however, its cubic capacity differentiates it.