PRODUCED BY MAN. 831 which there is g-ood reason, to ray judg-ment, for thinking were domesticated in Central Asia, because I do not think they were domesticated within that area, but because, I cannot deny, that it is probable they were also domesticated elsewhere. But it may fairly be suggested that the art, skill, and craft of domesticating these and the other six animals having been first learnt in Central Asia, spread thence ; and that thus all or nearly all the acqui- sitions which man has made in the way of domestication, may thus owe their origin—if not in the way of actual blood-lineage, yet in that of being the fruits of man's experience acquired there—to the district in question. I pass by a natm'al transition to point out very shortly, not the cardinal necessity of the possession of the sheep, goat, ox, horse, camel, pig, and dog, for food and clothing, for locomotion, and for carrying on the processes of the hunting, of the pastoral and of the agricultui'al life, but how that necessity has been unconsciously recognised by man in certain of his earliest institutions. Of these seven mammals, six are now distributed over the face of the whole habitable world ; but long before this had become the case with any one of them, except possibly the dog, man had expressed unconsciously, if not quite inarticulately, his recognition of their value by using them in one way or another for one or another of his most sacred rights and ceremonies. The single Latin word ' Suovetaurilia,' denoting a particular kind of sacrifice of the swine, the sheep, and the ox, which is figured on many a tablet found in this as in other countries, and was performed at great crises of Rome's fate, may sufiice as regards the three animals which speak so plainly to our eyes in those sculptures. To Eastern and to Western people it was indifferent (see Exod. xii. 5, Ps. 1. 9, and classical writers passim) whether sheep or goats were taken out of the fold for this purpose. As regards the dog, Livy (xl. 6) tells us that in the Purification of a Macedonian army the two halves of a dog's body were placed, one on one side, one on the other, of the road along which the soldiers were passed. Similarly, we are told by the Arab Ahmed Ibn-Fozlan, who must have witnessed the proceeding with a good deal of repulsion, that a dog was cut in half and put into the ship in which a Norse chief was burnt in the tenth century on the banks of the Volga (see Anderson, ' Proe. Scot. Soc. Antiq.,' May 13, 1873, p. 522); and I have myself