BIOLOGICAL TRAINTNa AND STUDIES. 876 thoughts of all who think at all. The wonders of the deep-sea fauna will, I apprehend, form one, the commensalism of Professor Van Beneden another, subject of discussion, and furnish an oppor- tunity for receiving instruction to all of us. The one set of obser- vations is a striking exemplification of the way in which organisms have become suited to inorganic environments; the other is an all but equally striking exemplification of the way in which organisms can fit and adapt themselves to each other. The current journals have ^, as was their duty, made us acquainted with what has been done in both of these directions ; and I am happy to say that in the case of the deep-sea explorations, as in that of parthenogenesis and spontaneous generation, a new work, giving a connected and general view of the entire subject, is announced for publication. One instance of the large proportions of the questions which the facts of geographical distribution bear upon, is furnished to us in the address recently delivered before the Geological Society by its president, who is also our president, and who may have forgotten to refer to his own work (see 'Nature,' No. 24, 1870). Another may be found in the demonstration which Dr. Giinther, contrary to our ordinarily taught doctrines, has given us (' Zool. Soc. Trans.' vol. vi. pt. 7, 1868, p. 307) of the partial identity of the fish-faunas of the Atlantic and Pacific coasts of Central America; many, thirdly, are furnished to us by Mr. Wallace's works passim. It would be superfluous, after introducing even thus hurriedly to your notice so large a series of interesting and important subjects as being subjects with which we shall forthwith begin to deal in this Section, to say anything at length as to the advantages which may reasonably be expected to accrue from the study of Biology. I may put its claims before you in a rough way by saying that I should be rejoiced indeed if, when money comes to be granted by the Association for the following up the various lines of biological research upon which certain of its members are engaged, we could hope to obtain a hundredth, or I might say a thousandth part of the amount of money which has in the past year been lost to the State and to individuals through ignorance or disregard of bio- logical laws now well established. I need say nothing of the » See 'Nature,' No. 39, July 28, 1870, and 'Royal Society's Proceedings,' August 1870, for deep-sea explorations, and 'Academy,' September 10, 1870, for commen- salism.