THE HAEVEIAN ORA.TION. 753 to the conclusion that every great man in modern times had been anticipated by somebody or other in ancient ones, might still be going about in dry places, and might wholly enter into and en- tirely fill up the soul of some small antiquary, who, coming under such inspiration and guidance upon the passages which I have col- lected, might proceed to instruct the literary public as to Warner's claims. Whilst considering what indirect evidence might be brought together to rebut this possible attempt at detraction, I came upon what led me to the discovery of the direct evidence I have promised to lay before you, in the shape of a clue which brought me, after a somewhat tortuous course, iipon Walter Warner's actual autograph MS. I found, whilst following up Dr. Pell's history, scattered through Dr. Birch's unindexed ' History of the Royal Society,' that Dr. Birch had procured a number of MSS. of Mr. Walter Warner's for that Society mixed up with Dr. Pell's (see vol. ii. p. 342; vol. iv. p. 447). Coupling this statement with the voucher for Warner's claims, ascribed by Wood and Aubrey to Dr. Pell (who, however, is never reported in Dr. Birch's History, so far as I found, to have given currency to this statement), I thought that by these MSS. I should be able to test the truth of these statements. But the librarian of the Royal Society knew nothing of any MSS., either of Pell's or of Warner's; and, as the result will show, it would have been odd if he had—at least, in his official capacity. I then made inquiry of the Duke of North- umberland, in whose library the MS. of Warner, once a pensioner of his house, might possibly be preserved; but Mr. J. E. Martin informed me that this hope was a vain one. I found that Sion College had once possessed one MS. of Warner's; but I learnt from the Rev. W. W. Milman that they had lost it, and much besides, in the great fire of London in 1666. Finally, when taking the register of Merton College up to the British Museum for the pur- pose of comparing the entries made in that volume during Harvey's wardenship with his one authentic autograph MS. now in the national collection, I bethought me of making, at the same time, some inquiries as to Warner and Pell; and at last, when I least expected it, and had nearly ceased to hope for it, I came upon Walter Warner's MS., contained in Dr. Birch's collection (which, according to him, had been made over to the Royal Society), under