508 DOMESTIC CATS. being" addicted to stealing, and also being* so common an animal as to be; like our cat, a convenient scapegoat for the blame due to the tbefts of other and not quadrupedal animals, and finally, as being like in its colour and its pelage (except that this latter is a little less thick) and its general appearance and its moral characteristics to the animal called in antithesis to it ya\r) aypla, but ordinarily iktls, which is a little larger, which loves honey, which kills birds, and is very susceptible of being tamed. It is impossible to think that any great mistake can attach to the interpretation of statements so consentient, so numerous, and relating so eminently to matters of every-day life and constantly observable occurrence. We have two sets of resemblances and differences detailed to us as existing between two animals, the yoKri and the yoKr] aypla or kns; these two sets of resemblances and differences are just those which exist between our white-breasted marten and our yel&w-breasted marten, and as I believe it is im- possible to find a second pair of animals to which this comparison will apply, I apprehend that the point is proved. Both the British martens are, as I know from my own observations, and information gathered from persons in the habit of hunting them, great destroyers of mice, birds, and snakes; they are both stated in the ordinary works of natural history to be fond of honey, which the ferret ^ and the weasel will not touch ; the fur of both is valuable, but that of the larger species is the more valuable. The colouration of the polecat, Mustela putorius, puts it out of the field into which it has so often been wrongfully introduced, as does also the not altogether ^ unimportant fact that it is not certain that it is found in the extreme south of Europe. If any one who has not had, or perhaps does not care to have, proof that the common north-country name for the marten, viz.' Sweet Mart' as opposed to ' Foumart' or ' Foul Mart,' an alias which the polecat has earned, may not after all be so distinctive as to make us think that we cannot have in the white-breasted marten the same creature as that alluded to in the first two passages I have quoted from Aristo- phanes, wishes to have this scruple removed at easy cost, he may consult Gesner (' Hist. Anim.' p. 866), who quotes something, in loco, to the purpose from Alexander Aphrodisiensis. The stoat, ' Buffon, vii. 213; Wagner, ' Saugethiere,' i. 500, ' Blasius, 'SaugetMere Deutschlands,' p. 224.