THE IRON, THE BRONZE, AND THE STONE AGES. 677 Measurements of Face, Length of face . 2-26" Width of lower jaws, ramus • 1-3 Breadth of face Interangulivr diameter . 3-0 Basio-subnasal line 3-4 Cephalic index. • . tn" 79 Basio-alveolar line . ■ • 3-5" Antero-posterior index Height of orbit 1-5" Femur .... . 17" Width of orbit 1.6" Tibia .... 12.2" Length of nose 2.0" Humerus.... 11-5" Width of nose i-o" Stature , . . . . 5-1" Depth of lower jaw, at sym- physis .... I.l" Age, about 30. A well-filled-out skull, on the whole, though the parietal tubera are still distinguishable, as is often the case in female skulls; the forehead is vertical, but the parietal region slopes with consider- able obliquity in its posterior two-fifths; the plane of the superior occipital squama lies distinctly behind that of the posterior part of the parietals, so that a very marked undulation is formed at the line of meeting of the two bones. The relation of inferiority held by the height to the breadth of the skull is probably merely a sexual character ; the vertical contour being eminently that of the dolichocephahe type of skulls, whilst the smallness of the mastoid, the slightness of the supra-orbital ridges, and the feebleness of the lower jaw, show, what the characters of the limb and trunk bones also show, viz., that the owner of this skeleton was a woman. This woman had lost the second molar of the left half of her upper jaw some time before the evolution of the wisdom teeth of the lower jaw of the same side, and probably not very long after the evolution of the second molar of the same side of the lower jaw. The first molar of the right half of the upper jaw had been similarly lost early in life ; the second molar next to it was largely excavated, and the wisdom tooth, on to which that carious cavity opened, had an abscess at its fangs. The lower jaw teeth, though all sound except the left second premolar, are much crowded together. It is not clear that the wisdom tooth of the left upper jaw was ever developed. Six abnormalities is a large proportion in the dental series of a woman who was not much beyond thirty years of age. The slightness and straightness of the collar bones, the hori- zontal direction of the neck of the femur, the characters of the OS innominatum and other bones, show the skeleton to have