558 ON THE DOMESTIC PIG OF Islands,' p. 429, may perhaps be such a breed as Professor Riiti- meyer suggests, in his later paper (p. 168, see also p. 148), should be looked for in Eastern Europe or Western Asia or in fossil forms ^. Mr. G. Dobson, E.L.S., in a letter to me of date Jan. 15, 1877, writes that the young of the pig of the Andaman and of the Nicobar Islands are striped. Tho Rev, C. Spencer Bubb informs me that the young Borneo domestic pig is sometimes striped and sometimes not, whilst the young Chinese pig is never striped; and he adds that there are certainly two domestic breeds in Borneo. DESCRIPTION OF PLATES IV AND V. Fig. I. Orbito-lacrymal region of partially reconstructed skull of Sus scrofa, var. domeslicus, wanting nasals and intermaxillaries, from late Celtic interment at Arras, East Riding of Yorkshire. Oxford Museum. It is, as Nathusius has well pointed out, 1. c. p. 147, by no means always easy to be absolutely certain as to the question whether a particular pig's skull belonged to a wild or to a domesticated individual. The difficulty is increased when the animal is young, as in this case, the last molar having only just come into use, and the animal consequently being only about 18 months old, and when as the small size generally, and especially the small size of the third molar and the canine, may be taken, I believe, to indicate that it is of the female sex. It is true that the paucity of cusps in the molars has been taken as indicating the wild state ; a comparison, however, of the male and female molar series in Sus cristatus has suggested to me that the greater size of the molars really depends upon a greater supply of blood, such as the male molars would get, by virtue of sharing the greater supply lavished on the canines, and such as a well-fed domesticated animal's molars would get in common with all its other structures and organs. The comparatively vertical occipital squama is one main anatomical point in favour of this skull having belonged to a domesticated specimen; the pterygoid, on the other hand, has much of the obliquity characteristic of the wild Sus scrofa, va,T.ferus. When we consider, however, that this skull was found in an interment containing a human body, together with portions of another skull of a pig of the same age, the probability that it belonged to a tame individual appears to be very great. The subjoined measurements show that the lacrymal bone, though not ' I suspect that latitude has more to do with the production of such varieties than longitude, and still operating causes more than geological. One of these causes is suggested by the words of Varro, ii. 4. 13, cited by Dureau de la Malle, ' Economic politique des Remains,' ii. p. 149: ' Porcique nati hieme, fiunt exiles propter frigora.'