776 MODIFICATIONS OF ASPECTS OF OEQANIC NATUKE SO far as the landscape is made up of organic elements, of our own country. I have not undertaken, and shall not attempt to speak 'Physische Erdlcunde,' of which three fascicles have appeared in the present year. The general principles to be found expounded in the works above specified have found a practical application in the particular question, Are the countries along the shores, and especially the eastern shores, of the Mediterranean to be looked upon as having been exhausted by man's interference with them in the way of agriculture, and so robbed of any chance of political rejuvenescence? And with this question is connected that which asks whether any perceptible change of climate has been effected in the same regions by the same agency. The literature of this controversy, which has been carried on obviously enough by partisans fiUed at least on one side with political bias, is, if we give only the most important memoirs, not very extensive, and may perhaps usefully find a place here. C. Fraas, in his 'Klima und Pflanzenwelt,' 1847, takes the pessimistic view, which J. P. Fallmerayer, in a review published in the same year apparently, and re- published in his 'Gesammelte Werke,' i86i, ii. 462, endorses with a bitter readiness. C. Fraas, in the 'Geschichte der Landbau und Forstwissenschaft,' Munchen, 1865, had the opportunity of again expounding his opinions, p. 350 et imssiin, in his account of Liebig's views. Those views are to be found in Liebig, 'Natural Laws of Husbandry,' Eng. Trans., 1863, and in his 'Chemische Briefe,' the ninth edition of which bears date 1878. Oscar Fraas, possibly or presumably a relative of C. Fraas, from certain passages in his ' Aus dem Orient,' 1867-1868, would appear to hold similar views to those of his namesake; he speaks (vol. i. p. 213) in defiance of Arago's views, as expounded in ' CEuvres,' vol. viii., ' Notices Scientifiques,' vol. v. ed. 1859, p. 222, of a ' verandertes Clima der Nillander,' and says (p. 215), what wiU be read with some surprise by Indian ofiicials, 'Heutzutage erlahrat die Energie selbst eines kraftigen Europaer's unter der Sonne von Egypten .. . . man erschlaiTt, wind trage und faul, man fangt an zu bummeln!' An excellent answer to all this is given by Theobald Fischer, ' Beitriige zur Physischen Geographie des Mittelmeerlander, besonders Siciliens,' 1877, p. 154, usque ad finem Ubri, p. 167. Fr. Unger, in his ' Wissenschaftliche Ergebnisse einer Eeise in Griechenland,' 1862, has dealt similarly with this question at the conclusion of his small but excellent memoir, pp. 187-211. The views of Victor Hehn, and those of the recently deceased botanist and author of an authoritative work, ' Die Vegetation auf die Erde,' 1872 (translated into French in 1877 by Tchihatcheff), viz. Grisebach, may be given in the words of the latter, when reviewing the former in the 'Gottinger gelehrte Anzeigen,' 1872, xlv. p. 1767. With these views we agree. They run thus : —' Mit Recht verwirft er die Meinung dass die -klassischen Lander erschopft seien und einer Erneuerung ihrer ehemaligen Bluthe keine natiirliche Grundlagen mehr boten. Er trifft das Wesen der Sache, indem er sagt, dass ihr Klima, im Grossen aufgefasst, nicht vom Boden und seiner Vegetation, sondern von " weitgreifenden, meteorologischen Vorgangen " abhange, die durch ihre geographische Lage bestimmt, "von Afrika und dem atlantischen Meere bis zum Aralen und Siberien reichen." Ebenso muss man sein eingehendes Verstand- niss dieser Frage anerkennen, wenn er im Bereich der Agrikultur-Chemie sich gegen die Aneicht ausspriclit, dass der Boden Siideuropas durch seine alte Kultur an mineralischen Nahrungsstoffen erschopft sei. Wie die lombardische Ebene durch die Alpenfliisse mit frischen Silicaten und Kalksalzen gespeist wird, so liefern die so