THE IRON, THE BRONZE, AND TPIE STONE AGES. 669 rate there can bo no doubt that in this country the skeletons of the Bronze Period belonged to much larger, and stronger, and taller men than did the skeletons of the Long Barrow stone-using folk who procured them. In some parts of England the contrast in this matter of size between the men of the Bronze and those of the Stone Age is as great as that now existing between the Maori and the gentle Hindoo; and in some, though not in all, parts, the Bronze-users appear to have as entirely extirpated the Stone-users, as the MaorisI in their cannibal days, would have extirpated any similarly weaker race. The facts as seen by me, when in company with Canon Greeuwell, and upon other occasions, appear to me to justify some such statement as this, as to the introduction of bronze into this country. The stone-using inhabitants of Great Britain, if not also of Ireland, may have had their first introduction to a knowledge of bronze in the way of peaceful barter and commerce. Some probability is given to such a view as this by the fact that some of the earliest bronze axes are evidently moulded upon the pat- tern furnished by stone weapons, just as in North America, where there was a Cupper Age, the copper arrow-heads are modelled (see Lubbock, ' Pre-historic Times,' sec. ed., 1869, p. 245) on the type of their stone ones. But with improved and advanced Bronze weapons in this country, we find, invariably within my experience, an improved and advanced race of men, so far as powerful limbs, tallness of stature, and capacious crania, do make one race of men superior to another. This race of men, besides their physical, pre- sent us with many ceremonial and other differences; their burial mounds are round ; their pottery is of another kind, or kinds rather, as they have funeral as well as other wares, the former of which the stone men had not; the ornaments they buried with their dead are of a diflPerent kind, type, and material; finally, the numbers of dead interred in round barrows, and the numbers of round barrows themselves, are very much greater than those of the dead interred in long barrows, and than those of the round barrows themselves. All this seems to me to point to a conquest of this country having been effected by Bronze-using invaders, who'came in great numbers, probably as has been elsewhere suggested, from the Cimbric penin- sula, which was once again in the Iron Age, viz. in the Iron Age of Swegen and Cnut, an ojficina gentium victricum. If the Danes in a recent war had been as much in advance of their enemies in