607 CEMETERY AT FRILFORD. first, that no pattern of fibulae slioulcl be considered as peculiar to any one district, except provisionally; secondly, that a very con- siderable uniformity may have existed in the manners and customs of the Anglo-Saxons throughout the. entire length of England ; and, thirdly, that, inasmuch as intercommunication between places as far apart as Frilford and Drifiield must have been difficult in those days, the numbers of the invaders of these similar fashions and habits must have been considerable. The stones were set round in the grave in but a single row from within outwards, and in height they do not seem to have extended from the bottom of the grave further upwards than a stone coffin (of which they may be supposed to have been a cheap imitation) would have done. The graves here, as at Selzen, are narrowed towards their lower ends^. In such interments as these the skull may or may not be found to rest upon a stone which had been put under it in the way of support, and which has caused the lower jaw to settle down upon the cervical vertebrae, and to hold them im- pacted between its rami. The Anglo-Saxon habit of thus placing stones beneath the head of the corpse may or may not be adum- brated by the mediaeval stone-pillow in monuments as suggested by the Abbe Cochet ^; but, at all events, it goes some way towards proving that coffins were not employed in the interments in which it is noticeable. In one of these graves a mass of what has been called a ' scori- form' lava, though it is difierent enough from the true scoriae or slag similarly found in Anglo-Saxon graves at Fairford by Mr. Wylie ^, was found at the foot of a female skeleton. The bulk it made up was about that of an orange, and, as it has separated into two co-adaptable halves, each of which resists very violent hammering, we must suppose that since it was put into the grave it must have been subjected to some disrupting agency which acted upon it wdth great force, and yet left it, when broken asunder, in situ. It is possible that the piece of lava in question may have been broken into two pieces by the action of a fire lighted in the grave, as, it * See Lindenschinit, 'Archiv fur Anthropologic,' ii. 3. 356, in review of Wanner's Memoir, ' Das Alamannische Todtenfeld bei Schleitheim;' Schaaffhausen, op. cit. pp. 131, 154. ^ ' Normandie Souterraine,' ed. i. p. 192. ' ' Fairford Graves,' p. 24.