PEODUCED BY MAN. 819 from this that no wild stock could be held to exist on that area. Still though we may follow the highly trustworthy naturalists and travellers just mentioned as to the persistence of the aboriginal horse in a wild state on the Turanian steppes, we have yet to show that it is probable that it was on those steppes rather than in any other part of the wide area over which the true wild horse once ranged that it became reduced to domestication. And here again the Accadian inscriptions come to our assistance; the horse being called there (see the Rev. William Houghton, 1. c, 1876, p. 3) ' imiru Kur-ra,' ' the animal from the East.' We see from this that these ancient Turanians claimed, and had their claim acknowledged, that the taming of the horse was an achievement wrought out in the cradle of their race. I have sometimes thought that the ascription by the Greeks of this feat to Poseidon may be similarly taken to indicate that they had some sort of dim conviction that the horse had come to them from the countries beyond the Egean. This^ however, may be an overstraining of the value of such hints. But the history of the horse, whether dug out of Pile-dwellings and Neolithic interments^ or out of records such as those in Genesis and Exodus, show that it came comparatively late into use, as a domestic animal at least, in the regions to the west of the Central Asiatic plains ^. The fourth of the domesticated animals, which I have spoken of as having in great probability had a Central Asiatic origin, the goat, namely, has its claims, supported by the vast majority of naturalists without any hesitation. The wild Capm aegagrus of the Taurus, of the Caucasus, of the Persian mountains, and of Kirghiz and Tatar districts, 'possibly mingled,' says Mr. Darwin, 'Domesticated Animals and Cultivated Plants,' i. p. 105, 'with the allied Indian species, Capra Falconeri^ may be safely taken as the parent-stock of this animal. The Tibetan and Angoran varieties of the goat, by their well-deserved reputation, may seem, even in these days and under the light thrown on the subject by the book just quoted, to lend some support to Col. Hamilton Smith's prin- ciple ^ that where the largest and most energetic breeds of a race exist, there we may look for their original habitation. • See further, Lenormant, 'Premiferes Civilisations,' torn. i. p. 322 ; Ahlquist, 'Die Kulturwcirter der Westfinnischen Sprachen,' 1878, p. 9; 'Spectator/ April 27, 1878, ilique a me citata. ' These are Col. Hamilton Smith's views (Nat. Library,' Dogs,' vol, ii. p 163 cit 303