APPENDIX. 943 The graves were between two and three feet from the surface of the ground. They measured from two to three feet in length and were about two feet in breadth. The direction of the grave varied in different instances, and the bodies had been laid in them with the head in varying positions. Thus it is noted in one that the head was at the east; in another that it was at the north-east; in a third that the grave was north-by-south, and the face was at the south; in a fourth that the grave was east and west, with the face to the north; in a fifth the feet were north-east-by-north, the head at the opposite end. In those graves where the skeleton had not been disturbed by the workmen, it was seen that the body had been buried in the contracted position, the knees being approximated to the face. The skeletons were of both sexes and at various periods of life, some being children. One child's skeleton is noted as lying with the head at the south by south-west, the feet were north by north-east, the face was looking southwards. The body was lying on the right side, the right knee was more bent up than the left, one hand was up at the face. Various articles were found in the graves along with the skeletons. In one a bi-oken urn was close to the skull; in another pieces of pottery and cows' bones; in a third a bone-pin, 8 inches long, between the arms; in a fourth a drinking-cup or food-vessel and a flint were in front of the face; in a fifth an iron spear (i. 29. 10. 76) was immediately in front of the face, and it projected about ten inches beyond the skull; and in the same grave an iron knife or dagger (i. 29. 10. 76) nearly a foot long and an inch and a half wide extended from the elbow by the side of the body downwards to the side of the left os innominatum : its handle end was towards the feet, its point towards the head. It is also stated that a bronze torque or collar was found by the workmen with one of the skeletons. This collar was acquired by John Evans, Esq., F.R.S. Details of some of the graves are given in the following extracts from Dr. Rolleston's notes :— 'March 23, 1876. The grave was about 3 feet deep and 3 feet long by 2 ft. 3 in. broad, the long axis lying north by south. The body lay doubled up on its right side, the face being at the south end of the grave and looking north. From the heels to the head was 2 it. 4 in. The spines of the vertebrae pointed north-west. The cervical vertebra and a piece of the scapula lay between the rami of the lower jaw. The right hand was by the pelvis, the left hand up at the face, the right arm being bent across over the body. A considerable quantity of charred wood-fibre lay above the bones of the body and about the skull. Near the left hand were found a flint chipped flake and a bronze needle. 'Feb. 23,1876. Idrove over with the Rev.W.C. Lukis, F.S.A., andG.L. Rolleston. We found that a human skeleton had been partially disturbed, but was in great part