869 BIOLOGICAL TRAINING AND STUDIES. a visit to any collection of flint implements. In such a collection, as Mr. Tylor has pointed out, p. 205, we are very soon impressed with the marked uniformity which characterises these implements, whether modern or thousands of years old, whether found on this side of the world or the other. For example, a flint arrow-head which came into my hands a short time back, through the kindness of Lord Antrim, after having done duty in these iron times as a charm at the bottom of a water-tub for cattle in Ireland, was pointed out or at to me by a very distinguished Canadian naturalist, who was visiting Oxford the other day^ as being closely similar to the weapons manufactured by the Canadian Indians. Now after such an experience one may do well to ask in Mr. Tylor's words (• Early History,' p. 206},— ' How, then, is this remarkable uniformity to be explained ? The principle that man does the same thing under the same circum- stances will account for much, but it is very doubtful whether it can be stretched far enough to account for even the greater propor- tion of the facts in question. The other side of the argument is, of course, that resemblance is due to connexion, and the truth is made up of the two, though in what proportions we do not know. It may be that, though the problem is too obscure to be worked out alone, the uniformity of development in different regions of the Stone age may some day be successfully brought in with other lines of argument, based on deep-lying agreements in culture which tend to centralise the early history of races of very unlike appear- ances, and living in widely distant ages and countries.' If the psychological identity of our species may explain the identity of certain customs, its physiological identity may explain certain others. Some of this latter class are of a curious kind, and relate not to matters of social or family, but to matters of purely personal and individual interest, concerning as they do the sensi- bility, and with it all the other functions of the living body. Such customs are the wearing of labrets or lip-rings, nose-rings, and, if I may add it without offence, of certain other rings inserted in the wide region supplied by the fifth or trifacial nerve ^. A physio- logical explanation may lie at the base of these practices, which appear to put at the disposal of the persons who adopt them a perennial means for setting up an irritation, whence reflex con- * See ' Medicine in Modern Times,' p. 57, Article XL, p. 698.