BIOLOaiCAL TRAINING AND STUDIES, 851 Association generally, extrinsic means as well as the intrinsic merits of the well-loved man conspiring- to keep his memory fresh among us, an(J the bearer of that name, Edward Forbes, has left it as his opinion that ' It is to the development of the provincial museums that, I believe, we must in future look for the extension of intel- lectual pursuits throughout the land.' (Lecture 'On the Educa- tional Uses of Museums,' delivered at the Museum of Practical Geology and published in 1863. Cited by Toynbee, ' Hints on the Formation of Local Museums,' 1863, p. 46.) With the words of Edward Forbes I might do well to end what I have to say, but I should like to say a word as to the policy of confining the contents of a local museum to the natural-history specimens of the particular locality. No doubt the first thing to be done is the collection of the local specimens, and this alike in the interest of the potential Cuviers and Hugh Millers who may be born in the district, and in the interest of the man of science who may visit the place when on his travels. But so long as a specimen from the antipodes or from whatever corner of our world be really valuable, and be duly cata- logued before it is admitted into the museum, so that the lesson it has to teach may be learnable, I do not see my way towards advising that foreign specimens be excluded. It is to my mind more important that all specimens should be catalogued as soon as received, than that any should be rejected when offered. I must not occupy your time further with this portion of my address. Let me first say that a person who wishes to know what a Field Club can do for its members, and not for them only, but for the world at large, will do well to purchase one, or any number more than one, of the ' Transactions of the Tyneside Naturalist's Field Club ;' and that if there be any person who thinks that White's ' Selborne' relates to a time and place so far ofi" that there can be no truth in the book, and who yet would like to try upon himself the working of the fourth of the disciplinary agencies of which I have spoken, that, namely, of reading some local Natural History on the spot of which it treats, and comparing it with the things them- selves 171 situ, let him repair to Weymouth, and work and walk up and down its ^MS^ and valleys with Mr. Damon's book in his hands. I shall not be suspected in this place and upon this occasion, nor, as I hope, upon any other, of a wish to depreciate the value of 3 I 2