THE IRON, THE BRONZE, AND THE STONE AGES. 661 and by the Anglo-Saxons, wbicli were of iron. The Roman weapons are, some of them, such as we see them to be on monuments and some other works of art; but in some instances they were drawings of the actual weapons themselves as found on battle-fields and elsewhere. The hastae and pila of the Saxon and Frank, for such were in reality their spear and the angon, were, on the other hand, found where I have never found the Roman weapons, viz., in the graves of those warriors. This difference, as to the fitting out of their deceased, depended, I would suggest, upon a difference of views as to the future state of the dead; and this difference did not consist, I apprehend, in that the one race held that the future state would be such a peaceful one that weapons of war would be super- fluous in it, whilst the other believed that it would be more or less a continuation of the life of assault and battery they had so richly enjoyed here; but in a very different opposition of beliefs. The 'sunt aliquid Manes' of Propertius was as beautiful a piece of poetry to the Roman as any other of the beautiful poetry of that sweet poet, but it was nothing more. The Teuton, on the other hand, held firmly on to the belief in another world; and this belief accounts for the deposition of weapons in the graves of their dead. I am inclined to think that the Iron Age would be better spoken of as the ' Steel Age/ For there is no reason why we should not suppose that iron, as distinct from steel, may have been in the hands of many tribes before they came into the possession of Bronze; and if the iron was soft iron merely, bronze would be much more useful and trustworthy for the purposes of war and the chase, for which so many ancient and modern races have mainly lived. A very striking instance from Roman history of the com- parative uselessness of untempered iron tools for such purposes is given us by Polybius, Hist. ii. c. 33. There we read, in a probably somewhat unjustly unfavourable account of that somewhat rare animal, a liberal military commander, that his colonels saved him, as colonels have in later times saved other generals, from disasters, by the following tactics. The Gauls came to the fight armed with long pointless soft iron broadswords. These, the Roman tribunes had observed, bent after each blow delivered on to a sufficiently resistent body. Such a body they sought and found in the inlum —that best of pikes or bayonets, with which a man could parry or thrust, but with which he could not strike or slash. The brave