631 CEMETERY AT FRILFORD, and lawlessness of hordes made insolent by conquest than the large towns; and I am inclined to think that where we Knd Roman remains succeeded by relics of the Anglo-Saxon cremation period, on a locality which now bears an Anglo-Saxon name, emigration or extirpation of a Christian population may have very often entered into the now irrecoverable history of the locality. I further suspect that the heathenism of the Anglo-Saxon domi- nation during the hundred and fifty years ^ which elapsed between the time of Hengist and that of Augustine is one and not an un- important factor in the complex aggregation of conditions which has given us the Germanic language which we speak. Whilst and where heathenism reigned supreme, the performance of the Church services would doubtless cease j and in an age of few books, and those in manuscript, and in a country which, with whatever centres of civilisation and population, was, after all, but thinly peopled, it is easy to understand how the language of the van- quished succumbed in three or four generations to that of the victors, whose relics speak to their great numbers being so ubi- quitously scattered over England. Even in France, where the Merovingians allowed every citizen to declare what law, Frank or Roman, he would live under, and where the priests used the Theodosian code, and so put the Germanic idiom at a disadvantage, it was still employed by the kings and nobles even in the Car- lovingian period 2. On the other hand, during my somewhat considerable practice in the way of exhuming Saxons, and my gradual familiarisation with the two facts of their great aptness at destroying and of their great slowness in elaborating material civilisation, a doubt has little by little grown up in my mind as to the extent of the debt which we are so commonly supposed to owe ^ Professor Pearson, 'History of England,' i. loi, suggests that the long duration of the struggle may have caused the victory of the Saxon language, by allowing of the perpetual fresh arrivals of German-speaking invaders. ' See Gibbon, 'Decline and Fall,' ed. 1838, vi. n8, 351, 376, chap. 38, viii. 156. For an instance of the power obtained and exercised by the Christian ministers, sea Fleary, ' EccL Hist,' viii. 34, 50, of the Council of Macon. Fleury in his small work, 'Essays on Ecclesiastical History,' tells us, p. 203, English Transl. 1721, that the Goths, Franks, and other German people dispersed into several parts of the Roman provinces, were so few in comparison with the ancient inhabitants that it was not thought necessary to change the language of the Church on their account. On the other hand, Bede tells us, that in his time God was served in five several languages in Britain, namely, Anglorum, Britonum, Scotoruni, Pictorum, et Latinorum. See also Taylor, 'Words and Places,' 1864, p. 151; Lingard, 'Hist. A.-S. Church,' i. 307,