ON THE TIIEEE PERIODS KNOWN AS 672 with interments of the Stone Age. These barrows were in a district (tliat of Castle-Cary) the surface strata of which are low down in the lower secondary formations, yet the worked flints, and they not only ' strilce-a-lights' or ' thumb-flints,' but scrapers, were as abundant as they might have been in a tumulus upon a chalk down. Their varied quality and great quantity render it impos- sible to think that they are in such a district merely thrown in ceremonially, and are evidence to the effect that, though tin and copper were available enough, and side by side^ at no greater distance than Cornwall, those particular deposits had not then been utilised for the manufacture in question. Let us now pass to the Stone Age. I have not the knowledge requisite for subdividing the Bronze Age into distinct periods ; and looking at the question in the light which played over the Somer- setshire hills, when I was employed, as just now stated, upon them, I doubt whether any subdivision of it, as it was in England, can be justified. A Copper Age, no doubt, must have existed, and did exist, in America, antecedently to the Age of copper alloyed with tin; but there is no evidence that it ever existed in England, at least. More may be said, on the authority of Polybius and on other evidence, for the subdivision of the Iron Age into two periods, one of which, the earlier of course, had not learnt the art of tempering iron, whilst to it a second, ' the age of steel, succeeded then.' But as regards the Stone Age we have no need to have recourse to mere probable arguments and a priori evidence. There is no doubt what- ever that the Stone Age is divisible into two great periods upon several principles, which, however, make their several sections in the same plane. We can look at a stone weapon and ask ourselves one or other of these three questions ; firstly, was it intended to be used in the hand, or used as hafted ? Secondly, has it been polished and ground up, or has it been left simply chipped over with con- choidal fractures ? Thirdly, was it found in company with pottery, however rude, or was it found in some river gravel-bed, in company with no other evidence of human handiwork, but with the bones of mammoth and rhinoceros ? If a stone weapon is so fashioned that we can see that it was intended to be stuck into a handle or hal't, and if it is polished, we may be sure that it belonged to a later than the mammoth period in this country, and that it may be spoken of as Neolithic in contradistinction to the Palaeolithic