779 PRODUCED BY MAN. climate of the United Kingdom, cultivated by ... . nurserymen and seed merchants/ fill up some sixty-six pages in a sale catalogue now before me. Any traveller, by rail or otherwise, can appre- ciate the greatness of the alteration which has been effected by man on nature, if he will but bear in mind the three trees just specified, and recollect as he sees the silver fir spreading out with its airy interspaces in the sky-line, and the larches and spruces clothing the hill-side in acres upon acres, that these trees were as little known to the untravelled Eno-Hshman of the times of the Tudors as were the ' Weymouth' pine, the Deodara, the Wellingtonia, or the Araucariae. The statesman, indeed, can read something of the political and commercial history of this kingdom in the trees which speak of the various countries, farther distant apart from each other than are ' China and Peru,' with which England has succes- sively come into rapport; and the changes which he has suggested to him are scarcely, if at all, less complicated than those vv^hich the naturalist can show to have been similarly set up in the world of lower life represented by birds and insects. Since I wrote as above (1. c.) I became acquainted with an article on ' Coniferous Trees' in the October number of the ' Edinburgh Review ' for 1864, to which I would beg to refer my hearers for a detailed and veiy interesting account of the successive successful acclimati- sations of members of this natural order ; and upon the ground thus sufficiently occupied I will not encroach. It is not un- interesting, and not entirely irrelevant either, to observe that Great Britain and Ireland were both richer in Coniferae in recent geolo- gical, periods than they have been since those times down to those of the Stuarts. In the sunken forest at Cromer, in Norfolk, in a deposit^ of a period immediately preceding the glacial, we find the spruce fir represented, together with nearly all the rest of the scanty list of really indigenous post-glacial English trees. In the Cromer forest we find the spruce represented, together with the Scotch fir, the yew, the oak, the elder, the birch, and the black- thorn. The ash has somehow failed to join itself on to this com- pany; but we see it forming one of it, though the spruce in its turn is absent as well as all other trees, in many small copses or thickets in out-of-the-way parts of this country. Such, for example, are many mountain-lime-stone headlands in parts of the Principality, ' See ' Kudiments of Geology,' by Samuel Sharp, p.s.A., F.a.s. 2nd ed. 1876, p. 169.