583 EXCAVATIONS IN AN ANCIENT Romano-British and Ang-lo-Saxon interments were both alike to be found in the Frilford Cemetery, but that the majority of them belonged to the latter of the two nationalities. I have, however, by the discovery of Anglo-Saxon cinerary urns placed superficially to the relicless graves of which Mr. Akerman speaks, been com- pelled to refer these inhumations to a period anterior to that of Pagan Saxondom, and to differ herein from the instructor from whom I have learned and to whom I owe so much. It is upon this discovery of Anglo-Saxon cremation urns, containing half- calcined human bones, and holding when discovered, relatively to relicless or all but relicless skeletons found in the ground below them, a position from 15 to 18 inches nearer the surface, that I rest almost the only conclusion to which I have ventured to come in opposition to Mr. Akerman's views. But it is hoped that a record of the somewhat extensive series of observations made in this cemetery during the last two years may serve to cast some light upon certain moot points upon which Mr. Akerman's iuvestigations did not give him an opportunity of remarking. The cemetery is situated in the angle intercepted between the left bank of the river Ock and the road leading from Frilford to Wantage. Frilford ' Field' is now brought under cultivation, but the tradition that this portion of it is haunted still survives in the recollections of the rustics, one of whom informed me that, though he had never seen them there himself, ghosts were supposed to be particularly likely to be seen at a single thorn-bush ^ which stood, some time back, close to the site of these graves. Great numbers of Roman coins have been and still are found by labourers engaged in ordinary agricultural work all round this spot; and fragments of very many varieties of Roman pottery are equally accessible, though, of course, much more abundant, on and in the superficial ' The growth of this thorn-bush may have been accidental here, but we know that thorns were purposely planted on tumuli. (See Jacob Grimm, ' Verbrennen der Leichen,' Berlin Abhandl. 1849, pp. 203, 209, 242, 244; Nillson, cit. in loc.; Max MiiUer, ' Zeitschrift Deutsch. Morgenland. Gesellsch.' ix. 11 ; Theocritus, Idyll xxiv. 87, where Wustemann remarks in his commentary, ' Omnibus spinarum generibus vim noxarum depellendarum inesse existimabant veteres.* See also ' Horae Ferales,' p. 69.) The neighbouring tumulus known as Barrow Hill is beset with thorn- bushes at the present day; and the British barrow of Dinnington, in South Yorkshire (p. 159), on the estate of J. C. Athorpe, Esq., was similarly clothed. The thorn may have belonged to the ' certis lignis' used, according to Tacitus, ' Germania,' xxvii, in the cremation of chiefs.