924 THE EARTH-CLOSET SYSTEM. constitution of the earth-closet, so far as disinfection or the want of disinfection is concerned. And if I am told that the earth-closet is inoffensive, and that the privy is fetid, I answer that a rattlesnake is none the less dangerous because its rattle is removed ; and that, for anything shown or known to the contrary, odour is to infection, deodorisation to disinfection, what the noise of the serpent is to its bite. I believe now, as I said some years ago in an article in the 'Quarterly Journal of Science' for April, 1866, page 189, that some modification of the latrine system, securing all the advantages and avoiding all the dangers of the water-closet system proper, may be contrived for, and safely entrusted to, even the poorest and most careless of our populations. Upon this point Liebig's opinion will be of interest, and the more so, perhaps, inasmuch as, with a curious neglect of accuracy, the illustrious chemist is often alleged to be an opponent of systems for the removal of sewage by the cheapest mode of carriage—namely, that by suspension in water. His real opinion may be found in a letter addressed to Dr. Varren- trap. May i, 1866, and published by that writer in his very valuable work, ' Ueber Werth oder Unwerth der Wasserclosette,' p. 178, Berlin, 1868. Baron Liebig, after stating that he agrees with Mr. Lindley's plans for the drainage of Frankfort in all essen- tial points, says :— • 'I am of opinion that of the present means for the removal of sewage, the one which is based upon a water-supply, distributed at the rate of six cubic feet (about thirty-six gallons) per head, is the safest d cheapest method for the removal of all impurity both of house and of street water . . . For the purposes of agriculture it is of particular importance that the contents of the sewers should not be conducted into the sewers, but should be used for manuring.' Since writing the above, I have performed each of the following five experiments several times:— I. Having added to five drops of liquor ammonise (London Pharm.) 100 cubic centimetres of distilled water, I connected the glass jar containing this solution with an aspirator, between which and the jar some of Nessler's reagent for the detection of ammonia was placed in a tube with several bulbs. A Woulff's bottle, con- taining sulphuric acid, was adapted to the distal side of the jar^ so as to secure the passing of the aspirated air through the acid. Very shortly after the commencement of aspiration the test fluid