576 ON THE aEOGRArHICAL DISTRIBUTION as to Siberia ; neither Middendorff, nor Radde, nor the great Pallas, treating as they do so exhaustively of the natural history of that region, ever within my knowledge make any allusion to the exist- ence there of Fasciola hepatica as a cause of sheep disease. As regards, however, the existence of this animal and of the sheep-rot in Greenland, as testified by Leuckart, I wish to lay alongside of it the following statement from the English translation of Rink's ' Greenland' already referred to, and edited by Dr. Robert Brown in 1877. There, p. 97, it is stated that about the year 1855 there were in the whole of Greenland only from thirty to forty cows, a hundred goats^ and twenty sheep, and that this handful of cattle were located at Julianshaab, on the west coast. A statement to the same effect is given by Dr. Brown himself in the ' Manual of Arctic Instruction,' 1875, p. 27, Surely if the rot still exists in Greenland, and has not shared the fate of so many other forms of life which have finally left its inhospitable shores, we have in Julianshaab a simple case and a circumscribed area wherein to prosecute research. If the presence oiFasciola hepatica in an isolated locality—that of Julianshaab, on the west coast of Greenland—is likely to prove instructive, its absence from Iceland may also throw some light upon the subject. Most or all of the mollusca which have been or can be supposed to act and suffer as Zwischenwirth for the Fasciola are to be found in Iceland, viz. Arion ater, Arion Itortensis, Limnaea truncatula and Lini.naea peregra ^, as well as Planorhis rotundatus, if not Planorhis marginatus. And that abundant opportunities for the introduction of Fasciola hepatica into Iceland have been given by the importation of sheep from abroad is learnt from what Olafsen, I.e., ii. pp. 198-199, tells us as to the ascription of another sort of sheep disease to such importation. I incline to ascribe this immunity from rot which the sheep enjoy in Iceland to the habit which they in common with the Shetland and Orkney sheep have of feeding between high- and low-water marks upon the sea-weeds specified by Olafsen in various passages, q.v.. I.e., i. 333; 279, ii. 198, and Low, 'Domestic Animals of Great Britain/ p. 59. The Fasciola hepatica is a freshwater animal, and would not of course be picked up in such a locality as the interval between ' Ebbe and Fluth,' to which the sheep resort * See Moroh, Taunula Molluscorum Islaudiae,' 1868, pp. la and 16.