674 ON THE THKEE PERIODS KNOWN A.8 stored and stacked in an unfinished state, before being sent out on, or for, sale. One point I should wish here to put upon record, relatively to the excavations at Cissbury. In nay paper on ' The Animal Re- mains found at Cissbury,' published in the Journal of the Anthrop. Inst, for July, 1876, vi. p. 22, as also in ' British Barrows,' p. 742 (this volume. Articles XVII, XIX}, I expressed myself as having been much impressed by what I had seen to the effect that the pitfall, especially as eked out with certain accessories, had counted for a great deal in the economy (if this be not to profane the word) of the Stone Age. In the earlier of the two places referred to, I say: ' Hurdles of gorse probably were arranged on the prin- ciple of the wicker hoops in a decoy, and it is easy to see how, by such a plan, eked out, perhaps, by the firing of heaps of the same useful material, a wild bull, or a herd, might be driven over a pitfall.' In the latter, I say: ' It requires a greater effort of imagination on our part to imagine a pack of wild dogs co-operating with priscan men in driving a herd of wild cattle or wild pigs (both of which were represented in the Cissbury Pits) along a track in which a pitfall had been dug and covered over. Still what we know justifies us,' &c. "When I wrote these words, I was very distinctly of opinion that the suggestion they contain was, how- ever obvious, yet entirely an original and novel one; I was rudely, yet not unpleasantly, undeceived a few days ago, when verifying, as it is always well to do by often-quoted lines, the lines of Lucretius, v. 1285. I 'tried back,' as I have heard it expressed elsewhere, to the preceding context, which greatly fascinated me, not only by its grand roll and flow^ but also by the singularly clear insight which it gave me into the way in which its author had faced the great problem of ' Kulturgeschichte.^ In that context I came, to my great surprise, upon two lines, 1249-1250, which con- tain a suggestion at once half-coinciding with, and half-contradicting my own as just quoted. Lucretius, undoubtedly, can claim priority as to the part of his hypothesis in which he and I agree; and per- haps I had better not claim originality as to either part of mine ; but this question is of little consequence. Here are the lines of Lucretius, v. 1249-1250:— 'Nam fovea atque igni prius est venarier ortum Quam sepire plagis saltum canibusque ciere.'