MODIFICATIONS OF ASPECTS OF ORGANIC NATURE 802 rays which strike on the needle-shaped leaves of an adjacent wood of ordinary acreage, made up of such trees as the spruce or the larch ; and the vapour which is thus set free into the entire cir- cumambient atmosphere alike of glacier and of wood, acts most potently in several ways in the direction of saving the glacier from wasting. On the other hand, great as the influence of the evaporating power of trees and forests may be shown to be in some directions, it is possible enough to overrate it as regards such more than localised matters as the increase of the rainfall. 'It is,' says Dr. Brandis ('Ocean Highways,' Oct. 1872, p. 204), 'a widely spread notion, entertained by many writers wlio are competent to judge, that forests increase the rainfall, and that the denudation of a country in a warm climate diminishes its moisture. Much of what is known regarding the history and the present state of the countries round the Mediterranean seems to support this theory, but it has not yet been established by conclusive evidence.' The important point seems to be that in mountains this influence may count for something considerable, whilst in the plains, how- soever well wooded, trees can act only as do other good radiators in the way of precipitating, not wind-borne moving vapour, but simply dew, Mr. N. A. Dalzell, in the Report on the Sind Forest for 1859- 1860, observes (par. 31):— 'Although it would be too hardy an assertion to say that the existence of forests in Sind causes any increase in the fall of rain, they certainly do so on the summits and tops of mountains;' and par. 35 : 'In enumerating the benefits derived from forests, I make here no use of the fact that forests attract rain-clouds, because I do not think it applicable to plains, and because it is not yet clear that causes are not mistaken for effects, that is, whether it is the rain produces forests, or forests which produce rain ; and certainly no inhabitant of Sind would consider it legitimate to decide that because a country is covered with wood, therefore it is wet.' It is satisfactory to be able to add that the result of Professor Ebermayer's prolonged observations in Bavaria has brought him to the same conclusions as those of Dr. Dalzell, carried on in the very alien surroundings of Sind. Dr. Ebermayer's words on this subject, used in summing up the results of his researches, are (1. c, p. 202) :— 'Auf Grund unserer Untersuchungen, glauben wir daher besuchtigt zu sein an- nehmen zu diirfen, dass in Ebenen von gleichern allgemeinen Charakter der Einfluss des Waldes auf die Regenmenge jedenfalls selir gering ist, und dass er auch auf die procentische Regenvertheilung keine Einwirkung hat, Mit der Erhebung xiber die Meeresoberfliiche nimmt die Bedeutung des Waldes beziiglich seines Eiuflusses auf