MODIFICATIONS OF ASPECTS OF OEGANIC NATUEE will I content myself with simply repeating Mr. Marsh's summing up of the matter in the short way in which long words so often (literary critics notwithstanding) enable us to sum up the results of a long investigation, and saying with him that (p. 300 1. c.) the forest's 'general effect is to equilibrate caloric influences and moderate extremes of temperature.' But I will firstly, upon this occasion, repeat what I have often heard my late and much- lamented friend, Mr. Wm. Menzies, the author of the splendidly- illustrated book, ' Forest Trees and Woodland Scenery as described in Ancient and Modern Poets,' say, to the effect that England is after all as well-wooded a country as probably any other civilised one in the world, adding that Sir John Lubbock has, as I think, either in some volume which he has contributed to science, or in some return which he has extracted from Parliament, established the same fact. And, remarking that if we couple with this fact the consideration that this favourable numerical representation of trees is not due to the existence of large forests, we find therein an illus- tration of the working of certain peculiarities of our social and political condition as compared with those of other countries, which I leave to your consideration ; I pass on, secondly, to say a few words as to the influence which trees exercise in the way of modify- ing climate locally by means of their leaves. Clearly this comes fairly under the title of my lecture. Man can cut down ' the goodly fir-trees ' and other trees too, ' Laubholzer' as well as ' Nadelholzer,' of an entire country; he can burn them, and by his domesticated goats and cows and camels he can prevent their suckers and their seeds from replacing them by fresh plants. What consequences follow when the square area which a tree in full leaf represents is abolished ? Firstly, whatever else may be disputed, there can be no doubt the loss of this square area means the loss of a very con- siderable area upon which dust and particulate matter can be caught and filtered out of the atmosphere. The more sticky the leaves, of course the more perfect the interception. And as modern investi- gations, such as those which Mr. John Simon, C.B., used to have carried on whilst in the Medical Department of the Privy Council OflSce, have taught all those who have ears to hear, even if not also eyes to see, that the germs of many or most infectious diseases are jiarticulate'^, we can understand how it is that from so many * We have such accounts from Kavenna and Beyrout; from the East and the