DOMESTIC CATS. 513 the half-slied half-house for the ' Small Carnivora' at the Zoolo«'ical Gardens, and listen there to the remarks of people who overlook the little differences upon which scientific zoology is founded. 'They are all cats,' I heard one of these authorities^ say there one day, albeit there were then plenty of the eminently annuloid viverrines as well as a very typical felis, the Felis chaus, to be compared and contrasted at a single glance and within a few feet of each other. It is not hard to see how the mustelines and viver- rines come to be classed together, seeing that so many members of both families are so markedly elongate, vermiform, tapering and low on their limbs. But the relative proportions in the sides, in the trapezium which four lines, corresponding one to the fore-legs, one to the hind, one to the line of the back, and the fom-th to the ground on which the creature stands, make up respectively in a feline and in a viveri-ine or musteline viewed from the side, are so very different, to say nothing of the all but equally striking differ- ences in the proportions of the skull and jaw diameters, longitu- dinal and transverse, inter se, firstly, and in relation to the cervical region, secondly, that we must look to points of habit rather than of structural arrangement to account for the imposition of this common name upon creatures to our eyes so different. And I suppose the springy yet silent lightness of their step when placid, and the lightning-like pounce of their attacking step, correlated as they are with a more or less similar armature in tooth and claw, are the points which ' imaginationem ferientia aut intellectum vul- garium notionum nodis astringentia' have caused the imposition of the common name these animals have had given them. The ar- boreal and nocturnal habits again, correlated with certain modi- fications in the organs of special sense, are common points to the feles and the mustelae, and especially though not exclusively to the martens. Both alike take to trees when pressed by hounds, but since the invention of fire-arms this single device of the ' cats ' is no longer worth as in the old fable more than all the tricks of the fox. The phrase 'up a tree' was not, perhaps could not have been, anterior to that of ' as sure as a gun.' The pine marten indeed will, Blasius informs us, sit still on the same place on a bough • Strabo, however, uses much the same language in speaking of what must. I think, in all probability have been the common genet, Viverra gcnitta. Writing of Mauri- tania he says, xvii, c. 3, p. 827 A, Casaubon :—<j)(p(i SI «at 70X0$ alKovpois laas Kal oiioias, iT\r)v on to, pvyxv TpontnTWKi (laKKov,