ON THE DOMESTIC PIG OP * Varro, ' De Re Rustica,' 1. ii. c. 1. 620 considerations of the very greatest gravity. To take somewhat lower ground, from such a study as that of the variations of the pig under domestication, we may obtain safe criteria for estimating the relative effects of food, whether scanty or abundant, of early or late exercise of the sexual functions, and of intercrossing, upon the formation of facial characteristics. The importance of not over- looking the influences of sex and of age is nowhere more forcibly pressed upon our attention than in an examination of a series of skulls of Suidae. It has often been overlooked in disquisitions on the skulls of Hominidae. Thirdly, whether the question at issue as regards man between the Polygenists and the Monogenists will, as has been predicted (Darwin, 'Descent of Man,' ed. 2nd, p. i8o, 1874), 'die a silent and unobserved death' or not, there can be no doubt that illustra- tions of the argumentations whereby that question has been, or ought to have been, dealt with, can be furnished nowhere more fitly and fully than in an enquiry into the distinctness or non- distinctness of the vat ious races of swine. Three distinct views have been advocated as to the relationship of the domestic to the wild swine, Sus scrofa, var. ferus. We may take as the first of these that advocated by Professor Steenstrup ^, and stated by him in the following plain words:— " II n'y a pa8 de transition k observer entre les sangliers et les plus anciens cochons domestiques.' In this view Professor Steenstrup will find Mr. Samuel Sidney coincide in the opening sentences of his work ' On the Pig;' and a view very closely similar to it was put tentatively forward in the year 1821 by a savant who combined the functions of a Professor of Materia Medica with those of Director of the Botanical Garden at Berlin, Professor Link, in the following words, to be found in his work ' Die Urwelt und das Alterthum,' i. p. 192 :— ' Das zahme Schwein stammt nach alien Naturforschem von den wilden Schweinen ab, und auch die Alton waren schon dieser Meinung ^; doch scheint mir die Sache keinesweges entschieden. Die Starke, Grosse und Farbe des wilden Schweines wiirden keinen Unterschied machen, da die wilden Thiere starker, grosser, und diinkler gefarbt sind, als die zahmen, aber die grossen Hauer des wilden Ebers sclieinen doch nicht bloss Vergrosserung zu sein. Die Feltdecke des zahmen Schweines findet sie * ' Bulletin du Congrfes International d'Archdologie pr^historique k Copenhague en 1869,' p. 163.