EXCAVATIONS IN AN ANCIENT 586 chemical change, the metallic lead having been changed both on their exterior and throughout their substance into the red oxide and carbonate, whereby they have suffered great loss of plasticity and flexibility. Each of them possessed a lid, which appears to have been simply laid upon the top of the rectangular cofhn proper without any soldering. Large nails with square heads were found in relation with the coffin, and as woody fibre, shown by micro- scopic examination to be probably oaken, is still plainly enough to be detected upon the urn, even with the naked eye, it would seem that the leaden coffin had been surrounded by a wooden one ^. An analysis of the substance of these coffins, which I owe to the kind- ness of Heathcote Wyndham, Esq., M.A., Fellow of Merton Col- lege, shows that it contains 3-28 per cent, of tin, and that the coffins resemble in this, as in other particulars, those described by the Abb^ Cochet in his 'Normandie Souterraine/ pp. 28-31, as characteristic of the Gallo-Roman period in France. In each of these coffins was found the skeleton of a strong man, who was at the time of his death considerably past the middle period of life. Of the anatomical characters of these skeletons I shall have to speak in detail later; it is sufficient to say here that they show that the individuals to whom these bones belonged were strong men, in the possession of the means for culture and comfort which those days could afford, but who had also suffered much from the physical and other inclemencies which we know to be the natural incidents of the life of the soldier. In one of these coffins five coins were foundj of which one was a coin of Constantine the Younger, another of Valens, and a third, which, like the first, was a third- brass specimen, was a coin of Gratian. By means of this last coin we are enabled to say that this interment took place, in all proba- bility, within the short but eventful period which elapsed between the accession of Gratian and the evacuation of Britain by the * This conclusion almost rises to certainty when we read the account given by Balph Thoresby, 'Phil. Trans.' 1705, No. 296, p. 1864, of the excavation of a coffin, 'pro- bably inteiTed 1500 years ago,' which was seven feet long, and was ' inclosed in a prodigious strong one made of oak planks, about two inches and a half thick, which, beside the riveting, were tacked together with brags and great iron nails . . . they are four inches long, the head not diewise, as the large nails now are, but perfectly flat and an inch broad.' The length of the Frilford nails is four and a half inches, and the breadth of their heads one inch and a quarter. See also L'Abb^ Cochet, ' Nor- mandie Souterraine,' ed. i. p. 33; ' Archaeologia,' vii. 3;6, 381; Bloxham's ' Fnig- menta Sepulcbralia,' p. 39.