ADDRESS ON ANTHROPOLOGY. and selects from it one or more which correspond to one of the great types based by Retzius not merely upon consideration of pro- portionate lengths and breadths, but also upon the artistic con- siderations of type, curve, and contour. He measures the skulls thus selected, and so furnishes himself with a check which even the most practised eye cannot safely dispense with. He then pro- ceeds to satisfy himself as to whether the entire series is referable to one alone of the two great typical forms of Brachycephaly or Dolichocephaly, or whether both types are represented in it, and if so, in what proportions and with what admixture of intermediate forms. "With a number of Peruvian, or, indeed, of Western American skulls generally, of Australian, of Tasmanian, of Eskimo, of Veddahj of Andamanese crania before him, the craniographer would nearly always, setting aside a few abnormally aberrant (which are frequently morbid) specimens, refer them all to one single type ^. Matters would be very different when the craniographer came to deal with a mixed race like our own, or like the population of Switzerland, the investigation into the craniology of which has resulted in the production of the invaluable ' Crania Helvetica' of His and Riitimeyer. At once, upon the first inspection of a series of crania, or, indeed, of heads, from such a race, it is evident that some are referable to one, some to another, of one, two, or three typical forms, and that a residue remains whose existence and character is perhaps explained and expressed by calling them ' Mischformen.' Then arises a most interesting question—Has the result of inter- crossing been such as to give a preponderance to these ' Misch- formen?' or has it not rather been such as in the ultimate resort, whilst still testified to by the presence of intermediating and inter- connecting links, to have left the originally distinct forms still in * It is not by any means entirely correct to say that there is no variety observable among races living in isolated savage purity. The good people of Baden who, when they first saw them, said all the Bashkirs in a regiment brought up to the Rhine in 1813 by the Russians were as like to each other as twins, found, in the course of a few weeks, that they could distinguish them readily and sharply enough (see Ecker, 'Crania Germaniae Occid.' p. 2 ; ' Archiv fiir Anthrop.' v. p. 485, 1872). And real naturalists, such as Mr. Bates, practised in the discrimination of zoological differences, express themselves as struck rather with the amount of unlikeness than with that of likeness which prevails amongst savage tribes of the greatest simplicity of life and the most entire freedom from crossing with other races. But these observations relate to the living heads, not to the skulls.