PRE-REQUISITES OF CANDIDATES. 913 of the career and for other disturbing causes, we may look upon all as likely, in a few months, to come into positions in which the lives of fellow-creatures of their own species will be largely dependent upon their decisions—i. e., upon the knowledge they have stored up, the power of applying it which they have gained, and the resolu- tion they may have for duly using both. Some of those now present may be fortunate enough to come into their responsibilities in or upon areas not destitute of professional colleagues, of whose counsel and advice they may be glad to avail themselves. Some, however, may have to be the sole and unsupported representatives of medical and surgical science in some isolated country locality. These are large powers and large responsibilities : it is but com- monplace to say that a consideration of their magnitude, as it looms out in the future, should make the opportunities and the ex liypothesi irreplaceable advantages of the present seem doubly valuable. This is, I say, a commonplace remark; but it is as well to repeat it, for all that. It is not difficult to imagine, indeed it is easy to bring proof, that the deepest regret, and, more, the most lasting remorse, may be produced by the thought that a little more attention to some particular line of practice, to some particular set of cases, to some new or some old modes of a curative kind, might have enabled a man to save a life which has slipped away for the want and in the absence of the knowledge and the power which might have been obtained thus, but has not been. Such considerations will readily suggest themselves to every private conscience in greater detail than it is well for me to attempt. Public opinion, in English- speaking countries at least, on both sides of the Atlantic and in that newer Southern world, attaches what certain eminent though anonymous publicists are wont to write of as an exaggerated, but what I should speak of as a due and proper, value to human life and human suffering. And upon private conscience more or less en- lightened, and public opinion when properly awakened, morality and its sanctions rest securely. I say, ' public opinion when properly awakened;' for though systematic writers, in these latter days, lay abundant weight upon the indispensability of the exist- ence of activity in public opinion to the sustentation of morality, I am not clear that the teaching of philosophers has as yet begun to exercise all the influence in this direction which there is no doubt, and which it is much to be desired, it will do shortly. I have often 3 N