PHYSIOLOGY IN RELATION TO 706 can be kept up, and will, like the muscular irritability, persist in a decapitated animal for a long while after death, if artificial respira- tion be put in play. The empty state of the arteries post mortem is most probably to be explained by the action of the peripheral nerve-system on the arterioles; though Dr. Alison would have explained it by the attraction a fronte force of the tissues around the capillaries; but Von Bezold's view of the source of the nervo- muscular action of the peripheral vessels is, I apprehend, more untenable and less plausible than most theories which have ' had their day and ceased to be.' The following short history seems to me to be a good instance of the action, or rather of the want of action, of the peripheral nerve- system upon the arterioles. A man, who came some years ago under my own care, had had a bullet pass through his arm just above the elbow, so as to sever the musculo-spiral nerve. The scars of exit and entrance were in the lower third of the arm. Under ordinary circumstances, the soft parts of the lower arm maintained their normal consistence; but their power of resisting changes of temperature was greatly impaired, as well of course as the sensibility of the parts supplied by the injured nerve. I recol- lect seeing the swollen state of the inner side of the hand one cold raw morning when the man was on sentry duty, and had his hand chilled down by the musket he had to carry. Now, I apprehend that this turgescence is to be explained by saying, that the local or peripheral nerve-system of the affected parts was competent under ordinary circumstances to regulate the calibre of the arteries ; but that its activity was liable to be depressed, as under the circum- stances related, into actual abeyance, in the absence of any possi- bility of any assistance being supplied to it from the cranio-spinal nerve-axis. Thus, under the depressing effect of cold, which seems to work here much as it does in checking the regeneration of artificially amputated parts in snails and in salamanders (' Miiller's Physiology,' by Baly, and edit., i. p. 444; Bonnet, ' CEuvres,' torn, v. i. pp. 328, 329), the peripherally placed ganglionic system was put into abeyance; and turgescence of the vessels it ordinarily supplied with ' tone' ensued. Just similarly in mammals the skin of which has been covered with an impermeable varnish, and in which death is as much due to the chilling down which the destruction of the non-conducting power of their hairy integument