THE HARYEIAN ORATION. 763 devil.' It was a similar spirit which dwelt in Sir Philip Sidney, who never heard the famous ballad of 'Percy and Douglas' without feeling his ' heart moved more than with a trumpet.' It may seem to some but a small matter to vindicate for our great discoverer claims to a familiarity with Greek; still, any one who will look at such passages as the one in the ' Exercitatio de Partu/ p. 553, where he speaks of the mischief done by meddlesome midwives, or other passages (pp. ii6, 129, and 133, 'Epistola Secundaad Riolanum;' p. 613, 'Ep. ad Slegelium'), will see, I think, that he had Greek in abundance at his command, and used it just when it helped him to express his thoughts more clearly and con- cisely than any other words at hand at the moment. He used it, in fact, like a man of sense and real learning, when the use of it would save him time or trouble—two things, of one of which he had all too little, whilst of the other he had all too much for his and our good. Let me add that, in the one authentic MS. which we now possess of Harvey's (No. 486, Sloane Coll., British Museum), a MS. never intended for publication, and consisting but of rough notes for lectures to be delivered, I find that he employs Greek words in several places (e.g. pp. 65, 66 and 87) His style has been spoken of as being more or less inelegant and unadorned; and the Latin tongue which he used lends itself but grudgingly and awkwardly to the purposes of science, being strictly a political language, habituated and framed to describe the march of the legions, the disputes of the forum, or the denunciations of the moralist. Still, Harvey's style has always an impressiveness and solidity of its own; and sometimes, as for example in the glorious eighth chapter, 'De Motu Cordis,' it rises into real eloquence where a great occasion justifies the use of repetitions, of antitheses, and abundance of metaphors. But, though the use of stilted phraseology was common enough among Harvey's contemporaries, and though * I have no svmpathy with the eagerness which scientific men sometimes (see Fritz Mtiller, ' Fiir Darwin,' p. 28 ; Dallas' Engl. Trans, p. 42) show in repudiating a know- ledge of Greek, but on the other hand I should be sorry to be thought to overrate its value. I am so far from doing this that I incline to thinking that, when through want of leisure or of means, or through some other deficiency, a young man cannot add on more than a second foreign language to his acquirement of Latin (which I presuppose), that second foreign language should, in the case of Englishmen, be, for linguistic and educational, as well as for more lowly practical reasons, not Greek but German,