ADDRESS ON ANTHROPOLOGY. 892 shape and type from those which are found in exchisive posses- sion of the older and longer barrows) are found in great abund- ance, sometimes, as in the South, in exclusive possession of the sepulchre, sometimes in company, as in the North, with skulls of the older type. The skulls are often strikingly like those of the same type from the Danish tumuli. On this coincidence I should not stake much, were it not confirmed by other indications. And foremost amongst these indications I should place the fact of the 'Tree-interments,' as they have been called (interments, that is, in coffins made out of the trunk of a tree), of this country, and of Denmark, being so closely alike. The well-known monoxylic coffin from Gristhorpe contained, together with other relics closely similar to the relics found at Treenhoi, in Soutli Jutland, in a similar coffin, a skull which, as I can testify from a cast given me by my friend Mr. H. S. Harland, might very well pass for that of a brachyeephalic Dane of the Neolithic period. Canon Greenwell discovered a similar monoxylic coffin at Skipton, in Yorkshire; and two others have been recorded from the same county—one from the neighbourhood of Driffield, the other from that of Tliornborough. Evidence, again, is drawn from Col. Lane Fox's opinion that the earthworks which form such striking objects for inquiry here and there on the East-Riding Wolds must, considering that the art of war has been the same in its broad features in all ages, have been thrown up by an invading force advancing from the east coast. Now we do know that England was not only made England by immi- gration from that corner or angle where the Cimbric Peninsula joins the mainland, but that long after that change of her name this country was successfully invaded from that Peninsula itself. And what Swegen and Cnut did some four hundred and fifty years after the time of llengist and Horsa, it is not unreasonable to suppose other warriors and other tribes from the same locality may have done perhaps twice or thrice as many centuries further back in time than the Saxon Conquest. The huge proportions of the Cimbri, Teutones, and Ambrones are just what the skeletons of the British Round-Barrow folk enable us now to reproduce for our- selves. It is much to be regretted that from the vast slaughters of Aquae Sextiae and Vercellae, no relics have been preserved which might have enabled us to say whether Boiorix and his companions had the cephalic proportions of Neolithic Danes, or those very