BIOLOaiCAL TRAINING AND STUDIES. 874 rows of internally placed cells, and giving insertion by its sheath to muscles. We have further the nervous system and the digestive taking up in such embryos much the same positions relatively to each other, and to this molluscan chorda dorsalis, that are taken up by the confessedly homologous system in the Vertebrata; we have the nervous system originating in the same fashion, and closing up like the vertebrate myeleneephalon out of the early form of a lamellar furrow into that of a closed tube ; we have, finally, the respiratory and digestive inlets holding the vertebrate relationship of continuity with, instead of the invertebrate of dislocation and separation from, each other. Such are the facts; but I am not convinced that they will bear the interpretation that has been put upon them; though I must say the possession of this chorda dor- salis by the active locomotor larva of the Ascidian which one day settles down into such immobility lends not a little probability to Mr. Herbert Spencer's view of the genesis of the segmented vertebral column in animals undoubtedlv vertebrate. But on this view I should not be inconsistent with myself, inasmuch as, to waive other considerations, the chorda dorsalis in eacR case would be con- sidered as an adaptive or teleological modification, not a sign of morphological kinship ^. Much perplexity may or must arise here; and whilst entertaining these views, I felt myself bound to examine myself strictly to find whether in not taking them up, I might not be giving way to that reactionary reluctance to accept new ideas which advancing years so frequently bring with them; but a recent paper, by Lacaze-Duthiers, published in the ' Comptes Rendus' for May 30, 1870, and translated in the 'Aunals and Magazine of Natural History' for July 1870, would justify me, I think, in calling that reluctance by another name. For in that paper the renowned malacologist just mentioned has brought to light the fact that there is another sessile and solitary Ascidian, the Molgula tnbulosa, which goes through no such tadpole-like stage as had been supposed to be gone through by all Ascidians except the Salpae, which is never active and never puts out the activity which is so remarkable in the other Ascidians, but settles down and remains sedentary immediately after it is set free from the egg-capsule, 1 See, however, Mr. Herbert Spencer's Appendix D to his principles of Biologj-, pt. iv. chap. xvi. This appendix was printed in 1865, but not published till December 1869. I had not seen it when I wrote as above.