ON THE DOMESTIC PIG OF 560 supposes to be its still surviving representative, the ' BUndtner-Schwein,' as having a short snout (see pp. 42, 45, 181-185). The classificatory value, however, of such a peculiarity is much reduced by the results of such experiments as those of Nathusius just referred to. Measubements op Ifflet Skull and op Rutimeyer's ' Torfsohwein,' pp. 45, j83, I.e. Iffley Skull. Torfschwein. inches. inches. Greatest frontal width between ectorbital processes . ^•2 •J 4 Least width on vertex ... ... cS O'Q y Greatest interzygomatic veidth .... 4-6 4* 7-4-0 Height of occipital from inferior border of foramen magnum ........ 3-5 3-8-4-5 Length of vertex from level of supraorbital foramen to ridge of occiput 3-8 4.4 Horizontal distance from anterior border of orbit to posterior of temporal fossa .... Length of intermaxillary along alveolar border 2-1 1.9-2.4 Maximum length of skull from apex of inter- maxillaries ....... lO-Q Length of nasal bones (approximately) . S-5 Length from apex of intermaxillaries to inferior border of foramen magnum .... IO-3 Length from anterior external angle (apex) of frontal to middle of occipital ridge .... 6-9 Length from middle of fronto-nasal suture to middle of occipital ridge ...... 4-8 Length from anterior border of orbit to posterior 1-4 Greatest width of occiput 2.4 Breadth of nasal at commencement of naso-frontal suture, which is the point of maximum width of Maximum width of intermaxillaries 1-3 Height of lacrymal along rim of orbit 17 millims. Length of lacrymal along malar suture . 18 millims. Fig. 3. Orbito-lacrymal region of Sm andamanensis. 1514 6, Oxford University Museum, adult 9. The skull from which this drawing was taken was that of a wild sow from the Andaman Islands, procured for me by my friend J. Wood-Mason, F.G.S., of the Calcutta Museum. It is about the same size as the two prehistoric British skulls, Plate IV. Figs. 1 and, 2, and as the 'Torfschwein' of Riitimeyer—resembling this latter in the one important particular, that of it.s long fronto-parietal region, in which it differs from the British skull (Fig. 2). It differs from all the pigs' skulls here figured in the exaggeratedly disproportionate shortness of the malar border of its lacrymal bone, which is, as in the newly-born European pig, little more than half the length of the orbital border. In its convex frontal region we have, again, a character retained in the adult Asiatic which is transitorily represented in the European pig. This