587 CEMETEEY AT FRILFORD. Legions, inasmuch as the departure of the Romans may be reason- ably supposed to have entailed the collapse of the civilisation and customs which they had introduced and supported^. II. Of tie Boman or Romano-British Interments without leaden, hit in most eases, prohahly, toith wooden coffins, and in semi-oriented graves. The second and most numerous class of interments that we meet with in this cemetery are found occupying- parallel, or nearly parallel, rows of trenches, running-, to speak g-enerally, from a point more or less north of west to one more or less south of east, and containing, very commonly, besides the skeletons, bones and teeth of domestic animals (though not in the great abundance noted in other Romano-British cemeteries), fragments of charcoal, oyster- shells, shards, flints, and nails, with woody fibre adhering to them. In some of these graves coins were discovered, in addition to the other objects just specified. Now, we are not justified by the presence of any, nor, indeed, by the presence of all, of these peculiarities, in concluding that any interment is Roman or Romano-British, the imitative tendencies ^ of the Teutonic races having led them some- what slavishly into copying the customs of the world they sub- dued, even in points relating to such matters as the burial of the dead. Each and all of the objects have been found all but in- ' For a note of a discovery of leaden cofifins in the neighbourhood of other Eoman remains, see Schaaflthausen, 'Die Germanische Grabstatten am Ehein,' 1868, p. 131. ^ For the imitative tendencies of the Teutonic races generally, see Coote's' Neglected Fact in English History,' p. 44; Worsaae's 'Primeval Antiquities of Denmark,' Eng. Trans. 1849, p. 140 ; Engelhardt, 'Denmark in the Iron Age,' Preface, p. viii; Von Sacken, 'Leitfaden zur Kunde des Heidnischen Alterthums,* p. 158; WyUe's 'Fairford Graves,' p. 30 ; Merivale's 'Conversion of the Northern Nations,' p. 92; Eoach Smith, 'British Assoc. Eeport for 1855,' p. 145. For the presence of bones of animab and their teeth in Anglo-Saxon graves, see Wylie, 1. c, p. 24; Akerman, ' Pagan Saxondom,' Introd. p. xvii. For that of charcoal, Wylie, 1. c, 29 ; Akerman, ' Further Eesearches at Long Wittenham,' Ajchaeologia, vol. xxxix. For that of shards and flints, Douglas' ' Nenia Britannica,' pp. 10 and 34 ; "Wylie and Akermann, 11. cc. For that of the Portorium, Lindenschmit, ' Archiv fiir Anthrop.' ii. 3, 1868, in review of Wanner's work, and in his own work, ' Die Germanische Todtenlager beim Selzen,' p. 51; Von Sacken, 1. c, p. 154; Akerman, ' Proc. Soc. Antiq.' 2 S. iii. 165. See also Abb^ Cochet, ' Tombeau de Childeric,' passim, and 'Normandie Souterraine,' P- 3'-