871 BIOLOGICAL TRAlNINa AND STUDIES. heads are to make out, each independently of the other and con- temporaneously, a wise discovery or invention, it is much more likely, on the calculation of chances, and considering the much greater number of fools and blockheads (" Thoren und Dummkopfen"), that in two countries widely apart closely similar follies should be simultaneously invented. And then, if the inventing- fool happens to be a man of influence and consideration, which is, hy the way, an exceedingly frequent coincidence, both the nations are likely to adopt the same foolish practice, and the historian and antiquary, after the lapse of some centuries, is likely to draw from this coincidence the conclusion that the two nations both sprang from the same stock.' Judge and speculate for yourselves how the spirit which breathes in this passage was excited, but note its scientific value too. We must not forget that it is possible, in thought at least, to dissociate the psychological unity of man from his specific identity even; and that, as regards identity of race, it is only reasonable to expect that when similar needs are pressing, similar means for meeting them are not unlikely to be devised inde- pendently by members of two tribes who have for ages been sejDarated from their original stocks. The question to be asked is, does the contrivance about which we are speculating combine, or does it not combine in itself so large a number of converging adaptations as to render it upon the calculation of chances unlikely that it should have been independently invented ? Yet this very obvious principle has been neglected, or Lindenschmit would not have found it necessary to say that, by laying too much stress upon certain points of national identity in the stones used for the formation of cromlechs or dolmens, the Hiinenvolk might be made out to have chosen to settle only in those parts of Germany where erratic blocks of granite or other such large stones could be found! ('Archiv fur Anthropologic,' iii. p. 115, 1868.) Sir John Lubbock's recently published work on 'The Origin of Civilisation' may, I anticipate, cause the history and genealogy of manners and customs to enter largely into the composition of our lists of papers. There is no need for me, as the author of the book is here himself, to occupy your time in recommending his work; but I may be allowed to say that the utility of such pursuits as those which Sir John Lubbock's book treats of receives some little illustration from the fact that, as we learn