ADDRESS ON ANTHROPOLOGY. 881 this end made theii* outlines look a little colder and harder than the reality itself, cold and hard though this was; whilst under certain other modes of illumination employed (it is true, only occasionally, and for purposes of effect, not ex necessitate) the self- same outlines looked somewhat lurid. But, howsoever produced and howsoever affecting- us, the light was light nevertheless, and, on the whole, we preferred it a good deal to the darkness. It is never well to press a metaphor too far nor too closely; so I will now lay aside my parable, though it admits of some further ex- tension, and take up the actual business of the Department. It may be well to lay before the Department, first of all, the titles of a few of the principal subjects upon which we have papers prepared for us ; and after, or indeed during the enumeration of these specimens of what will prove, I can assure you, a very valuable series of memoirs, we can proceed, as will be naturally suggested, to those general considerations with which it is cus- tomary to open the transactions of such assemblages as ours. First among our contributors I must mention the President of the London Anthropological Institute, in which Institute the Eth- nological Society of 1844 and the Anthropological Society of 1863 are united. Colonel Lane Fox has told us (' Archaeologia,' xlii. p. 45, 1869) that it was whilst serving on the Sub-committee of Small Arms in 1851 that he had his attention drawn to the prin- ciple of continuity by observing the very slow gradations of pro- gress that were taking place at that time in the military weapons of our own country. Out of those labours of his on that Sub-com- mittee other benefits have arisen to the country at large, of which it is not my province to speak. What I have to speak of is his suggestion, put out with greater definiteness in his invaluable Lecture on Primitive Warfare, delivered before the United Service Institution, June 5, 1868 (p. 15), to the effect that his find at Cissbury furnishes the links which were wanting to connect the Palaeolithic with the Neolithic Celt types. Sir John Lubbock^ and Mr. Evans ^ have told us that they do not see their way to accepting this view; and Mr. James Geikie, who holds that the palaeolithic deposits are of pre-glacial and inter-glacial age, is almost necessitated, ex hypothesi, to repudiate any such transition. • Nilason's 'Primitive Scandinavia,' Editor's Introd. p. 24, * 'Flint IrapleuientB,' p. 72. 3 L