PHYSIOLOGY IN RELATION TO 694 of the reason in medical, and, indeed, in other investigations. Under tlie term Biological Science are included, besides pure Physiology, Human and Microscopic Anatomy, Comparative Ana- tomy also ; and in this place, as your visit to the Museum will have convinced you, we give considerable, but as we hope, not undue prominence to this latter branch of study. I propose to speak of the bearings of Biology on Medicine in each, but, owing to our local speciality just alluded to, specially in the last men- tioned of these four departments. And I must ask you to bear in mind that the very constant reference which I shall make, if not in my address, at all events in my notes, to the works and writings of others, is in like manner to be explained by my wish to have a distinctive colouring given to this address by the local peculiarities of the great educational centre in which we are assembled. For one of the most distinctive peculiarities of this ancient University is the formation within its precincts of such a library of modern science as will shortly have no superior, and but few rivals, in the world. This we owe to the well-advised administration of the funds of that famous physician. Dr. Radcliffe ; and it is from a wish to make a sort of acknowledgment of the obligation which medical and other sciences owe to him and his trustees, that I shall so constantly, at least in print, refer to the chapters and pages of the innumerable books which their enlightened munificence has put here at the disposal of the student. It is not, I can assure myself, from any irritable anxiety to impugn or depreciate the work of others, that I have so constantly consulted and specified their pages; nor, I trust, have I allowed myself to be tempted into the tinpardonable fault of using, or rather abusing, a great opportunity by making upon it a petty personal display. Rather have I felt it to be my duty to occupy this hour as you occupy your lives, in doing what it may be possible to do for the good of humanity. Your presence and your example make me feel that any other course would be but impertinence; and I have therefore kept con- stantly before my eyes Bacon's sentence in condemnation of all empty parade of useless erudition—Vam est omnis eruditionis osten- tatio nisi utilem operam secum ducat. The title of Niemeyer's work on medicine, the seventh edition of which has recently appeared and come into my hands, will furnish me with an excellent text for my first head—The Connection and