THE IRON, THE BRONZE, AND THE STONE AGES. 671 writers of copper to the muscles or flesli of an .inimal, may really have been a comparison of g-reenish bronze to muscles taking on a g-reenish hue from decomposition, and that we should thus save ourselves from supposing that copper, which, as a metal, is eminently ' red,' should have been contrasted by our forefathers with some- thing, iron, to wit, which they compared to blood. At any rate, leaving both mythology and pathology, I may say that Sir John Lubbock has given us excellent reasons for doubting whether Europe, or at least the western part of it, ever went through a pure copper stage, as America, so rich in native copper, did. And as regards metallic tin being used for weapons at least, I have come upon only a single statement which could bear such a meaning ; this statement is given by Klemm,' Germanische Alterthumskunde,' p. 19, in the following words: 'Ein Stiick aus reinem Zinn fand Kortum in der Ruhenthal Grabstatte,' s. 8, T05. It is plain, how- ever, that this may have been a ' find' of an ornament as dis- tinguished from an implement made of unalloyed metallic tin. There are two Greek words standing at the end of line 612 of the 'Agamemnon' of Aeschylus, which mean 'baths for copper,' but which are usually translated ' dyeing of copper' and are supposed to be a proverbial mode of indicating an impossibility, or, as the Ger- mans put it, an ' Unding.' I strongly suspect that these words have attained this secondary signification, not from any reference to colouring, but simply to 'tempering,' and that the mode of temper- ing bronze having been a secret, it has to be considered something supra- and ultimately cowiJra-natural. If this suggestion is true, we have in it a fresh argument for the view which teaches that the discovery of alloying copper with tin was extra-European in origin. There is another new argument for the same conclusion, and for the corollary to it, that bronze, like the Jade, Jadeit, and Nephrit of the preceding or Stone Period, and like all imported articles in such times, must have been scarce and highly valued; and this argument lies in the fact that the use of stone weapons survived so long after the introduction of this alloy. This was forced upon me in the ex- amination this year of certain barrows in Somersetshire, proved to be of the Bronze Period by the discovery in them of bronze weapons, with burnt human bones, in which worked flints were in such abundance, that had it not been for the discovery of the bronze implements, we might almost have supposed that we were dealing