CEMETERY AT FRILFOKD. 597 border-land between some gradually advancing empire, and the territories of some gradually receding but intermittently aggressive aborigines. III. Of the Afifflo-Saxon Interments in the way of Cremation. Ten urns containing burnt bones bave come into my bands during the excavation^ carried on at Frilford. Of these two were patterned urns, and./the rest plain, A fairly perfect patterned vessel from this cemetery is to be seen in the British Museum, and two patterned fragments have been recovered by me. These three latter vessels, I incline to think, on account of their size, may have been holy-water vessels rather than cremation urns. The pattern upon them, as well as that upon the pattei'ued urns which were found with burnt bones inside them, is the pattern now so familiar to us as the Anglo-Saxon pattern, from the memoirs of Kemble, Akerman, the Honourable R. C. Neville, and others; and the general style and conformation of all the urns, patterned and plain alike, is not much less plainly referable to the same type. Neither class of urns has been lathe-turned ; in none of them is the bottom per- fectly flat; they are all of a darkish colour, and, though this colour may occasionally have a tawny streaking intermingled with it, it has usually been protected from reddening by the intermixture of vegetable matter with the paste. The figured urns possess the Vandykes, the punched stellate or multiradiate stamps, the circular thumb-made depressions, the encircling zones scored with a pointed stick, and the ' characteristic bumps,' so fully and accurately described by Mr. Kemble in the ' Horae Ferales/ pp. 87 and 232, as distinguishing Anglo-Saxon urns found in England as well as urns found in the North-German fatherland^. The Frilford urns are, with the exception of those found at Long Wittenham, the first urns of Anglo-Saxon manufacture which I have seen recorded as found in Berkshire. Mr. "Wylie^ has put on ' See also for figures of urns resembling those found at Frilford; Engelhardt, 'Denmark in the Iron Age,' English translation, 1866, p. 9; urn from Smedeby, Sleavig ; Akerman, ' Pagan Saxondom,' Introd. p. xxviii, and pi. iv ; ' Archaeologia,' vol. xxxviii. pi. 20, fig. I ; Hon. R. C. Neville,' Saxon Obsequies,' pis. 24-33; Bloxam's ' Fragmenta Sepulchralia,' p. 59; Roach Smith, ' Inventorium Sepulchiale,' Introd. P- For the discovery of a bone-punch for stamping ornaments, see Sohaaffhausen, 'Die Germanische Grabstiitten am Rhein,'p. 139, 1868. * 'Archaeologia,' xxxvii. 473.