RELATIVE VALUE OP CLASSICAL AND SCIENTIFIC TRAINING. 921 selves unable to see that, because particular institutions have a tendency to dwarf and stunt particular faculties, they should therefore be left undisturbed to do this evil work uncounteracted. And still leaving" the premises iinimpug'ned, we should set up a cross-indictment to the effect that if classical studies left the student of them unacquainted with the invariability of natural laws, physical studies leave the student unacquainted with the variability of men's minds. But, so far as the business of life consists in having to do business and hold intercourse with our fellow-men, this acquaintance with the variability of men's minds is simply the particular kind of knowledge which is not only the most practically useful and marketable of all kinds of knowledge, but is precisely the kind which, by common consent, is allowed to characterise if not to institute ' culture.' Lord Lyttelton, however, and the Endowed Schools Com- missionei-s would appear to be in favour of the establishment of locally distinct schools for the two sets of studies and of students, and herein to be at one with Helmholtz. The Owens College Delegates, on the other hand, are, like ourselves, in favour of a system of bifurcation, which would not necessarily keep apart persons of different mental conformation who might be much benefited by mutual contact. They have come to this conclusion mainly for reasons based on observations and testimony given in Germany. Oxir peculiar social organisation makes the question more complex for us; but we, too, have our experience as well as the Germans ; and time ha? shown that an Englishman, whose reputation as an educationalist is equal to that of Helmholtz as a physicist, may, in this very matter, be as far wrong as we believe that great physicist to be. In 1864 Dr. Temple told the Public Commissioners (see Report, vol. ii. p. 312) that he should 'not consider it wise to follow the Cheltenham and Marlborough examples by attaching to the public schools modern departments. The classical work would lose, the other work would not gain!' In 1867 we find a distinguished Rugby master, the Rev. J. M. Wilson, speaking to the following effect of the results produced by the changes set on foot in accordance with the proposals of the Public Schools Com- missioners, and earnestly and honestly carried out. ' Lastly, what are the general results of the introduction of scientific teaching in the opinion of the body of the masters? In brief it is this: that