EXCAVATIONS IN AN ANCIENT 628 pre-Saxon crania (No. ii. Sept. 1867, and No. iv. Jan. 1868), the Irontal and parietal tuberosities are nearly or quite obsolete, and the calvaria, elongating as if in compensation, becomes somewhat cylindroidal in its antero-posterior outline. Only one male cranium has been found by me at Frilford, which I should class with the River-bed male skull from Muskham, and the Towyn-y-Capel skulls so intelligibly described by Professor Huxley in the 'Prehistoric Remains of Caithness,' p. 120, and fre- quently examined by myself in the museum of the CoUe^-e of Surgeons. This cranium belonged to a strong man of six feet, beyond the middle period of life, who seems, from the direction of his grave, and the copper staining upon his somewhat prognathic jaws and collar-bone, to have been acknowledged as a Romano- Briton, and to have been buried just as individuals whose osteo- logical remains speak with some authority to their greater cultui-e. By the possession of a slightly greater breadth, and consequently a much higher cephalic index, 78 as against 76 of the typical male 'River-bed skull just specified, this skull shows a tendency towards assuming the outlines of the smaller representatives of the globose Romano-British type. The fact that but one male against nine female skulls of the River-bed type has been found at Frilford amidst so many other types of head and so many marks of civilisa- tion, is suggestive of the explanation which their having belonged to a slave population would more or less satisfactorily give. The River- bed skulls from the barrow at Crawley which have come into my hands are also all female, as I think, but this barrow has by no means been exhaustively explored. And I incline, though doubt- fully, not having had the pelvis nor the long bones to aid me in forming my judgment, to refer the Towyn-y-Capel skulls in the College of Surgeons to the same sex as all the similarly-constructed crania, except the one just mentioned, found at Frilford. In the large male skulls, of which I have spoken, Professors Riitimeyer and His would, I think, recognise their' Sion typus and assuredly they merit the titles Krdftigkeit and Wiirde, which Riitimeyer ^ be- stows upon them. It may be right to hold that these crania belonged to men British in blood, though here at least Roman by citizenship ; but, if we assign them to the Roman immigrants, we shall have an explanation of the enlargement of the River-bed type of skull sug- * ' Jahrbuch der Schweizer Alpea' for 1864, p. 398.