CEMETERY AT PRILFOBD. 609 been elsewhere. But I am not aware that we have any reason for thinking- that the Anglo-Saxons, who, rather more than a century * after the first invasion, drove the ' Southern Belgae or Firbolgi' out of Berkshire into Wales and Damnonia, received any accessions to their numbers from regions so far south as Andernach and Cob- lentz ^, where such interments could be easily, and were frequently made; and it is more probable that a fragment of lava may have been put into a grave in its aspect of a fragment of a millstone, an implement of daily life, than in its aspect of a fragment of the same material as that out of which entire coffins or the entire ' setting' of a grave had been made elsewhere. On the whole, I am inclined to regard these interments as be- longing to a period of transition from the comparative if not total heathenism of shallower interments without orientation, and with- out the decent regard for the dead which, the setting of stones round the graves indicates, to the more distinctively Christian mode of burial without insignia and in coffins. The greater depth, and the direction of the graves I should regard as due to the teach- ing of the Christian missionaries; the adoption of the very graves used by the Romano-Britons may have been due merely to the imitative tendencies of the conquering races^ or it may be ascribed to the influence of some remnants of the conquered Christians, who may have maintained their religion on sufferance, and their tradi- tions as to the tombs of their fathers during the dark period which intervened between the invasion of Cerdic and the preaching of Birinus. The tricking out of a corpse with insignia of sex, or rank, or employment, seems half heathen to us who have the great truth that we can take nothing out of the world with us impressed upon us at times when we are most open to impressions; still it is just such a custom as a missionary with the proper amount of the wisdom of the serpent would acquiesce in. Time, such a teacher would know, was on his side, and he would feel that he could afford to wait. It is possible that the differences between these two kinds of Anglo-Saxon inhumation may have been due to some social dif- ferences between the persons severally practising them, and that * See Beale Poste, ' Celtic Inscriptions,' 1861, p. 71. ' Leo, however, in his ' Ortsnamen,' pp. 100-104, has tried to show that most of the local names near Heidelberg correspond to local names in Kent. R r