PREHISTORIC TIMES IN BRITAIN. 525 susceptibility. Pallas's words in his ' Zoograpliia,' i. p. 269, as to the wild boar of the Palaearctic region, called by him, not incon- veniently, Sus europaeuSy in contradistinction to the China or Siam pig-, called by him Sus inclicus, says plainly and emphatically 'por- celli cicurari assuescunt facile et cum domesticis generant.' Radde's utterances (' Reisen im Siiden von Ost-Sibirien,' Bd. i. p. 336) are even more to the point, as they affirm the like of wild swine of greater age. They run thus :— 'So muss ich gestehen dass sie sehr friedlicher Natur sind, und es rnir mehrmals passirte mittelalte Wildeschweine sich mir bis auf vier Faden Weite nahen zu sehen.' The Asiatic pigs, secondly, of the group represented by Sus cris- tatus, though not, within my knowledge, those known as Sus verru- cosus, nor those known as Sus barhatus, have very similar and very numerous testimonies borne to their educability and capacity for attachment to man. Fitzinger, indeed, says of the domesticated Chinese pig, his ' Sus leucomystax sinensis^ that it resembles the domesticated European pig generally in its habits and character, but that it shows much more attachment than the European farm- pig to the persons who take care of it, and will even follow them about, although it is otherwise troublesome and obstinate. Sit- zungsberichte d. Akad, Wiss. Wien,' 1858, Bd. xxs. p. 235.) In Formosa, when the Dutch first became acquainted with it, in the beginning of the seventeenth century, every native woman, we are informed, on the authority of Ogilby('Atlas Chinensis,' ii. j). 8,c^^. by Swinhoe, 'Proc. Zool.' 1870, p. 643), had 'a great pig running after her, as we use to have a dog.' A closer intimacy than this has been observed to exist between Homo sapiens asiaticus. Linn., and Sus sinensis, Linn., by Professor Huxley {pit. Galton, 'Trans. Ethnol. Sec' vol. iii. 1865, p. 127), who has seen sucking-pigs nursed at the breasts of women, apparently as pets, in islands of the New- Guinea group. As regards the wild races, Sir Walter Elliot tells me, in a letter of date May 15, 1876: — ' I have seen the young of Sus cristutus, which had been captured by some of the Indi an nomad communities, and reared by them, running about among the domestic stock; so that it would be hard to say where the line should be drawn ^ It would appear that this difficulty iias been felt by others to be a very real one. Colonel Walter Campbell tells us, at p. 325 of his 'Indian Journal,' 1864, that he fears ' tbe youn^ gentlemen of the present day have taken to spearing village piga instead of wild boars,' and that he has ' seen the thing done before now.'