749 THE HARVEIAN ORATION. published in the 'Lancet' of January 7, 187T, seem to me to be certainly the most striking and possibly the most important. Could anything have been more surprising- to him whose memory we here this day commemorate, than to have been told that an injury to a particular part of the brain, the pons, called after the excellent anatomist whose life ended in the very year in which his had begun, would produce haemorrhage in certain parts of the lungs, and anaemia, oedema, and emphysema in others? This is an easy experiment to repeat; it is one which might have been done in the days of Harvey as easily as in those of Bernard^ of Budge, of Ludwig, and of Brown-Sequard. But easy though it would have been to perform, I am bold to say it was well for Harvey that he never happened to perform it. For considering that, like Haller, he knew nothing of the contractility of arteries; considering that Hunter had not performed his now well-known experiments with the umbilical arteries ; considering, Sir, that in that excellent work on Physiology by Johannes Miiller, the trans- lation of which in 1838, by our late and never sufficiently to be lamented friend Dr. Baly, we owe to your suggestion, I find several pages (vol. i. pp. 202-206, 214-219, ed. 1840) devoted to disprov- ing the muscular contractility of arteries; considering, that it was not till three years later, in 1841, that Henle's work, already re- ferred to, appeared with its still unsuperseded figures, Plate III, figures 8, 9, and 10 of the arteries with their circular muscular coat, and with its excellent summary in letterpress of the whole subject, pp. 518-526, and especially pp. 534, 525; when I consider that nothing of all this had been done, to leave unmentioned other advances connected with names of men yet living to speak for themselves and for us—I say it may have been well that Harvey never came upon the facts relating to the alterations of lung- substance being entailed by destruction of brain-substance, not difficult to be observed and reproduced, which we owe to Brown- Sequard. For if he had come upon them, how could he have explained them in the absence of the entire chain of connecting facts, in the forging of which chain so many successive workers— Purkinje, Valentin, Weber, Burdach, Stilling, and others—have all contributed links ? Might not even Harvey, often as he withstood such temptations, have, nevertheless, in default of power to assign the real causes of such a phenomenon, been driven back upon some f