IN INDIAN GAOLS. 935 Madras in June 1869, and which, as the 'Report of Sanitary Improvements in India' (so often quoted) very mildly puts it (p. 132), 'threw the weight of their experience into the scale of sewerage by water-carriage.' This memorandum should, I think, be made more accessible in England than it is at present. We have as much need of its plainly given common-sense instructions as the people in Madras; and we have, I apprehend, in our capaci- ties of ratepayers and taxpayers, an equal claim to have them made available for the use of Local Boards and other Sewer authorities. The Army Sanitary Commissioners, I am glad to observe, have nothing to retract of their opinions as to the dry-earth system ; and in their answers to Dr. Cunningham's request for instructions in his capacity of Sanitary Commissioner with the Government of India, given in the Report just quoted, at p. 206, and of date July 8, 1870, they refer the Commissioner to the memorandum of March 8, 1869, and add to it the following words:— 'It follows that to trust to dry-earth conservancy for improving the health of towns, while ordinary station or town drainage is permitted to soak away in cesspits or on the surface, is simply to poison the subsoil with sewer water, which, if collected and conveyed in drain-pipes, would become a valuable manure. The question may now be considered as settled by scientific investigation, that the sewage of inhabited buildings should be treated as a single element, whether as regards health or agriculture; and also that to divide this sewage into two parts, and to remove the parts separately, is, as we have stated elsewhere, to pay double where one payment would answer every purpose.' The same Sanitary Commission is reported, in the same volume (p. 38), as having decided that the dry-earth system could not be generally introduced into a large city like Bombay; and (at p. 13) as declaring it unnecessary to discuss a certain scheme for the removal of the sewage of Calcutta, which the Justices of the Peace for that city—with whose names and numbers I am un- acquainted—had previously rejected, for this reason amongst others, namely, that it was ' simply a system of dry-earth conservancy.' Secondly: The Rivers Pollution Commissioners, appointed in 1868—namely. Sir William Denison, Dr. Frankland, and John Chalmers Morton,—ought to have their opinion at least referred to. In their report, published this year, they say (p. 50): *We can have no hesitation in pronouncing the dry-earth system, however suitable for institutions, villages, and camps, where personal or official regulations can be enforced, entirely unfitted to the cir- cumstances of large towns.'