ON THE CAT OF THE ANCIENT GREEKS. 516 investigation of several years, given us a list of no less than sixteen land mammals, amongst which there is one new and previously undescribed species, the JEgoceros pictus, the Ibex of the Cyclades. The very general distribution of the rabbity which in its wild state hei'e is as large as the hare or larger, goes some way towards show- ing that it was indigenous in the area of the Cyclades, as it is sup- posed to have been in the Balearic Islands before they were broken up into an archipelago. But at the same time it is the harder to understand how Aristotle and how the Greek gourmets who ^wrres kv -naarL Aaywotj must have known how different a rabbit's flush was from a hare's, if they had ever eaten it, could have failed to dis- tinguish the one animal from the other, the rabbit being now most abundant there, and having made the Myconos, so often mentioned by these ancients, into a honeycomb with their burrows. But in their days these islands were richer in population, an occasional massacre of Melians having been as nothing to the constant ope- ration of Turkish barbarism; and if, as I have striven to show, this larger population had in domestication, house by house, such an enemy of the rabbit as the marten is, we have some sort of an ex- planation of the absence of the mention by them of an animal as existing in the Cyclades in classic, which must all but certainly have existed there in geological, as it does also in our own times. The islands, I may add, were probably or certainly better wooded than now; and trees favour the multiplication of the rabbit less than they do that of its many and various enemies. 2. In my previous paper I said. Article XXVIII. p. 511, ' In the East the felis took both the name and the work of the rival it supplanted.' It is possible that I should have been right in making this statement more extensive, and in saying that the cat of the Egyptians took not only the name ya\rj, but also the name Utls of its predecessor in the Greek house. For I find from a passage of Tzetzes, 'Chil.' v. 8, quoted by Bochart, ' Hierozoicon,' i. 986, 57, that this authority, if so we may call him, called the aiKovpos by the name of uns. The passage from Bochart runs thus: ' In Hesychio voce Knhia, ktis ken ^wov o}xoiov yakfj, viverra est animal feli simile. Proincle putavit Tzetzes esse felis speciem, quod his verbis diserte asserit Chiliadis quinti capite octavo, iKTis 5i ^wov KOI avTb T(Xu (1. TtiKti) 6pvi6o<piyov Xtp<f<uov Koi TfTpa-rrovv iJttv, 6 atkovpov KaKovfttv,'