810 MODIFICATIONS OF ASPECTS OF ORQANIC NATURE before you, half diagrammatically, the anthropologists, zoologists, and geographers ^ of the last quarter of the last century and the first third of this had possessed themselves; and following, at * Pallas, Betrachtungen iiber die BeschafFenheit der Gebirge: an Address de- livered Jan. 23, 1777. Zimmermann, ' Geographische Gescbichte,' Bd. i. p. 114, 1778; Bd. iii. p. 250, 1783. Link, Die Urwelt und das Alterthum, i. p. 243 seqq., 1821, There is perhaps no need for me to apologise for quoting the exact words of Pallas's Discourse, the less so as, though it appeared in two forms, one German, the other French, within a year of its being delivered, it is not, I think, a very common book. The issue which I quote from is that of 1778, the year in which his Novae Species GUriwm appeared, six years later than the year in which the second volume of his Spicilegia with its wonderful Fasciculus XI. was published. The difficulty in reading Pallas is to understand how his writings can bear the date they do. But he shall speak for himself:—' In den mittagigen Thalern dieses alten Landes muss man das erste Vaterland des menschlichen Geschlechts und des weissen Menschen suchen, die von dort in ganzen Nationen die glticklichen Gegendeu von China, Persien und besonders Indien bevolkert haben, dessen Einwohner nach dem allgemeinen Gestandniss unter alien Nationen die ersten gesitteten waren, und wo man vielleicht die Stammwurzeln der ersten Sprachen in Asia und Europa suchen muss. Selbst Tybet, eine der hochsten Gegenden Asiens dessen Einwohner, ihrem Vorgeben nach, von einer Ort Affen welche dieses Land zuerst bewohnten, abstainmen (mit welche sie auch ohnedem einige Aehnlichkeit haben) Tybet hat die Verfeinerung seiner Sitten jenem Lebrern zu danken, die aus Indien dahin kamen.' Pallas adds as a note to this passage, ' Ich kann nicht umhin, hier zu bemerken, dass aUe, so wohl in den nordisclien, als in den mittiigigen Landern von dem Menschen zu Haiisthieren gezamte Gattungen, in den gemassigten Erdstrichen des mittlern Asiens urspriinglich wUd gefunden waren, das einige Kameel ausgenonimen dessen beyden Abartungen nur in Africa gut fortkommen.' Pallas then proceeds to instance the wild ox, the buffalo, the wild sheep, the Bezoar goat and the Ibex, from a crossing of wliich he supposes our common domestic goat to have arisen ; the wild boar and, as I believe, incorrectly, the wild cat {Felis calus), as being the parent stocks of their domesticated namesakes, and having their original homes in the mountains which occupy Central Asia and a part of Europe. He adds, ' Das zweybuckelige Kameel ist in den grossen Wiisten zwischen Tybet und China noch wild vorhanden.' Prejevalsky's 'From Kulja across the Tian-Shan to Lobnor' will be familiar in its English translation to most of us; his account of the wild camel is not more interesting as compared with this remark of Pallas' than is his account, p. 38, of the devouring of apples and apricots on the northern slopes of the Tian-Shan by wild boars, goats and deer, when compared with Tournefort's words ('Voyage du Levant,' Amsterdam, 1718, 4, t. 2, p. 129, cited by the Botanist Link, 1. c, p. 234) describing a country which he visited and found to be ' Ein Land erfiillt mit natiiiiichen "Weitibergen und Obstgarten wo Nussbaume, Aprikosenbiiume, Pfirsichbiiume, Birnbiiume und Apfelbiiume von selbst wachsen, Er setzt hinzu, man kann nicht zweifeln, dass hier einer von den Theilen Georgiens ist, wo, nach Strabo, alia Arten von Fruchten in Ueberfluss sind, welche die Erde ohne Cultur hervorbringt.' Georgia lies some distance away from Lobnor, but both alike lie well within the great mountain system with its outliers which is called ' Asiens Buckel' by the other writers, as also I apprehend within the modem ' Steppengebiet' of Grisebach.