553 PREHISTORIC TIMES IN BRITAIN. Calcutta—with the skulls of the wild pig- of Hindostan (S. cristains) shows that they differ from them in little else than their smaller size. ' They may he spoken of, therefore, as S. cristahis, var. damesticus; and they are as distinguishable from any variety of S. scrofa, var. domesticiis, or indeed of S. indicics, as is the wild S. cristaius from other wild Suidae. It is noteworthy that one of the skulls belonged to a very old sow. In these, as in the days when Juvenal spoke (Sat. vi. i6o) of another Eastern country as a place where ' Vetus indulget senibus dementia porcis,' it is a rare thing for a domestic pig to be allowed among Western nations to live long enough to wear down its third molars. Mr. H. N. Moseley, however^ informs me that domestic pigs are kept in the Chinese Buddhist monasteries till they die of old age and infirmities; and of India, Meiners, in his ' Allgemeine kritische Geschichte der Religionem,' 1806, Bd. i. p. 193, says, 'In Asien war von jeher Hindostan, wie in Afrika, Egypten, der Thron des Thierdienstes.' It is noteworthy, secondly, that with the worn-down molars of this aged domesticated pig were correlated abscesses on both sides of the lower jaw, much as might have been the case (see J. R. Mummery, Esq., 'Trans. Odont. Soc' ii. 2, 1869, p. 72) in ill-fed human beings with similarly worn-down teeth. Mr, Lockwood informs me that the young of the domestic pigs of his district are striped like the young of wild pigs. The skull of a wild boar, from France, presented by the Marquis de I'Aigle, shows that the posterior lobe of the third molar in the lower jaw may attain the same proportions in S. scrofa, ferns, that it does in S. cridahis. The skull of S. scrofa, var. domesticus, procured for me by H. N. Moseley, Esq., from the Lofoten Islands, two degrees within the Arctic Circle, has the long, low, lacrymal characteristic of S. scrofa, var. ferus, a fact of particular interest when coupled with the information, also procured for me by him, to the effect that the young domestic pigs of that region are occasionally born with stripes, and with his observation that the old pigs have a very wild-boar-like appearance. These facts should be borne in mind as telling against the views propounded by M. Andre Sanson, in his memoir 'Sur la pretendue transformation du Sanglier en Cochon