PHYSrOLOaY IN RELATION TO 710 such infinitesimal particles as this hypothesis of Pangenesis postu- lates that processes, to the naked eye the very reverse of Genesis, have been found to depend; and the Blue Book on the Cattle- Plague (' Third Report of the Commissioners/ &c., p. 151} will show you that here, too, we are dependent on the employment of the very highest powers of the microscope; and it is scarcely necessary to add that its employer was in this case Professor Beale. If I have been short in speaking of the advantages which the histology of modern days has conferred upon its therapeutics, I might be shorter still in dealing with my third head—the dependence, namely, of the healing art upon the facts of Anthro- potomy—that is to say, upon the naked-eye knowledge of the structure with which it has to concern itself. Some little, how- ever, I must say with your permission. Some persons are inclined to think that there is some sort of antagonism between the interests of microscopic and those of naked-eye anatomy; and hints more or less obscurely expressed may be found to this effect here and there in writings even of the present day. It is in much the same spirit that persons are found to say that the sending of missionaries to the heathen abroad entails so much curtailment of similar work at home, and others will say that the starting of any fresh charitable institution necessitates the subduction of so much from the funds available for those already on foot; and that others again will say that the encouragement of natural science is ' inimical' to the progress and cultivation of literary and classical studies. Now, all these views depend upon the radically false assumption that intellectual and moral activities are limitable and measurable by certain quantitative conditions, just as a mane's expenditure is or ought to be limited and measurable by his balance in the bank. This analogy is a wholly fallacious one, but it has nipped many an excellent project in the bud. A truer analogy is furnished us by the history of those infinitesimal scraps of germinal matter of which I was just now speaking, which are hard to destroy even with floods of carbolic acid and copperas, and which possess a faculty of self-multiplication wholly unparalleled within my experience in the history of the metallic objects of which we were just now speaking. Activity and earnestness, in fact, which are some of the best things, resemble some of the worst in being eminently contagious. The example of a strenuous labourer in