IN INDIAN GAOLS. 933 3. Its severity did not vaiy concomitantly with that of the famine. (Dr. De Renzy, loc. cit., p. 13a.} 4. It affected more women than men (Dr. De Renzy, loc. cit., p. 151; 'Report on Sanitary Improvements,' loc. cit., p. 83), as I should expect typhoid would usually in India, and have noted it to do in England, explaining it in both cases by the greater time spent by the women at home, and the larger dose of poison which they thus have the certainty of imbibing if the air or the water or both were soiled in the immediate neighbourhood of their dwelling. As Dr. Buchanan says (p. 106), ' It has already been shown that nothing about enteric fever can be brought into evidence from India'; alongside of this sentence (which without some qualifica- tion limiting its scope was never justified, and should now be simply retracted) ought to be set a few equally short as well as a few longer sentences from the latest and most authoritative publi- cation on the diseases of India and their sanitation—I mean the ' Report on Measures adopted for Sanitary Improvements in India from June, 1869, to June, 1870.' At p. 30 I read: 'The disease [typhoid] is manifestly, Dr. Ranking thinks, on the increase in India, and is daily acquiring greater importance.'' At p. 61 I find notices of it amongst our soldiers at Muttra, at Mean Meer, at Jullundur, and at Kurrachee; and I suppose that, if it is found in barracks in so many places, there is some little prob- ability of its finding its way into gaols. At p. 60 :— ' During 1868 the number of cases of typhoid was considerable. Out of the total of 91 deaths from fever, 35, more than one-third, are ascribed to the enteric or typhoid form of disease. But exactitude in the statistics of fever is difficalt from similarity of different types. The liability of the British soldier in India to typhoid fever has not hitherto attracted the attention it deserves.' On the same page a death from typhoid fever is recorded as occurring at Rawulpindee in the 1—6th Regiment. This is to be noted, firstly, as Rawulpindee is the place in the gaol of which there were eighty-eight fever deaths in 1868 ; and, secondly, as in this Report the contagious fever inside the gaols is not distinctly spoken of as typhoid, but only the fever affecting the soldiers (see pp. 19, 78, 82). Against this abstinence from giving the fever a name must be set the disclosures of Dr. Fairweather's post-