EXCAVATIONS IN AN ANCIENT 592 We are, from our recollections of the classical allusions to the naulus oxportorium, strongly tempted to think that the placing of coins upon the corpse must have been a distinctively heathen prac- tice. A curious passage which T came upon in Martene's great work (' De Antiquis Ecelesiae Ritibus,' ii. 374) has caused me to attach importance to the fact that, in two of the interments I have ex- amined here, the number of the coins interred was five. One of these interments was the first of the two in leaden coffins described already, and the other was an interment of the class of which I am now writing, and will be found in the appended catalogue under the number xxiv. of Feb. 21, 1868. Martene's words are, 'Addit anonymus Turonensis : — Quidam sortilegi contra fidem agentes ponunt quinque solidos super pectus mortui, et in hoc imitantur morem gentilium qui in ore mortui ponebant denarium " ut habeat quem porrigat ore trientem." ' I am not aware of any explanation having been offered for the selection of Jive as the number of the coins which the gentiles, or those who imitated them, placed in the grave. But such a passage as the one just quoted does not, even when taken by itself, justify us in considering an interment with coins to have been always an interment without the rites of the Christian Church. Many persons act contra fidem and i?nitantur morem gentilium^ whom, for historical purposes at least, we must consider to be Christians. As probably in the case of placing of charcoal in the grave, so, certainly, in that of the placing of coins there, the Church exercised a wise toleration, protesting, it may be, more or less directly, by the introduction of such sentences as those which our Burial Service contains, against the thought that we can take anything with us out of the world, but acquiescing in the actual repetition and continuance of the custom. Just as the custom of placing earthen vessels in tombs has survived down almost to our own time in remote districts such as La Bresse and Morvan in France (see Cochet,' Archeologie Ceramique,' p. i, i860}, so that of placing coins on tbe mouth and chest of the corpse is persisted in even to the present day in parts of the country similarly Wylie, 'Fairford Graves,' p. 29; 'Graves of Alemanni,' p. 13 ; Schaaffliaiisen, 'Ger- manische Grabstatten am Rhein,' 1868, p. 104; Walder, ' Anzeiger fur Schweiz. Alterthum,' March 1869, p. 32. For the discovery of fragments of charcoal scattered throughout the entire mass of heathen tumuli, see Keller, ' Mittheilungen der Anti- quarischen Gesellschaft in Zurich,' Bd. iii. p. 66. For the use of charcoal as being imperishable, see Augustine, 'De Civ. Dei,' xxi. 4.