795 PRODUCED BY MAN. of Timber in Foreign Countries, from which a very larg-e amount of most useful information can he procured for the very moderate charge of elevenpence, one penny less than a shilling—a fact which would have rejoiced the heart of the late Mr. Joseph Hume. If in addition to this work we bad rendered available to us the usufruct of the vast experience recorded in the Blue Books of the Indian Forestry and Sanitary Departments, in a volume of anything like the same size, I do not say of anything like the same price, the India Office would add considerably to the very large claims it has established upon the gratitude and acknowledgments both of men of science and men of action by the publication of those invaluable volumes. I do not propose, indeed I do not dare, to attempt to give a summary of the results of very many volumes here alluded to, pleasant and even absorbing reading though many of them have proved themselves to be. I will not discuss the curious belief still prevalent in Spain, to the effect that trees breed birds, though somewhat similar articles of faith are not without adherents nearer home, merely observing, so that I may affront no one^ that it would be truer to say that the destruction of trees leads to the banishment of birdsj and thereby to the sexual, and in that case spontaneous, generation of insects. Nor will I speculate as to whether the hatred of a tree, of which you will be told in travelling in countries and districts at home and abroad (even in Sicily, see Fischer, 1. c. p. 135), where the Celtic or other pristine ethnological element is still strong in the natives, is due to a hereditarily transmitted recollec- tion of the days when, as the capitulary just quoted shows, man bad to wage war against the forests, or a similarly transmitted recollec- tion of the much more recent forest-laws and the feudal state of things contemporaneous with them. Neither, on the other hand, the goats and the camels, as compared with the agency of the human inhabitants, who besides employing the two organic means for destruction just now mentioned, alao ' hack, cut, and bum,' will be found instructively, though briefly, discussed in this essay. I take this opportunity of adding to this bibliography the names of three books with the contents of which I was not acquainted when I wrote as above. They are— 'Wald, KUma, und Wasser, von Dr. von Liburnau,' 1878. This little octavo is one of the Munich series of Science Primers, being Bd. xxix. of ' Die Naturkriifte, eine Naturwissenschaftliche Volksbibliothek.' •I)ie forstlichen Verhiiltnisse Frankreichs, von Dr. A. v. Seckendorff,' 1879. ' Der VVald im ^ationalen AVirthschaftsleben, von Ph. Geyer,' 1879,