OF THE ANGLO-SAXON CONQUEST OP ENGLAND, 683 recognised by virtue of their insignia; and mixed up with their bones may be found the bones of the Romano-Briton who occupied the grave before them. But further, in some such cases it is pos- sible to be nearly sure that we have to deal with an Anglo-Saxon, even though there be no arms or insignia in the grave. These cases are those in which we have evidence from the presence of stones under the skull that no coffin was employed in the burial, and in which stones are set alongside of the grave as if vicariously. In many such cases the craniological character of the occupant of such a grave lends some colour to this supposition. But upon such identifications as had been come to in the absence of arms and insignia I have based no statistics. The results of the statistics of the cemetery which I have explored, as stated above, when brought to bear upon the large questions alluded to at the beginning of the paper, would lead us to think that the Anglo-Saxons conquered, firstly and most forcibly on account of the shorter lives they led. An old Anglo-Saxon male skeleton was a rarity, an old Romano- British one a very common ' find' in my excavations. Nothing however in this life is, from the natural history point of view, more characteristic of real civilisation or real savagery than this point of the duration of life. The Merovingian Franks had, like the followers of Cerdicj been observed to have led short lives, merry—as the Capitularies of Charlemagne teach us of their kinsmen—with those kinds of mirth the end of which is heaviness. The next question which suggests itself upon the mastery of these facts and figures is. Were not these men merely soldiers encamped ? are not these statistics just such as a cemetery similarly explored now-a-days, say at Peshawur or Samarcand, would yield ? Not altogether such; for, however improbable it may seem, it is nevertheless true that the Anglo-Saxons, at all events in Berkshire, appear to have brought their own wives with them, and not to have provided themselves with wives from the families of the conquered previous inhabitants. The figures of the crania of females interred with Anglo-Saxon insignia, when compared with figures of the crania of Romano- British women, show a very great difierence, to the disadvantage of the former of the two sets of females. The soldiers of Cerdic, who conquered this part of Berkshire about half a century or so after the time of the first invasion, resembled the soldiers of Gustavus Adolphus in very little else, but they appear to have resembled