rREHISTORIC TIMES IN BRITAIN. 537 There is no doubt that the young-er the pig the greater is the distance separating its lacrymal's length from equality with or superiority to its lacrymal's height; but the subjoined tables show that there is no constant relation to be observed between the growth of the entire facial skeleton out of the short propor- tion of early days into the elongated muzzle of the adult, and the longitudinal evolution of the lacrymal factor of that snout. The longest snout, such as that of the adult S'us harhahis, may, as Nathusius has remarked with surprise (p. 167), show a lacrymal with the proportions of the domestic Sus indicus, or the immature S21S scrofa, var. ferns; and I venture to suggest that the elongation of the lacrymal, which Professor Owen taught us to call a ' mucodermal bone,' may be correlated with the evo- lution of the facial warts which are found in all the Suidae with such lacrymals. If these two structures are thus correlated, we come to be able to explain how it is that the length of the lacrymals is, though not very variable, still as variable as we have found it to be; for the facial warts themselves are a variable structure, as we should from several analogies expect them to be. If they were not so, it would be difficult to explain how it is that in many zoological descriptions^ of our European wild boar, no mention is made of the presence of warts (small ones, it is true) immediately below the eyes; and inasmuch as they are so variable, and probably more liable ^ to disappear in the female sex, we can, on th*e hypothesis of the evolution of the lacrymal in length being correlated with their presence, understand how the lacrymal is sometimes found to be shorter than we should have expected it to be in skulls such as those of the wild sows from prehistoric deposits in this country, measurements of which are given p. 546. ' De Fatio, in his 'Faune des Vert^brds de la Suisse,' 1869, p. 354, goes, if I understand him rightly, further than this, by using the words ' Pas de saillies 8ur la face en dessous des yeux,' in his definition of' Le Sanglier ordinaire, das wilde Schwein.' * Dr. Gray, in his description of Polamochoerus africanus (' P. Z. S." 1868, p. 34), says of the male animals face, that it ' is swollen and often warty on the sides in front,' and of the females, that ' the side of the nose is simple.' Fitzinger, however, whose descriptions of the external characters appear to be carefully done, does not say that any such sexual difference exists in this species or in any other of the Suidae with warts. There are other reasons, however, for the suggestions in the text, of which the sexual limitations of the facial caUoaities in the orangs may be taken as an example.