745 THE HABVEIAN 0RATI0N7 to continue itself into the other. There is then a pause, which seems comparatively of considevahle duration, and which is suc- ceeded hy a recommencement of the heart's action, beginning with the ventricular contraction.' Dr. Pavy has very kindly gone to the trouble of repeating the experiment upon which these statements are based; and from a letter with which he has favoured me, I gather that the auricular contraction detectable by the cardiographic tracing, as immediately preceding the ventricular contraction, is also detectable, of course during the pause just mentioned, by the eye, unassisted by the cardiograph, and turned simply upon the exposed heart, in which the auricular appendix is seen to become redder or more flesh- coloured at the moment in question. And he further remarks that this auricular contraction, difficult^ though it be to be observed under physiological conditions, may be exaggerated into consider- able prominence in disease entailing contraction of the auriculo- ventricular orifices, and may then make itself known by a pre- systolic murmur. I should now be glad to draw attention shortly to a few memoirs which have appeared comparatively recently, and which treat of matters of considerable interest, not merely as scientific problems, but also as practical questions. First among these I would name the paper which appears in the third volume of Professor Ludwig's 'Arbeiten,' 1868 (having previously appeared in vol. xx. of ' Bericht Math.-Phys.-Klass. K. S. Gesellsch. Wissensch.,' Leipzig), by Pro- fessor Ludwig himself and Dr. Dogiel. In this paper we have a number of experiments recorded as performed with the hearts of dogs removed from the body, and as nearly as possible emptied of blood; and the conclusion which the authors come to is that the heart of the dog, when removed from the body and emptied of blood, still produces a sound during the systole of the ventricles which is not essentially different from that which is recognised as the normal first sound of the heart. The authors add, however (p. 85), that they do not think these experiments entirely exclude the possibility of the tension of the auriculo-ventricular valves ' I apprehend that Dr. Walshe's account of the auscultatory phenomena as occur- ring under normal conditions will be accepted as correct. It runs thus (' Diseases of the Heart and Great Vessels,' 3rd ed. 1862, p. 65): 'In the normal state the blood enters the ventricles from the auricles with a current so adm as to prevent audible sound from being thereby produced in the former cavities.'