610 EXCAVATIONS IN AN ANCIENT the deeper graves may have been Aug for richer, and the shallower for poorer, persons. But the insignia in both alike are very closely similar, and I incline, therefore, to ascribe the greater care bestowed upon the latter class of interment not to any sense of the favours which a richer person had conferred in times past, but to the greater care which Christianity would teach ought to be bestowed upon the burial of the body. The resemblance of the Anglo-Saxon manners and customs to those of the kindred but hostile race of the Franks is veiy familiar to the English explorer of Anglo-Saxon cemeteries, if he be ac- quainted either with Lindenschmit's work,' Das Germanische Tod- tenlager beim Selzen,' or with the works of the Abbe Cochet so often referred to in this paper. The Merovingian ^ and the Anglo- Saxon resembled each other in their abhorrence of city life; and also in the melancholy point of their short-livedness which has already been alluded to, and which appears to be explicable by the fact that in the times we have been dealing with these races pre- ferred a country life, it is true, to a town life, but a country life in a camp, not a country life in a village. As Temple (cit. Rapin, p. i6i) and Leibnitz long ago remarked, there are other points which serve to show the community of origin of the Frank and the Saxon, such are their reckoning time by the nights, as the ' fortnight,' to say nothing of their closely allied languages. A minor point of com- munity is furnished by their common employment of the Roman tiling to set round their graves. On the other hand, the Saxons retained the custom of cremation a century and a half longer than the Merovingians, and their urns were not lathe-turned, whilst those of the Selzen Teutons were. (See Lindenschmit, 1. c, p. 15.) Holy-water vessels have not been so constantly found at Frilford as they appear to have been at Selzen, from the beautiful figures given in the monograph referred to, or as they are expressly stated to have been by the Abbe Cochet in the Merovingian interments^. 1 Gibbon, vi. 336, chap, xxxviii. for Merovingians ; Tacitus, 'Germania,' chap. 16, for Germans generally; Coote's ' Neglected Fact in English History,' p. 123 ; Ammi- anus Marcellinus, xvi. 2-12; Pearson, op. cit. i. 264. Augustine brought Frank interpreters with him into Kent, Bede,' H. E.' i. 25, and the Welsh poems sometimes apeak of the Saxon enemy as a ' Frank;' see Skene, ' Four Ancient Books,' i. 460. ' See 'Archdologie C^ramique,' pp. 11, 13.