527 PREHISTORIC TIMES IN BRITAIN. (p. 277). It is the skull of an adult animal, with the crown of the grinders much worn. It is probably the skull of a female, as it agrees with all the characters of Potamochoevus ; but it has only a well-mai-ked ridge across the upper part of the base of the sheath of the upper canine, and the upper margin of the nose is not dilated nor swollen.' "When I took this skull into my hands I was uncharitable enough to suo-o-est to Mr. Gerrard that it was a skull of Sus cristatus wrong-fully assigned to Damara as its habitat. Leaving- this low ground, I came to think that it might have come from some descendant of pigs of the Sus hidiais breed which had run wild at the Cape and reverted to the Sus cristaUis form. But I have now no doubt that this is a skull of such a wild boar as those of which Dr. Murie speaks; and if this be so, the Sus of Africa is not readily to be distinguished from Siis cristatus, at least by cranial characters. Dr. Gray, under the heading Sus sennaariensis ('Proc. Zool. Soc' I. e. p. 32, and British Mus. 'Catalogue,' 1869, p. 338), suggests that the skull figured by De Blainville (' Osteographie/ tab. v) may have belonged to a Sus sennaariensis. It is described as ' Sus scrofa aegi/pti' by De Blainville ; but, as far as I can judge from the drawing, it has all the characters, to be hereinafter detailed, which distinguish Sus scrofa, var. ferus, from Sits cristatus, and conse- quently from such a skull as that labelled yi^a, and brought home by Captain Alexander. Of course there is no a priori difiiculty in the way of our supposing that the wild boar either of Palestine or of Algiers, both well-known animals, may have extended into Egypt, a country which has so much both of the Palaearctic and of the Aethiopian fauna in occupation of its territory. Anyhow Dr. Murie and Dr. Barth are sufficient witnesses to the fact that a true Sus is found in Africa south of the Atlas and Sahara. I cannot, therefore, accept Mr. Wallace's statement (' Geograph. Distrib. of Animals,' vol. i. pp. 253, 286-322) to the effect that a true Sus is not to be found in the Aethiopian region. The mistake made, and handsomely acknowledged, by Fitzinger (' Sitz. Acad. Wiss. Wien,' 1864, Bd. 49, i. p. 389), in naming certain young specimens of Sus sennaariensis by the name which Fr. Cuvier had given to the masked boar, supposing them to be the young of that species, would not have occurred with adult specimens. What Fr. Cuvier called Sus larvatus, we know as Potamochoerus africanus; to save further con- fusion of names and errors of fact, it would be well to drop the name Sus larvatus altogether. Potamochoerus, which I observed to