BIOLOGICAL TRAINING AND STUDIES. 862 poison varies in direct ratio to the quantity imbibed or infused, just as though it were so much alcohol, or so much alcoholic tincture of musk or cantharides ; or secondly, that its potency vai-ies in direct ratio to another varying- standard, viz. the size of the animal pro- ducing it. Now the vaccine matter from the arm of a child is as potent as the vaccine matter from the arm of any giant would be ; and whether a grain or a gramme of it be used will make no differ- ence, so long as it be used rightly. There is a contrast, indeed, between the modus operandi of these two animal poisons. I would add that in the ' Edinburgh Monthly Medical Journal' for the present month there is a very valuable paper^ one of a series of papers, indeed, of the like character, by Dr. Fayrer, where at page 247, among much of anatomical and other interest, I find the following important statement: ' This poison may be diluted with water, or even ammonia or alcohol, without destroying its deadly properties. It may be kept for months or years, dried between slips of glass, and still retain its virulence. It is capable of ab- sorption through delicate membranes, and therefore it cannot be applied to any mucous surfaces, though no doubt its virulence is much diminished by endosmosis \ It appears to act by a catalytic form ; that is, it kills by some occult influence on the nerve centres.' There is such a thing as an ignorance which is wiser than knowledge, the time, of course, only; such an ignorance is wisely confessed to in these words of Dr. Fayrer's. An explanation may be true for some, yet not thereby necessarily for all, the facts within even a single sphere of study; even a true explanation may have but a very limited application, as a tangent cannot touch a circle at more than a single point. The memoirs published in our own reports by Dr. B. W. Richardson, on the action of the nitrites, and those published by Dr. A. Crum Brown and Dr. T. R. Fraser, there and elsewhere, on the connexion between chemical con- stitution and physiological action, deserve especial study as bearing on the other side of this discussion ; whilst Professor Lister's papers show how the reference of certain diseases to vitalistic agencies may become of most vital importance in practice. There exists, as is well known, a tendency to resolve all physiological into physico- chemical phenomena : undoubtedly many have been, and some more * Diapedesis may account for what virulence remains, and the poison may therefore possibly be a cytoid.