744 THE HARVEIAN ORA.TION". mammalian auricle had counted for as muclj in the action of the heart as the hird's, its force would have been economised by the placing- of a large and functionally useful valve in the site of the rudimentary Eustachian—a structure altogether absent in many mammals, and variable, as rudimentary structures very often are, in ourselves. The a priori argument of Cumparative Anatomy is abundantly borne out by the appeal to experiment. Marey, in his 'Physiologic Medicale de la Circulation du Sang,' 1863, whilst referring (p. 36) to other evidence from Comparative Anatomy than that which I have adduced, cites, in support of the view that the auricle has but an accessory and subordinate role in the functions of the heart, an experiment of Chauveau's, in which the auricle of a horse, being exposed and irritated, lost its contractile power for a time, during which, nevertheless^ the ventricles continued to con- tract and the circulation to be maintained. Colin, again (' Traite de la Physiologie Comparee,' vol. ii. p. 257, 1856), found that the left ventricle continued to be filled with blood even when the cor- responding auricle was prevented from contracting by the insertion into it of a finger. And further, Magendie had long ago noted, in experimentation, what many here present may have noted in patho- logical or clinical observation—viz. that the auricles may remain extremely distended for hours, and, like other muscular sacs similarly conditioned, unable to contract and empty themselves, without the circulation for all that being brought to a standstill. It was Dr. Pavy's paper, treating (in the ' Medical Times and Gazette' of November 21, 1857) of the case of a man (E. Groux) with a congenital fissure of the sternum, which first drew my atten- tion to these points; and his summary of what takes place in the dog is so clear that I herewith reproduce it:—> ' In the dog, the contraction of the ventricles is sharp and rapid, instead of prolonged, as in the reptile, and does not appear to occupy nearly so much time as half the period of the heart's action. The ventricular contraction communicates a sudden impulse to the auricles, occasioning in them a distinct pulsation, which is instantly followed by a peculiar thrill, wave, or vermicular movement, running through the auricular parietes down towards the ventricle. This thrill or wave is coincident with the passage of the blood from the auricle into the ventricle, and takes place so instantaneously after the ventricular contraction, that the one movement appears to run on,