528 ON THE DOMESTIC PIG OF resemble Sus cristatus in having a lai'ge lacrymo-froiital ridge, is, of course, specifically distinct from it. Sus senmariensis, if, as I think is most likely, closely allied to Sus cristatus, is another in- stance of the wide distribution of' Pachyderms,' a point on which Riitimeyer insists, in a different tone ('Herkunft unserer Thierwelt,' p. 34) from that adopted by Gibbon, but not less categorically, nor, indeed, less strikingly, remarking, as he does, that at the present day the Hi/rax and the Hippopotamus are the only genera of'Pachy- derms ' confined to one quarter of the globe. The Aethiopian region therefore must be held to possess a true Sus; and as to domesticability, the Palaearctic, the Oriental, and the Aethiopian Suidae have possibly equal claims^. ^ Pigs fulfil excellently well the six conditions enumerated by Mr. Francis Galton, 1. e., as necessary for domestication: viz. i. That the animal should be hardy; 2. That it should have an inborn liking for man; 3. Tlmt it should be comfort- loving ; 4. Tliat it should be found useful; 5. That it should breed fi eely ; 6. That it should be gregarious. Aesop, Aelian, and Lactantiua {pit. by Bochart, ' Hiero- zoicon,' ii. 698) have, in various ways, remarked on the peculiaiity of the pig as contrasted with other domestic animals, in that it is useful only when dead, giving neither milk, as dues the cow, nor wool as does the sheep. With tliis peculiarity is connected the fact, useful for the often difficult task of deciding whether a particular skull came from a wild or a domestic breed, that domestic pigs are usually made useful while young. Riitimeyer, indeed {I. c. p. 52), gives it as one of his reasons for supposing Sus scrofa, var. palustris, to be represented by a wild as well as by a tame stock, that its remains are usually those either of very old or quite young indi- viduals. A pig will father wbile quite young; and whilst gaining nothing in its capacity of manufacturer of food in its own body, it loses in its capacity of a breeding animal with increase of age. This is not the case with the cow ; and the discovery, therefore, of remains of very old individuals of tins species only justifies us in inferring that the cow was a scarce and valuable animal in the period and place to which it belonged. See Rtltimeyer, 'Fauna der Pfahlbauten,' p. 10, The special value of the pig as a domesticated animal is commonly expressed iu an estimate that 'twice the weight of food may be obtained from hugs than can be obtained from the same cost of food by means of any other animals' (Richardson, I. c. p. 42). In a little more detail, it is to be remarked that the pig. as a meat producer, stands at an advantage (to the consumer), first, in the smaller relative weight of its ' oflfal' as compared with the entire weight of its body, but secondly, and chiefly, in the large proportion of fat, the kind of food which is eminently the hardest for a savage or for the poor to procure, which it will store up upon almost any dietary. For this, see Lawes and Gilbert's invaluable Paper in the Royal Society's Transactions for 1859, ' On the Composition of some of the Animals fed and slaughtered as Human Food,' page 565 for relative proportion of offal, pages 513 and 543 for storing up of fat. It may be here remarked that De Blainville (' Ostdographie, G. Sus,' Intro- duction, p. 107) may very likely be right in suggesting that tiie pig may have furnished animal food to the earliest races of man be tore either cow or sheep, but that he could not have had our knowledge of the very various kinds of animals which, even in these days, furnish lower races of men with animal food, when he supposes