774 MODIFICATIONS OF ASPECTS OF ORGANIC NATURE destructive agencies, neither, if he had, would that, as it seems to me, prove that, ' thoug-h ^ living in physical nature he is not of her, that he is of more exalted parentage, and belongs to a higher order of existences.' He is not, in strictness of language, a ' cosmic,' a ' telluric,' a 'geological,' nor a 'supernatural agency.' He may ultimately obtain, as prophesied by Mr, "V^allace ^, such a mastery of the dry land as to supersede on that portion of the world's surface the agency of natural selection ; but he cannot even there effect cosmical changes in the climate, and as regards the sea, it is possible enough, as Mr. Moseley has suggested on the two con- cluding pages of his ' Notes by a Naturalist on the Challenger' that when the present races of animals, plants, and men shall have perished, the deep-sea animals, at least, if not those of higher levels, ' will very possibly remain unchanged from their present condition ' Marsh, I.e., p. 34. • * 'Natural Selection,' p. 326. ^ Having been compelled to express dissent fi'om Mr. Marsh's suggestion as to the phosphorescence of the Mediterranean having been a less striking phenomenon in ancient than it is in modern times, I cannot forbear to pay my poor meed of thanks to this writer for the pleasure and instruction which his works have afforded me. The ' Kulturpflanzen und Hausthiere' of Herr Victor Hehn resembles Mr. Marsh's work in dealing with the subject of man's action on organic nature in a way which attracts the attention and stimulates the thought at once of the politician, of the literary man, and of the man of science. I expressed my opinion upon the merits of the first edition of this work in the 'Academy' of August 15, 1872. A third edition of it appeared in 1877, considerably enlarged and improved. And it may be observed that, for dealing at aU adequately with this siibject, and indeed for avoiding very gross blundering in so dealing with it, a man must have some knowledge not only of purely scientific subjects, of the facts of history on the large scale, and of the results at least of philological inquiry, but also of the power which commercial legislation and com- mercial enterprise have for altering the distribution of the various vegetable and animr\l articles of trade; otherwise he may fall, as some have fallen, into the error of supposing commercial results to have been produced by changes in the laws, not of man, but of climate. I make this remark for, among other purposes, that of intro- ducing another remark to the effect that it is much to be regretted a fre.sh edition of Bureau de la Malle's ' ^Iconomie Politique des Eoinains' should not be brought out in these days : it is a work of permanent value, though it bears the date of 1840. As works of a more exclusively scientific character, but still easily intelligible to persons possessed of a mastery of the rudiments of botany and zoology, and of cardinal import- ance in researches such as these, I wiU specify :— De Candolle, 'Geographic Botanique raisonnde,' 1855. Unger's ' Botanische Streifzuge,' in the ' Sitzungsberichte' of the Vienna Academy from 1857 to 1859 inclusively. Isidore Geoffroy St. Hilaire, 'Histoire Naturelle G^nerale des Kfegnes Organiques,' torn, iii., 1862. K. E. von Baer, 'Reden und Studien aus dem Gebiete der Naturwissenschaften,' four