705 MEDICINE IN MODERN TIMES. a large artery. Now we know that movements do continue in a portion of intestine which has been deprived of its mesentery, and we ascribe the production of these movements to the presence in the walls of the intestine of the plexuses demonstrated to us by Meissner and Auerbach; and, if we may ascribe like effects to like causes, we may ascribe the post mortem twitchings of muscles to Professor Beale's neuro-muscular apparatus. In like manner we should expect from similar reasons, and we do find, as a matter of fact, this same neuro-muscular irritability greatly prominent in the small-brained cold-blooded vertebrata, and in hibernating mammals. In all of these animals alike, the central nerve-system is small relatively to the entire mass of their bodies; whilst in birds, or at least in the more highly organised of the class—for birds, like other bipeds, differ as to the mass and use of the brain (see Parker, 'Zool. Soc. Trans.' v. 1862, p. 307)—the brain may hold a more favourable relation to the entire mass of their bodies than in any other class of animals; and in birds, as is well known, with some few reptile-like exceptions, such as the peewit, muscular irritability ceases almost with their last act of expiration. Whilst speaking of this condition occasionally found in the muscles after death, I am tempted to say a few words of the empty condition of the arteries which is almost constantly found after death. I observe that Von Bezold has explained this well-known phaenomenon as being due to a last nervous impulse communicated to the small peripheral vessels from the hrain. His words are ('Untersuchungen aus dem Physiologischen Laboratorium. in Wiirz- burg,' Heft ii. pp. 358, 359, 1867): ' Sicher ist aber Qio, ungemein wichtiges Momejit hierbei die Innervation der Mu^keln in den kleinen Gefassen des Korpers. Man stelle sich vor, dass in der Agonie, in Todes-Kampfe, das vasomotorisehe central Organ im Gehirn noch in Krampf-zustande versetzt wird, welche mit Pausen der Erschopfung abwechseln . . . Ausserdem ist gezeigt worden, dass jenes letzte Ueberpumpen des Blutes aus den Arterien in die Venen, bei den Saugethieren wenigstens, unter dem Einfluss einer letzter Thatigkeit des Gehirns geschieht.' Surely all these ' Vor- stellungen' would have been spared, if Professor Von Bezold ha,d been acquainted with Mr. Lister's papers, or even with those points in them to which I have referred. Indeed, that his view is un- tenable, is clear from a consideration of the fact that the circulation z z