863 BIOLOGICAL TRAINING AND STUDIES. may still remain to be, so resolved ; but the public may rest assured that in the kingdom of Biology no desire for a rectification of frontiers will ever be called out by any such attempts at, or successes in the way of, encroachment; and that where physics and chemistry can show that physico-chemical agencies are sufficient to account for the phenomena, there their claim upon the territory will be acceded to, as in the cases we have been glancing at; and where such claims cannot be established and fail to come up to the quantitative requirements of strict science, as in the cases of continuous and of discontinuous development or self- multiplication of a contagious germ, and in some others, they will be disallowed. Pathology has of late made a return to Physiology for much service she has received, and this in the following directions. Dr. W. Ogle has thrown much light on the physiology of the cervical sympathetic nervous system by his record of a patho- logical history to be found in the recently issued volume (vol. lii.) of the ' Medico-Chirurgical Transactions.' The rough and cruel experimentation of war has had its vivisections utilised for the elucidation of the physiology of nerves, and especially of their trophic function, in the valuable volume issued by the American Sanitary Commission, under the editorship of Dr. Austin Flint. Dr. Broadbent has done something towards elucidating the question of the localisation of functions in particular parts of the cerebral convolutions, which was so extensively and so very exhaustively discussed at Norwich, by his paper in our most useful and com- prehensive Journal of Anatomy and Physiology,' May 1870, 'On the Cerebral Convolutions of a Deaf and Dumb Woman.' I take this opportunity of mentioning two valuable papers on the very practical question of the influence of the vagus upon the heart's action. One of these is a German paper by a gentleman who is a zoologist and comparative anatomist as well as a physio- logist, Dr. A. B. Meyer ; ' Das Hemmungsnerven-System des Her- zens' is the title of his memoir, a separate publication as I think : the other is an abstract of a paper [I have not seen the paper published in exlenso as yet] by Dr. Rutherford, 'On the Influence of the Vagus upon the Vascular System,' published in the journal just referred to. Especially do I think Dr. Rutherford's view as to the vagus acting centrifugally as regards the stomach, and carrying