822 MODIFICATIONS OF ASPECTS OF OEGANIC NATURE taken up, hot without some effort in overcoming a certain re- luctance, the bones of a dog who was keeping his mistress faithful company in a grave undoubtedly of the earliest Neolithic period in England ^. As regards the horse, Achilles, fresh from his conversation with Xanthus and Balius, tells the Trojans (II. xxi. 132) that even their wonted sacrifices of horses will not profit them; the Mongols (see Howorth's ' History of the Mongols/ i. 262, 289 ; and Yule's ' Marco Polo,' i. 265, eit. in loco), the Lusitanians (Livy, Epit. 49), and the Norsemen (see Ibn Fozlan, 1. c), all alike sacrificed horses on great occasions. I have not found, nor did I expect to find, any account of the sacrificing of the camel, either in Semitic or classical literature ; if, however, it be a sound principle that races as yet uncivilised would be likely to sacrifice or otherwise deprive themselves upon great occasions of the services of their oldest and most valued domesticated animals 2, we ought to be able to show that the Central Asiatic nomads did so by the ' ships of their deserts.' And I find in Mr. Howorth's valuable ' History of the Mongols,' i. p. 426, the following passage :— 1 See 'British Barrows,'p. 518,1877 ; ' Journal Anthropological Institute,' October, 1875, p. 157 ; Article XVIII, p. 394. * As I am speaking of animals domesticated in Central Asia, I have not mentioned the ass which, as Dr. Sclater has shown (' Proc. Zool. Soc' 1862, p. 164), owns as its parent-stock the Asimis taeniopus of Abyssinia. Its history gives, however, an illus- tration of the principles enunciated above at least as striking as those of any of the eight Asiatic mammals just specified. From the references made to this animal in the Pentateuch, it would appear to have been domesticated in the region there treated of before either horse or camel, though subsequently to the ox. Pindar's reference to it as used for sacrifice by the Hyperboreans (Od. Pyth. x. 1. 52) will be to persons who will bear in mind its African origin almost as convincing evidence of the great anti- quity of the date of its domestication as its appearance on the oldest Egyptian monu- ments of the Fourth Dynasty. Hecatombs, such as Pindar speaks of, are, numerically, figured on one tomb, reproduced for us by Lepsius. That the ass should so early have been introduced into Hyperborean regions even by a poet is a little surprising, con- sidering that the horse, which is so much better suited for such climates, was .already available there; but besides being surprising it is also significant. For the sacrificial and ceremonial use of this animal, see OreUi's ' Excursus ad Tacit. Hist.' v. 3, vol. ii, 1848, of his edition of the g^reat historian, ibique citata; Dean Stanley's 'Jewish Church,' i. 96, ibique citata; 'Pindar, ed. Dissen and Schneidewin,' sect. ii. 1847, p. 353, ibique citata. For the linguistic Palaeontology of the name, see Lenormant, ' Origines de Civilisation,' i. 319. For the use of the animal by the modern Hyper- boreans see Middendorff, ' Sibirische Reise,' iv. 2, 2, p. 1322, where, however, that naturalist, albeit reckoning ' Pferdelcenntniss und Pferdezucht als seiner Specialitat,' or one of them, leaves the difficulty above hinted at unexplained.