790 MODIFICATIONS OF ASPECTS OF ORaANIC NATURE as having- been specially concerned in the great and successful undertaking of redeeming the Bordeaux Landes. But his remarks upon it ^ have so much of value in them, and touch upon so many of the multitudinous sides—historical, political, and economical— which this enterprise, and other State-supported enterprises, present to us when we study them in their entirety, that I think I may be allowed to quote them as they stand. After touching on the dangers which pines more than other woods are exposed to from the sparks which the railway train so readily and so fatally scatters in such dry and parched districts; but omitting the not inconsider- complained of by the landowners of Lancashire, they have in the great majority of cases received a very substantial set-off in the increasing value of their land, both for rental and for sale. ' The alkali industry is a necessity in a manufacturing country. If it i.s an evil, it is a necessary one. Sulphuric acid, the base of all alkali products, may be called the heart of all manufacturing industries. The consumption of it is the surest gauge of their condition. There is scarcely a manufactured article in daily use that is not more or less dependent on it. To enhance the cost of its production by hasty or ill-judged legislation, would enhance the cost of half the industrial products of the country. It is not the greed of manufacturers that has increased the number of alkali works, but it is the increased trade of the country that has demanded an increased supply of an indispensable element of production. ' If new works had not sprung up at Widnes or St. Helen's, they would certainly have sprung up elsewhere. It is to be regretted that so many works have congregated at Widnes and St. Helen's. The consumption of coal alone, a million tons at the former and a million and a half at the latter annually, would of itself cause great nuisance to the neighbouring districts ; but who, pray, is to blame for this evil ? Not, certainly, the manufacturers who bought and leased the land offered them by the landowners, but the landowners who offered it. 'Complaints of injury done to trees, to the picturesque value of ornamental property, do not come with very good grace from the very proprietors who have sold and leased contiguous land at very high prices, for the expressed and avowed object of erecting and extending the works they now wish to destroy. ' Sir Kichard Brooke, whose name most irequently occurs in the report, and who is undoubtedly the greatest sufferer in the picturesque value of his estate, has within tlie last few years leased land immediately opposite his house, at a very high rental, for the erection of alkali works and the deposit of alkali waste ; and, I understand, has hundreds of acres more to be let for the same purpose : nor is he by any means the only landowner who has let and sold land expressly for the erection of alkali works. 'There is a general desire among alkali manufacturers to minimise the nuisance and injury caused by these works. Recent legislation has undeniably tended to that result, and any further legislation in the same direction that is reasonable and practicable will, I know, receive their hearty support; but it wUl be a fatal mistake if a somewhat onesided statement of local grievances should cause any hasty legislation that would destroy an industry that is absolutely indispensable to the manufacturing prosperity of the country,' ^ Pages 297-300.