598 EXCAVATIONS IN AN ANCIENT • record similar • finds' from some thirteen English counties, to wit, Warwickshire, Nottinghamshire, Derbyshire, Northamptonshire, Yorkshire, Lincolnshire, Gloucestershire, Oxfordshire, Norfolk, Suf- folk, Bedfordshire, Cambridgeshire, and the Isle of Wight. The ' Horae Ferales,' p. 229, enable us to add a fourteenth county, Sussex, to this list. An urn in the possession of the authorities of Queen's College, Oxford, and which a short note in the catalogue existing in their magnificent library may be taken as localising with some probability to Faversham, in Kent, gives us this county^—in which cremation, like the paganism with which it was correlated, was earlier superseded than else- where by Christianity—as a fifteenth in which Anglo-Saxons established themselves whilst still heathens. Berkshire makes the tale up to sixteen. When we consider how distinctively Christi- anity opposed 2 itself to the practice of cremation, every fresh dis- covery of these distinctively Anglo-Saxon urns shows us how thoroughly overrun our England was by the ' heathen of the Northern sea ^' in the period which elapsed between the landings * For the rarity of the discovei-y of cremation urns, at least in an unbroken, un- disturbed condition, in Kent, see' Inventorium Sepulchrale,' xv, xlvi. 184,186 ; 'British Assoc. Report,' 1855, p. 146; and Mr. Wylie, loc. cit. The Queen's College um is indubitably of Anglo-Saxon origin. The evidence for its coming from Kent amounts only to probability, and stands thus : in Queen's College Library there is a ' List of the Collection of Egyptian, Etruscan, Greek, Roman, British, and other antiquities, formed by the late Rev. Robert Mason, D.D., from the collections of Messrs. Belzoni Salt, Burton, Millingen, and others, 1822 to 1839.' In this Catalogue there is the following entry: 'Sepulchral urns, a large and small, 2.' On the smaller of these two urns, which, however, is of Roman manufacture, there is a ticket, ' Found at Faversham, Kent.' The exteriors of the two urns have much the same colouration or discolouration, which makes it seem likely that they came from the same excavation, and they were, consequently, as we now find them, catalogued and placed together. " For the opposition of the Christians to the practice of cremation, see Neander's ' Life of Julian,' English translation, p. 108 ; Ibid. ' Minucius Felix,' cit. p. 45 ; 'Acta Martyrum,' Baron, ii. p. 290; Martyrdom of S. Tharacus; Tertullian, cit. Grimm, Berlin Abhand. 1849, p. 207 ; ' Ep. Ecc. Vienn. et Lugundi,' fin. Euseb. H. E. v. i, cit. Pusey, ' Minor Prophets,' Amos vi. 10; Charlemagne, 'Capit. ad. Saxon.' 789 A.D., cit. Fleury,' Ecc. Hist.' i. 44, 45 ; Gruber, ' Origines Livoniae,' cit. Wylie,' Archaeo- logia,' xxxvii. 467; Kemble, 'Horae Ferales,' p. 95; Schaafifhausen, ' Germanische Grabstatten am Rheine,' p. 90; ' Jahrbuch des Vereines von Alterthums-freunden im Rheinlande,' Bonn, 1868. ^ Literary evidence for the numbers of the Saxons is furnished by such expressions as those which Claudian puts into the mouth of a personified Britannia, 'Ne litore toto Prospicerem dubiis venientem Saxona ventis.'—Laus Stiltchonis, xxii. 254. Evidence for the sudden and continual vexations to which Britain and other regiona