623 CEMETEKY AT FRILFORD. first place, I have not in my excavations at Frilford met with any representatives of the brachycephalic type of ancient Britons so well described by Dr. Thurnam \ and called ' Belgic' by Professor Huxley. This is especially noteworthy, as typical examples of this form of cranium have been, through the kindness of the Duke of Marlborough, procured by me for the University Museum from the long barrow at Crawley, described by Mr. Akerman, in the «Archaeologia,' xxxvii. 432, and supposed by him to belong to the same period in time, as it does to much the same district iu space, as the Frilford cemetery. Secondly, the longer, narrower, and more vaulted skulls, supposed to have distinguished a race which in England at least took the priority in point of time of the brachy- cephalic and taller race just mentioned, are, in what I should con- sider their most typical form, all but equally absent here. That most typical form I should consider as identical with the form regarded as ' Belgic' by Retzius ^, and spoken of by him as ' a Celtic but not the common Celtic form;' and the form called ' Cumbecephalic' by Professor Daniel Wilson ^ I should regard as being but a slight modification of it. And the three skulls which I have classed in my Tabular view of results of Osteological In- vestigations (infra) as belonging to the ' Hohberg' ti/pus of His and Riitimeyer, may be looked upon as embodying the results of the working upon that form of the Roman civilisation with which their owners were in contact. Those results are expressed by a decrease in the angularity of the external outlines, and an increase in the cubic capacity indicated in a few cases very strikingly by an open frontal suture; see p. 619, supra. Thirdly, a very large majority, viz. thirty-two out of the fifty-three, adult Romano- British interments investigated by me belong to a type which has frequently been confounded, since the time of Retzius' writings, with the dolichocephalic types just spoken of, but which that ex- cellent ethnographer distinguished from it as ' Cimbric,' a variety of 'the common Celtic' type. Comparing this form of cranium, which I may add is by no means extinct amongst ourselves at the ' 'On Two principal Forms of Ancient British and Gaulish Skulls,' pp. 31, 101. Skulls of this form are considered by Sir Thomas Wilde to have belonged in Ireland to fair-headed, light-coloured, blue, or grey-eyed Celtae, or Tuatha De Danaan. See 'Beauties of the Boyne,' 2nd ed. 1850, pp. 221, 237, 239, and the figure at p. 232. ' See ' Ethnologische Schriften,' pp. 107, io8. • 'Prehistoric Annals of Scotland,' chap. ix. 1851.