616 EXCAVATIONS IN AN ANCIENT Riitimeyer ^, Welcker 2, and Ecker ^, may be adduced to show that it is by no means always possible to decide the question of the sex of a cranium in the absence of the pelvis and other bones. It is interesting- to remark that a very similar female cranium was found by the Rev. George Cardew in a Romano-British cemetery at Helmingham under circumstances such as that of having the head raised, which makes it probable that the skull may have differed as much ethnologically as it does anatomically from the skulls of the Romanized Celts, amongst whom it, as also another cranium sup- posed not to have been Celtic, was found. This cranium has been presented to the University Museum by the Rev. G. Cardew, and has been carefully measured and compared with other skulls sup- posed or known to have belonged to Anglo-Saxons. Two smallish brachycephalic or sub-brachycephalic and prognathic crania, one of which belonged to an old (No. xiv. Jan. 15, 1868) and the other to a young woman (No. x. March 17, 1868), and neither of which has any other than osteological evidence attached to it for the decision, I am in-clined upon this evidence to think may have been Anglo-Saxons of the type of the two female crania just spoken of. The younger of these two women's skulls was found with the cervical vertebrae impacted between the rami of its lower jaw, and in this, as in many other particulars, resembles the female Anglo- Saxon skull from Brighthampton, to be seen catalogued as No. 5,712 D, in the College of Surgeons. Among the entire series, besides some fourteen crania, or parts more or less fragmentary of crania, and other bones, which speak to the existence of a distinct interment without making it possible to refer the remains certainly to a distinct type, there are some four or five crania which bear a considerable resemblance to crania of what is perhaps the most common modern English type. The frontal region, without attaining any very extraordinary develop- ment, or exceeding either in vertical or transverse diameter the frontal regions of the larger specimens of brachycephalic British skulls, isj nevertheless, possessed of more equable proportions relatively to the other regions of the cranium than the great majority of ancient crania ^. And in consequence, to some extent, * ' Crania Helvetica,' pp. 8, 9. ' ' Arcliiv fiir Anthropologie,' i. r, p. 127. ' Ibid. ii. i, p. 110. * See Broca, 'Sur la Capacity dea Cranes Parisiens,' Bull. Soc. Anth. de Paris, torn. iii. 113, 1862.