826 MODIFICATIONS OF ASPECTS OP ORGANIC NATURE and firs by, man's agency; I may fitly close those details by attempting something as regards that ■ f one of the palm tribe. For, though Leopold von Buch was wrong in holding that the two natural orders were altogether mutually exclusive as regards natural geographical distribution, as a voyage in the Med iter ranean, or the sight of Martius' picture of Brahea clulcis (vol. iii. taf. 162) side by side with a true pine in Mexico, teaches us, there can be no doul;t that Caesar and his countrymen were, speaking generally, right in holding the fir and the beech to be as characteristic of Gaul and Britain as their repeated allusions and their coins show them to have thought the palm was of Palestine and the adjacent countries, at least eastward and southward. What then do we know, firstly, as to the original home or botanical region to which the date-palm, Phoenix dactylifera, belongs? and secondly, what can we surmise as to the particular spot in that area in which that tree was first made available as a cultivated plant, and subjected to those human influences which three of my pictures are intended to illustrate ? As to the first of these questions there is no doubt, and no occasion for any very lengthy answer. The region which Grisebach names, after its principal constituent element, simply ' Sahara,' and which stretches over more than ninety degrees of longitude from Macaronesia to Multania, from the Canaries, that is, to the Great Desert of Eajputana, and which comprehends not only the Sahara strictly so-called, but cis-Saharan Africa also, from the longitude (E. 10°) of Tunis eastward, and not only Old Egypt and Arabia, but young ' Egypt,' or Sinde also, is the botanical region of the date-palm. Sir Joseph Hooker (' Morocco and the Great Alas,' 1879, p. 409) has pointed out that there are many Canarian plants which form an exceedingly interesting group, the members of which, though chiefly Egypto-Arabian, are found to extend in some instances even into Western India, and he suggests that 'it is not unreasonable to suppose that such have covered Africa in a sub-tropical latitude, and thus reached the Canaries under conditions now operating.' Other plants,, therefore, if not other trees, may have spread over the same area, whether by man's aid or without it, and may be taken as equally characteristic of it, even though they may not need so much ' water to their feet and fire to their heads.' It is, per contra^ I may remark, by a sur-