708 PHYSIOLOGY IN RELATION TO mucus, which is in some cases flaked off from the inner walls of the bladder. Now, neither of these views suggests a vera causa for the effect for which they profess to account. Blood coagulates when in contact with non-vitalised matter, and blood-corpuscles arrange themselves in rouleaux under similar circumstances. But Mr. Lister, who has shown us so much which bears on this matter, has shown us also, and that in the last number but two (July i8, 1868) of our Journal^ that urine will remain for an indefinite period undecomposed in a properly constructed, which happens to mean a properly contorted, receptaclej even though that receptacle be as little vitalised as glass. And Niemeyer has shown, what I dare say many who are now honouring me with their presence have observed, but, I think, not recorded, that urine often retains its acidity through protracted cases of vesical catarrh, and in spite of cumuli of clouds of ' fermentative' mucus; which are, therefore, as little of verae causae as is ' catalysis' itself. But the presence of vibrios in the urine, and that before it leaves the bladder, is a vera causa, i. e. a present condition, and therefore possibly a cause, or connected with the cause, of the phaeuomena to be investigated (see Beale, ' On the Urine,' p. 196); and the idea that the alka- lescence in question depended upon them, an idea which I had not the time to find an opportunity of verifying for myself, I find has been verified for the benefit of others by Niemeyer, with the assist- ance of Traube and Teufi'el. ' In the course of last year,' says Niemeyer (I.e. ii. 66, 1868), 'I arrived, partly by means of an observation of Traube's, partly by means of experiments and obser- vations of my own, which have been published by TeufFel in the "Berlin Klinische Wochenschrift," at the conviction that it was not the vesical mucus, but lower organisms, which probably get into the bladder by means of the introduction of badly cleaned catheters, and excite there the alkaline fermentation of the urine.' Now, whether the vibrios find their way into the bladder exclusively on dirty catheters or not, I apprehend that the addition of some carbolic acid to the oil used for lubricating these instruments, whether they be guilty or not of what is here laid to their charge, will be a piece of practice calculated to prevent the alkalescence which the vibrios cause by preventing these vibrios themselves from entering on their evil activity. Mr. Lister's paper, just alluded to, will show that this is an experiment which may very