604 EXCAVATIONS IN AN ANCIENT panied also by the earpick and toothpick and scoop so frequently found in Anglo-Saxon interments ^ No sword has as yet been found in tbe cemetery at Frilford, and the general character of the Anglo-Saxon relics which have been discovered is in keeping with the absence of this mark of condition and authority, if sucb'^ it may be considered to be. In one case a male skeleton was re- ported to me to have been found lying in one of these shallow graves with its face downwards. Unfortunately I was not upon the spot when this skeleton was removed; but, though SchaafF- hausen ^ has pointed out that unskilled observers may be deceived as to the position of the face in a grave, I am nevertheless of opinion that the workman who had assisted in the removal of a very large number of skeletons from their graves was right in the report he made to me. Because, in the first place, I have myself seen an instance of such a mode of interment in a Romano-British barrow j and, secondly, it is not difficult to understand how such a misplacement could occur with an uncofiined body borne to a grave, the shallowness of which bore, and bears, evidence to a carelessness which the ' lyke-wake' would be only too likely to intensify. It has often been observed* that the Anglo-Saxons by no means in- variably employed coffins in their interments. When the head is found to have been supported upon stones placed underneath it, it is plain that the interment must have been coflSnless. But I do not find in my notes of the class of shallow, non-oriented, Anglo- Saxon interments that the head had been so supported; and, inas- much as the results of its having been so raised are ordinarily very evident, the cervical vertebrae being impacted between the rami of the lower jaw, and this bone being, not rarely, separated widely from the upper jaw, owing to the changes of position which the perishing of the soft parts has entailed,—it is difficult to think that this peculiar arrangement would have been left unnoticed if it had existed. A nail has occasionally been found in a grave con- 1 See ' Pagan Saxondom,' p. 70, and pi. xxxv. fig. 4; ' Archaeologia,' vol. x-^xvii, Brighthampton, No. i ; vol. xxxviii, Brighthampton, No. 16, preserved in Ashmolean Museum, Oxford ; ' Fairford Graves,' pi. ix. fig. 10, object similarly preserved. 2 See Akerman, ' Archaeologia,' vol. xxxix, Further Researches at Long Wittenham. ^ * Die Germanische Grabstatten am Rliein,' p. 119. * Wylie, ' Graves of Alemanni,' p. 13 ; Bloxam, ' Fragmenta Sepulchralia,' pp. 67, 72; Akerinan,' Pagan Saxondom,' Introd. p. xvi. Compare plate xiv. with plates xxxix, Ivii, Ixii, and Ixvi, of Strutt's ' Horda Angel-cynnan.'