885 ADDRESS ON ANTHROPOLOQY. these races, and they could take hold of it with their understand- ing; and, howsoever it may have been put before them, it was immeasurably above the level of heathenism, and considerably above that of Mahommedanism. Whatever the dogmas taught were, the ethics of Christianity were taught with them ; and in most cases the missionaries gave, at the same time, in their lives striking examples of the value of those ethics; and the fact of their maintenance and exemplification was the main thing.' Mr. Bagehot has been quoted by Mr. Darwin, in his ' Descent of Man,' ed. i, vol. i. p. 339, ed. 2, p. 182, as saying that 'it is a curious fact that savages did not formerly waste away before the classical nations, as they do now before the modern civilised na- tions ; had they done so the old moralists would have mused over the event; but there is no lament in any writer of that period over the perishing barbarians.' On reading this for the first, and indeed for a second time, I was much impressed with its beauty and originality; but beauty and originality do not impress men per- manently unless they be coupled with certain other qualities. And I wish to remark upon this statement, first, that it is exceedingly unsafe to argue from the silence of any writer, ancient or modern, to the non-existence of the non-mentioned thing. I do not recollect any mention in the ancient writers of Stonehenge, nor can I call to mind at this moment any catalogue of the vocabularies of the Cimbri and Teutones, of the Ligures and Iberians, with whom the ancients were brought into prolonged contact. These little omissions are much to be regretted, as, if they had been filled up, a great many very interesting problems would thus have been settled for us which we have not as yet settled for ourselves. But these omissions do not justify us in thinking that Stonehenge is an erection of post-Roman times, nor in holding that any of the strange races mentioned were devoid of a language. And, secondly, what we know of the classical nations dates from a time when the 'merciless bronze' had begun to give way to the 'dark gleaming' steel. But long before the displacement of bronze weapons by iron ones, the bronze had had abundant time to displace both stone weapons and the people who used them. And it is plain enough to suggest that one reason why the old moralists did not muse over the disappearance of the aboriginal races lies in the fact that these races had neither a contemporary Homer to sing their history, no^