THE HARVEIAN OUATION. 759 with an earnest appeal to them to cherish that mutual concord and amity amongst themselves, which recent occurrences, we may sup- pose, had tended to weaken. In the other pages of the Register for the period between April 1645 and the Midsummer of 1646, I find the name of Charles Scarborough, the proiege of Harvey, and afterwards frequently an office-bearer in this College; but there is little or nothing of special interest to us in the rest of the record, beyond the fact that Harvey appears to have attended the College meetings and so to have discharged his duties, amongst which the providing for the contingency of a siege and famine was one. Mr. Pettigrew (' Medical Portrait Gallery,' 1840) has put on record the fact that Harvey's signature is to be found in the Liber Com- putorum of Merton. The College Register, however, is not so enriched, as I can state upon the authority of Mr. E. Maunde Thompson, who compared tlie pages relating to Harvey's warden- ship with the autograph MS. in the British Museum, when I took the Register up to London for that purpose \ otherwise he would, no doubt, have kept his word, and Merton College would have gained what the College of Physicians, or some others of his legatees, would have lost. ' Mr. E. M. Thompson has made another search for Harvey's missing MS. ' De Anatomia Universa,' which Dr. Lawrence mentions at p. xxxi of his ' Harveii Vita' (ed. 1766), and which Dr. Willis teUs us at p. vii of his Preface (ed. Willis) had then (1847) been twice looked for in vain. Mr. Thompson's search has also been equally fruitless; he writes to me thus, under date June 3, 1873:—'Harvey's "Anatomy" ica« once upon a time in the British Museum. In the first volume of the old MS. Catalogue of the Sloane MSS. (now marked Sloane MS. 3972 A), there is this entry on p. 57 :— " ^- —Praelectiones anatomicae universales per me, Gulielmum Harveum me- dicum Londinensem Anatom. et Chirurg. Professor. Anno Dom. 1616, aetatis 37, praelect. April i, 1617." To which is added, "This is the author's foundation and first Lecture of the circula- tion in his own handwriting," and opposite to it is this note by Sir F. Madden, "In the place of 230 (which seems missing) Ayscough substituted the bracketed no. (6)." So you will see from this that the MS. was missing in Aysoough's time. I have ran- sacked our MSS. without finding any clue ; so I think you may make up your mind that it was borrowed, and has gone the way of boiTowed books in general.—E, Maunde Thompson.' Wood says (' Fasti Oxonienses,* ii. 6) of Harvey, ' But more in MSS. hath he left behind him, the titles of which you may see in tlie Epist. Dedicat. before a Hi.ftorical Account of the Colleges Proceedings against Empyricks' (1684, London, Ch. Goodall). Moved by this authority, though Goodall only says that Harvey desu/ned these treatises, I looked over a lai-ge number of medical MSS., assisted herein by Mr. Walter de Gray Birch, in the Sloane Collection of the British Museum, without the desired result. Subsequently I found that Harvey himself in 1650 (p.