CEMETERY AT FEILFORD. 633 Indians; and when we find Sbaron Turner, the historian of the Anglo-Saxons, telling us ^ that Ethelbert, after his conversion by Augustine, ' became distinguished as the author of the first written Saxon laws which have descended to us, or which are known to have been established, an important national benefit for which he may have been indebted to his Christian teachers, as there is no evidence that the Saxons wrote any compositions before,' we may be inclined to think that the views of Guizot are nearer to the truth than those of Ozanam ^, Greenwood, and Rogge. "We have historical, literary, archaeological, and anatomical evidence for saying that two or more distinct varieties of men existed both in England and France, both previously to and during the periods of the Roman and of the Teutonic invasions and dominations^. The earliest Welsh traditions. Professor Pearson informs me, speak ' of the social races inhabiting Britain, the Kymry, the Lloegrwys, and the Brythons,' all descended from the Kymry. The word ' Kymry' itself, however, has been supposed, * 'History of the Anglo-Saxons,' i. 332. See also Taylor, 'Words and Places,' p. 339, and per contra, Kemble, on Runes, ' Archaeologia,' xxviii. ^ Ozanam, however, cit. ' Merivale,' I.e. 187, says, ' Les lois de I'ancienne Gemianie ne nous Bont connues que par les t^moignages incomplets des anciens, par la reduction tardive des codes barbares, par les costumes du moyen age. II y reste done beaucoup de contradictions, d'incertitudes, et de lacunes.' Gibbon may be shown to be simi- larly self-contradictory by a comparison inter se of the following passages; vol. i. chap. ix. p. 362, ed. Milman, 1838 ; vol. vi. chap, xxxviii. p, 325 ; vol. v. chap. xxxi. p. 317. The stories told of the two Gothic Princes in the two latter passages are quite inconsistent with the statement contained in the first of the three, to the effect that ' in the rude institutions of the barbarians of the woods of Germany we may still distinguish the original principles of our present law and manners.' See Finla- Eon's Introduction to Peeves'' History of the English Law,' 1869, p. xlj and Professor Pearson's ' Historical Maps,' 1869, where at p. vii. the Professor speaks of the Saxon invaders as consisting of ' a few boat-loads of barbarians.' I agree as to the barbarism, but differ as to the numbers of the Anglo-Saxons. Both these valuable works came into my hands after the coming of these sheets from the printers. See per contra, B. Thorpe, ' Ancient Laws and Institutes of England,' preface, p. xxii. ^ Gibbon, v. 351, ed. 1838, says, ' If the princes of Britain relapsed into barbarism whilst the cities studiously preserved the laws and manners of Rome, the whole island must have been gradually divided by the distinction of two national parties.' See also Pearson, I.e. pp. 99, 100; Coote's 'Neglected Pact in English History,' pp. 144, 149, 169 ; Skene's ' Four Ancient Books of Wales ;' Gododin, ' Poems,' pp 382, 394, 412 ; Broca, ' Eecherches sur I'Ethnologie de la France,* Mdm. Soc. Antlirop. de Paris, torn. i. i860 ; Sir WilUam R. Wilde, 'Beauties of the Boyne,' pp. 229, 232 ; Dr. Thumam, 'On the two principal forms of Ancient British and Gaulish Skulls,' Memoirs of the Anthropological Society of London, vol. i. ibique citata; Huxley, 'Prehistoric Remains of Caithness,' pp. 114, seqq.