568 ON THE ROT IN SHEEP, autumn often produces, is a very sure way for producing the disease. 3. The words just given in inverted commas are not the exact words employed by my informants; those which follow are, or pretty nearly so—' a single bellyful will give the disease.' 4. ' A pasture will give the disease at the back-end of the year which won't give it after Candlemas.' This means that the winter cold and rains destroy or wash away the larval or other forms of flukes which the slugs brought with them in the autumn. The first of these observations is, like all other observations and all experiments concerning the matter with which I am acquainted, utterly destructive of Dr. Harley's suggestion as to the self- infection of sheep from their own droppings or those of their fellow sheep. If this were possible why should it not take place on the uplands or ' commons '—as the Lake shepherds call the unenclosed mountains—where the sheep, for the sake of food on those often limited grazing spaces or 'alps,' or for the sake of shelter, often huddle together as closely as they do or can do any- where else? It is destructive also of the often-uttered ascription of rot to damp and moisture, the mountain ridges of Westmoreland being ' many-fountained ' to a degree never dreamed of by Theo- critus in Mediterranean districts, or realised by our own Laureate out of these ' rainy isles.' It is, on the other hand, confirmatory, as are all accurate observations on the subject, of the view which asserts that the presence of snail or slug is a necessary factor in the causation of rot. Snails and slugs are but scantily represented, if present at all, on mountain tops ; there are no slugs in Forbes' and Tschudi's lists of high Alpine ranges; and these districts, like salt marshes, owe their character for considered ' soundness,' as the phrase is, as regards the most destructive of sheep diseases, to this absence or paucity of, at least, certain mollusca. I was first put in this pursuit upon the slimy trail of the slugs and snails specified by various well-known facts which it is here unnecessary to specify. The number of the mollusca which it is necessary to trouble about appears to me to be ver}'- distinctly and very conveniently limited by the fact pointed out by the late Willemoes-Suhm, one of the ' good company of famous knights ' upon H. M. Challenger, as to the Faroe Islands. The Faroe Islands are afflicted by the rot, but they have only eight snails and