PHYSIOLOGY IN BELATION TO 714 of its value is furnished us by tlie fact, that in Edinburgh as in Germany a dissertation on some subject of Comparative Anatomy is often accepted as a thesis for the degree of Doctor in Medicine. By such a regulation we have the obvious fact recognised, that the same sort of skill in the employment of methods, the same fami- liarity with organs, tissues, and functions, the same reasoning powers, are employed in investigating the problems of life where- soever existing. The second aphorism of the ' Novum Organon ' applies to the one as to the other line of investigation, that of Human, and that of Brute Biology :—Instrumentis et auxiliis res perficitur ; and alike in both, nec manus nuda nec intellectus sibi per- missus multuin valet. Comparative Anatomy, finally, besides thus benefiting the public firstly, and the profession secondly, is of use to Human Biology and Medicine, as such, inasmuch as it casts so much light upon the problems which the more highly evolved organs, functions, and other relations of our own species render in a much higher, and, indeed, sometimes in the highest degree, difficult or impossible to investigate. Answers to what are riddles in Human Anatomy and Physiology are often to be found given in very simple language in the structures and functions of the lower and lowest animals. Of such hints furnished by the brute creation towards the proper solution of certain problems which concern each and all of us in dealing with our own species, I will herewith, by your permission, give a few. Of the use of rest towards the repair of injuries I presume there is little doubt, but the best established teaching is all the better for the support of a few concrete ex- amples. Now, in what animals do we find the greatest capacity for repair of injuries, and for the reproduction of lost parts and limbs? Precisely in those in which the whole of life is carried on at the lowest rate, and in the nearest approximation to rest which is compatible with animality,—in those animals, to wit, which breathe water, and have but its scanty percentage of dissolved oxygen to sustain their animal functions. The metamoi-phoses which an animal may have undergone, or may have to undergo, have very little directly to do with its power of recovery from injury, or of regenerating a lost limb. No animals go through more com- plex metamorphoses than do many of the Crustacea, and nearly all the Echinodermata; yet assuredly no other class has a larger capacity for the reproduction of lost fragments of their bodies.