702 PHYSIOLOGY IN RELATION TO by its influence on the blood-vessels, in the minds of persons who may be averse to multiplying laws by cases such as these. We go to a case, as I suppose most of us may, like myself, have gone, and we frequently find one side of the body hot, and the other cold. This latter, the friends will tell us, is the paralysed part; we find that it is not; and Bernard's experiments, and Brown- Sequard's (1. c. p. 146), enable us to understand why this is so. An excellent case to the same effect, showing how increase of vital properties may take place in the entire absence of any connection with the upper part of the cord or brain, may be given from a paper of the late Sir B. C. Brodie's, in the twentieth volume (1837) of the ' Medico-Chirurgical Transactions.' ' A man was admitted into St. George's Hospital, in whom there was a forcible separation of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae, attended with an effusion of blood within the theca vertebralis, and laceration of the lower part of the cervical portion of the spinal cord. Respiration was per- formed by the diaphr^m only—of course, in a very imperfect manner. The patient died at the end of twenty-two hours ; and, for some time previously to his death, he breathed at long in- tervals; the pulse being weak, and the countenance livid. At length, there were not more than five or six respirations in a minute. Nevertheless, when the ball of a thermometer was placed between the scrotum and the thigh, the quicksilver rose to iii° of Fahrenheit's scale. Immediately after death, the temperature was examined in the same manner^ and found to be still the same.' The larger size of a horse's hoof, the nerves of which had been divided, should probably be similarly explained by the greater afflux of blood which would set in thither temporarily until the continuity of the nerve was re-established. (Ogle, 'Med, Times and Gazette,' Nov. 3, 1866.) And, finally, such an occurrence as the inflamma- tion of skin, cartilage, or cornea, after its own sweet will, and not in the line of an irritated nerve passing through it or near it (Virchow's 'Cell, Path,,' Chance's translation, p. 299), seems to speak plainly enough to the self-sufiiciency of animal cells to respond to what Niemeyer calls * Insulte,' without appealing to any higher powers for assistance ; just, in fact, as though they were as little animal, as truly vegetable, and as independent of any cranio- spinal centre as the gall-producing oak or willow.