JADE TOOLS IN SWITZERLAND. 687 Damours. Now, of nephrite and jadeite, it is known that, with the single exception constituted by the discovery of an unworked fmgment at Schwemmsal in Saxony, no unworked specimen of either has been found nearer to Switzerland than, for nephrite, Turkestan and the environs of Lake Baikal; and, for jadeite, China. Mr. Max Miiller says it was a harder business for the west- ward emigrants of the Stone Age to carry the ponderous tools, which their Aryan language represents, than the lighter ones which the Messrs. Fellenberg, pere et fils, have taught us so much about. It is not for me to defend the Professor ; but, once more to illustrate the past from the present, I may say that many parents, if there are any who feel sceptical as to this ponderation, can have the opportunity of convincing themselves of its correctness by taking stock of the amount of Greek and Latin their sons have been suc- cessful in transporting home with them through the perils and trials of a railway journey this Christmas, But there are some things harder to transport with you than pocket-knives, whether of jadeite or nephrite, and harder to carry with you even than Aryan or any other languages. These are domestic animals. The sheep and the goat are both found in the Stone-Age pile-dwellings along with these weapons. Does Mr. H. M. Westropp think a goat would be easier of transport than a celt (of jade) ? Let him try. Yet it would be ' a wild hypothesis' indeed which should aver that these animals came otherwise into the Switzerland pile-dwellings than by slow transportation from the East. I am anxious to hear how your correspondent will meet this difficulty. But before I write again I should be glad to be assured that any antagonist who may reply to my suggestions had con- sulted the following references:— Keller—' Lake Dwellings;' English translation by J. E. Lee, F.G.S.; L p. 195, 2nd ed. 1878 ; and Fischer and Fellenberg, citt. in loc. Edmund von Fellenberg—'Bericht an die tit. Direction der Entsumpfungen iiber die Ausbeutung der Pfahlbauten,' Bern, 1875. L. R. von Fellenberg—'Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie,' p. 619, 1866.