906 ADDRESS ON ANTHROPOLOGY. could applaud Terence's line, ' Homo sum, humani nihil a me alienum puto ;' but it did not strike them till the time of Seneca that these noble words were incompatible with the existence of gladiatorial shows, nor till the time of Honorius did they legally abolish those abominations. Mutinies and rebellions are not alto- gether free from unpleasant incidents even in our days; but the execution of 6000 captives from a Servile War, in the way that Crassus executed his prisoners after the final defeat of Spartacus, viz. by the slow torture of crucifixion, is, owing to the advance of civilisation, no longer a possibility. If the road from Capua to Rome witnessed this colossal atrocity, there are still preserved for us in its near neighbourhood the remains of Herculaneum and Pompeii to show us what foul broad-daylight exuberance could be allowed by the public conscience of the time of Titus and Agrieola to that other form which sits ' hard by hate.' The man who in those days contributed his factor to the formation of a better public opinion, did so at much greater risk than any of us can incur now by the like line of action. Much of what was most cruel, much of what was most foul in the daily life of the time, had, M. Gaston Boissier notwithstanding, the sanction of their state religion and the indorsement of their statesmen and em- pei-ors to support it. There was no public press in other lands to appeal to from the falsified verdicts of a sophisticated or a terror- ised community. Though then as now, ' Mankind were one in spirit,' freedom of intercommunication was non-existent; no one could have added to the words just quoted from Lowell their com- plemental words, • Aind an instinct bears along, Eound the earth's electric circle the swift flash of right or wrong.' The solidarity of nations had not, perhaps could not have been dreamt of—the physical pre-requisites for that, as for many another non-physical good, being wanting. Under all these disadvantages men were still found who were capable of aspiration, of hope for, and of love of better things ; and by constant striving after their own ideal, they helped in securing for us the very really improved material, mental, and moral posi- tions which we enjoy. What they did before, we have to do for those who will come after us.