THE HARVEIAN ORATION. 733 known, records of Harvey's work and labour upon the circulation of the blood. The experiments to which I refer are put upon record in a letter of Harvey's to P. M. Slegel, of date 1651 (see ' Harveii Opera/ ed, 1766, p. 613; ed. Willis, p. 597). They were under- taken with the object of giving a final and happy despatch to all the quibbling objections of Riolanus, ' omnes Riolani circa banc rem altercatioues jugulare and they consisted, firstly, in forcing water from the cava into the right ventricle whilst the pulmonary artery, the 'vena arteriosa' of those days, was ligatured—whereby Riolanus' suggestion as to the permeability or porosity of the interventricular septum w^as shown to be untenable; and, secondly, in forcing water from the pulmonary artery round into the open'ed left ventricle, whereby the lesser circulation was demonstrated, to use Harvey's own favourite word, avTo\}rLa ; or, to use the very words employed by him upon this very occasion, by an ' experi- mentum a(\ivKTov a me' (in his seventy-fourth year) ' nuper et collegis aliquot praesentibus exploratum.' Simple as this experi- ment may seem to us now, I do not think that any apology is required for the drawing of attention to it; for it is only twenty- eight years ago (see ' Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal,' vol. Ixiii. p. 20) that Dr. Sharpey, to whom our Baly Medal has been so recently and so fitly assigned, had to perform the very closely similar experiment of injecting defibrinated blood into the thoracic aorta, with the very closely similar object of showing that the force of the heart was sufficient to account for the passage of blood through the intestinal and hepatic vascular systems—nay, to perform an all but identical experiment, adding on to it but the means for estimating and reproducing the force put out by the ventricle concerned. If such experiments as these were necessary in 1845, how much more necessary must have been the still simpler experiments of Harvey in 1651! At that time, the prestige of Riolanus the younger ' pressed heavily upon mankind.' Harvey himself bad called that individual ' anatomicorum coryphaeuni' in 1649: and, in the very year and letter we are dealing with, he calls him 'celebrem anatomicum,' And Pecquet, the discoverer of the thoracic duct, in his work, also of this selfsame year 1651, the ' Experimenta Nova Anatomica,' a work spoken of by Haller ('Bibliotheca Anatomica,' i. p. 443) as 'nobile opus et inter prae- cipua saeculi decora,' has the following remarkable passage : ' Ita