PlIYSrOLOGY IN RELATION TO 720 The liuman anatomist who has once seen in the lower animals the structures which represent, as it were, in exaggeration or caricature, the human costocoracoid membrane; the tuberculum pubis, with the homologue of the clavicle which is attached to it as Poupart^s ligament; or the supracondyloid process of the humerus—is not likely to forget their existence when, with either scalpel or bistoury in hand, either for the ligature of an artery or the setting free of a hernia, he has to deal with their i-epresentatives in the human frame. But, if I am right in thinking that the ciliary muscle in the eye would not have secured for itself the notice which it has done of late years, had it not been for the much more obvious manifestation of a similar, if not homologous, muscular apparatus in the eye of a bird, I apprehend that I am justified in saying that every surgeon who performs Mr. Hancock's operation of cylicotomy for glaucoma is under obligations, whilst so doing, to Comparative Anatomy and Sir Philip Crampton. I need not speak of the bearing of the discovery of this muscle in the human eye by Mr. Bowman upon the physiology of its adjustment to clear vision at varying distances. Pure Physiology, again, unassisted by Com- parative Anatomy, has made out much of pure function ; but, much as has been attempted in the way of experiment with infusions of pancreatic substance, and with the introduction of cannulae into the duct of the gland, I am inclined to think that a comparison of the relative size of the gland in the carnivora and the herbivora re- spectively, in a dog, say, and in a rabbit, points as unmistakably as any of the lines of experiment just referred to—which, by the very nature of the case, are greatly beset with several sources of fallacy —to the fact that this salivary gland is concerned as much with the digestion of albumen and fat, as with that of starchy substances. With the remark that Hyrtl's discovery (' Wien. Zool.-Bot. Ges.,' i86i, cit. Henle, ' Handb. der Anat.' ii. 310) of the diverticular character of the glomeruli in the kidney of the selachians and amphibia bears not a little upon the existence of a similar arrange- ment between the vasa recta and the renal arterioles in the human kidney, whereby, as by the direct communication shown by Schrceder van der Kolk to exist between the arteries and veins of the pia mater, the capillary circulation may be skipped, and the tissues in relation with it left at rest, I leave this part of my subject, and begin the concluding portion of my address.