THE HAHVEIAN ORATION. 762 have been answered till the ' works and days ' of Bernard i; and in the cases of several other problems instanced by himself (p. 132, ' Epistola Secunda ad Riolanum'), and hidden then, to use his own metaphor (p. 630, ed. 1766; p. 613, ed. Willis, 'Epistola Prima ad Horstium'), in the well of Democritus. For the culture which Harvey had bestowed upon his literary faculties we have better evidence than Aubrey's, better even than that of two more trustworthy witnesses than Aubrey—Bishop Pearson^ to wit, and Sir William Temple : we have the evidence of his own writings as to his familiarity with one of the greatest writers of antiquity. Bishop Pearson, as Dr. George Paget has reminded us (see p. 15 of his 'Notice of an Unpublished Manuscript of Harvey,' 1850)^ writing in 1664, but seven years after Harvey's death, and Aubrey (see p. Ixxxii of ' Life,' by Dr. Willis, prefixed to the Sydenham Society's edition of his works, 1847), have told us of Harvey's high appreciation of Aristotle's writings; but in his own writings he refers to the Stagirite more frequently, I think, than to any other individual. And, as regards Vergil (the Latin author whom probably, if but one Latin classical writer could be saved from destruction, most men would choose to be that one, as Aristotle probably would be the similarly to be chosen Greek), Sir William Temple ('Miscellanies,' Part ii. On Poetry,p. 314) has told us that ' the famous Dr. Harvey, when he was reading Virgil, would sometimes throw him down upon the table and say he had a ' I refer to Claude Bernard's experiments on the influence of vitiated air ('Des Effets des Substances Toxiques et m^dicamenteuses,' 1857, p. 125), wliicli sliow so plainly that organisms can attain a power of tolerance as against morbific agencies if time is allowed them to become gradually adjusted to such environment. The prin- ciple demonstrated in these expei'iments has been brought into greater prominence by Sir James Paget in his striking account ('Lancet,' June 3, 1871, p. 734)> so inter- esting to all of us for other than purely scientific reasons, of his serious illness in 1871. As regards the 'Problem of Harvey,' the foetus in utero has been habituated to lowly arterialised blood; the blood of the umbilical vein is not scarlet in coloui-, and hence, I submit, may be explained the tolerance by ,1 child which has come into the world but has not yet breathed in it, of conditions which entail death by suffocation in a child which, having breathed air, is exposed to them. This physiological principle has, among many other practical bearings, the practical value of furnishing an answer to the Philistine argument so often brought forward by Antisanitarians in favour of the retention of abuses, in the words ' See to what a good old age people live in the middle of it all!' The answer is, ' They have become habituated, and are living in spite of, not because of these surroundings : immigrants die in the process of acclima- tisation.' Such persons, and indeed all persons, may read with profit Mr. G. H. Lewes' 'Physiology of Common Life,' vol. i. pp. 372-377, upon this subject.