606 EXCAVATIONS IN AN ANCIENT Mr. Kemble, ia the passag-es already referred to ^, supposes that in the transition state from heathenism to Christianity, such practices as this may have been stealthily indulged in by the newly-made and only half-converted proselytes, and these interments lend a considerable confirmation to this view. The Abbe Cochet ^ and Professor Schaaffhausen ^ seem to incline towards supposing that the similar appearances which they have noticed are to be ascribed to the remnants of a coflBn; but I am inclined to think that the absence of nails, the raised position of the head observed in some of these burials, the large size of, and the retention of a certain brilliancy by, the fragments of carbonaceous matter found in these graves, and underneath as well as around the skeletons, as well as the conditions of reddening and of position which the stones present, are points militating very strongly against the hypothesis of a coffin having been present, and in favour of a wood fire having been lighted in the grave either in preparation for, or for the partial combustion of, the dead body- No coins were found in such relations with the head or chest of any of these skeletons as to make it seem likely that they had been put in as ' portoria ;' in one case, however, a coin was found perforated, for suspension, doubtless as an ornament, about the region of what had been the chest or waist of a very much water-worn skeleton. Shards and flints, and a few bones and teeth of domestic animals, were found in these as in pther kinds of inhumation observed in this cemetery. In one of these interments a pair of odd fibulae, one being of the cruciform, the other of the saucer or disc pattern, was found, one upon one shoulder and the other upon the other of a female skeleton. Similarly, or somewhat similarly, 'two large cruciform and two circular fibulae of bronze,' now preserved in the York Museum, were found with a skeleton in the Danes Dale Tumulus*. These discoveries may seem of trifling moment, but they do go to show, which I am concerned, he says, ' The " Anglo-Saxon Laws," vol. ii. contain several lists of superstitious practices which the Church condemns, such as burning corn upon graves. It is true that the compilations in which these ordinances occur are in one sense not authentic, that is, have been ascribed to wrong authors ; but they probably represent the customary laws of the Church here and on the continent with tolerable fidelity.' ^ ' Horae Ferales,' pp. 98-104. 2 Opere cit., pp. 198, 255, 256, 304. ^ Opere cit., p, 104. * See Catalogue, p. 93, and ' Coll. Antiq.' vi. pi. 28.