747 THE HARVEIAN ORATION. pages, as fully justifies my precliction as it will fully repay any one who will take the pleasant trouble of reading it. The most im- portant result in a practical point of view is the demonstration which Dr. Rutherford has given of the nerve-circle, whereby, in the way of reflex action, the all-important secretion of gastric juice is called forth. The sensory impulse caused by the ingestion of food into the stomach is propagated upwards by the vagi to the medulla oblongata, where it throws into abeyance the vaso-motor nerve- cells, which, whilst the stomach is empty, keep the blood-vessels of the gastric mucous membrane constricted, but which, when their activity is inhibited, allow the zonular fibre-cells of these blood- vessels to dilate, and allow the increased afflux of blood thus called for. That relief will result to some of the countless martyrs to dyspepsia out of the demonstration of this physiological relation of vagus, sympathetic, and peptic glands, I do not doubt. Possibly, I would add, Owsjannikow's observations as to the working of hydrate of chloral as a depressor of arterial tension (Ludwig's •Arbeiten,^ 1872, p. 32) may prove valuable to persons engaged in practice, by pointing out, in however shadowy a fashion, the road to a more rational and systematised, even if less general use of this drug than that which I am told is now made of it. It may seem a paradox, but it is none the less true for all that, to say that, for the activity of many organs, a paralysing and inactivity of certain nerve-centres in connexion with them is a prerequisite. The ac- tivity of such, indeed of most, organs is but intermittent and occasional, being but intermittently and occasionally called for, whilst the constringing activity of the sympathetic has to be constantly at work to prevent waste of forced Owsjannikow's paper (also to be found in Ludwig's 'Arbeiten,' 6th year, 1871, and in the 'Bericht Math.-Phys.-Klass. K. S. Gesellsch. Wissensch.,' Leipzig) just referred to, and published two years sub- sequently to Dr. Eutherford's, gives, as the result of a number of experiments performed in Professor Ludwig's laboratory at Leipzig on rabbits, and independently at St. Petersburg on cats, the con- * The phenomenon of the distension of the corpora cavernosa, a phenomenon used by Harvey himself in the way of illustration (p. 129 of the ' Epistola Secunda ad Riolanum'), I may adduce in the way of illustration also, being, as it is, dependent upon a similar nervous mechanism; and being shown so unmistakeably, in cases where it follows lesions in the nuclial region, to result from paralysis of nerve-ceutres situated there or therefibouts.