875 BIOLOGICAL TRAINIJ^O AND STUDIES. neither enjoying a Wanderjahr nor possessing a chorda dorsalis. We are not surprised after this that M. Lacaze-Duthiers observes that ' although embryology may and must furnish valuable information by itself, it may also, in some cases, lead us into the gravest errors,' Mr. Hancock, of Newcastle-upon-Tyne, has sent us a paper upon this subject, which will be read duly and duly noted by us. Leaving Malacology, which has not in the United Kingdom obtained the same hold as yet upon the public mind that it has on the Continent, where, like Entomology, there and here, it has a periodical or two devoted to the recording of the discoveries of its votaries, I have much pleasure in directing attention to two short papers by Siebold in the ' Zeitschrift fiir wissenschaftliche Zoologie' (xx. 2, 1870), on parthenogenesis in Polistes gallica v. diadema, and on paedogenesis in the Strepsipiera. la each of these short papers Siebold informs us that adequate room and time could not be given them in the Innsbruck meeting held just a year ago, or in the report of the meeting. It is to me a matter of difficulty to think what there could have been of greater value than those papers in a section of Wissenschaftliche Zoologie; it will be to all present a matter of congratulation to learn, from the venerable professor's papers, that he will shortly favour us with a new work on the subject of parthenogenesis. A fresh instance of parthenogenesis in Diptera, viz. in Chironomus, has just been put upon record in the St. Petersburg Imperial Academy's Memoirs (xv. 8, January 13, 1870). The subject of the geographical distribution of the various forms of vegetable and animal life over the surface of the globe, and in the various media, air, earth, water—fresh and salt, whether deep or shallow—has always been, and will always remain, one of the most interesting subsections of biology. It was the contemplation of a simple case of geographical distribution in the Galapagos archi- pelago which brought the author of the ' Origin of Species ' face to face with the problem which the title of his work embodies ; and it IS impossible that sets of analogous and of more complicated facts (many of which, be it recollected, such as the combination now being effected between our own fauna and flora and those of Australia and New Zealand, are patent to the observations of the least observing) should not, since the appearance of that book, force the serious consideration of the explanation it offers upon the