ADDRESS ON ANTHROPOLOaY. 896 the body, is a material fact in every sense) has been testified to by a multitude of other observers, and is, to my mind, one of the most distinctive marks of savagery as opposed to civilisation. It is only in times of civilisation that men of the puny stature of Tydeus or Agesilaus are allowed their proper place in the manage- ment of affairs. And men of such physical size, coupled with such mental calibre, may take comfort, if they need it, from the purely quantitative consideration, that large as are the individual skulls from prehistoric graves, and high, too, as is the average obtained from a number of them, it has nevertheless not been shown that the largest individual skulls of those days were larger than, or, indeed, as large as the best skulls of our own days ; whilst the high average capacity which the former series shows is readily explicable by the very obvious consideration that the poorer speci- mens of humanity, if allowed to live at all in those days, were, at any rate, when dead not allowed sepulture in the ' tombs of the kings,' from which nearly exclusively we obtain our prehistoric crania. . M. Broca^ has given us yet further ground for retaining our self-complacency by showing, from his extensive series of measurements of the crania from successive epochs in Parisian burial-places, that the average capacity has gone on steadily increasing. It may be suggested that a large brain, as calculated by the cubage of the skull, may nevertheless have been a comparatively lowly organised one, from having its molecular constitution quali- tatively inferior from the neuroglia being developed to the dis- advantage of the neurine, or from having its convolutions few and simple, and being thus poorer in the aggregate mass of its grey vesicular matter. It is, perhaps, impossible to dispose absolutely of either of these suggestions. But, as regards the first, it seems to me to be exceedingly improbable that such could have been the case. For in cases where an overgrowth of neuroglia has given the brain increase of bulk without giving it increase of its true nervous elements, the Scotch proverb, ' Muckle brain, little wit,' applies ; and the relatively inferior intelligence of the owners of such brains as seen nowadays may, on the principle of continuity, be supposed to have attached to the owners of such brains in ' See bis paper, 'BuU. Soc. Anthrop. de Paris,' t. iii. ser. i. 1S62. p, 102; or his collected 'M^moires,' vol. i p. 34S, 1871.