588 EXCAVATIONS TN AN ANCIENT differently in both Anglo-Saxon and Romano-British, in Frankish, and in Gallo-Roman graves. I was first convinced that these interments, more than fifty of which have been under examination at Frilford since I first became acquainted with the cemetery, con- tained the remains of Romano-Britons, and not of Anglo-Saxons, by the discovery of an unmistakeable Anglo-Saxon urn, about fifteen inches above a skeleton occupying one of these graves (No. vi. Sept. 1867). Two other skeletons, one of an old woman interred with three coins (No. iv. Jan. 9, 1868), and one of an old man (No. iii. April i, 1868), were found subsequently occupying the same position relatively to similar Anglo-Saxon urns containing similarly burnt human bones. It is possible, however, to object to this apparently satisfactory argument; first, that the deeper-lying body may have belonged to a Christianised, and the cremation urn to an apostate, Anglo-Saxon's burial ; or, secondly, that the crema- tion urn belonged to an Anglo-Saxon funeral which took place in the heathen pre-Augustinian period, but that it was carefuUy replacedj after having been disturbed, to make room for one of the same race who had died after the evangelization of Berkshire by Birinus. Both these objections—the former suggested to me by Mr. Akerman, and the latter by the reading of Mr. Roach Smith's letter in the 'British Association's Report for 1855/ p. 145^—are, however, fully met by the discovery, on four different occasions, of Anglo-Saxon skeletons, verifiable as such by their insignia, and with no constant relation to the points of the compass, in the same relative position to these interments as that already described as being held by the cremation urns. (See infra. Catalogue, No. xviii. Feb. 8, 1868 ; No ix. Sept. 25, 1868, infra.) It is possible, though not probable, that an urn, even of much fragility and elegance, may have been replaced in its entiret}'^, heavily laden though it was with its contents ; but it is impossible to conceive that a similar pious painstaking can have laid out a disturbed skeleton a second time in the full and due proportions of the un- articulated bones possessed by the skeletons found lying super- ficially to the ' grave-row' interments of which I am speaking as Roman or Romano-British. The variation in the direction of the two bodies lying one above the other, the deeper being always the oriented one, excludes, of course, the possibility of their having * See also ' Inventorium Sepulchrale,' Introd. p. xvi. and p. 8.