895 ADDRESS ON ANTHROPOLOGY. may ' require more brain power than the greatest in any other direction,' and that ' we do not know and have no means of know- ing- what is the quantity of intellectual power as measured by brains which even the simplest use of lang-uag-e requires And for the explanation of the pre-eminently large size of the brains of these particular representatives of our species, the tenants of prehistoric sepulchres, we have to bear in mind, first, that they were, as the smallness of their numbers and the largeness of the tumuli lodging them may be taken to prove, the chiefs of their tribes; and, secondly, that modern savages have been known, and prehistoric savages may therefore be supposed, to have occasionally elected their chiefs to their chieftainships upon grounds furnished by their superior fitness for such, posts—that is to say, for their superior energy and ability. Some persons may find it difficult to believe this, though such, facts are deposed to by most thoroughly trustworthy travellers, such as Baron Osten Sacken (referred to by Von Baer, in the ' Report' of the famous Anthropological Congress at Gottingen in 1861, p. 23). And they may object to accepting it, for, among other reasons, this reason—to wit, that Mr. Galton had shown us in his ' Men of Science, their Nature and Nurture,' p. 98, that men of great energy and activity (that is to say, just the very men fitted to act as leaders of and to commend them- selves to savages ^) have ordinarily smaller-sized heads than men possessed of intellectual power dissociated from those qualities. The objection I specify, as well as those which I allude to, may have too much weight assigned to them ; but we can waive this discussion and put our feet on firm ground when we say that in all savage communities the chiefs have a larger share of food and other comforts, such as there are in savage life, and have conse- quently better and larger frames—or, as the E,ev. S. Whitmee puts it {I. c), when observing on the fact as noticed by him in Polynesia, a more 'portly bearing.' This (which, as the size of the brain increases within certain proportions with the increase of the size of * The bibliographer will thank me also for pointing out to him that the important paper in the ' North-American Review,' for October, 1870, p. 295, from which I have just quoted, has actually escaped the wonderfully exhaustive research of Dr. Seidlitz (see his 'Darwin'sche Theorie,' 1875). * An interesting and instructive story in illustration of the kind of qualities which do recommend a man to savages, is told us by Sir Bartle Frere in his pamphlet, 'Christianity suited to all forms of Civilization,' pp. 12-14.