830 MODIFICATIONS OF ASPECTS OP ORaANIC NATURE Unger, ' Sitzungsbericlite k. Akad. Wiss. Wieii/ Bd. xxiii. Hft. i. p. 204, 1857, suggested tlie countries on the eastern side of the Persian Gulf as the centi-e whence in the very earliest times of commerce and international intercourse tliis plant was carried over Arabia, Persia, Hindustan, and North Africa. But he, in a later Memoir, published after travel in Egypt, ib. xxxviii. pp. 75, 104-106, 1859, quotes Delile as averring that, valeat quantum valeat, the Egyptians themselves considered that Arabia Felix was the original country of the date-palm ; and by twice (11.cc.) men- tioning the fact that Egypt itself is called not only the land of the sycamore, but also the land of the palm-tree, he would appear to assign the same weight to that tradition which I have felt justified in assigning to those embodied in the Accadian Inscriptions. Unger himself suggests, though very guardedly, that the date may have been imported into Lower from Upper Egypt. He is, as such a botanist would be sure to be, careful to disclaim any acceptance of the cogency which others have assigned to an argument based on the luxuriance of growth which the tree does attain in the locality in question. ' There is nothing in all this, however, to hinder us from supposing that the palm does so flourish there, because in its migration from the north southwards it came in the latter place for the first time upon the soil best suited to it.' Martins, on the other hand (1 c. iii. 263), uses this very argument for assigning the original site of the date-palm to the southern jiart of Tunis, ' Blad el-Dscherid,' as he writes the name of the locality, h. e. arida terra, ' falso nuncupata Biledulgerid,' as he adds, ' Beled el-Jerid,' I may add as named in Johnston's Royal Atlas in lat. N. 34°, long. S. 10°. 'Quo loco,' says Martins \ ' solidae conspici- ^ In the same African connection in Martius's grand book I find the two foUowing passages, which are in themselves a lecture on the extent to which man has modified the landscape of Southern and Northern Africa, both by acclimatising there plants, some useful merely, some beautiful, some both, from 'regions Caesar never knew," China, namely, and America. The maize might have been added to the importations specified in those quotations. Speaking of the date-palm Martius says (p. 264) : ' In Promontorium Bonae Spei introducta, nunc per calidiorum regionumhortos sparsa et una cum Solano tuheroso, Tritico rep. colitur.' Speaking of the North Coast and the planitii'S Tadschurae, he writes : ' Palma illic est splendidissimum decus sylvarum Citri aurantiorum quae Opuntiis cmgunlur.'' The potato, the orange, and the hedges of opuntias set round them were as little known to 'all the world' of the Mediter- ranean as the gas, the coal, the glaze of our pottery, and the tea, coffee, and tobacco, which, though sold by the epicier in every English hamlet, and making up, as some persons will say, but a Philistine tale, are yet become absolute necessaries of life even