THE HAEVEIAN OEATIONT ^38 might have been a fitting exhibition for me to go" through upon the present occasion, following herein the example of Harvey, ' viliora animalia in scenam adducentis.' I have, however, learned that this very demonstration on the appendix vermiformis of the rabbit lias been often performed in Germany, and, indeed, also in England ; and I judged, consequently, that it might be superfluous, as it would not be novel, to exhibit it here and now. Having been thus disappointed in my intention of demonstrating something new in this direction, I east about in another for some- thing of the same character. And in the heart of a bird, the Australian Cassowary {^Casuarins australis), killed at Rockingham Bay, lat. i8 deg., on the east coast of that continent, and sent me by my former pupil, J. E. Davidson, Esq., I came upon a structure which I am well assured has never been either described or figured before. It possesses upon this ground some claim upon our atten- tion ; but it possesses stronger claims than any which mere rarity could give it, being a structure which, though it has never been seen in any other member of the class Aves, is largely developed, and, indeed, exactly reproduced in the hearts of certain mammals, and does not fiiil to be represented, at least rudimentarily, in our own. The structure in question is a ' moderator' band, holding precisely the same relations to the other parts of the right ventricle in this bird which the band so named by Mr, T. W. King in the ' Guy's Hospital Reports,' vol. ii. p. I22, 1837, holds in man}^, if not in all. Ungulate mammals. This, I presume, is made plain by a com- parison of the two diagrams (Figures 2 and 3), showing, one of them the heart of this bird, the other the heart of a sheep, with the right ventricle similarly laid open in each case. The advantage, which in the struggle for existence, and specially in that very common phase of it which takes the form of a race for food or from an eater, which an animal with such a muscular band passing directly across the cavity of its right ventricle from its fixed to its movable wall must possess, is not a diflficult thing for any man to under- stand Avho has ever either watched in another or experienced in himself the distress caused by the over-distension of any muscular sac^ A band of similar function—I do nol say definitely of ' Since writing as above I have been reminded of what I ought not to have for- gotten, viz. that my friend Dr. Milner Totbergill has discussed this very subject in his work, ' The Heart and its Diseivses, with their Treatment,' London, 1872, p. 6.