THE HARVEIAN ORATION. 746 entering as a factor into the production of the first sound; and hereby they would be guarded from coming into contradiction with most English authorities—as for example, Dr. Walshe (' Diseases of the Heart,' 3rd ed. 1862, p. 62). Dr. Guttraann, however, in a paper of no great length, but of considerable merit, published sub- sequently to the one just mentioned, and in Virchow's Archiv for 1869, points out with much acuteness what, when once pointed out, is ever thereafter obvious—viz. that it is, in the nature of thinsrs, impossible, with all possible precautions in the way of emptying the heart of blood, to empty the complex phenomenon made up by a systole of the heart of the condition of tension of the auriculo- ventricular valves. Surely the musculi papillares will contract with the rest of the ventricular walls, and^ contracting, will they not stretch the chordae tendineae and the valves? For myself, I would say that we are more likely to overrate the share taken by the valves than to underrate that taken by the muscular walls. I need not say to this audience that the fact with which we are all familiar, of the alteration in the first sound produced by disease of the auriculo-ventricular valves, does not absolutely prove that they produce any part of it during health ; and, finally, to my own ear at least, a modification of Wollaston's experiinents, which anybody can try for himself by making his . temporal and masseter muscles contract at any time of perfect stillness, appears to produce a sound which is scarcely, if at all, different in quality from the first sound of the heart. A judgment, however, upon the nature of a sound, or, indeed, an aggregation of sounds, as in music, is one upon which two observers may very well differ, as neither of them can lay his proof of supposed identity or difference alongside of that which the other may possess, or may suppose he does. It is with much pleasure that I refer to Dr. Rutherford's paper on the Influence of the Vagus on the Vascular System, which appears in the Edinburgh Royal Society Transactions for 1870, vol. xxvi. In that year, having to deliver an address to the Biological Section of the British Association at Liverpool, I made bold to say that the results to which Dr. Rutherford had come, and which were then only known to me in an abstract in the 'Journal of Anatomy and Physiology' (May 1869, p. 402), would prove to be of the highest value and importance. His memoir now published in exieuso, and extending over forty-two