730 THE HA.RVEIAN ORATION. expressed this natural hesitation. I wish to record that you pointed out to me that my function in Oxford was to pursue and lecture publicly upon the very subjects with which Harvey occupied him- self ; and I suggested to myself that what could with any propriety form the substance of a course of lectures in the one place, could, mutatis mutandis, furnish materials for an address in the other. I felt besides, that, as the President of the College of Physicians is by virtue of his office one of the five electors to the Linacre Pro- fessorship, the Linacre Professor might seem scarcely justified in declining an invitation to appear before the learned body to which in part he owed his position ; and, though I mention it last, I felt first of all that a wish expressed to me, not so much by the official whom I am now addressing, as by the individual who now more than twenty years ago introduced me to Harvey's hospital, and has persistently befi-iended me ever since, was a wish which I ought not lightly to disregard. If now. Sir, I follow an example which you have often set me, and, without needless preface or further personal allusions, address myself at once to the business before me, I shall thereby pay you the best of all compliments, by showing you that your teaching has not been wholly thrown away upon your former pupil. The time allotted to me I propose to occupy, firstly, in expound- ing with all possible brevity certain advances recently made in our knowledge of the anatomy and physiology of the circulatory organs; and, secondly, in giving the as yet unrecorded history of one of the many attempts to rob Harvey of his rightful rank in the noble army of discoverers, which were made in the latter half of the seventeenth century. Some of the last, if not the very last, of the many fruitful ex- l^eriments which Harvey performed in the way of interrogating Nature as to the circulation, were experiments in the way of injection. If the writer of a work which appeared but some forty- three years ago, 'On the Diseases and Injuries of Arteries had taken the pains to repeat those experiments which Harvey per- formed more than two hundred and twenty years ago, and when in » ' On the Diseases and Injuries of Arteries, with the Operations required for their Cure; bein^ the substance of the Lectures delivered in the Theatre of the Royal College of Surgeons in the spring of MDCCCXXix.' By G. J. Guthrie, F.R.S. London, J 830.