540 ON THE DOMESTIC PIG OF spoken of a real male Sus harhatus as having a skull with a straight profile; Miiller and Sehlegel figured a female skull, whereas Mr. Blyth's, I am sure, Avas a male's. As regards the contraction of the vertex, which shows Mr. Blyth's skull to have been a male's, this is sometimes exceeded hy the old and strongly muscular Indian wild hog, such as Sir Walter Elliot's No. 71 (for history of which see p. 533), where it is only 8", whilst in the skull No. 72 it is I-S", showing an oscillation, owing to the varying action of the temporal muscles, which entirely deprives it of any morphological value ; and the measurements of the molars, finally, assure me that there is no need to add the words ' und wahrscheinlich auch Ceylon' to the word ' Borneo' as the ' Vaterland' of 8us harhatus, as Fitzinger has done, I. c. p. 393. Miiller and Sehlegel, p. 179, give Borneo, if I rightly read their words, as the ' habitat' of this well-marked species. Secondly^ of Sus verrucosns. The soft and perishable parts of Sus verrucosus are even more interesting and of greater importance than the bones; for they show us that wild pigs do have appendages —warts^ to wit, covered with long bristles, and attached to the corners of the lower jaw, like those of the Irish greyhound pig, once so plentiful in Galway; and they thus do away with one of the objections to Mr. Darwin's views, stated fairly (by himself) in the work on ' Animals and Plants under Domestication,' i. p. 79, ed. 1875. If it is a profitable thing to lay Miiller and Schlegel's figure of Sus verrucosus (tab. 2,8. I. c.) alongside of Richardson's figure of the ' old Irish greyhound pig' (/. c. p. 49 ; Darwin, I. c. p. 79), it is profitable also to read the Dutch letterpress^ of the two former authors, from which we learn, when helped by the translation given by Fitzinger, that the young of Sus verrucosus are never striped, and hereby have it suggested to us how it may be that so many of our domestic breeds never have their young striped—none, in fact, ex- cept the Westphalian and the Turkish. Rutimeyer [l. c. p. 187) has suggested that the so-called ' Berkshire breed' of domestic pigs may have its parent stock in Stcs celehensis, as figured by Sehlegel » The words of the two Dutch naturalists are, 'Verhandl.' p. 177: ' De deer jonge voorwerpen dezer sort zijn niet gestreept, en onderschieden zich daardoor van de jongen van Sus vittatus en van de meeste, ja, misachien van alia overige soorten.' It is much to be regretted that Dr. Gray did not enter a note of this most im- portant fact in his papers above referred to, in which the ' Verhandlungen' are often cited.