524 ON THE DOMESTIC PIO OF S. Miiller, ' Verlmacl.' i. taf. 30, one has the tail curled, and the other, the elder one, has it straight. Mr. Blyth {ciL Jerdon, I. c.) holds S. cnstatiis to he only a variety of the wild boar of Euroi)e, but still to be a well-marked race. De Blainville (' Osteog". Sus,' p. 129) sees no differences of morphological importance between any of the Asiatic swine and the European ■wild boar, and says :— ' La premifere espfece que le squelette nous permet de distinguer par des caractferea susceptibles d'etre lus et exposes est celle qui se trouve dans touts TAfrique au delk de I'Atlas et jusqu'h, son extrdmit^ la plus meridioniile et meme au delk dans la grande ile de Madagascar, et qui est connue sous le nom de Stis larvatus {Potamo- choerus africanus, Porcus madagaecariensis, nobis'). Giebel follows De Blainville in this. Dr. Gray, in ' Proc Zool. Soc' 1852, p. 130, said that, after examining ten skulls of the European wild boar and its offspring from this countr}'-, from the Gambia, and from the Cape, as also twelve skulls of the wild hog from Continental India, he could not discover any constant easily- described character by which the Eui'opean and the Indian kinds could be distinguished. And, he adds, ' this is the case in the many other genera allied to the pigs.' It is true, no doubt, that many animals^ such as— • the lion and the tiger, the fox and the jackal, the ass and the zebra, are far more strikingly differentiated by their pelage than by their skulls,' as Professor Huxley ('Prehistoric Remains of Caithness,' p. 132) has taught us; still it yet remains to be proved that differences which, though only skin-deep, are constant and permanent, will not ultimately be found to be correlated with more or fewer differences of the deeper-lying parts, either of a purely qualitative or of a quantitative kind. In a disquisition the ultimate object of which is the attainment of clearer views as to the origin of our tame pigs, the question meets us at the outset whether there exists any marked difference between the wild stocks under comparison as regards their suscep- tibility of domestication. Upon this point I have to say that I find, in opposition to what Mr. Samuel Sidney has laid down in the first chapter of his work on the pig, that Sus scrofa, Yax.ferus, is credited by most trustworthy authors with as great a capacity for domestication as any wild animal, including its wild Asiatic congeners, upon which observations are recorded as to this particular