BIOLOGICAL TRAINING AND STUDIES. 818 compound body. I think of the two it is better that the aquarium should be horizontal rather than the microscope; and those who think with me in this matter can nevertheless combine for them- selves the advantages of the horizontal position of the instrument with those of the horizontal position of the objects observed by- modifying the eyepiece in the way figured by Quekett (p. 381, fig. 266). It would be a long task to enumerate fully all the scientific lessons which may be gathered, first, and all the educa- tional agencies, secondly, which may be set and kept in move- ment by a person who possesses himself of this simple apparatus. The mutual interdependence of the animal and vegetable kingdoms, their solidarite as the French have called it, and as the Germans have called it too, copying herein the French, is one of the first lessons the observer has forced upon him; the influence of physical and chemical agencies upon the growth and development of living beings he soon finds strikingly illustrated ; the mysterious process of development itself is readily observable in the eggs of the common water-snails and in those of freshwater fish, so that the way in which the various organs and systems of organs are chiselled out, built up, and finally packed together and stratified can be taken note of in these yet transparent representatives of these great sub-kingdoms which all the while are undisturbed and at peace: and all these points of large interest are but a few of many which these small means will enable any one to master for himself in the concrete actuality^ and thoroughly. The necessity for carefulness and truthfulness in recording what is seen, the necessity for keeping in such records what one observes quite dis- tinct from what one infers, the necessity for patience and punctu- ality, are lessons which, from having a moral factor as well as a scientific one in their composition, I may specify as belonging to the educational lessons which may be gathered from such a course of study. I have been speaking of the microscope as an instrument of education, and I wish before leaving the subject to utter one caution as to its use when this particular object of education is in view. If a subject is to act educationally, it must be understood thoroughly; and if a subject is to be understood thoroughly, it must form one segment or stretch in a continuous chain of known facts. 'hpKxiov oLTTo t5)v yvMpijxuiv, said one of the greatest of