ON THE DOMESTIC TIG OF 563 Measubements of Skull, No. 716 w, British Museum Collection. 'SUS CRISTATUS,' FROM TeRAI, NEPAL. Extreme length Extreme height Base-line . . . . Height of lachrymal along rim of orbit .... inches. II-2 4-3 10 i-i Length of lachrymal alongmalar Buture . . • . . Interpremolar transverse dia- meter of palate . Intermolar .... inches. 0- 75 1- 6 1-75 Fig. 5. Orbito-lachrymal region of skull of wild boar, ^Sus scrofa, var. ferm, from Germany. No. 1513a, Oxford University Museum. The entire dentition was in place; the portion of the third molar which is posterior to the four primary cones is very smaU as compared either with the rest of the tooth or with its homologue in the Indian wild boar (fig. 6). It is, however, considerably in front at a line drawn as a perpendicular to the plane of the cutting- edges of the molars from the lachrymal canal. This skull differs markedly from the skull just named in the greater length, relatively to the height, of its lachrymal bone, in the greater length of its nasals relatively to the length of the fronto-parietal region, in the absence of any great convexity in the part of the frontal abutting upon the lachrymal, and in the convexity backwards of its fronto-nasal suture. Measurements of Skull of German Wild Boae, No 1513 a, Oxford Universitt Museum. inches. Extreme length . . .16-5 Extreme height ... 5-1 Base-line from anterior margin of foramen magnum to apex of intermaxillaries . . I4'0 Length of nasals, approximatively 8-0 Fronto-parietal length in ver- tical aspect . . . 6-8 inches. Width of nasals . . . 1-3 Maximum interzygomatic width 5-9 Maximum frontal (intereotor- bital) width . • . . 4-2 Height of lachrymal along rim of orbit . . . . i-o Length of lachrymal along malar suture ..... i'2 Fig. 6. Orbito-lachrymal region of skull of Indian wild boar, Sus cristatus, kiUed at Haugul, Dharwar province; from the collection of Sir Walter Elliot, K.C.S.I. No, 72. In this animal the third molar is only just coming into place, and its very large multicuspidate posterior lobe is not so far forward relatively as in the European wild boar (fig. 5) nor in other Indian hogs of greater age. It shows however very plainly the points, several if not always all of which have, by their presence in every speci- men of Sus cristatus which I have examined, enabled me to distinguish it from Sus scrofa, vax.ferus. It has the relatively short lachryinal—a tape, stretched as an arc across the long axis of the skull, from the anterior inferior angle of the bone on one side to the homologous point on the other, passing over the frontals, and not over any part of the nasals ; the naso-frontal suture, which lies entirely in front of such an arc,