801 PRODUCED BY MAN. dried fountain. If the water thus thrown upon the surface, thus modified, finds its way into a basin properly proportioned as to cubical, as to square area, and as to water-holding- power, we may have a lake formed, as in the case related above by Mr. Abbay. It is, of course, more usual to find one or other, or two, or all, of these favourable conditions wanting, and in the more numerous class of cases we find that the diminution of wood and the diminution of water go hand in hand. I would go further than this, and aver that the diminution of wood and the diminution of water in the shape of ice may not only also go hand in hand, but may also be connected as cause and effect. M. VioUet-le-Duc, in his delightful work on ' Mont Blanc,' 1877 (translated by B. Bucknall, pp. 341 353), tells us that— 'Although the glaciers have been tending to diminish for the last forty years in a somewhat rapid ratio, which would seem to indicate an elevation of the mean temperature, the forests are quitting the heiglits where they still lingered, to take a lower position. Is there any connexion between these two results ? We shall not endeavour to solve the problem.' It is a little presumptuous to address one's-self to it after this deter- rent warning. Still M. Viollet-le-Due has (1. c. pp. 339, 377) shown us that the destruction of the forests is abundantly explained irre- spectively of any inorganic agency by the mischievous action of man working as a goatherd and a woodcutter. His descriptions of these operations are couched in language of real pathos and eloquence, but scientifically it shows us that we need not look for any other cause for the disappearance or shrinking of the limits of the forests. The spruces and the larches, for such are the trees, being thus destroyed by the ' essentially destructive power' of man, how can their destruction be shown to entail the diminution of the glacier ? I think the loss of these trees as evaporating agencies may be taken as a vera ac sufficiens causa for the diminution, A great deal of much interest has been written^ upon the difference in the amount of watery vapour given off by various trees and by the cerealia, which last, and amongst which last, as might be exiDected from their deep roots and the amount of their Stoffwechsel, wheat-plants stand quantitatively pre-eminent. But for our present purpose it is sufficient to point out that the rays which strike on the mass of a glacier are, to say nothing of the other conditions of disadvantage which such a mass opposes to them, enormously outnumherecl by the * See Vogel, Pfafif, and Hartig, cit. Ebermayer, 1, c, p. 185. 3