CEMETERY AT FRILFORD. 645 Apinl I, iS68. i. Young Anglo-Saxon man, lying with head at N.N.E. and foot at S.S.W., the very reverse of the compass-points held by the head and foot respectively of Anglo- Saxon xviii of Feb. 8, 1868, and of Anglo-Saxon women of May, 1867. The body was thrown down in the 'fall' of the quarry, and was described as 'not being in a grave, but lying above and at right angles to the other graves.' There was a buckle i^in. long on the pelvis (cf. ' Pagan Saxondom,' p. 58 ; 'Tombeau de Childeric,' p. 234), and adhering to it some coarse flax fabric, as proved by the mici-oscope. This skeleton has the left radius and ulna bronze-stained, and in the neighbourhood into which the bones were thrown a spear-head with a central raised ridge (like the assagaye of the Hottentots, ' Pagan Saxondom,' p. i o), an umbo, and a knife were found. These latter the workmen thought belonged to a child, i*, which occupied a grave in the ordinary Eomano-British bearing; but it is much more probable that they belonged to this skeleton, which had an Anglo- Saxon buckle upon its pelvis, and from which, in the wrench and jerk of the fall, the umbo and knife may very readily have been dislocated. The diameter of the umbo was 6-2 in.; height, 2-8 in.; lesser circumference, 14-4 in. There were four broad-headed rivets on the broad periphery, with three eyelet-holes between each pair. Its type was therefore the ordinary one found here. This umbo was exchanged for one in the possession of the Aldworth family. The skuU appears after reconstruction to have been of the platycephalic ovoidal Anglo-Saxon type. Cf. ' Crania Britannica,' Plate XLVI, and plate added in description of Plate IX. i». Child, probably boy of about 12. ii. Skull of old looman, with Anglo-Saxon ornaments, such as are described p. 70 of ' Pagan Saxondom,' and figured Plate XXXV. fig. 4; and ' Fairford Graves,' Plate IX. fig. 10; ' Cran. Brit.' Plate XX. p. 5 ; and Brighthampton, ' Archae- olog.' xxxvii. No. i. 38 ; No. xvi. in Ashmolean Museum ; and with fibulae such as are figured at fig. i. in Plate XVIII.' Pagan Saxondom,' as found near Rugby. The body lay in a grave running from W.S.W. to E.N.B., not an unusual bearing for an Anglo-Saxon here. The grave was 27 in. deep. Stains of green on left clavicle and right rib i., the pins on the ring having been on the left shoulder, and the fibulae one on each shoulder. The fibulae are similar, also, to the two figured by Mr. Akerman in the ' Archaeologia,' vol. xxxix. Plate XI. figs. 8 and 9, as found at Long Wittenham. iii. Skull and femur and patella of old man, dug out of a grave with Romano-British bearings, and from under an urn, iii", containing burnt bones of an adult. A nail was found in the grave with this old man. Skull eminently globose. Femur, 18.8 in.; stature, 5 ft. 11 in. Lower jaw nearly destroyed by water-wear. iii*. Urn not reconstructed, plain, containing adult bones. It had a flat stone on the top of it. iii". Plain urn, with two bosses each on opposite sides, not pushed out from the inside, but stuck on to the outside, containing burnt bones of an adult. iv. Man past middle-life. Skull of globose type, with some of long bones. In a very much deeper grave than usual, 40 in. deep, in usual Romano-British direction, from W.N.VV. to E.S.E. Many nails in grave with the bones, with wood, probably oak, adherent. A fragment of old Roman pottery, the bottom of an um, in grave. Femur, i8.i8; tibia, 14-8; stature, 5ai. V. Skull of child, 6^ years old, with two amber beads. Came from last grave but one on right side, as did also the skeleton No. ix, which had a coin with it, and also osteophytes internally in skull.