CEMETERY AT FRILFORD. 641 X. Child, much decayed. Early period of first dentition. xi. Calvaria, man, middle age, with pot and flint. Long bones much water-worn. Elongated British type. No lower nor upper jaw. xii. Old man. Face upwards, and left ai-m across body. About middle of' fall' and to right of viii and xi. Elongated British type, but vertically carinate like the preceding specimen. The crossing of the arms may point to his being an Anglo- Saxon. See xxii, Jan. 6, 1S69. xiii. Old ivoman. Calvai-ia and femora, 16-7 in. Osteophytes and pacchionian pits. Water-worn. 'Sion'type. Compare vi of April i, 1868; xi of April i, 1868; vi of May, 1867. xiv. Oldicoman. Skeleton sent by carrier. Eight humerus, 11.7 ; left, 11-2. Femur, 13-4. Anglo-Saxon woman. 4 children, i young man, i middle-aged man, i old man, 2 old women, = 9 bodies. January 20, 1868. XV. Enife, with much rust and (?) woody fibre adhering to it. Found close to xii in the loose earth which had fallen to the bottom of the pit. Could this knife have belonged to the little old woman, xiv (?); see skull, which is much more like that of the Anglo-Saxon woman xiii of May, 1S67 ? xvi. Urn, a little to the left of the knee of xiii of January 15. The urn unopened. xvii. Skeleton of woman (young). Her tibia was i ft. beneath the humerus of an Anglo-Saxon, xviii, who was lying in a direction from S. S.S.W. to N. N.N.W. and at right angles to her grave, which was in the ordinary Romano-British direction from W.N.W. to E.S.E. In the intersection of the graves a beautiful coin of Constans was found. Left radius injured during life and repaired. Both humeri malformed. With this came part of upper jaw of old person, with three teeth from canines inclusive backwards, of elongated Romano-British type. Stature, 4 ft. 11 in. I young woman, i age and sex uncertain, = 2 bodies. Fehrua/ry 8, 1868. xviu. Anglo-Saxon young man, with umbo, spear, knife (no buckle), Roman tiles, stones round grave ; coin of Constans in intersection of his grave with that of xvii; some animal's (sheep ?) bones in grave (see Akerman, ' Pagan Saxondom,' Introd. p. xvii); gi'ave from head S. S S.W. to N. N.N.E.; foot at right angles to grave xvii 2 ft. deep ; xvii 3 ft. A tooth of ox between head of Anglo-Saxon and feet of Romano-British woman. Femora only partially recovered, a large stone over their lower ends having crushed them very much. Fragments of great size. Clavicles long and curved. Humerus, 13-1; radius, 9-3. For Roman tilings, see ' Archiv fiir Anthropologie,' i. 3, 356 ; (see xxii of Jan. 6, 1869''. xix. Man, strcng, leyond middle life, probably. Head of River-bed type, parietal protuberance. Ribs broken and repaired in life ; abscess at root of one molar. A good deal of exostosis on left humerus. Copper staining on jaw, and clavicle. No nails found with body. Romano-British direction of grave. See p. 628, supra. XX. Skull of middle-aged man, with Roman tile. Very elongated, with long bones. Bones loose. Skull peculiarly elongated. xxi. Sl-ull of young man, found with vertebra of ruminant in grave, and a fragment T t