PREIIISTOEIC TIMES IN BEITAIN. 557 reference is given I. c. to any memoir of Professor Riitimeyer's ; and I became, after writing- the foregoing paper, acquainted with the one in question from a mention of it made by Herr Edmund Naumann in ' Archiv fur Anthropologic,'' Bd. viii. i, 1875, p. 19, in a discussion on 'Die Fauna der Piahlbauten im Starnberger See.' From a perusal of this paper of Professor Riitimeyer, I am inclined to think that he would regard the skull (fig. 2) from the alluvium of the Thames valley in the Oxford Univ. Museum as a skull of S. scrofa, var. palustris. I have spoken of it as the skull of a wild sow, considering, as said above, p. 530, that early breeding may, in a species admitting of such a wide range of structural oscillation, and notably in the matter of mere size, account for a very great distance between its male and female representatives (see for a similar view as regards our own species 'Journal of Anthropological Institute,' vol. ii. 1875, p. 122). I am not inclined to withdraw from this view even after reading Prof. Riitimeyer's and Herr J. W. Schutz's memoirs. For in the former of these I find (p. 151) that the five skulls used for descrip- tion are acknowledged to be skulls of sows, and four of them to have been skulls of old sows, and the measurements given at p. 163 have been taken exclusively from skulls confessedly female (see p. 161). And I learn from Herr Schutz's essay (p. 44) that Steen- strup (cit. Wiegmann's'Archiv,' xxvii. n. 112) had distinctly stated that the ' Torfschwein' was (as I had hinted without any know- ledge of his views, see p. 254, supra) simply the female representa- tive of S. scrofa, var. ferns. Professor Riitimeyer had not at the time of writing his 'Fauna der Pfahlbauten,' 1861 (see p. 33), a single perfect skull of the 'Torfschwein' available to his com- parison ; the almost perfect skulls treated of in his memoir of 1864 (see p. 150) have caused him to modify the view put forward at p. 190 of the earlier work, and in the later one he allows (pp. 158- 160) that, both in the matter of the length of the lacrymal and in the absence of widening of the palate anteriorly, the 8. scrofa, var. pahstris, was more nearly affined to S. scrofa, \ax.ferus, than to 8. indicus. To show this was the reason for giving a great number of my measurements, su^pra, pp. 544-547. I take this opportunity of saying that the very small breed of the Scottish highlands and islands, with suberect ears, usually of a dusky brown colour, with an arched back and coarse bristles along the neck and spine, spoken of by Professor Low in his ' Domesticated Animals of the British