657 ANGLO-SAXON CEMETERY AT FRILFOIID. Memoir on Frilforil, Article XXXIV. It is worth while noticing- that this Anglo-Saxon woman was 5 ft. 5 in. in height, an instance of what is said to be usual, but what I have found to be by no means invariable, viz., an equality, or an approach to equality, in the stature of the German women and men^; next, that her skull was found five inches above her sternum, three stones having- been placed underneath it; and, lastly, that the knees were at a higher level by several inches than either the ankles or the hips, besides being, as the statement of the body having been in the contracted position implies, out of the line of the long axis of the skeleton. These points are not ordinarily found in Christian burials. The arms were, however, crossed, and the hands folded inwards, as was often done in such interments; with which, again, on the other hand, this Anglo-Saxon burial appears to have contrasted in the body's being turned somewhat on to the left side, a point which, from the crushed condition of the skeleton, lying only about 3 feet from the surface of the ground, it was difficult to make out. The question now arises. Were such non-oriented, contracted, shallowly interred, but relic-provided, bodies, the bodies of heathen or of Christianised Saxons? Mr. Kemble's dictum, ' Horae Ferales,' p. 98, to the effect, that, 'if there is any equivocation in the matter, it lies the other way; a few half-converted Christians may for a while have clung to the rite of burning, but no Pagan Saxon was buried without it,' is well known ; but I am of opinion that this is one of the few mistakes which Mi-. Kemble made. This one mis- take of Mr. Kemble led him logically to a conclusion to be found at p. 230 of the same valuable work, the ' Horae Ferales,' in a remark printed from the MSS. left behind him. Speaking of the rarity of Saxon urns in Scottish Museums, one from Buchan, to be seen in the Museum of the Antiquarian Society, being specified as the only one he knew of, Mr, Kemble remarks, ' If they (Anglo- Saxon urns) should turn out to be very rare there (in Scotland not merely in Scottish museums), it would be evidence that no very important settlement was made there by the Saxons before their conversion to Christianity; a result which history seems to bear out. It was, in fact, Christianity which united the Saxons suf- ficiently to make them capable of acting en masse against their ' For fijrure of a akeleton with skull similarly raised, see ' Grabfeld von Hallstatt,' tab. iii. fig. 4, U U