MODIFICATIONS OF ASPECTS OF ORGANIC NATURE smaller in size no doubt than those of the male, when coupled with the fact that in the older breeds of domestic sheep both sexes carry- horns, appears to me to be conclusive in favour of the Central Asiatic Wild Sheep. As re<?ards the Natural History arguments I shall content myself, and I daresay others also, by referring- ^ to the already quoted eleventh fascicle of Pallas's ' Spicilegia,' and to Isidore Geoffroy St. Hilaire's ' Histoire Naturelle,' iii. pp. 86-87, ibique citata, but I would add a couple of facts from the linguistic side of the mass of arguments available for deciding the question. The first of these is as follows : —The early Accadian inhabitants of the plains of Babylonia, when they gave an epithet to an animal, very frequently chose it from the locality whence they supposed the animal to have been derived. And the epithet which they be- stowed upon the sheep was 'num,' or 'nummaV which means ''the highlands,' and which, as applied by people living in those wide plains, and as being applied by them to the wolf alsOj has a very obvious significance. It is true, as anybody may convince himself by consulting Bochart's ' Hierozoicon,' ii. 3, p. 516, that poets and other writers^ Aryans and Semites, Greeks, Romans, and Arabians indifferently, have connected the sheep, as they saw its habits, with mountainous scenery and surroundings; what is of special importance in the epithet as used in the Accadian column of the bilingual Assyrian inscriptions is, that it was used in such a country and in such early, not to say such unpoetical, times. My second linguistic fact tells, as it seems to me, strongly in favour of not merely the Asiatic but of the Mongolian origin of the domestic sheep; it appears, I mean, to point to a more or less limited area in the wide field of Asia as having been the particular spot, or at any rate one of the particular spots, where a wild sheep * I may acid a few words from the already quoted memoir by Andreas "Wagner, 1. c, p. 137: 'Hochasien ist recht eigentlich das Vaterland der Wildschafe und Wilclziege, die Mer in zahlreicher Menge und in sehr verschiedenen Formen vor- handen sind. Ob diese alle gesonderte Arten oder nicht vielmehr viele von ihnen nur Rassen von Hauptarten ausmaclien, ist eine Frage die noch lange nicht beant- wortet est.' Mr. Wallace's suggestion (' Geographical Distribution,' vol. 1. p. 232) that the vast plateau of Central Asia may, in comparatively recent geological times, have been much less elevated, and may then have been much more fertile than it is now, deserves more than this simple mention. ^ For these facts see the Rev. W. Houghton ' On the Mammalia of the Assyrian Sculptures,' Trans. Soc. Biblicril Archaeology, v. i, 1876, pp. 3-7, ibid. 2, 1S77, p. 42. 'Gleanings from the Natural History of the Ancients,' 1879, pp. 12-89,