766 THE HARVEIAN ORATION. ad Eiolanum,' p. 109); the impact of these opposite forces resulting, however, in much benefit for mankind, as without them Harvey might, it is likely enough, have delayed the publication of his works indefinitely. Being self-contained without being self- conscious, he was yet, like all men of real genius, large-hearted and sympathetic. Whilst he could, in a spirit of perhaps a little overstrained charity, make excuses (see p. 614, ' Epistola ad Slege- lium') for the pestilent and irrepressible Riolanus, he would, we may be also sure, have felt an emotion of gratitude upon each of the many instances in which his own true-hearted adherents, Sir George Ent and other Fellows of this College, fought his battles for him, and vindicated for him successfully and during his own lifetime his own irrefragable claims. And I can believe that, answering to the character of the dignified, stately, and high- minded man so well drawn by the author whom he often quotes (Aristotle, ' Eth. Nic' iv. 3 (7) ), and considering himself worthy of great respect, being worthy of it, he would not have looked disapprovingly upon our attempt to show him respect by the Tercentenary Memorial to which you. Sir, have lent the sanction of your name. I can further conceive of Harvey as entirely sym- pathising with the men who have now in their hands the torch of knowledge which once passed through his, of applauding without any shadow of jealousy the work of the many workers who in these days are going over the ground trodden by him under far less favourable circumstances and with far less assistance from ancillary ^ sciences and their various and still novel instruments and methods. The same spirit which caused him repeatedly to say (as, for example, to Sir George Ent, p. 163 ; to Horstius, p. 630), ' haec cum mira, ut solet, promptitudine effundens,' that he doubted not that much now hidden in darkness would be brought to light by the inde- fatigable industiy of the coming age; the same spirit which dictated the provision in his will bidding ' his lo. friend Mr. Doctor Ent' sell certain of his 'books, papers, or rare collections,' and, ^with the money buy better,' would have caused him, could he have been ^ Such an experiment, for example, as that put on record by Professor Haughton ('Principles of Animal Mechanics,' 1873, p. 151), as performed by Professor Mac- namara with his assistance, and as showing that the time occupied by absorption, circulation, and secretion occupies less than four minutes, requires the employment of iodine; and iodine has been discovered and isolated but some sixty-two years.