CEMETERY AT FRILFORD. 635 varieties^, I am convinced that it is even more closely allied with that brachycephalic form which has been called 'Ligurian' by Professor Nicolucci, which is identified with the ' Disentis' type of Professors His and Riitimeyer, by Dr. Holder in his excellent paper on the ethnography of Wiirtemberg- 2, though the Swiss Professors themselves w^ould demur to this unification ^; and which, finally, is, I apprehend, the form considered till recently * by nearly all con- tinental anthropologists as the oldest of European types. I am inclined to hold that the rough-hewn brachycephalous Briton, of whom Dr. Thurnam has written in his paper on ' the two principal forms of ancient British and Gaulish skulls^,' was distinct from the brachycephalous ' Ligurian,' though very possibly descended from one common stock; just as I should think it very probable that the cultured brachycephalous skulls of which I have spoken were produced simply by the operation of civilising influences upon the rougher crania of similar type, but of earlier times; and as I should suppose that Roman civilisation and Roman inter-crossing elaborated the larger out of the smaller and earlier dolichocephalic skulls of this country. The five varieties which I believe may be thus distinguishable—viz., the two brachycephalous, and the two dolichocephalous, cultured and uncultured respectively, and the 'Ligurian'—will be found to be connected with each other by inosculant forms. Even under conditions of the most primitive ® simplicity and peacefulness, the human cranium shows a great tendency to variation; and in England we must recollect that this essential liability to variation was much intensified in early times by the migrations and immigrations of the Belgae from the con- tinent; by those of the pastoral inhabitants of the then thinly peopled, forest-covered country; and in later times by those of the Romans and Saxons. Most or all invasions entail more or less of * As taught by Professor Huxley, 1. c. p. 120; and ' Proc. Soc. Antiq.' April 19, 1866. * 'Arch, fur Antbrop.' bd. ii. hft. i. 55-57. ' See 'Crania Helvetica,' p. 41 ; 'Arch, fiir Anthropologie,' i. 70, 1866; Ecker, ' Cran. Germ.' pp. 76-80 ; Huxley, 1. c. pp. 117-118. * For a discuBsion as to the priority in point of time of the bracbycephalous or the dolichocephalous form of skull, see Mortillet, ' Materiaux pour I'Histoire positive et Philosophique de I'Homme,' 1867, pp. 3B3-385 ; Ecker, 'Crania German.' p. 93. ' 'On two Forms,' I.e. pp. 31-44. ' See Bates, 'Naturalist on the Amazon.?,' ii. p. 129, and perconlra, Ecker, 'Crania Gennaniae Meridionalis,' p. 2 ; Gratiolet, ' Systfeme Nerveux,' ii. p. .286.