884 ADDRESS ON ANTHROPOLOGY. present moment (see, for example, "Ev. Miss. Mag-." j 867, p. 300, Clieever, 295} [or, I may add, our own recent information as to the destructive outbreak of measles in Fiji] ; they have become more able to respond to the efforts to raise their mental and moral status than they were ; and, with the advance of civilisation, they have begun to avail themselves more of the remedial agencies which it brings with it. On the other hand, we cannot ignore the fact that the Europeans themselves, in spite of many important ex- ceptions, have nevertheless done a very great deal for the natives, and are always doing more and more for them. Whilst in this matter the English Government deserves great praise, and whilst Sir George Grey has done more for the Polynesians than almost any other man, the missionaries nevertheless stand in the very first rank amongst the benefactors of these races, with their unwearied self-sacrificing activity; and Russel ("Polynesia," Edinb., 1840) is entirely right in saying that all the progress which the Pol3'nesians have made was really set on foot by the missionaries. They have had the greatest influence upon the civilisation of the natives; they have taken their part and protected them when they could; they have further given them the fast foothold, the new fresh object, motive, and meaning for their whole existence, of which they stood so much in need. The Polynesians have often declared to the missionaries, "If you had not come, we should have perished;" and they would have perished if their country had not been so dis- covered. The resources of their physical life were exhausted ; and they had none of the moral nor ideal support for the needs of their spiritual nature which they stood so urgently in need of, as they had already attained a grade of culture too high to allow of their living without some support of that kind. It is true that ex- traneous circumstances have often, especially in the outset, brought about their conversion—as, for example, the authority of their chiefs, the force of example, as also, on the other hand, the occur- rence of misfortune, great mortality, the loss of a battle, after which they wished to make the experiment of worshipping a new god (Russel, pp. 886, 390). And it is also true that the missionaries have introduced tliem to an exceedingly bigoted and often little- elevated form of Christianity; but even this has been a fortunate circumstance ; for just the comprehensibility, the plain appeal to the senses, of this new religion took hold of the imagination of