543 PREHISTORIC TIMES IN BRITAIN, by the tiger {Felis ftgris), as well as other Carnivora unfriendly to Suidae, appears to me to have specialised it, especially as regards its dental armature and the bones which carry it, into divergence from the probable line of parentage of the inconveniently so-called Sus indicus. Siis audnmatiensis, on the other hand, and, I am inclined to think, one or two other of the Asiatic Suidae, show, from a precisely opposite cause, that of restriction to a very con- fined area, the same divergence from what I have imagined the present stock of the Chinese breed may have been. But against any such speculations about what we do not see in the darkness of past ages we have to set what we can see by travel in the broad daylight of the present, viz. that almost all Suidae are readily domesticable by savages in almost every quarter of the globe; and what savages do now they may very well have done formerly. I have not been able to institute any satisfactory examination into the relations of the Aethiopic to the Asiatic Suidae; and I should welcome an opportunity of examining skulls and skins of the true Stis seen by Dr. Murie and Dr. Earth in Central Africa. It would be additionally satisfactory if investigations could be set on foot as to the existence or non-existence in this Sus of the Cystic form of Taenia solium, which certainly exists in Sus cristatus. Dr. Cobbold informs me that Taenia wediocannellata is the common tapeworm of Indian as of other patients ; but I apprehend that, as it has been so very definitely laid down by others ^ that the pig is at least one source whence inhabitants and sojourners in India become infested with tapeworm, it would be premature to conclude the reverse even from his authoritative statements. It must be very difficult to prove a negative here. The facts of most direct importance, however, in investigations as to the relationships of prehistoric to modern races are those of the great variations observed—first, in the entire size of the indi- vidual animals, and, secondly, in the proportions of jiarticular bones, and notably of the lacr3'mal bones, in specimens fi'om the same species or sub-species of Suidae. In view on the one side of this twofold variability which is explicable upon acknowledged physio- logical principles, and affects the wild races both of Europe and ' Notably by Dr. Charles A. Gordon, 'Medical Times and Gazette,' May 2, 1857, p. 429; and by Dr. T. R. Lewin, Appendix B. to ' Eighth Annual Report of the Sanitary Coniiniitsioner with the Governnaent of India,' 1871.