TYPHOID OR ENTERIC FEVER 933 entire month ; and that Dv, Fairweather says of it that it looked ' like a coi3:iplication of a dysentery, typhus, and typhoid.' Of the eig-ht cases, therefore, which were taken as proving conclusively the presence of typhus in India, two appear to have been certainly typhoid, the post-mortem examination proving the disease to have been this; a third is the case last mentioned; a fourth appears to have been a case of tuberculosis ; a fifth, though covered with eruption like that of typhus during life, did not retain it after j a sixth began as a case of intermittent fever; and the two others who survived may possibly have been cases of typhoid or of remittent. It would appear from the ' Report on Measures adopted for Sanitary Improvements in India from June, 1869, to June, 1870,' recently published, p. 85, that there are two reports extant upon the fever in the Rawulpindee Gaol, by Dr. Lyons, the medical officer in charge. It would be interesting to see these. Dr. Fairweather has prefixed to his detailed accounts of the eight cases, previously referred to, a short account of the general characteristics of the disease. Amongst these is noted the absence of yellowness of the conjunctivae, which may show that the disease known in Great Britain as ' relapsing fever' was not a factor in the epidemic. Dr. Murchison says of the disorder, indeed [op. cit., p. 301), that it is unknown in India, and, indeed, in all tropical countries. Certain remarks as to the general characters of the epidemic which Dr. De Renzy makes in various parts of his report appear to me to be more easily reconcilable with the hypothesis of its having been typhoid than with one which should suppose it to have been either relapsing or typhus fever. These remarks are as follows:— 1. It prevailed in the latter half of the year. See Dr. De Renzy, loc. cit., p. 121. See also 'Report on Sanitary Improvements in India,' 1870, p. 30; and Dr. Bryden's 'Report on Cholera Epi- demic,' pp. 20, 74. 2. It appeared first in villages (see Dr. De Renzy, p. 121, and note to p. 87 A of the Appendix, and ' Report of Sanitary Improve- ments,' p. 45), and Dr. Anstie tells us (' Notes on Epidemics,' p. 70) that typhoid is ' the special epidemic of the slumbrous conservative rural districts.'