627 CEMETlilllY AT FRILFORD. belonffed in all but one instance to men of a stature little, or not at all, short of six feet, and this large stature must not be forgotten when we admire the large size of their brain-case. Only one female skull which at all approximates in size to these larger crania has come into my hands at Frilford; and this skull belonged to a woman of little, if at all, more than 5 ft. i in. in height. But I incline to think that the female crania, seven in number, which I hiive spoken of as ' the River-bed type modified by increase of size,' and which constitute in the tabular view to which I allude a third variety of the Romano-British series, with an average stature of four feet nine inches and a-half, are to be ieonsidered as the female representatives of the ' globose Romano-British type.' For, strikingly similar as the contour of these skulls is to that assigned by Professor Huxley^ to his 'River-bed skulls,' their capacity exceeds that of those crania, and their measurements come to correspond very closely with those of the smaller male skulls belonging to individuals of smaller stature of the globose Romano- British type, whilst in their solid texture they resemble the larger skulls of that division. Facsimiles of these female crania have been procured from many excavations in this country. I have found them in the 'Long Barrow' at Crawley, which has been already spoken of as contain- ing skeletons with crania of the brachycephalic British type, and which, it should be added, has furnished us with evidence as to female skulls corresponding to the large brachycephalic male skulls, and differing, therefore, considerably from every variety of the River-bed type. A skull very closely similar to this Frilford. variety of pre-Saxon times may be seen in the museum of the London College of Surgeons, under the number '5712 R' in the Catalogue, and with the title ' Peat skull.' And, lastly, a modern female skull obtained for me by Dyce Duckworth, Esq., M.D., from the Hint«r-Rhein-Thal, near the Spliigen Pass, the country of the 'Disentis' type of the Swiss anatomists, would have shown me, had other evidence been wanting, that this form of cranium has per- sisted into, and is abundant in, our own day. A modification of the River-bed type is presented to us in certain small crania to which I have applied the term 'cylindro- cephalic' In this form represented by two female and undoubtedly See ' Prehiatoric Remains of Caithness,' p. 120. S S 2