PREHISTORIC TIMES IN BRITAIN, 531 stores of the Museum into its series. Both these other skulls pos- sessed the short lacrymal so characteristic, as the subjoined tables of measurements will show, of Sus cristatus and its allies, together with the other points usually observed in that animal's skull. The principal points, besides those of general faeies and proportions, which appeared to me to justify this assignment of skull 3251 a (Royal College of Surgeons) were, in the absence of the shortness of the lacrymal,—first, the great prominence of what may be called the lacrymo-frontal ridge, that part of the frontal bone, to wit, which lies between the channel for the supraorbital nerve mesially and the upper border of the lacrymal bone outwardly; secondly, the great relative development of the part of the third molar which is posterior to the two anterior bicuspidate lobes of that tooth ; thirdly, the absence of convexity backwards in the naso-frontal suture. These three points are usually present in Sus cristatus, and they are usually found to be accompanied by the fourth pecu- liarity of a short lacrymal. One or other of these characters may be absent; but In an undoubted specimen of an adult male Sus cristatus I have never seen more than one of these missing; whilst it is rare for the second, and very rare for either the first or the third, to be found in undoubted specimens of the Palaearctic wild boar. In a skull figured by Mr. Richardson {I. c. p. 50), from ' an excavation in an island on Loch Gur, a lake in the neighbourhood of Limerick,' and ' found in company with skulls of oxen, goats, sheep, red deer, reindeer, and our extinct gigantic deer, sometimes erroneously styled the Iiish elk,' but considered by Nathusius (p. 150) to have belonged to a domestic animal, it is true that the lacrymo-frontal ridge is repre- sented as of great size; but we must set against the assigning of much importance to this fact the considerations that the drawing IS taken from a reconstructed skull, that it is obviously inaccurate in some points, as, for example, like a drawing in S. Miiller's ' Verhandl.' (Taf. 28 bis, fig. 3), in having an extra tooth poste- riorly to its canines, and that it may consequently be supposed to be likely to be inaccurate in other particulars also. The fronto- laerymal ridge is, of course, in the adult underlain by a prolonga- tion of the frontal sinuses; it is, however, visible enough in very- young specimens of domestic pigs, which show other points of M m 2