BIOLOaiCAL TRAINING AND STUDIES. 850 special vocations, to give the talent thus entrusted to them fair scope for development, and to render smaller the risk of their dying mute and inglorious. A young man who is possessed of a talent for Natural Science and Physical Inquiry generally, may have the knowledge of this predisposition made known to himsL4f and to others, for the first time, by his introduction to a well-arranged Local Museum. In such an institution^ either all at once, or gradually, the conviction may spring up within him that the in- vestigation of physical problems is the line of investigation to which he should be content to devote himself, relinquishing the pursuit of other things; and then, if the museum in question is really a well-arranged one, a recruit may be thereby won for the growing army of physical investigators, and one more man saved from the misery of finding, when he has been taken into some other career, that he has, somehow or other, mistaken his profession, and made of his career one life-long mistake. Here comes the question, What is a well-arranged museum? The answer is, a well-arranged museum, for the particular purpose of which we are speaking, is one in which the natural objects which belong to the locality, and which have already struck upon the eye of such a person as the one contemplated, are clearly explained in a well-arranged catalogue. The curiosity which is the mother of science is not awakened for the first time in the museum, but out of doors, in the wood, by the side of the brook, on the hillside, by scarped cliff and quarried stone ; it is the function of the museum, by rendering possible the intellectual pleasure, which grows out of the surprise with which a novice first notes the working of his faculty of inspiration, to prevent this curiosity from degenerating into the mere woodman's craft of the gamekeeper, or the rough empiricism of the farmer. The first step to be taken in a course of natural instruction is the providing of means whereby the faculties of observation and of verification may be called into activity; and the first exercise the student should be set down to is that of recog- nising, in the actual thing itself, the various properties and pecu- liarities which some good book or some good catalogue tells him are observable in it. This is the first step, and, as in some other matters, ce ifCest que le premier pas qui coute. And it need not cost much. There is a name familiar to Section D, and, indeed, not likely for a long while to be forgotten by members of the British