THE EXAMINATION SYSTEM AND THE 910 SO as to be readily transmissible and communicable in public; tbe hearer is benefited by obtaining- orally, or rather auditorally, what it would have cost him more time to obtain, if indeed he could have obtained it at all, by reading or otherwise. Besides, hearing is what is known as a ' natural process,' and no improvement in the way of printing can ever entirely supersede it, or make it what it is some- times said to be—namely,' a barbarous anachronism.' I say nothing of the advantage to be drawn from contact with a living personal source of knowledge, though it is clear enough that a few striking expressions delivered by an earnest man viva voce may awaken more thought and create more lively interest than a whole volume of print, however well illustrated. For as iron sharpeneth iron, so man the face of his friend. I see, know, and gratefully recollect the benefits of lectures; but the more excellent an institution is the more is it likely to be injured by compulsory enactments intended to govern or protect it. Attendance at morning or evening chapel, or both, is an excellent practice; but the making it compulsory has a very sure, I do not say an invariable, tendency to rob it of its beneficial effect. It is a more edifying sight to see a single indi- vidual going to such a service spontaneously,—as I am told a veiy distinguished statesman, the junior member for a constituency not a hundred miles hence, may be seen doing in all weathers,—than to see a whole college of young men hurrying to Divine service to have their attendance upon it entered as upon a roll-call. I am glad to think that the answering a roll-call pure and simple is allowed in some of our colleges to stand as an alternative for attendance in chapel. Now compulsory attendance at lectures, like compulsory attendance at chapels, aims at attaining something which I believe to be distinctly good, but which I also know to be as distinctly not securable by it. . I cannot see the wisdom of aiming at the un- attainable, and as testimony to bodily attendance is the only result really attained by the process of ' signing up,' I should distinctly limit the bearing of the documents I refer to to the scope really attainable—to wit, the scope of a roll-call. I am informed that in one of the largest of continental countries, the system of signing for students is entirely given up, it having been so much abused, and that if a student only passes his examinations well he need not have attended a single lecture. Hereby, however, I submit that the public are robbed of some of the security which they have a