750 THE HAEVEIAN OEATION. of those explanations which he himself so forcibly denounces in the words ('Epistola Secunda ad Riolanum/ p. Ii6), ' Vulgo scioli cum causas assignare haud norunt dicunt statim a spiritibus hoc fieri et omnium opifices spiritus introducunt, et ut mali poetae ad fabulae explicatiouem et catastrophen Oebu a-no ixrixavri^ advocant in scenam.' It is a hard thing for any man to abstain from speculating as to the cause of any well-established phenomenon, especially if it be of striking interest and importance; it is a hard thing for any man to do more than keep pace with his own generation; and those who have spent any time in reading the works of Harvey's con- temporaries, will best appreciate the difficulty he must have had in setting himself free from the influence of the idola theatri referred to. I pass from this reflection to an exposition of the claims which have been put forward on behalf of Walter Warner, the editor in 1631 of' Harriott's Algebra,' to the discovery of the circulation of the blood; and I do this by a natural transition, Walter Warner having been a man in whose mind, all his mathematics notwith- standing, the idola in question greatly abounded. Warner's claims are alluded to by Dr. Willis in a note to his excellent ' Life of Harvey' (see p. Ixiv). They are put forward by Anthony Wood, upon the authority of Dr. Pell, a man distinguished as one of Oliver Cromwell's diplomatists, and afterwards as an assiduous supporter of the then young K-oyal Society; and upon that of Dr. Morley, some time Dean of Christ Church, and afterwards Bishop of Winchester (see Wood, * Athenae Oxonienses/ vol. i. p. 461, 2nd ed. 1721 ; vol. ii. p. 302, ed. Bliss). Aubrey, a contemporary of Wood's, appears, from a note at p. 417 of the second volume of his ' Lives of Eminent Persons/ to have had the same story from Izaak Walton, who gave Dr. Morley again as his authority; and Aubrey repeats the tale with certain additions, and notably with that of Dr. Pell's authority, at p. 577 of the same volunje. The same story was pointed out to me by one of the officials in the Bodleian Library as being given in an anonymous biographical Miscellany to be found in the ' Kawlinsonian Collection,' B 158, pp. 152-153. This MS. appears to be of the latter half of the seventeenth century, and its legend runs to the following effect. A certain Henry, Earl of Northumberland, being imprisoned in the Tower, did, for the better passing of his time, get several learned persons to live and converse with him; one of these men (whom, Aubrey tells us,