THE HARVEIAN ORATION. 731 his seventy-fourth year, we should not have had the following statement at page 9 of his hook: ' I have conceived that the arteries contained air in an uncombined state, which may assist in keeping them distended, and in facilitating the circulation ; but I have not been able to prove it.' The fact that Harvey performed experi- ments in the way of injection may be unknown to many persons who are too well informed to conceive that the arteries may or can, compatibly with the carrying on of any circulation, contain air in an uncombined state; for these experiments are not to be found recorded either in the treatise ' De Motu Cordis' or in either of the two letters to Riolanus; which two compositions were, in the older editions of Harvey's works, printed as three parts of a single treatise, under the names of ' Exercitatio Anatomica i. De Motu Cordis,' etc., 'Exercitatio Anatomica ii. De Circulatione Sanguinis,' and ' Exercitatio Anatomica iii. De Circulatione San- guinis;' and were, till the appearance of the College of Physicians' edition in 1766, the only published^, as they are still the best ^ The statement made (by Dr. Akenside ; see Pettigrew,' Medical Portrait Gallery,' Preface, p. 7, citing Dr. F. Hawkins) in the Praefatio to the College of Physicians' edition of Harvey's works, to the effect that only two of Harvey's Letters had been published prior to the year 1766, is not correct. Horstius, as Harvey's words in the 'Epistola Sexta,' p. 631 ('Harveii Opera,' ed. 1766), show, when'read in connexion with the Epistola immediately preceding it, received three letters from Harvey. By consulting Horstius' work referred to by Dr. Akenside, I.e., I found at pp. 61-65 the letter, which appears in our edition as ' Epistola Tertia responsoria Morisono,' pub- lished by Horstius in i^^6 with the omission of the first six and a half, and also of the last three and a half lines. These lines Harvey had doubtless ordered his amanuensis —a functionary of great importance to one who wrote so bad a hand (see p. 165, ed. 1766, or Harvey's own autograph MS., No. 486, Sloane Coll., British Museum)—to omit when he bade him copy and send to Horstius, 'eadem quae antea medico cuidam Parisiensi (sc. Morisono) responderat.' Horstius does not publish Harvey's letter (the 'Epistola Quinta' of our edition) of date Feb. I, 1654-5, I'ut appends the last letter of the three (the 'Epistola Sexta' of our edition) to his own answer to Harvey's earlier communication. I shall henceforward refer to the College of Physicians' edition of Harvey's works as 'ed. 1766,' and to Dr. Willis' most valuable translation of them, published by the Sydenham Society in 1847, as ' ed. Willis.' I throw out as a topic for future discussion the question whether Dr. Willis is right in following the editions of Harvey's writings of an earlier date than 1766, in retaining the negative in the sent-ence (at p. 131 in both his edition and in that of 1766) in the second epistle to Riolanus which refers to the Critias of Plato. I think Dr. Willis is right, and that Dr..Lawrence was wrong; but to do this it is necessary to sacrifice Harvey's credit for knowledge of Plato whilst vindicating the consecutiveness of his reasoning. Harvey himself would probabfy have accepted this alternative. It is right to add, however, that so far as rny reading of the edition of 1766 has carried me, I have come upon no other case where I have been forced to think that Dr. Lawrence may have blundered.