803 PEODUCED BY MAN, die Eegenmenge zu, er hat desslialb im Gebirge einen griisseren Werth als im Ebenen. Im Sommerhalbjahr ist die Einwirkung des Waldes auf die Regenmenge viel grosser als im Winterhalbjahr.' Whatever the physical principles involved are, anybody may find beautiful illustrations of them, who will observe in a mountainous district how— ' The swimming vapour slopes athwart the glen, Puts forth an arm and creeps from pine to pine, And loiters slowly drawn or how ' The light cloud smoulders on the summer crag recollecting that the phrase ' Rauchen der Walder' is used for the similar phenomenon when produced by trees, or who will finally in a lowland or other country stand and study the frost as it hangs itself on to such a tree as tbe birch, often long before it has begun to whiten the ground around it. [Since writing as above, the' Observations Meteorologiques faites de 1877-1878,' by M, Fautrat, published by the French ' Ministere de I'Agriculture et du Commerce : Administration des Forets,' 1878, have come into my hands. This author, with the results of M. Ma- thieu's eleven years' observations at Nancy (for which see his ' Me- teorologie Comparee Agricole et Forestiere,' published under the same auspices, February 1878) before him, as also the results of four years' observations in the Forest of Halatte, and of three years in the pine- woods of Ermenonville, has come to the following conclusions. i. That when it rains more rain falls over a wooded than over a non-wooded area, and that whilst trees of all kinds possess the power of condensing vapour, broad-leaved trees produce less efiect than is produced by the narrow-leaved Coniferae (pp. 14 and 16). ii. That as regards the hydrometric condition of the air, the air over a wooded area contains more watery vapour (p. 18) than that over an unwooded area, but that the coniferae have more watery vapour in their circumambient atmosphere than the broad-leaved trees. M. Fautrat expresses, or rather expands, this fact in the following words :— ' If the vapour dissolved in the air was visible as are mists, we should see the forests surrounded with a vast screen of moisture, and around the Coniferae this envelope would be more marked than over the broad-leaved trees. What is the scarce of this vapour ? Does it come from the soil; is it the result of evaporation » Tennyson, 'OEnone.' 2 Tennyson,' Edwin Morris.' 3 F 2