715 MEDICINE IN MODEEN TIMES. Now the latter of these classes is exclusively, and the former all but exclusively, aquatic. The more perfect, again, an insect's metamorphosis, i. e. its power of building- up tissues and organs, the more perfect ordinarily, or rather the more profound, has been its quiescence as a pupa. Indeed, the very exception here proves the rule, and proves it to be a good one; for such hemimetabolous insects as, like May- and dragon-flies, come, in their imago state, to differ almost as much from their larval forms as the imagos of many holometabolous insects do from their larvae, are during those preparatory stages as completely aquatic as any crustacean (West- wood, ' Introduction to Entomology,' vol. ii. pp. 29, 38; Carus and Gerstaecker, ' Handbuch der Zoologie,' p. 29). I am aware that there is such authority as Mr. Paget's (' Surgical Pathology,' ed. Turner, p. 123) and Mr. Darwin's ('Animals and Plants under Domestication/ vol. ii. p. 15) in favour of regarding the power of repairing injuries as standing in an inverse ratio to the amount of metamorphotic change through which an animal has gone; and I must therefore take the more pains to show that my explanation, to the effect that this happy power depends mainly upon the peace- fulness and quiet with which the various processes of life are carried on ordinarily, and after the mutilation, is the truer one. My opponents' case would rest on such facts as these which follow. I will give them first, and then show how they really support my views. The larvae or tadpoles of the tailless Batrachia, but not the adults, says Dr. Giinther (Darwin, loc. eit., and Owen, ' Com- parative Anatomy of the Vertebrate Animals,' vol. i. p. 567), are capable of reproducing lost limbs. So with insects, says Mr. Dar- win, 1. c, ' the larvae reproduce lost limbs, but, except in one order' (the Orthoptera, and amongst them the Phasmidae^), 'the mature insect has no such power.' There is, however, one common pi'operty which lies at the bottom of the power of repair both in the larval forms and in the perfect adult animal, both in the invertebrata and in the vertebrata specified. This common property is the compara-' tive insignificance of the apparatus for aerial respiration :■ in all alike —in the larva of the anurous amphibia, in the larva of the butterfly, ' There seems to be some little doubt whether even a Phasma can regenerate lost parts after its last moult, apd some authorities would not consider it adult till after snch ecdysis. The Crustacea, however, moult many times after attaining the adult state, i, 6. a state in which they can reproduce the species.