PHYSIOLOGY IN KELATION TO 700 and Chronical Diseases of the Glands' (pp. 21-24), five cases of injury to the testicular gland in stags are recorded. In such cases as these after the injury to the testis, the horn may or may not be shed annually, and it may never thenceforward lose its ' velvet;' but it never becomes the dry lowly vascular weapon of offence which, in a fortnight or three weeks from the present time, we shall see the bucks polishing their hard leather-coated horns into against shrubs and trees. It remains vascular and spongy within, and coated outside with a hairy skin, which may be prolonged into pendulous outgrowths. Being sensitive and fragile, and bleeding easily, it acts as a second sexual disqualification; and, as I am speaking of this correlation of growth, I may be allowed to add, that its reality is further testified to by its absence after similar lesions in reindeer, where both bucks and does are alike horned. Now, I submit that the unilateral correspondence of malnutrition, such as we have here, is as good an instance and exemplification of Pfliiger's first law of reflex action, the law of unilateral [gleichseitig) transmission of stimulus, as any unilateral or homolateral twitching of any muscle can be in response to any one-sided stimulus. Only the reflex action shows itself in the way of nutrition—a sort of reversed hemiplegic nutrition, it is true—and not in that of move- ment nor in that of secretion \ Let me, as in the former case, lay alongside of the physiological experiment a parallel to it from pathology. This I will do by the help of Budge, who, at pages 794-795 of his ' Handbook of Phy- siology,' gives us the two following short histories, which have was the author of several other works besides the one I have quoted. Their existence has escaped the notice of Dr. Munk, in his interesting volumes, 'The Roll of the Royal College of Physicians,' vol. ii. p. 132. Their titles are: i. ' De Tabe Glandulari sive de usu Aquae Marinae in Morbis Glandularum Diseertatio ;' in i vol. 8vo.; pret. 58. 2. 'A Dissertation concerning the Use of Sea-water in Diseases of the Glands;' to wliich is added an Epistolary Dissertation to R. Frewen, M.D.; in one volume, 8vo.; price 5s. ' See Otto, 'Nene seltene Beobachtungen Samml.,'vol. ii. p. 10; Elsaesser, ' DifF. Sex. Mamm. praeter partes sexuales,' p. 36. Since writing the above, I have seen a note to p. 22 of Mr. Paget's 'Surgical Pathology,' edited by Professor Turner, in which the fact that no disturbance of nutrition is effected by mere transplantation of the testis in cocks, is brought forward to show that no mere nervous disturbance can account for these alterations of nutrition. I do not think that these negative results, obtained from experiments on half a dozen birds, can outweigh the positive fiicts of unilateral correspondence in malnutrition which have been so frequently observed in mammals. (See Hunterian Catalogue, Osteological Series, vol. ii. p. 591.)