755 THE HARVEIAN OEATION. ut ante demonstratum est.' This may be translated thus :—' But it may be said, that all competent persons accept these views in a more or less modified form, and have been convinced of the truth of them from the structure of the heart, and the contrivance, posi- tion, and use of the valves. But they seem to me to make as little use of their eyes as men do who are stumbling- about in a dark place, and their account of the matter is made up of heterogeneous, contradictory, and incompatible statements, and very much of it is pure guesswork, as I have already shown.' These words, the Latin ones, not my translation of them, were published, if not written, nine years (see p. 5, ' Harveii Opera,' ed. 1766, Dedicatio) and more after Harvey had first proved the facts of the circulation, and from them we gather that his discovery had, even so early as that date, got out of the stage in which a discovery is considered to be untrue, and got into that in which it is said that everybody knew it before. In no subject could it have been easier to make out a plausible case than in this of the circulation of the blood. Piecol- bomini (an acquaintance with whom I owe to Mr. Walter Warner, see his treatise, pp. 194, 200, 201) had given a diagram, it is there before you \ copied from the copy of his work in our library, of the junction of the portal and hepatic twigs, incorrect enough, no doubt, and obtained by a false method (see Harvey, ' Epistola Prima ad Riolanum,' p. 105, ed. 1766), but still something in the way of a working hypothesis (see Piccolhomini, ' Anat. Praelect.,' Romae, 1586, p, 117, and Warner, MS. p. 194). Servetus had speculated, but rightly, as to the lesser circulation ; so had Caesalpinus; and on Harvey's own showing (p. 15, and ed. Willis, ed. 1766), Realdus Columbus; and Walter Warner, p. 132 (4394 Birch Coll. MS.) bad spoken of the heart, in 1610, as being 'a mere muscle, very strongly and artificially woven, and contrived with omnimodal nerveous fibres, direct, transverse, and oblike, as it were of purpose, for dilatation and contraction, according to the fashion of other muscles.' And of the action of the auriculo-ventricular and arterial valves, Harvey himself, nived animd, with untarnished sincerity, repeatedly (see 'De Motu,' pp. 14, 51, 53, 67, 81) speaks as of something known to all men, 'id omnes norunt' (p. 44). What then, it might have been triumphantly asked, was there left for Harvey to discover, when the action of the valves of the heart, its * I have not thought it necesHai^ to reproduce it in a woodcut. 3 C 2