820 MODIFICATIONS OF ASPECTS OF ORGANIC NATURE It is thxis seen that four out of the twenty-one domesticated Mammalia may, with very considerable probability, be supposed to have been first domesticated in Central Asia, and though the non-cosmopolitanism of the two camels, Camelus bactrianus and Camelus drornedarius, renders them less available for my present purpose, that, viz., of pointing out the great changes which man has effected in transporting into all parts of the world what he found only in some more or less circumscribed portions of it, the facts of the Central Asiatic origin of the two-humped variety or species, and of the South-western Asiatic, or at least Arabic, origin of the one-humped dromedary, bear not a little on the whole question. I do not omit the dog and the pig ^ from the list of the animals Rev. Wm. Houghton, 1. c). Speaking of the possible derivation of the greyhound from an Asiatic home ' somewhere to the westward of the great Asiatic mountain chains where the easternmost Bactrian and Persian plains commence, and where the steppes of the Scythic nations spread towards the north,' Col. Hamilton Smith says,' when we look to the present proofs of this conclusion and assume that where the largest and most energetic breeds of the race exist, there may we look for their original habitations, we then find, to the east of the Indus, the very large greyhounds of the Deccan, to the west of it the powerful Persian breed, and to the north of the Caspian the gi'eat rough greyhound of Tartary and Russia, and thence we may infer that they were carried by the migrating colonies westward across the Hellespont, and by earlier Celtic and later Teutonic tribes along the levels of Northern Germany as far as Britain.' It is curious that Colonel H. Smith shouhl not in this connexion have mentioned the Thibetan dog, figured by himself, 1. c, with the tan-coloured supra-orbital stripe, common so significatively to this variety and to the Mexican Alco. For the Thibetan mastiff has long been known to be one of the largest varieties of the species, and quite recently (see 'Times,' Dec. 26, 1879) Mr. Baber, the consular resident at Szechuen, is reported as writing of them as the largest dogs he had ever seen. ' That the Central Asiatic wild boar lends itself readily to domestication is thus expressed by Pallas, ' Zoographia Rosso-Asiatica,' p. 269: ' Porcelli cicurari as- suescunt facile et cum domesticis generant.' And Radde's words (' Reisen im Siiden von Ost-Sibirien,' 1862, i. 236) are as much or more to the point, as they apply to adult animals: 'So muss ich gestehen, dass sie selir friedlicher Natur sind und es mir mehrmals passirte mittelalte Wildschweine sich mir bis auf vier Faden weite nahen zu sehen.' If the so-called ' wild ' boar is so tame as to allow this so many centuries after the invention of gunpowder, it is easy to understand that it may have been much more amenable to man's influence thousands of years before that discovery. As regards the dog, it seems probable that even within the limits of the Central Asiatic region we are dealing with, two very distinct wild stocks may have furnished corresponding tame ones. The large Indian dog, or Hyrcanian dog of the ancients, may very reason- ably be supposed (as suggested by Fitzinger) to have been the parent-stock of the modern Thibetan mastiff, whilst PaUas says that the Kalmuck domestic dog is so like the jackal of the same region that it is impossible not to consider them identical. See ' SpicQegia Zoolog^ca,' Fasc. xi.