503 DOMESTIC CATS. and certain others of the domesticated animals, even to the extent of the interchange of disease and death by the intermediation of cysticerci and echinococcij has been shown to obtain between him and any of the animals of which I shall here have to write ; but readers of the ' Origin of Species' will recollect that more intricate, if less mournful net-works, may bind up the presence in a par- ticular country of a domestic animal with something- so apparently distant from the sphere of operation as the general colouration of the landscape. Col. Newman ^ showed how the number of humble- bees in a district depended on the presence of man, whose domestic cats kept down the numbers of the honey-loving and devouring field-mice ; and Mr. Darwin demonstrated in the way of experiment, that the presence of the humble-bee was a pre-requisite for the fertilisation of the heart's-ease and red clover. The dependence of animal life upon the presence of particular forms of vegetable life is familiar enough to us ; our own comfort depends too directly in these over-peopled days and countries upon the adequate abun- dance of our flocks and herds, and that adequate abundance again depends too directly upon that of the turnip crops, unknown, to our forefathers, to suffer us to forget it; but it is none the less true that the peculiar character of the vegetation, and consequently of the landscaj)e of a country, depends very frequently upon the peculiar characters of its animal inhabitants. The antelopes ^, by carrying and dispersing the seeds of grapes, change the characters of the African desert; and the red glow of the clover field which gratifies the eyes of the artisan depends ultimately on pollen-carry- ing insects, and at second-hand from them upon the cats which spend their daylight hours in the same murky atmosphere that he does. It is possible that some such secret bond may exist between the widely spread family of the Mustelidae^^ and that of the Abietineae, the geographical range of which so nearly coincides with theirs. In this country the geographical distribution of the fir is now all but exclusively dependent upon man's artificial aid ; where it does take place independently of him, it takes place in great measure by the aid of the squirrel which carries off the cones or seeds, and, having buried them, forgets, or is unable to dig them * 'Origin of Species,' p. 84, 4tli edit. * Livingstone's 'Travels and Resejirches in South Africa,' 1857, p. 99. ' Wagner, 'Abband. Akad. Wiss. Munchen,' Bd. iv. pp. 26 and 107, 1846.