PRODUCED BY MAN. 805 accordance with his own theory, look upon a fir-tree when shrouded, as M. Fuutrat has described it, with a differentially thick envelope of vapour, as having- thus clothed itself by virtue of the attractive effect of its myriad points. For electricit}^ tending constantly to an equal distribution, so fast as the surcharge of electricity on the particles of vapour nearest the trees was carried away, so fast would the balance be redressed by supply from the particles more distantly placed. And thus in accordance with this theory, particles of watery vapour would be constantly setting in the direction of the conducting and attracting leaves and twigs. Becquerel's view, already quoted, according to which the plague of hail which has so often ^ been observed to follow upon the destruction of the woods of a country, is to be ascribed to the loss of the lightning-conductors which the cut-down trees represented while standing, and to the absence consequently of the incessant though insensible dissipating agency of the trees, appears to me to show that he would doubtless have allowed that Mr. Rowell's theory contains some, at least, of the elements of the true and complete theory of rain. It is not for me to meddle with memoirs in which neither living animal nor living vegetable organisms are concerned, otherwise I might have referred to Lord Rayleigh's paper in ' The Proceedings of the Royal Society,' March 13th, 1879, pp. 406, 409. But as regards the views they brought forward, and to a considerable extent as regards the whole question, I scarcely feel myself to be in a position to give any decided opinion. That trees, like other beneficent agencies, do not fail to benefit themselves whilst thus benefiting the world at large, may be well gathered from the following passage from Professor Grandeau's work now in course of publication, ' Chimie et Physiologic ap- pliquees h I'Agriculture et a la Sylviculture, 1879, Pt. I, la nutrition * See a really pathetic account of this given as having been produced during his seven years' absence from Thiiiingen by Fischer at p. 164 of his charming ' Beitriige zur physischen Geographic der Mittehneerlander,' 1877. Rain and hail-storms had become frequent, and the fishing brook had disappeared together with the wood of his boyhood. He adds :— 'Ich will gewiss damit nicht sagen, dass in jenen Gegend jetzt auch nur ein TrofFchen Eegen weniger falle als friiher, obwol auch das ortlich moglich, ja wahr- scheinlich ist, aber der Vertheiler und Bewahrer der Feuchtigkeit fehlt und so konnen locale Ursachen zeitweilig Wirkung haben, die in Sud-Europa allgemeinen kosniischen, aber durch ortliche verstiirkten zu zuschreiben est. Ich wurde recht lebhaft an Sicilien erinnert, aus dcm ich eben Leimkehrte.'