ADDRESS ON ANTHROPOLOGY. 905 Mr. Hug-hes, as the passage of Homer just alluded to, and cha- racterised by him ' as the most touching- thing in Homer, perhaps in all profane poetry put together'? What answer can be made to all this by those who maintain that the old times were not better than these, who maintain the doctrine of Progress, and hold that man has been gradually improving from the earliest times, and may be expected to go on thus advancing in the future ? An answer based upon the employment of simple scientific method, 'and upon the observance of a very simple scientific rule—upon, to wit, the simple method of taking averages, and the simple rule of enumerating all the circumstances of the case. Noble actions, when we come to count them up, were not, after all, so very common in the olden times; and side by side with them there existed, and indeed flourished, intertwined with them, practices which the moral sense of all civilised nations has now definitely repudiated. It is a disagreeable task, that of learning the whole truth; but it is unfair to draw dark conclusions as to the future, based on evidence drawn from an exclusive contemplation of the bright side of the past. A French work, published only last year, was recom- mended to me recently by an eminent scholar as containing a good account of the intellectual and moral condition of the Romans under the Empire. I have the book, but have not been able to find in it any mention of the gladiatorial shows, though one might have thought the words Panem et Circenses might have suggested that those exhibitions entered as factors of some import- ance into the formation of the Roman character. It is impossible to go beyond that in the way of looking only at the bright side of things. Still we ourselves have less difficulty in recollecting that there were 300 Spartans sacrificed t© the law-abiding instincts of their race at Thermopylae, than in producing, when asked for them, the numbers of Helots whom Spartan policy massacred in cold blood not so many years after, or those of the Melians and Mitylenaeans whom the polished and cultivated Athenians butchered in the same way, and about the same time, with as little or far less justification for doing so. Homer, whom I have quoted above, lived, it is true, some centuries earlier, but living even then he might have spared more than the five words contained in a single line (176 of Iliad xxiii.) to express reprobation for the slaughter of the twelve Trojan youths at the pyre of Patroclus. The Romans