ON THE CHARACTER AND INFLUENCE G84 them in being- accompanied by their wives. Whether this was the case elsewhere in England, I do not know. I am inclined to think that savagery was no great recommendation, nor heathendom either, to a Christianised female population in those days; and that the reluctance which would on these grounds interpose itself to prevent intermarriage between Romano-Britons and Saxons, sets up as great an a priori improbability against the theory which assumes that such intermarriages did take place, as the difficulty of bringing wives over in the ships of those days sets up in its favour. Indeed, on the hypothesis of much intermarriage, the actuality of our Anglo-Saxon language is a very great difficulty. We do speak a language which, though containing much Celtic and a good deal of Norman-French, is nevertheless ' English.' Now we know, from finding cremation urns of the Anglo-Saxon type all over England nearlj'-, that the whole of the country was overrun by a heathen population ; to thus overrun it, this population must have been (relatively at least) numerous: add to the two conditions of heathendom and multitude, which may be considered as proved, the third condition of isolation, which may be considered as matter for dispute, and then the fourth, of this heathendom and isolation lasting from the time of Hengist to that of Augustine,—and the present fact of our language being what it is is explained. For proving anything as to the period of which I have been speaking, a period which is rendered prehistoric not so much by conditions of time as by conditions of space—the absence of contem- porary historians having been entailed by geographical and political isolation—arguments of two kinds, literary arguments and natural history arguments, must be employed. Neither the one kind nor the other is sufficient by itself. The empires of the natural sciences and of literature touch at many isolated points, and here and there they lie alongside of each other along lengthy boundary lines. But empires need not be hostile though they be conterminous; and that the empires of which we have just spoken may be united happily and in a most efficient alliance from wants in common, may be seen from the title-page of that most excellent German periodical, the ' Archiv fiir Anthropologic,' where we have the name of the physiologist Ecker coupled in editorship with that of the antiqua- rian Lindenschmit. The necessity for a combination of the two