ON THE DOMESTIC PIG OF 534 some varieties of the human species the supraciliavy ridges, whether underlain by sinuses or not, are very constantly developed into great prominences. In a classification, indeed, of human crania proposed by Dr. Williamson \ ' skulls with the supraciliary ridge so prominent as to overshadow the face' formed one out of four classes into which all crania were divided. It is not necessary to go so far as this for acknowledging- that this character may be- come, in the Suidae at least, a race character^. The second in order of the three points which, taken together, as they usually exist together, with the fourth, that relating to the lacrymal, help us to identify Sus cristatus, is complexity of its third molar, at least in male specimens, and specially the com- plexity of that part of the tooth which lies posteriorly to the two primary bicuspidate lobes. The division of the third molar which lies posteriorly to the two anterior lobes is, in the male Sus cristatus, equal sometimes in size to and sometimes even greater than both those other lobes taken together. This is not often, though it is occasionally, the case in Sus scrofa, var. ferns, of modern times. Nor is it the case in the females of Sus cristatus ; so that the greater development observed in the males may perhaps be- due to the working of the law of sexual battle. The large size of the canines postulates a large determination of blood to the jaw; and the large size of the third molar, a tooth evolved at the period of sexual maturity, when the animal ' venerem et praelia tentat,' may be, to use a word sug- gested long ago by myself^, ' tautogeneous' with it. Still the fact that the third molars are small both in Sus lariatns and Sus larbirussa shows that this smallness cannot always be explained on physiological grounds. The third point, that of the straightness of the naso-frontal suture, appears to have some classificatory value, whether we look at it with the light furnished by its importance and validity in the ' ' Observations on Human Crania in Museum, Fort Pitt, Chatliam,' 1857. ^ It is observable in the pigmy Nepal pig, Porcula salviania, as also in the African Potamochoerus. It does not appear to me that male Suidae possess it more markedly than females; and herein it differs from the supraciliary-ridge development as seen in our own species, as also from the race-mark to be next mentioned. An analogous eminence, rudimentary in S. pajmensis, occupies the middle frontal line over an area homologous with the human glabella in each of four pigs' skulls brought from the Admiralty Islands by H.M.S. Challenger. » 'Nat. Hist. Rev.' Oct. 1861, p. 486, Article IV, p. 57.