859 BIOLOOICAL TRAINING AND STUDIES. it can be called, are being constantly tried in our colonies for us, and on a large scale. I had taken and written here of the Poly- gonum aviculare, the 'knot' or 'cowgrass'—having learnt, on the authority of Dr. Hooker and Mr. Travers (see ' Natural History Review,' January, 1864, p. 124, Oct. 1864, p. 619), that it abounds in New Zealand, along the roadside, just as it does in England—as a glaring instance, and one which would illustrate the real value of the second explanation even to an unscientific man and to an unassisted eye. But on Saturday last I received by post one of those evidences which make an Englishman proud in thinking that whithersoever ships can float thither shall the Englisli language, English manners, and English science be carried, in the shape of the second volume of the 'Transactions' of the New Zealand Institute, full, like the first, from the beginning to its last page of thoroughly good matter. In that volume, having looked at the table of its contents, I turned to a paper by Mr. T. Kirk on the 'Naturalised Plants of New Zealand,' and in this, at p. 142,1 find that Mr. T. Kirk prefers to regard the Poli/gomm aviculare of New Zealand as indigenous in New Zealand. Hence that illustration which would have been a good one falls from my hands. And I must in fairness add, that because one agency is proved to be a vera causa, it is not thereby proved that no other can by any possibility be competent simultaneously to produce the same effect, whatever the Schoolmen with the law of Parsimony ringing in their ears may have said to the contrary. I have dwelt upon this sub- ject at this length with the purpose of showing how much difficulty may beset the settlement of even a comparatively simple question which involves only the use of the unassisted eye, or at most of a simple lens. The a fortiori argument I leave you to draw for yourselves, with the simple remark that the question of spontaneous generation is now at least one to be decided by the microscope, and by the employment of its highest powers in alliance with other ap- paratus of all but equal complexity. We come, in the second place, to say a word as to the extent of the influence which organic and living particles, of microscopic minuteness but solid for all that, have been supposed, and in some instances at least have been proved, to exercise upon the genesis and gencsiology of disease, and so upon the fortunes of our race, and our means for bettering our condition, and that of our fellows.