EXCAVATIONS IN AN ANCIENT 636 intermarriage between the invaders and the invaded; and the craniog-rapher who considers what very motley hordes passed into England under the names ' Roman ' and ' Saxon' respectively, and for what long periods these immigrations continued to be made, will be cautious as to his inferences. Other disturbing conditions were introduced by the invasions specified: among them I need only mention the establishment of an antithesis between town and country life, which, in a country intersected by woods and ill- provided with roads, is equivalent to the establishment of an antithesis between civilisation and savagery. Isolation, howsoever produced, whether by social, by political, or by physical barriers, tends to exaggerate the ethnical or tribal characteristics which intercrossing tends to obliterate. But a subjective cause of much fallacy lies in the curiously corresponding psychological fact that one class of mind is as prone to overrate distinctions as another is to underrate diiferences. In conclusion, I must be allowed to express my sense of the obligations I have incurred to Professor Phillips, whose advice and opinion I have very constantly sought; to Professor Pearson, whom I have consulted well nigh as frequently; to Heathcote Wynd- ham, Esq., M.A., Fellow of Merton College, who has given me assistance upon several chemical and mineralogical points which arose in the course of my investigations; to James Parker, Esq., for suggestions as to several archaeological matters ; and to Charles Robertson, Esq., for superintending these disinterments upon several occasions when I was unable to be present. CATALOGUE OF FRILFORD EXCAVATIONS. October and November, i86^. I. Set. Cranium A. Found with a fibula 2 ft. above it, wrongly described by me as a male skull in 'Proo. Soc. Antiq.' 2 ser. iii. 139. Probably .in Anglo-Saxon woman. Middle-aged. Cranium B. Found with a smaU Roman coin. Probably, from this and from ana- tomical characters, a Romano-British woman. Middle-aged. Elongated oval type. ioweriaw from leaden coffin No. i. Roman man. C. Middle-aged. In this leaden coffin a coin of Constantino the Great was found.