788 MODIFICATIONS OF ASPECTS OF ORGANIC NATURE suffer least; for instance, corn and wheat do well where nothing eke can, and perhaps the exhalations in question may even tend to ripen them. An increasing deterioration of the atmosphere in towns and mining districts may be estimated by means of plants as follows :—i. In the smallest degree of impurity, trees are destitute of the leafy lichens, and Ericse, the Scotch fir, and the larch die. 2, Next, the common laurel, the Deodara cedar, the Irish arbutus, the laurustinus, and the yew die. 3. The araucaria, the thuia, the common cedar, the mezereon, and the Portugal laurel die, 4. The common holly, the rhododendron, the oak, and the elm die. 5. Annuals still live, and the almond, poplars, and many roses thrive, fruit-trees are barren, peas unproductive. 6. Hieracia, Beseda lutea, the elder, some saxifrages and sedums, with many syngenesious and cruciferous weeds, stUl luxuriate.' The mountain and moorland plants are most, just as the nettle, the elder, the shepherd's purse, the sow-thistle are least susceptible of antihyg-ienic influences; the former as well as the latter set of organisms showing the influence of habituation, both alike being unable to ' leave their place of birth ; they cannot live in other earth,' or rather air. The presence of the former would be an infallible sign on the hygienometer; the presence of the latter encourages us not to despair ^. ' Tliat man has sometimes the power of undoing the n\ischief he has done, even by the somewhat perilous, and often mischievous, action of legislation, a pricis of the evidence taken and given before Royal Commissions on noxious vapours, and em- bodied in a Blue Book of last year's (1878) date, will abundantly show. This pricis I take from a letter signed 'Edward Sullivan,' in the 'Times,' December 2, 1878. In this letter Mr. Sullivan says, in summing up for the defence of the alkali manufacturers :— 'As regards the injury done to the pictui-esque value of land by alkali manu- facturers, I am afraid there is no doubt they must plead guilty. In some cases, especially in that of Sir Richard Brooke, the damage is most distressing; but there is a concurrence of evidence from Widnes, Weston, Runcorn, St. Helen's, Flint, and Hebburn, that during the last four years, since the passing of the Alkali Act of 1874, the damage has very much diminished, and that in districts where the number of works has not increased the present damage is inappreciable. ' At page 10 of the Report, Major Cross states he lives a mile and a half from the centre of "Widnes. Since the passing of the Act of 1874, he had a fair crop of fruit, and roses and flowers grew luxuriantly. ' Page II (Runcorn). Mr. Wigg stated he had planted 1800 trees round his house, about a mile and a half from the nearest works, " which were all growing very well indeed." ' Page 11 (St. Helen's). Mr. Gamble produced two photographs of a plantation 1000 yards from the works, one taken in 1862 for the use of the Lords' Committee ; the other, taken in 1876 at the same spot, showing a manifest improvement in growth and condition of trees. 'Page II (flint). Mr. Muspratt stated that subsequently to the Act of 1874 vegetation was not affected at a greater distance than 200 yards. He instanced gardens containing elms and other trees flourishing within 500 yards, and old oaks growing luxuriantly within a mile of his works.