834 MODiriCATIONS OF ASPECTS OF ORGANIC NATURE these latter pistilliferous trees. Of course this statement would need supplementation by one which he may very well have supposed his readers would take for granted, to the effect that the Nasamones (and probably the Garamantes) brought the male flowers from a distance, carefully selecting those liberation quodam vigore ac pleniori habitu, just as Kaempfer, p. 672, tells us the Persian date-farmers did ; this being, in fact^ pretty nearly the whole of what is required in the way of cultivating the date-palm. The palms resorted to, at least by the Nasamones, were large; they could not, therefore, have been wild date-palms; and being thus proved to be more or less under the care of man, they are, secondly, proved to have been even more under that care and more dependent upon it than culti- vated palms elsewhere, inasmuch as the pollen necessary for ferti- lising their flowers had to be brought to them from a distance, the bridging over of which could only be effected by man's intervention at fixed intervals. My argument, in other words, lies in the fact that a tribe, which, being of very priscan habits and customs, cannot be supposed to have borrowed much from its more civilised neighbours, was, nevertheless, credited in the time of Herodotus with possessing groves of cultivated and exclusively female date- palms, which bore large and, we may perhaps infer, excellent dates, as they still continue to do. We have furnished to us in modern times a verifiable history very closely parallel with that which I here suggest; the Elaeis guineensis is undoubtedly, as a cultivated plant, an acquisition of negro minds; and as Hartmann says, 1. c. p. 118, this acquisition has been made for us by a race which still carries on the practice of human sacrifices; and that in sight of European factories and European steamboats, much as the Nasamones, whom I suppose to have discovered the cultivation of another palm, carried on their polyandry almost within sight of the Egyptian pyramids. 'The thing that hath been is the thing that shall be.' The picture before you from Kaempfer's ' Amoenitates Exoticae,' p. 711, Tab. iii. Ease. iv. 1711, coupled with his comment ^ upon the scene of enjoyment which it represents, and in which the palm- » ' Hi sunt palmicoLarum in messe, nt sic loquar, dactylifera lusus magis quam labores, neutiquam cum nostratium agricolarum infinitis occupationibus comparandi. Heu ilias hie laborum! dum agros effringimus, subarainus et resulcamus ; dum occamus et liramus, runcamus et refarrimus. . . Secus sentias de ambrosiis dapibus Persarum et Arabum ; .liae gratis omnino et solo abnae naturae munere conferuntur.'