THE IRON, THE BRONZE, AND THE STONE AGES. 673 weapons. It is true that iu the great factory for flint weapons, which has been described by Major-General Lane Fox ('Journal Anth. Inst.,' v. 3, 1876), at Cissbury, an implement, or implements, which could only be used as held in the naked hand, came out during- the period of the excavations carried on there, and amongst multitudes of' celts,' which were as obviously intended to be used in handles. But survivals were not unknown in the great Stone Age any more than in our great Steel Age; and for the very various manipulative processes connected with the working of a Flint-mine, with its tortuous galleries, necessitating an amount of ' body- bending toil' no way inferior to that necessitated by the galleries of the modern coal-pit, a pointed stone weapon which had a blunt end fitted for a hand grasp would not rarely have its advantage. The fact that at Cissbury, as also at Grimes Graves, in Norfolk (for which see ' Jom'nal Ethn. Soc.,' N.S., ii. p. 214), and at Spienne, in Belgium (for which see ' MIm. Soc. Sci. et Arts du Hainaut,' 1866-7, p. 355), it was found worth while to undertake and execute such extensive works as are those flint-mines, enables us to realise the meaning of the words ' Stone Age' very vividly. The demand for these weapons was so great that it was found profitable to go through all this toil to supply it; the margin of advantage which made it profitable, lying in the mineralogical fact that a flint taken freshly out of its chalky matrix, and retain- ing its normal hygrometric properties, is more workable and plastic than a flint which has been rolled about the world in floods per mare per terram, A modern workman will break flints fresh from the chalk for a shilling, whilst for an equal amount of results for gravel pebbles he will charge you eighteen-pence. It may seem something of a contradiction to the principles of the identity of the period of handled, with that of polished, as opposed to chipped flints, to say that the flints manufactured at Cissbury were, with the few exceptions alluded to, all intended to be fitted with handles, and yet that they were all left unpolished ; but the process of poKshing a flint, when finely chipped, as these are, is a very easy one, involving only the use of a little sand and water to rub the broad chipped cutting edge into smoothness, on a stone such as modern savages use for the purpose; and the modern manufactory of metal weapons shows us that weapons and imple- ments of all kinds are, from certain considerations of expediency, X X