723 MEDICINE IN MODERN TIMES. to moisten and wipe its eyeball without undue pressure on the optic nerve, is manufactured, if so we may express ourselves, out of the suspensor'ms muscle, which in other animals has but the simple function of slino^ing" up the eye. The scarcely less complex and beautiful arrana-ement of the bird's levator humeri is the result of a modification of a subdaviiis muscle. (See ' Trans, Linn. Soc' vol. xxvi. 1868, Article XI) Secondly, where, by availing- herself of the inorganic forces always at work and available in the circumambient medium, what- ever that medium may be, or where, by the employment, as in what is called ' Histological Substitution,' of a lowly organised or vitalised tissue, such as elastic tissue, she can spare herself the manufacture of such expensive structures as muscle, there Nature adopts a line of practice which we call a Law of Parsimony. Where a suspen- sory muscle for the eye can be dispensed with altogether, as where there is a more or less closed bony orbit, as in ourselves, and an air-tight cavity formed by it together with the soft tissues lining it, there atmospheric pressure is trusted to steady the eye in the socket, as it refixes the tooth loosened by inflammation, and holds the head of the femur in the acetabulum. The eye of the burrowing mole, on the other hand, loses its recti and ohliqui before it verges itself into total extinction ; but this very suspensoritis it retains after the wreck of its other property, as its guardian in the un- divided undifferentiated tempore-orbital fossa. Thirdly, where matter that would otherwise be wholly refuse, and to be rejected, can be utilised, there Nature exemplifies this law by her 'utilisation of waste substances.' The transverse colon, with its various contents, aids and ekes out the elastic recoil of the lungs in expiration ; and by its near approximation to the stomach has, as Duverney long ago pointed out, the shock of the ingestion of fresh food propagated directly to it as a warning against slug- gishness in the discharge of its own function. The air we use in speech, as Mr. Paget has pointed out, we could not use for breathing. Many other instances of the 'Law of Parsimony' might be given; but I know not of any which cannot be reduced under one or other of these three heads ; I know of none, that is, which can be in any way held to negative the tenability of a law of ' Plurality of Causes.' 3 A a