914 THE EXAMINATION SYSTEM AND THE occasion to note that men who are individually ' upright' are yet sluggish and negligent, and even cowardly in the work of con- tributing their factor to the formation of a healthy atmosphere or medium of public opinion. Yet, if it was true in former times that contemptu Jamae, contemnuntur virtutes, it is undoubtedly the fact that the progress of thought in more modern times has made the moral to be drawn from those words of more pressing urgency than many persons as yet feel it to be. A man, for example, is guilty of some dereliction of duty; he sells himself, let us suppose, or what- ever rights of property he may still retain in the commodity he calls himself, for the vote or votes of one or more beer-sellers, and for the seat on one or other side of one or other House of Parliament which that vote or votes may directly or indirectly gain or keep for him. A man^s own conscience is supposed to punish him enough for an action or actions such as this, but it is most wrongly sup- posed so to do. It is the duty, and a duty too often pretermitted, of everybody who recognises a bad action as being a bad action, to speak of it as being such, and as meriting, general reprobation. Without such speaking out, morality grows faint, and may be asphyxiated for want of what is the 'vital air'—to use the language of the older physiological chemists—of the atmosphere in which it lives. Those who, like medical men, see and know much of the natural history and habits of their fellows have many opportunities of helping towards creating a healthy tone of social feeling; and it is possible enough to do one's duty in this way without entering upon a course of extravagant aggression or crusading. A few words to point out what I have come to think should be the main guiding principles necessary for him who would secure real success in the practice of a really noble profession. I say real success ; and I will say that what the world calls success is, perhaps, not so often dissociated from this real success as a few glaring instances might make one think previous to counting them up. And I believe that the rule, 'Put yourself in his place,' based on what modem philosophers call the principle of 'altruism,' but what is found expressed plainly enough in much older language than theirs, is the rule which, if I were confined to the choice of one single guiding maxim to be given to a young doctor just enter- ing upon the responsibilities of practice, I should choose for that maxim. Sympathy is truly called a divine gift, and it does assuredly