THE EARTH-CLOSET SYSTEM. 925 became yellow and turbid, and finally threw down a very abundant red precipitate. 2. The same quantity of solution of ammonia having- been poured into a jar of the same size as the one employed in experi- ment No. I, dried earth was poured into the jar up to about the level which the loo cubic centimetres of water occupied in the other jar. The jar having been similarly connected on either side, and aspirated, Nessler's reagent became turbid and yellowish, but gave no very distinct precipitate, and none at all of a red colour. 3. Ashes from a coal fire having been substituted for the dried earth of experiment No. 2, this experiment was again tried, with the result of the formation of scarcely any precipitate in the bulbs containing Nessler's reagent. 4 and 5. These experiments consisted in repeating experiments Nos. 2 and 3 severally, with the addition to the earth and ashes respectively of as much water as the jars would receive ■ into the space already partially filled with the solid substances specified. In each case a large quantity of yellowish-red precipitate was formed in the test fluid upon aspiration. The precipitate was much less dense and abundant than that produced in experiment No. i, and took a much longer aspiration before it was formed. It was formed much more rapidly by the air aspirated from the wetted earth than by that from the wetted ashes. It will be asked, Do not these experiments show that ashes and earth are, each of them in their respective order, superior to water for use in closets ? I think not; for, firstly, it is not certain that ammonia is the cause, or a necessary co-efBcient of the cause, of miasma, any more than it was proved formerly by Daniell that hydro-sulphuric acid was the cause of malaria. Secondly, there is much reason to believe that it is precisely when the earth receives choleraic and typhoid evacuations, and should, ex hypothesi, disinfect them, that they become most deadly. (See Pettenkofer,' Zeitschrift fur Biologic,' 1865, p. 357, et .passim; Liebermeister, 'Deutsche Klinik,' Feb. 17, 1866 ; Varrentrap, loc. cit., p. 101 ; Parkes's ' Hygiene,' pp. 254, 593, ed. i.) The healthiness of Alexander's armies has been ascribed to his practice of frequently changing his camping-ground, and army surgeons nowadays recommend the like practice, or disinfect the ground itself, as the French did in the