600 EXCAVATIONS IN AN ANCIENT co-existence in place of cremation-urns and of skeletons inbumed entire there is no doubt; and, as many authorities seem convinced that the two practices co-existed also in time ^, I should be slow to set against their opinion the fact of the strong feeling which the Christians entertained as to the impiety of cremation. For I read in the passages just referred to, and can believe, that a practice was not always nor immediately discontinued because it was denounced. Still, at Frilford, though in three cases urns were found above Romano-British inhumations, in no case had I any reason to think that one part of the population on this area was practising the one, at the same time that another was practising the other, of these two modes of sepulture. If it should be allowed—in dangerous opposition, it is true, to Mr. Kemble^s dictum, that no pagan Saxon was buried except when burnt 2,—that the Anglo-Saxon inhuma- tionSj shortly to be described as without orientation and with relics, may have been the burials of pagans, I should be more inclined to think that the two rites may have been practised contempo- raneously, as we know them to have been by several heathen- nations. To the heathen the two modes of sepulture were com- paratively indiflFerent, and very slight reasons may have determined his choice of the one or the other. With the Christian it was different, and abstinence from cremation was made to seem a corol- lary of some of the most sacred and cherished articles of his faith. Hence I am not disposed to think that the conquered Romano- Britons would continue to use the cemetery of their forefathers when it was constantly being, as they would think, desecrated by the deposition in it of the urns of the unbelievers. The Saxons, on the other hand, as already remarked, had no reluctance against burying in the ground which held the bones of the former lords of the soil, and as the positions of several of the urns show— ' Little they recked of tiose strong limbs Which mouldered there below.' ^ For the co-existence of cremation with inhumation, see Kemble ' Horae Ferales,' p. 918; Neville's 'Saxon Obsequies,' p. 11 ; Wylie, ' Archaeologia,' xxxvii. p. 456 ; Akerman, ' Further Researches at Brighthampton, Archaeologia,' xxxviii; ' Invento- rium Sepulchrale,' pp. 165, 195; Weinhold, ' Sitzungsberichte Kais. Akad. Hist. Phil. Klasse,' bd. 29, p. 138, bd. 30, p. 176; Lindenschmit, 'Archiv Anth.' iii. 114. " ' Horae Ferales,' p. 98 ; and, per contra, the Kev. S. Finch, 'Coll. Antiq.' vi. 220, and Thrupp, ' Anglo-Saxon Home,' p. 399.