PRODUCED BY MAN. 827 plusage of water to the head and a noxious quantit}' of heat to the feet that the latitudinal limits, south and north parallels, of the date-palm are given. If, as Dr. Daubeny suggested (' Lectures on Climate,' 1863, p. 86), we have, as in certain truly tropical (and continental) countries, heavy falls of rain during that particular time of the year when the pollen should be carried to the pistilli- ferous flower, this latter will not be fertilised (unless by man's interference), the dioecious character of its flowers putting it thus, as it does also Borassus fiahelli, at a serious disadvantage as com- pared with the cocoanut-palm ^, Cocos nucifera, whose company they, in consequence perhaps of a sense of their inferiority, appear to avoid. On the other hand, the requirement of a mean temperature of from 70° to 81-5° F. excludes the date-palm from bearing dates, except under specially favourable, and therefore only locally pre- valent conditions, eked out by human protection, on the north shores of the Mediterranean ^; all the way from Alexandretta, ' It is not only the ' tempest's wrath,' but also the ' battle's rage,' which the dioecious character of the date-palm helps in the work of destruction. The pictures from Lepsius's Egyptian Denkmaler which I have copied for tliis Lecture show that this was known in the time of those ' great old houses and fights fought long ago.' History tells us that Norman and Saracen (see Admiral Smyth's 'Sicily,'p. 19, Martius, iii. p. 262), Anjou and Arabian generals have, each alike, in defiance either of the letter or of the spirit of their professed religion, or of both, cut down the male palms, and so prevented pro tanto the reproduction of the tree with 360 uses to mankind. The modem Arabs, according to Kohlfs, ' Afrikanische Reisen,' Aufl. 2, 1869, p. 70, cit. Hehn, 1. c. p. 513, appear sometimes even in very severe military operations or devastations to spare the palm even when cutting down other fruit trees. But Abd-el-Kader appears to have had some transgressions even as to palm-trees on his conscience to repent of. The solitary palm, the existence of which von Baer reports to us on a certain peninsula on the south shore of the Caspian, called in our maps the Peninsula of Mejankal, but in his apparently, and curiously, the Peninsula of Potemkin, is, I should think, a solitary survivor of some such proceedings as those figured in my Egyptian pictures. Von Baer himself looks upon it as a survivor of companions not destroyed by the art and malice of man, but by local refi igeration, due to the extinction of certain volcanoes which were active even in comparatively recent times. Verecunde dissentio. ^ Martius writes on this subject, 1. c. iii. p. 263, as follows : 'Haec igitur h&buimus quae de incremento, quod arbor ilia capit in imperio florae per Em-opam meridio- nalem patenti, diceremus. Ex quibus intelligi potest omnino ut nascatur arte effici, cogitindumque nobis esse earn plures culturae gradus intra fines quos occupaverit perciirrere. Quae si ad summum ascenderit flores emittit, fructusque dulcis et boni saporis edit, et si manu et arte accedenie feeundeiur, etiam semina ad propagandum idonea gignit; quod fit in Hispaniae parte ad meridiem versus remotissima, in Sicilia, in Graeciae promontoriia maxime ad meridiem vergentibus, et in insula Cypro (nimirum sub lat. bor. 35' et medio calore annuo 18" C. ad 20" C). In altera zona flores quidem