PHYSIOLOGY IN EELATION TO 716 and in the ortbopterous insect—the lungs or the tracheae, as the case may be, contrast to disadvantage with those of their con- geners, or adult representatives, which have come to differ from them in having lost the power of reproducing lost parts. But active respiration, is a prerequisite for activity of function and rapidity of rate of vital processes: and the absence of this is, according to my argument, the cause of the presence of the re- parative power. The lungs are of course all but wholly in abey- ance in the tadpole, and the tracheae have no vesicular dilatations developed upon them in the caterpillar forms of any insect, nor in the adults of the non-volant Orthoptera. In the Phasmidae, the curious ' walking-stick' insects, we observe just the same slug- gishness, combined with great tenacity of life, which we observe among mammals in the Bruta. Let me add some more facts in further illustration of my position. The Myriapoda, which Mr. Newport has shown to possess this power of repair up to the time of their final moult, are so little like the more typical insects, as to have been classed with the Crustacea, by no less an authority than Von Siebold. Any one, again, who will compare the simple non- cellular lung of the adult Batrachian newt Salamandra aquatica, which possesses an unlimited power of repair as an adult, but not in its young stages (Bonnet, ' CEuvres Hist. Nat.' v. Pt. i. p. 294), with the lung of the adult frog, will have little difficulty in under- standing how their power of repair differs out of all proportion more than the amount of the metamorphotic changes they severally go through. The land Salamander, Salamandra ierrestris, has, so far as I know, escaped the hands of Spallanzani and Bonnet; its adult lung being little inferior in extent and development of spongy matter to that of the adult anura^ I should expect the power of regeneration to be reduced to zero as in them. If the teaching of Comparative Anatomy has forced me to dififer from the teaching of Mr, Paget, there are other facts in the same region of reseai-ch whichj as it seems to me, put one of his other many valuable doc- trines in a clearer light than even his own clear enunciation of it. ' Each man's capacity,' says Mr, Paget (' Lancet,' Aug. 24th, 1867), * for bearing a surgical operation may best be measured by the power of his excretory organs in the circumstances in which the operation will place him.' Now, I am inclined to ascribe the very considerable, and indeed, on my views, somewhat exceptional