EXCAVATIONS IN AN ANCIENT ' 'Hist. Civ. Franc' lect. vii. torn, i; cit. Merivale, ubi supra, note G, p. 185. 633 to our Anglo-Saxon conquerors. That they conquered a much divided and not very numerous Romanised population of Christians, and overran the greater part, if not the whole, of England proper whilst yet heathens, and within the comparatively short space of time during which they remained such, proves, of course, that the Saxons were superior to the Britons in the arts of war as it was then understood and carried on. But though war in our days is very intimately dependent upon the arts of peace, proficiency in the one set of accomplishments was by no means so correlated with proficiency in the other fourteen hundred years ago. And though my investigations have made me a very firm believer in the reality of the Saxon ' man and steel, the soldier and his sword,' they have not revealed to me any convincing evidence of the importation into this country by these invaders of any such distinctive civilisation as the language often held as to our ^old Teutonic constitution,' or ' the landing of Hengist in Thanet having been the birthday of English liberty,' would seem to pre-suppose. Civilisation and culture are not wholly dependent upon material conditions, but I apprehend they cannot exist without giving us some material and tangible evidence of their existence, at all events secundum statum praesentem, of a very different hind from what we find in pre-Augustinian Anglo-Saxon interments in England. Mr. Meri- vale's dictum ^ to the effect that ' it may appear that moral culture is almost altogether independent of material progress,' is too much out of keeping with the ordinarily-accepted views of the way in which the external world works upon human nature, curis acuens mortalia corcla, to need discussion at length ; and when Professor Pearson 2 says 'it would be unjust to judge the Teutonic tribes of the fifth century by the low development of the mechanical arts among them,' we expect to have evidence of some other arts and pursuits having somehow or other attained to a compensatory high development amongst these races at that time. Guizot ^, it is well known, has compared the social and political condition of the Germanic races at this period of their history to that of the Red * 'Conversion of the Northern Nations,' p. i86. See, however, his ' History of England,' pp. 44, 51, 103, 112, 130, 264. The high development of the pictorial art to which Professor Westwood's magnificent work, recently (1868) published, speaks, belongs to Christianised, and therefore as little to ' unalloyed Saxondom' as do Csedmon, Bede, or Alcuin.