PHYSIOLOGY IN EELATION TO 713 divide into several branches, to be distributed to all parts of the superior extremity. Seven of these branches I shall describe under particular names' (p. 291). These seven branches have the parti- cular names of Scapularis, Articularis, Cutaneus, Musculo-Cutaneus, Muscularis, Ulnaris, and Radialis. Of such little trifles as the connection of the second and third cervical sympathetic ganglia which gives off heart-nerves with the arm-nerves, upon which connection the pain down the inside of the arm in heart-disease Niemeyer (ii. 338) supposes may, and the older anatomists would have said imhst depend; as the subclavius nerve and its connection with the phrenic, and so with the shoulder-tip pain in liver-disease, we have just as little mention made as we have of the nerves supplying those small muscles, the pectorales. Surely knowledge is not like a volcanic archipelago, where the upheaval of one mass of solid ground entails the submergence of another; rather it resembles some vast table-land which is rising, and now and then at accelerated rates of progress, out of the waters, and has, in these days of the subdivision of property and of labour, its broad and continuous surface seized upon, partitioned out by enclosures, and put under cultivation by various occupants so soon as ever its out- lines are recognisable. My last topic in this division of my address is the connection which Comparative Anatomy has with Medicine and Surgery, and the bearing which a cultivation of this department of Biology has, or is likely to have, upon the interests of the profession. Of the benefits which Comparative Anatomy receives at the hands of medical practitioners there is little occasion to speak; or rather Mr. Parker's volume on 'The Shoulder Girdle,' just published by the Ray Society, may speak for me ; it is only less vast than valuable, and will constitute the commencement of a new epoch in the science. But what I have to speak to is, not the benefits which Comparative Anatomy receives, but those which it can confer. And I believe that the educational working of this study is perhaps the particular line along which the best fruits for the profession, and for the public, may reasonably be looked for. Any study which forces its students into that most valuable knowledge —the knowledge of when a thing is proved, and when it is not— is zjjso facto an ally of real medicine, and a deadly enemy ol quackery. A person who has in any way become acquainted with