OF LIMAX AGRESTIS, ETC. 573 some objection might be taken on tbe gronnd that there is no very- strong' a priori reason why an Arion should not exist in Greenland, considering that it exists in Iceland, the land shells of which Morch himself^ allows are nearly allied to those of Greenland, and is not only an acknowledged member of the circumpolar fauna ^, but the most abundant of all slugs in Finmark and Lapland. It is cm-ious—and not only curious, but in view of the question of the distribution of Fasciola Jiepatica also important—to note what follows. In 1875 Dr. Morch appears, after thus adding Arion hortensis to his former list of Greenland mollusca, to have been content to leave the entry of ' Limax agrestis, L., according to Wormskiold,' untouched, though in smaller type, feeling probably that as the entry of the animal was overtly made only on the authority of Wormskiold, he was in no way pledged either to holding that it was Limax agrestis, and not Limax tenellus, which existed in Greenland, or indeed to holding that any Limax what- ever existed there. What completes my case is the fact that in 1877, when preparing a list of the Greenland mollusca for the English translation of Dr. Rink's ' Gronland,' of 1857, Dr. Morch omits all mention of Limax agrestis altogether, and his entry runs as follows (p. 436):— ' Class i. ANDEOGYNA. Order i. Geophila, Fer. I. Arion fuscus. Probably introduced.* If we follow Dr. Morch, therefore, we shall strike Limax agrestis out of the list of Greenland mollusca, and hold that Arion hortensis, which exceeds it in number in other circumpolar regions, has in Greenland displaced, or at any rate replaced, it altogether. If, however, Limax agrestis, notwithstanding the advantage which ' See Manual, p. 135. * MiddendorfiF, indeed, in his 'Sibirische Reise,' ii. 1851, p. 419, omits the name of this small slug from his list of Circumpolar Freshwater and Land Molluscs, but five pages farther on, 1. c, says in a note, 'Vielleicht ist lAmax (Arion) suh-fuscus, Drap. (Drap."Moll." p. 125, pi. ix. 8 ; Limax fasciatus, Nillsen, "Hist. Moll. Suec." 1822, p. 3) eine circumpolare Art dieses Gesehlechtes ;' and he proceeds to note its discovery by himself within the polar circle in Finland, feeding on sphagnum, as also in Lapland, feeding on fungi, up to 69° N. Lat. Schrenk (' Reise in Amurlande,' 1859-1867, ii. p. 692), whilst identifying the Limax sub-fuseus of Draparnaud with the Ariwi hortemis of Fdrussac, and so with the Limax fuscus of Miiller and Linnaeus, confirms the view as to its circumpolar character, and uses it as an argument for ita being indigenous in America.