ON THE DOMESTIC PIG OP 541. Asia, and, on the other, of the aptness for domestication possessed by Sus scrofa, var./m<.y, it appears to me to be unsafe to postulate for prehistoric British swine any other parent stock than the one just named. On the other hand, such is the difFusibility and transportability of Sus that it is not impossible, nor inconceivable, that the domestic European pig-, even of the Stone Ag-e, may have had an Asiatic or African origin. As regards the Bronze Age, indeed, if its tin and copper did really come from the East, such a view cannot be said to be even improbable. But the acceptance of it does not seem to me to be necessitated by the facts. Measurements of the Orbital and Malar Borders of the Lacrimal Bone^. I. Sus cristatus and its allies. Skull of Indian wild boar, Sas cristatus, No. 72 in Sir Walter Elliot's collection. Killed about 1830, at Haugul, S. W. corner of Dbarwar province, in South Mahratta country. Height of lacrymal i in.; malar border i in. Skull of Indian wild boar, Sus cristatus, No. 46, Sir Walter Elliot's collection. ' To this paper I append a number of measurements, taken from various Suidae, of the length and height of the lacrymal bone, this point having had great weight laid upon it by Nathusius, and holding good within very considerable limits. I have not given any measurements relating to the widening of the palate (a second point insisted upon by Nathusius), because, as regards the wild races, I have found that this widening of the interpifemolar, as ojiposed to the intermolar transverse diameter of the palate, is sometimes founrl in specimens which undoubtedly belong to wild European boars, whilst, on the other hand, the two measurements are usually subequal in the other wild races, such as Sus cristatus, which I have measured. In taking the length of the lacrymal along its malar border, some little ambiguity is caused by the fact that in many specimens the lip of the orbit is a little everted, so as to resemble to some extent the spout of a moi tar rather than the rim of a cup at the line of junction of the malar with the orbital border of the lacrymal. Where the differences between the heights and lengths are measured by tenths or twentieths of an inch or by milli- mfetres, this structural arrangement may make the measurements vary importantly. There is, however, always a line separating the part of the lacrymal which is to be considered as belonging to the inner aspect of the orbit from that which is strictly facial; and from this line the measurements have been taken. The frontal border of the lacrymal, again, often bends downwards just before reaching its orbital edge, just posteriorly to the plane of the lacrymal canals, thereby curtailing the height of the bone for the distance corresponding with this deflection. My measurements have been taken in the plane occupied by the lacrymal canals, so as to avoid this source of fallacy.