551 PREHISTOEIC TIMES IN BEITAIN. Dr. A. B. Meyer's specimen was more brown than Miiller's and Scbleg-ers fig-are, pi. 28 bis; the tuft at the angle of the mouth red- brown, and the hair on the nape long-er. As to his measurements of xS. celebensis, Dr. A. B. Meyer observes that they are taken from a full-g-rown animal, and, being* larger than those of Miiller and Schlegel, bring S. celebeyisis more nearly on to a level with S. verru- cosus. ' Its smaller size suggests the dwarfing action of a confined insular habitat undergone in some of the upheavals or subsidences of Celebes. Dr. A. B. Meyer informs me that the young of S. celebensis are striped, in contradiction to the suggestion which I (see p. $41, supra), being impressed with the closeness of the affinity between this Sus and S. verrucosus (which Miiller and Schlegel had declared not to be striped when young), had thrown out. He informs me also that he has the authority of General von Schierbrant, who has lived thirty years in Java and is a first-rate sportsman, for saying that Miiller and Schlegel (I.e. p. 177) are not correct in what they say is the case with S. verrucosus. If this be so, the claim which S. verrucosus would have had to be considered the parent stock of our improved breed of pigs falls to the ground. On the other hand, I cannot, knowing the great modificatory power which domesticating influences of one kind or other have been proved to possess over the highly plastic porcine organism, and bearing in mind the similarity between the Irish greyhound pig and S. verrucosus, agree with Professor Riitimeyer (p. 184, I.e., 1864) in excluding this Sus from consideration when we are speculating as to the parentage of our domestic pigs. The skull of the Sus from Ternate lent me by Dr. A. B. Meyer belonged to a young male, the third molars of which were just coming into place, and which may be supposed therefore, according to the analogy of S. scrofa, var. doniesticus, if that may be taken as any guide, to have been about eighteen months old (see.Nathusius, I.e. p. 21). It differs from skulls S. cristatus va. the flatness of its lacrymo-frontal ridge, in the convexity backwards of its naso- frontal suture, and in being somewhat smaller than male skulls of that variety of Sus usually are. The posterior lobes of its third molars are not quite so large as they usually are in S. cristatus; but to this point I am not inclined to assign as much importance as some other writers do (see Riitimeyer, ' Fauna der Pfahlbauten,'