682 ON THE CHABACTER AND INFLUENCE SO common in the parts of Nortli Germany and of Denmark whence tliey are supposed on all hands to have come. A reference to any manual of archaeology, or an inspection of any such series as that figured by Mr. Kemblo in the Horae Ferales from the museum in Hanover, will show the unmistakable identity of the pattern, fashion, and moulding of such urns as these, and those which I have had figured after digging them up in Berkshire. The Romans and Romano-Britons had given up the practice of burning the dead long before the time of Hengist and Horsa. When they practised it in Englandj their urns were of a very different kind, being well burnt and lathe-turned. All the Romano-Britons I have exhumed in the cemetery at Frilford, which has furnished me with the tolerably wide basis of something approaching to 200 interments of all kinds, were interred much as we inter our dead now. They were oriented, though by the aid of the sun and not by that of a compass ; and, dying in greater numbers in the winter quarters of the year, had the bearings of their graves, as has been observed by the Abbe Cochet, pointing a little south of east. Now a Romano-British interment in this way of burial has to be distinguished from an Anglo-Saxon one in the same way of non-cremation, and this may be done thus:—the Romano-Britons never buried arms nor any other implements which could be of use in this, and might be sup- posed to be of similar use in the next world, together with a corpse. Funeral ware, such as lachrymatories, I have not found in company with coins of the Christian Emperors; but such articles stand in relation to quite a different idea from that which caused the Teuton to inter the dead with spear, shield, and knife ; to say nothing of the common situla and sword. The Anglo-Saxons are supposed by Kemble to have relinquished cremation only when they assumed Christianity. It is a little difficult to be quite sure of this: at any rate, when we find, as we often do, an Anglo-Saxon in a very shallow grave, which may point to any one point of the compass, and in the arms and other insignia which it contains, such clear proof that its tenant thought that whatever he may not have brought with him into the world, at all events he could carry something out, we are tempted to differ even from such authority as Mr. Kemble's. But I am inclined to think that in some cases it is possible to identify the tenant of a properly oriented grave as having been an Anglo-Saxon. In many such graves Anglo-Saxons are to be