748 THE HAEVEIAN ORATION.' elusion that the g-anglionic centres of innervation for the entire sympathetic system occupy but a small space at the base of the brain, two strips to wit, one on each side of the median fissure in the floor of the fourth ventricle ; of, in the rabbit, a length of about four millimeters, beginning about four or five millimeters anteriorly to the calamus scriptorius, and ending about one or two millimeters behind the level of the corpora quadrigemina. The title of such a book as Eulenburg and Guttmann's ' Die Pathologic des Sympa- thicus auf Physiologische Grundlage' (Berlin, 1873) is an en- couragement to those who hope to see fruit arise from such researches as these in the way of additions to our means for meeting, or at least understanding, human disease and suffering. It has long been known (Budge, 1855) that the sympathetic nerves which supply the vessels of the head and iris do not pass directly or by the shortest possible route to this their distribution, but pass down the spinal chord for a greater or lesser distance, and then turn outwards, and pass from the anterior nerve-branches to bend upwards, much as the recurrent laryngeal nerve does. That other vascular regions receive their vaso-motor supply by this apparently circuitous and, till the history of development is taken into consideration, paradoxical route, is from time to time being demonstrated. Dr. Pavy, to whom I have already referred, many years ago identified and mapped out one segment of the road along which nerve-force passes to the liver and prevents or allows the occurrence of diabetes. Further exploration of this route we owe to Cyon and AladofF ('Bulletin de 1'Academic Imperiale des Sciences de St. Petersbourg,' tom. xvi. p. 307 ; ' British Medical Journal,^ December 23, 1871) ; and this same investigator, working still in the same line of investigation, as it is in these days usually necessary for an investigator to work if he will make himself a name as a discoverer, has also shown us (Ludwig's ' Arbeiten/ 3rd year, 1868) the track along which the vaso-motor nerves of the anterior limbs pass, proving that these nerves pass down in the spinal chord as low as the mid-dorsal region before leaving it to turn upwards in the sympathetic chain to join the brachial plexus. Of all the results, however, which have been attained to in the line of experimentation now under consideration, those come to by Brown-S^quard and demonstrated by him at the meeting of the British Association held at Liverpool in 1870, and subsequently