PRODUCED BY MAN. 781 as a Constantinople monk of the fourteenth century was sure to bhuider, ' reaping-,' as Mr. Philip Smith has remarked apropos of his edition of the Anthology, ' the reward which often crowns the labours of bad editors who undertake great works ;' and the words of Julius appear, 1, c.j in the following Greek dress : nav €i8os 8e hivhpov ■nap' avToZ<i, ws Iv rfj raXarCq, ttAtji' (prjyov re Koi Trew/crj?, (pverai. Evelyn, speaking of the fir (p. 139, 1. c), uses the follow- ing words: ' which with this so common tree (the beech) the great Caesar denies to be found in Britain; . . . . but certainly from a grand mistake, or rather, for that he had not travelled much up into the country.' Hasted (1. c), in 1771, translates the words thus : ' This island has every kind of tree the same as Gaul except the fir and the beech.' Some scholars hold still that this is the right way of translating the words. But my friend Mr. J. P. Muirhead, the author of the Life of James Watt, pointed out to me Wx^i praeter^ in the language of Julius, does by no means always mean except, but means sometimes simply besides. For example, when ^ Ariovistus stipulates that Caesar and he should meet and confer on horseback, each bringing ten assessors with him, Caesar's words run thus : 'Ariovistus, ut ex equis colloquerentur, etj]raete7- se, denos ut ad colloquium adducerent, postulavit,' And we may learn from this single passage that it is as well to be quite sure of an author's meaning before we impute ' a grand mistake' to him, especially if he happen to be really a grand man. I may add that Cicero, in a single passage in the same connection as one which I shall have to refer to shortly for another purpose ^, uses the word praeier in both the senses, except and besides. His words, telling us how Verres bestowed himself, somni, vini, stupri, plenus, run thus : ' Vir accumberet nemo praeter (except) ipsum et praetextatum filium ; tametsi recte dixerim sine exceptione virum quum isti essent neminem fuisse .... Mulieres autem nuptae nobiles praeter (be- sides) unam minorem Isidori filiam, &c., &c. Erat Pippa quaedam uxor .... Erat et Nice foemina.'' My own natural history studies had familiarised me with the line of Plautus, Stich. iii. 460 :— ' Mustela murem ut abstulit praeter pedes'— and should have shown me that the local meaning of praeter is also its general meaning, and that it retains the idea of ' by the ' De Bello Gallico, i. 43. ' In Verrem, Act. ii, lib. v. 31.