ed^ MODIFICATIONS OF ASPECTS OF ORGANIC NATURE occurrence of a superiorly civilised assailing an inferiorlj civilised race by means of strong drink. He tells us how Cambyses sent a cask of palm-wine, presumably brought with him from his own country, as a present to the Aethiopians, previously called 'blameless' by Homer. The Egyptians, also, according to Herodotus, ii. 86, employed palm-wine (probably, when we compare this passage with the others already cited^ from Babylonia) in the process of embalm- ing. I have set up this argument, but I think I may knock it down, and thereby save some of my friends some trouble, by observing that in England we ought not to think that because a country shows pre-eminent skill in manufacturing raw material, that therefore that raw material must even have been grown, not to say, originally found growing wild, in that country. Fusel oil, for example, a product analogous in its operation to palm-wine, is manufactured in this land out of potatoes; but potatoes are not thereby shown to have been first cultivated either in Great Britain or Ireland. I gather from Martins that 'Celsius in Hierobotanico operam dat ut Palaestinam tanqnam veram hujus arboris patriam esse ostendat.' I, in my turn, venture to advocate the claims of the Nasamones who dwelt around the south-eastern extremity of the Syrtis major, now known as the Gulf of Sidra (long. E. 2o°), to be considered as the race which first cultivated the palm ; and with them I should couple those of the Garamantes of Fezzan. What I have to say about them is based mainly upon the apparently truthful and certainly life-like account which Herodotus gives of them in three or four passages, i. 33 and iv. 172, 182, 183, none of which Martins refers to in his enumeration of profane writers in contradistinction to the sacred writers who mention date-palms referred to by Celsius; but partly also upon a single passage of Diodorus Siculus, iii. 4. We find thus that the Nasamones were a numerous and powerful, but certainly a very far from civilised people. They combined poly- gamy with polyandry, much as the Massagetae did at the same time. Some of their other practices combine several of the notes of a priscan people, such as the veneration of ancestors, and the regard for justice which has made the words Trollonim fides proverbial; and finally those social feelings which are indicated by the words, i. 32, avbpu>v bwaartuv TialSas ifipLOTas, and which