717 MEDICINE IN MODEKN TIMES. powers of reproduction which two sets of air-breathing- terrestrial animals, the pulmonate snails and the earth-worms^ possess, to the great development of their excretory apparatus. Living-, as they do very ordinarily, in atmospheres laden with carbonic acid from decaying vegetable matters, they must get rid of the products of their waste and wear in the shape of fluid solutions; and the alka- line secretion with which the bodies of both are so abundantly slimy, furnishes just the required medium. When injured or mutilated, these animals can withdraw themselves pretty com- pletely from the atmospheric oxygen by shedding out this secre- tion, and it at the same time disembarrasses their system from any excess of carbonic acid which may be generated within it. Thus they can attain the most perfect possible condition for repair and regeneration, the minimum of activity of all save the excretory organs ; and I submit that it is possible that these two conditions may be connected as cause and effect, just as in the reverse direction a defeat of surgical skill may be connected with the presence of a fatty kidney or liver, or the excitability of a nervous system. It is going perhaps too far to attempt to explain the much greater power of repair which Amphibia possess as compared with either Pisces below or Reptilia above them to the larger size, and conse- quent smaller aggregate surface and less perfect aerating power of their blood-cells, and to the transpirability of their naked skins, which execute such important depuratory work for them, and are so closely connected and correlated with their lungs, livers, and kidneys. It is curious, however, and interesting to remark that the older anatomists, in commenting on the very obvious solidarity of these latter organs, went on, in their ignorance, I imagine, to a great extent of the nature of amyloid and other degenerative changes in such cases, to observe that it was illustrated by the ' fact' that, as the lungs grew smaller, so the kidneys grew larger in phthisis^. (See Funk, 'De Salamandrae Terrestris Vita,' 1827, and Meckel, ' Pathol. Anat.' vol. i. 613, 646.) Verloren, as quoted by Bonders (' On the Constituents of Food,' * For accounts of experiments as to regeneration of lost or destroyed parts, see Darwin, 'Animals and Plants under Domestication,' vol. ii. p. 15, ibique citata; Owen, ' Comp. Anat. of the Vertebrata,' vol, i. p. 567 ; Newport,' Phil. Trans.' vol. cxxxiv. 1844, ibique citata; Paget, 'Surg. Path.,' ed. Turner, p. 123; Spence Bate, 'Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist.,' August, 1868, citing Mr. Lloyd of Hamburg, p. 118 j Mcintosh, 'Experiments on Carcinua Mcenas,' p. 28,