566 NEW POINTS IN THE ZOOLOGY OF NEW GUINEA. corresponding with them is one in Tasmania and another in Australia. These creatures could not travel over water, and so there must have heen land communication at the period of their original distribution. Quite lately an EcJiidna has been found in the south-west corner of New Guinea, and sent to Professor Rolleston by the Rev. Mr. Lawes, the discoverer, accompanied by a letter, in which the statement is made that this is the first ever found. For this species the name Echidna lawesii is proposed. The Cassowary has also been found on both sides of Torres Straits. Proof of the existence of the Tree-Kangaroo, both in Australia and New Guinea, Professor Rolleston also considered reliable. At its conclusion the paper treated of the Admiralty-Island pig, in the first part of which Professor Rolleston pointed out the peculiarity of a glabella. [As no description is given in this abstract of the characters which distinguish this new species of Echidna from other species of the same genus, I wrote to C. Robertson, Esq., Demonstrator of Anatomy, University of Oxford, to ask if any description of the species had been recorded in the Catalogue of the Museum or elsewhere. He answered that he was not aware of any description drawn up by Dr. Rolleston, but referred me to the ' Proceedings of the Linnean Society of New South Wales,' in which I find that Mr. E. P. Ramsay, Curator of the Australian Museum, Sydney, contributed March 26, 1877 ('Proc. Linnean Society N. S. W.,' vol. ii. p. 31), a note of a species oi Echidna (Tachyglossus) from Port Moresby, New Guinea. Mr. Ramsay distinguishes it from the Tachyglossus hruijnii from the northern parts of that island. He describes its ex- ternal characters on p. 32, and states in a footnote that he has 'not yet learned the name which has been given to this new species, but daily expects to hear of it from my friends in England. Should it however be still unnamed, I propose for it the name of T. lawesii, in honour of its discoverer.' In vol. iii. p. 244, September 30, 1878, he states that Mr. Goldie has obtained three other specimens, and he gives the measure- ments of each.—Editor.]