EXCAVATIONS IN AN ANCIENT 630 And where the obstinate resistance of the inhabitants may not have provoked the invaders into cruelty, which would have been un- natural, even in the notoriously cruel Saxon (see Salvian, cit, Kingsley, * Roman and Teuton,' p. 46), the civilisation of the former may very well have attained to such a level as to make them think a retreat into Damnonia preferable to remaining* on the same spot with a race so destitute, as the Saxons were, both of the means and appliances of the arts and manufactures which make this life enjoyable, and of the beliefs which make the prospect of another comforting. At Frilford the relies of Roman manufacture, as well as other remains, show, as I have said, that a population must have existed there previously to the Saxon invasion, which was in the possession of a very considerable share of the material and other elements of the civilisation of that period. The very name of this Romanised settlement has been lost, and the Saxon name Frilford, like that of Garford, a village a few hundred yards distant, may possibly speak, as the Rev. Isaac Taylor, in his ^ Names and Places,^ has suggested with reference to Gateshead \ to the destruction of a bridge by the worshippers of Frea. The name, indeed, seems to point to the same explanation as the great number of urns; and to suggest that the very real heathenism of the soldiers of Cerdic may have driven away a population who might have acquiesced in submission to such professed Christians as the soldiers of Clovis exhumed at Loudinieres. Such a story as that which Bede tells us ^ of the refusal of the British priests to eat in company with the Saxons, even in his time, enables us to under- stand in what abhorrence the Christians must have held them in the days of cremation^. Some Lloegrians, as the Triads tell us* ' became as Saxons but many of the Celtic tribes, as their poems show us, preferred emigration to submission and coalescence. The large Romanised towns, no doubt, made terms with the Saxons, who abhorred city life ^, and who would probably be content to leave the unwarlike burghers in a condition of heavily-taxed submissiveness. The villages would be more exposed to the violence 1 See pp. 266, 267. Gateshead, however, may mean Caprae Caput. See Bede, 'H. E." » ' H. E.' ii. 4, 20. ' See also ' Crania Britannica,' p. 184, vol. i, and pi. xx. p. 3. * Pike, op. cit. p. 46. ' See Pearson, op. cit. p. 264.