539 PREHISTORIC TIMES IN BRITAIN. to smaller structural peculiarities. The third molar consists of three lobes ; but, large as is the jaw and the canine armature of this Sus, the most posteriorly placed of the three lobes is more simple than even the very simple posterior lobe of the pigmy Sus andamauensis, having only one cusp prominently marked in the upper, and four in the lower jaw, whilst the entire posterior lobe is little, if at all, greater in antero-posterior extent, and much smaller in transverse, than either of the anterior, differing thus altogether from Sns cristahis. A second point, relating to a small structure as measured by the callipers, which is a very large one, however, to the morphologist, is the permanent retention by Sus harhatus of the mesopterygoid of Parker ('Phil. Trans.' 1874, p. 324, pi. xxxvi, fig. 4. ms.pg) as a distinct bone. This peculiarity was observed in all the four skulls of Sus harhatus examined by me; and its obvious general signifi- cance is increased by the fact that it is in the area of the meso- pterygoid that the great basicranial cavities are excavated in the Bah'missa and Phacochoerus, and are represented rudimentarily in Sus vittatus. Knowing what we do ^ of the aflBnity of the fauna of the sub- region of Ceylon and South India to that of Malaya, there is no a priori improbability in a view which should accept the Sus ceylon~ ensis of Blyth^ ('Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal,' xx. p. 173) as identical with the Sus harhatus of Borneo. Mr. Blyth's words, c, are as follows :— ' Su» zeylanensis. Skull longer than that of the Indian boar, nearly straight in profile, very much contracted at the vertex. Palate contracting posteriorly to less than i" from the magnitude of the last molar, which is considerably larger in both jaws than in the wild boar of India, the upper measuring i|" long by broad anteriorly. Vertex narrowing to i" only in breadth. Total length of skull from vertex to tips of nasals Altogether the skull approximates closely in contour to the figures of the skulls of Sus harhatus by Dr. S. Miiller and M. Temminck.' Dr. Gray appears to have had access, which I have not had, to a photograph of this Sus zeylanensis, and says that, judging from it,— ' The skull is much shorter and thicker than the skull of S. iarbatus. The photo- graph is much more like that of Sus verrucosus.' Tor my own part, I cannot think Mr. Blyth would ever have ' Tennant, 'Nat. Hist, of Ceylon,' pp. 6i-68, 186; Wallace, 'Geographical Distri- bution,' i. p. 328. * See Gray, ' Proc. Zool. Soc' 1S68, p. 24; ' Brit. Mus. Cat.' 1869, p. 331.