APPENDIX. 944 still in situ on the top of the gravel. The skeleton was lying on its left side looking north, the hands were to the face, the knees to the chest. The grave wae about 2 feet in length, and there was no implement, and only one bit of well-burnt dark pottery in it. At a distance of 5 feet from the foot of the grave was the centre of a hole 5 feet in diameter, 4 feet deep, in which some animal bones had been found. The head of the skeleton was 250' S.S.E. from the spot where the ballast escarpment in Sir H. Dryden's plan cut the semicircular ditch at its outer edge. This has been added to Sir H. Dryden's plan by Mr. Lukis (N in the plan). The direction of the body was W.N.W. by E.S.E.' In a subsequent note Dr. Rolleston says :— ' These excavations in the elongated form of ditches must be considered in connection with shorter forms of holes, such as the one I had dug out on Monday, May 15, with the result of finding nothing in it except the blackish mould which differentiates them and the ditches from the gravel in which they are sunk. This hole was 7' 6'' long by 5' in width, and its depth was 5' 3". Its walls were perfectly definable by the natural gravel, and its long axis was proximately east and west. Could it have been just a sunk dwelUng ? The men say they sometimes find these holes as much as 8' to 10' deep, and they are obliged to note them because the black mould they contain does not do for ballast. ' Nov. 23, 1876. A Saxon interment, with head at west and feet at east, with spear reputed to have been alongside of right himierus. The right hand lay under an umbo and over the symphysis pubis, the elbow being bent. The left arm appears to have been straight. A knife of iron lay at a tangent to the anterior rim of the umbo, its handle end the narrower towards the left side, the blade end towards the right. On the left side of the pelvis and a couple of inches or so from it were some strips of bronze, perhaps an ornament of the left wrist-band. I found none on the right. The grave was i' 6" deep. The entire length occupied was about 5' 4" long.' Most of the human and other remains are preserved in the Museum of the University of Oxford.