879 BIOLOGIOAL TRAINING AND STUDIES. worldly advantages, and from paying undue homage to the prejudices of society. I think SiUenstrenge may be considered as more or less adequately rendered by the words severe simpliciti/ of manners; at any rate, as things are known by their opposites, let me say that it is the exact contradictory of that 'profound idleness and litxurioiisness' which, we are told by an excellent authority (the Rev. Mark Pattison, ' Suggestions on Academic Organization,' p. 241),—for whose accuracy I would vouch in this matter were there any need so to do,—' /lave cormpted the nature' of a large class of young men amongst ourselves ; whilst the absence of a spirit of self-seeking is, in its turn, the contradictory of a certain character which Mr. Mill (1. c, p. 90) has said to be one of the commonest amongst us adults, and to which Mr. Matthew Arnold has assigned the very convenient epithet of ' Philistine.' Investiga- tion as to whether these undesirable tendencies are really becoming more rife amongst us, might be carried on with advantage in a place such as this ^, in the way of inquiries addressed to colonists returning home after a successful sojourn abroad. Such persons are able to note differences without prejudice, and, ex hypothesi, with unjaundiced eyes, which we are apt to overlook, as they may have grown up gradually and slowly. But, perhaps, researches of this kind are not quite precisely the particular kind of investigation with which we should busy ourselves ; neither would the leaders of fashion, the persons with whom all the responsibility for this illimitable mischief rests, be very likely to listen to any statistics of ours, their ears being filled with very different sounds from any that, as I hope, will ever come from Section D. Whether men of science in England are more or less amenable to blame in this matter than the rest of their countrymen, it does not become us to say; but it does become and concern us to recollect that we have particular and special reasons, and those not far to seek, nor dependent on authority alone, for believing and acting upon the belief that real success in our course of life is incompatible with a spirit of self-seeking and with habits of even refined self- indulgence. ' [Liverpool, where this Address was delivered.—Editor.]