773 MODIFICATIONS OF ASPECTS OF ORGANIC NATURE ranean wliales ^ not comprehending- in their number the right whale, Balcena mysticetus, are not whales which would either'them- selves prey so largely or exclusively upon the small invertebrata alluded to by MiddendorfF,—to say nothing of those very much smaller, upon which the phenomenon of phosphorescence so much more largely depends,—or be themselves so unrelentingly pursued by man for the sake of their oil. And secondly, without dwelling upon any such quantitative relations as the size of the microscopic ' animalcula' just alluded to may suggest, it is clear that the square area of the Mediterranean makes up a space for the extirpation from which even of so large an animal as a ' whale' a very con- siderable fleet would have been required. We know the numbers and the tonnage of the ships which, till the discovery of petro- leum ^ in large and available quantities^ formed the whaling fleets of quite recent times, 1849-1850, the American whalers in the Sea of Okhotsk alone numbering 250^ three-masted vessels, with a minimum tonnage of 500 tons ; but of any such whale-slaying machine having ever existed in the Mediterranean we have, within my knowledge, no record whatever. Now the capacity of the ancient writers for ' not marking withal' matters of interest to the modern naturalist, can scarcely be overrated; but it did not affect matters relating to war and the chase so much as such trifles as Stonehenge and the peaceful though colossal aqueduct nearNimes'*. And as a matter of fact, we find in those writers abundance of references made to the means employed for the capture of the tunny, a form of the chase which is in no way more exciting, more useful for illustration and metaphor, nor even more lucrative, than would that of the whale have been if it had been carried on to any appreciable extent in the large sea on the shores of which so much of the history of the world has been written and acted. The Greek word K-qrda means a fishery, not of Cetacea, but of tunnies. * The principal larger cetacea of the Mediterranean are piscivorous dolphins, such as Delphinm tursio, Delphinus globiceps, Delphinus orcaj it is at least open to doubt whether such whales as the Baleenopterae and the sperm whale can be considered as anything more than occasional visitants of Mediterranean waters. See Wagner, 'Die Geographische Verbreitung der Saugethiere,' ' Abhandl. d. 2 Classe d. Ak. d. Wiss. Miinchen,' iv. Bd., Abth. i.; and Sundevall, 'Die Thierarten des Aristoteles,' 1S63, p. 88; 'Aristoteles' Thierkunde,' Aubert und Wimmer, Bd. i. pp. 73-74, 1868. ' See Marsh, 'The Earth as modified by Man's Action,' 1874, P- ^°3- ' See MiddendorfF, I. c, p. 849. * Maish, I.e., pp. 426-427.