575 OF LIMAX AGRESTIS, ETC. Yenisei, *M^m. Acad. St. P^tersbourg-,' 1872, p. 48, as to this eminently social mollusc: ' In einem faulen Treibholzstamm auf den g-rossen Brjochow Insel (70° N. Br.) in einem Exemplar gefun- den.' 'Bwt, per contra, in Amoorland, Schrenk tells us, I.e., that Limax at/rest is outnumbers Arion kortensis, just as Arion hortensis outnumbers Limax agrestis in Sweden^ Finland, and Lapland, and that while Limax agrestis spreads into Spain, Portugal, Italy, Algeria, and the southern slopes of the Caucasus^ Arion hortensis reaches no farther south than the southern slopes of the Pyrenees and Alps. In a letter published in the ' Times,' April 14, 1880, and repub- lished with certain omissions in the 'Zoologische Anzeiger,' May 24, p. 258-260 (Article XXXII), I suggested that Arion ater may be the ' Zwiscliemoirth^ or one ' Zwischenwirth' to Fasciola hepatica. For, calling the small black slug upon the distribution of which I have, following Schrenk and Middendorff, just been writing, 'Arion ater^ I have the example and authority of Forbes and Hanley, and I think that of Gerstfeldt. But now, following Schrenk more closely, I should call it Arion hortensis, and should wish to be understood to be of opinion that it will—as I hope, by means of experiments now being carried on in my laboratory by Mr. A. P. Thomas—be ultimately shown that the smaller of our two British Arions really is one at least of the hosts infested by the sheep- fluke, Fasciola hepatica ^. As regards the distribution of the Fasciola hepatica in northern regions we have the authority of Leuckart, ' Die Menschlichen Parasiten,' i. p. 531, 1863, for saying that it is found in Greenland and North America ; and the same excellent authority quotes (1. c, ii. p. 870, 1876) Krabbe to the effect that it is not found in Iceland. The last statement is confirmed by Jonsson in ' Deutsche Zeitschrift fiir Thiermedicin und vergleichende Pathologie,' Bd. v. Heft vi. 3879, p. 413, in the words 'Leberegeln kommen in Island nicht vor.' I wish to add that there is no mention of the disease which Fasciola hepatica causes in Olafsen's and Povelsen.'s two volumes of ' Travels in Iceland,' though the diseases of sheep are repeatedly treated of by those authors 2. And a similar remark may be made ' [From the editorial note appended to the immediately preceding Article, it will be seen that Mr. Thomas's experiments resulted in the conclusion that Limnaeua truncatulus is the intermediate host.—Editob.] * See German translation published in 1794, i. pp. 112-280; ii. pp. 46, 198, 199.