ON THE DOMESTIC PIG OF 530 before the period of maturity; and that the offspring of such unions, whether both of the parents or only one be immature, are likely to be smaller in size as well as fewer in number, needs no argument. Whilst no a priori probability can be gathered from any greater domesticability in favour of the claims of either European, Asiatic, or African Sus to be the exclusive source of our domestic pigs, and whilst mere size equally fails to differentiate these races, the point of the relation between the length and the height respectively of the lacrymal bone on which Nathusius has laid such weight ('Schweineschadel,' passim et pp. 9, 10, 83, 91, 92, 175), and to which Mr. Darwin has assigned so much importance ('Animals and Plants under Domestication,' vol. i. p. 70, ed. 1875), though in the immense majority of cases enabling us at once to differentiate the skulls of Sus cristattis, as indeed of the other Asiatic pigs without facial warts, from those of Sus scrofa, var. fertis, also sometimes fails us. Having measured a very considerable number of skulls of Sus cristahis from very various parts of India, and having invari- ably found them to have the orbital border of the lacrymal shorter than, or at most only just equal in length to the malar, and bear- ing in mind the constant reference made by Nathusius to the mor- phological and classificatory value of this proportional difference in the tame variety, the so-called Sus hidicus, I was entirely unable to understand how that author could say {I.e. p. 185) that two skulls of Sus cristatus furnished to him by Mr. E. Gerrard differed from skulls of Sus scrofa, var. ferns, only in being smaller altogether. But after measuring the skulls from Sir Walter Elliot's collection and those in the British Museum, with the result of feeling certain that, from the contour, proportions, and, in adult males, the texture and sculpturing, together with the lacrymal of Sus cristatus, it was always possible to distinguish such skulls from those of our wild boar, I came, in the Royal College of Surgeons, upon a skull which, whilst possessing certain other peculiarities (to be hereafter detailed) as distinctive, more or less, of Sus cristattis, did combine with them the long lacrymal of Sus scrofa, var. ferus. This skull is numbered 3251 a, and was pointed out to me by Professor Flower, with his often experienced kindness, as being a skull of Sus cristatus, which, together with two others, with the same appearance as to textural condition, had been brought out of the