EXCAVATIONS IN AN ANCIENT 618 St. Paul. The Notitia'^, indeed, informs us that races such as the Tung-rianSj Dacians, Moors, Cilicians, and Dalmatians, as well as Spaniards, Gauls and Germans, were employed by the imperial policy to hold Britain at the foot of Rome. But if it is at all possible to separate and distinguish, when one is treating of the times of Maximus, between a Romano-British and a Roman interment, it may be possible to do so in such cases as those of the two interments in leaden coffins already described. The tenants of these coffins must at least have been persons of wealth, and in the enjoyment during their lifetime of all the distinctive characteristics which still remained attached to the title * Civis Romanus.' It is true that' coins were found with the one and not with the other of these two skeletons, but in all other particulars attending their sepulture they seem to have very closely resembled each other. But when we come to compare their crania we find that while that of the skeleton found with coins is of an elegantly vaulted and lofty form, that of the other is low, broad, and globose. Professor His would speak of the one as belonging to his ' Hoh- berg,' and of the other as belonging to his ' Sion' typus. The skull of the former differs but little, and that chiefly in the way of refine- ment, from the elongated and vaulted crania procured from British barrows of a pre-Roman period, such as the long barrow at Nether Swell, near Stow-on-the-Wold (Article xviii), calvariae from which I have side by side with that of this Roman from the leaden coffin as I write ; the skull of the latter is as broad and low as another equally authentic ' Roman' cranium of about the same period, figured by Professor Ecker at pi. xx. of his ' Crania Germaniae.'' So far, then, as these crania bear upon the argumentation as to whether the Roman skull was an elongated and vaulted, or an elongated and broad and flat skull, we may at first sight be tempted to rest in the conclusion that both types were equally and alike found in the imperial race. I believe, however, that it is possible to show that we should be wrong in considering with Professor His ^ that the 1 See ''Roman City of Uriconium,' by J. Corbet Anderson, Esq., p. 129; and Holder, 'Archiv fur Anthropologic,' ii. i, 88; Taylor, 'Words and Places,' p. 284, ibique citata. 'Arch, fur Anthrop.' i. i, p. 70; 'Crania Helvetica,' p. 38. One of the Hohberg type skulls is supposed by the authors to have come from a cemetery the graves in which were oriented, and contained swords and spear-heads as weU as coins. This however does not prove that they belonged to Roman soldiers, but rather the contrary. See 'Cran. Helv.' p. 21, note.