783 PRODUCED BY MAN. His agency was the ' cluster' pine, elsewhere called the ' pouch' pine, the Pinus pinaster of the botanists \ The resinous and other ' The pine employed by Br(Smontier is tlie Finns maritima of botanists; it is, however, as nearly allied to the Pinm halepensis as the two cedars Deodara and atlantica are to each other. And I used a picture enlarged from a drawing of Unger's ('Wi.ssenschaftliche Ergebnisse,' p. 88) of a 'Pinus halepensis,' growing in Eubcea, to show the general habit of the tree which had proved so useful in the French Landes. It may be well, for my own credit at least, that I here explain that I had with me, and suspended in the lecture-room, a number of pictures in illustration of my subject. These I will herewith enumerate, stating the points they were intended to make iutelligible to the eyes, thereby sparing the ears, of those who honoured me by coming to my lecture. I had with me— Firstly, the picture just referred to, which was intended primarily to illustrate, as were some of the other pictures, the mischievous action of the goat, underwood being almost entirely absent; two goats being drawn browsing upon such shrubs as were left, and keeping them down to a line corresponding with what Euskin calls in this country, where the old legal rule, bidentihiis exceptis, still happily holds good in practical pasturage, the ' cattle line.' The great mass of the picture was occupied by the tail pines in question, and the bare, barren, and sunburnt native rocks, which irrigation and the prohibition of goats might cover with figs and olives. Secondly, two pictures from Lepsius's Egyptian ' Denkmaler,' Abtheil. iii. 46, iv. 3, and iv. 126, represented goats and men allied in the unholy task of destroying the palm-trees of an enemy's country. In one of these pictures the goats had assumed the same arboreal habits which they are drawn as exhibiting in Hooker and Ball's ' Marocco,' p. 97, in the argan tree. This picture was also shown enlarged by permission of Sir Joseph Hooker. One of the pictures from the Egyptian monuments was of the time of the 12th dynasty, and therefore, Professor EawHnson informs me, as early, according to Wilkinson, as from B.C. 2020 to B.C. i860, or even, according to Brugsch, as from B.C. 2378 to B.C. 2200. It is of course important to know that the palm was so early as this a familiar object to Egyptian eyes, when, as I further learn from Professor EawHnson, ' the earliest date-palms represented on Assyrian monu- ments belong' to no earlier a date than B.C. 833 to B.C. 858 ; and that even in Babylonia, where they now flourish far more than in the region corresponding to Assyria proper, the palm-trees have not monumental evidence for an earlier date than B.C. 1500. A cylinder from Babylonia, of uncertain but not earlier date than this, is figiu-ed in Professor Eawlinson's 'Ancient Monarchies,' vol. iii. p. 23, 2nd edition. These dates furnish something of an argument in favour of Unger's suggestion that the palm may have had its original home in Upper Egypt; and may make it seem more probable that the Assyrians learnt from the Egyptians, than the Egyptians from them, the art of cultivating this tree. Kampfer ('Amoenitates Exoticse,' p. 714) declares himself to be, as indeed the inhabitants of Egypt themselves were, of opinion that Arabia was the native home of the palm, and he dismisses the claims of a more ■westerly origin in the four plain words, nam Africam non moramur. We shall, however, go hereafter in detail into the claims of the ' Dark Continent.' Thirdly, a picture of the gathering in of the date harvest in Persia, taken from Kampfer's book just referred to, which was used to illustrate in connection with certain reports of the formation in Algeria of date plantations in regions previously barren (see Eeclus, 'Earth,' i. p. 98, Eng. trans., 1871 ; Laurent, 'Mdmoires sur le Sahara,' p. 85, 1859, Marsh, I. c. p. 482) the power of man for producing happiness and enjoyment in localities previously but sandy, tliirsty deserts. Fourthly, a picture enlarged from one given in Martius' 'Historia Naturalis