ON THE BOT IN SHEEP. 670 April 7th ^ is the same whichever animal is the one to be blamed, or if both are. And in confirmation of what I there recommend let me say that rot is comparatively rare in the Lake district, while the pasturage of ducks and geese on marshy ground is a branch of agricultural industry greatly developed. It was with much pleasure that I saw two large flocks—one of ducks, the other of geese—echelonned some hundred yards or less apart on such ground there. They will keep down both black and gray slugs as fast as they appear, without, so far as is known^ incurring any danger from this fluke. ^ [In this letter he recommended the employment of birds, especially ducks, for the destruction of the snails. As sheep lick up snails for the sake of the relish which their salt taste imparts, he recommended that blocks of rock salt should be placed convenient for the sheep to get at.—Editor.] [The publication of the above as a letter in the 'Times' of April 14, 1880, induced the Royal Agricultm-al Society of England to offer a grant to Dr. Rolleston for an investigation into the life-history of the liver-fluke. Dr. Rolleston was unable to undertake the research, but recommended to that Society one of his pupils and demonstrators, Mr. A. P. Thomas of Balliol College, who commenced the investiga- tion on June 1880. The results of his enquiry have been incorporated in pre- liminary reports to the Royal Agricultural Society (' Journal," vol. xviij 1881, p. i; vol. xviii. 1882, p. 439), and in 'Nature,' vol. xxvi. p. 606. Mr. Thomas communicated more elaborate memoirs to the Royal Agricultural Society of England, October, 1882, printed in their 'Journal,' vol. six. S. S. part r, under the title 'The Natural. History of the Liver-fluke and the prevention of Rot;' and to the 'Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science,' January, 1883, under the title 'The life- history of the Liver-fluke (Fasciola hepatica).' The conclusion at which he has arrived is that the Lymnaeus truncatulus is the only English mollusc which can serve as intermediate host to the liver-fluke, though it is possible that in other countries some other mollusc may be the intermediary. It was at one time thought that, although Fasciola hepatica occurred in Australia, the genus Lymnaeus did not exist there. Mr. W. Hatchett Jackson has directed my attention to a paper by Mr. E. A. Smith, 'On the Fresh-water Shells of Australia,' in the 'Proc. Linnaean Society (Zoology),' vol. 16, p. 255, in which he enumerates eleven species of Lymnaeus, one of which, L. victoriae, is almost identical with L. truncatulus.—Editor.]