861 BIOLOaiCAL TRAINING AND STUDIES. duced, in the economy, or rather in the waste, of Nature ; yet from his very careful record of his own very closely observed and per- sonal experience we can gather that he would not demur to con- ceding that non-vitalised, however much animalised, exhalations may be only too powerful in producing attacks, and those sudden and violent and fever-like attacks, of disease. Dr. Bastian tells us (' Phil. Trans.' for 1866, vol. 196, pt. ii. pp. 583, 584) that when- soever he employed himself in the dissection of a particular nematoid worm, the Ascaris megalocephala, he found occasion to observe, and that in himself, and very closely, the genesiology of a spasmodic and catarrhal affection, not unlike hay-fever as it seems to me, but under circumstances which appear to preclude the possibility of any living organisms being the cause—as they have been supposed, and by no less an authority than Helmholtz, to be—of the malady just mentioned. For in Dr. Bastian's case this affection was produced, not only when the Ascaris megalocepliala was dissected when fresh, but ' after it had been preserved in metliylateA spirit for two years, and even then macerated in a solution of chloride of lime for several hours before it was submitted to examination^ Could any microzyme or megalozyme have survived such an amount of antizymotic treat- ment—such a pickling as this ? This is not exactly a medical association, and I have entered upon this discussion not altogether without a wish to show how subjects of apparently the most purely scientific and special interest, as Mycology and Helminthology (the natural history, that is to say, and the morphology of the lowest plants and of the lowest Vermes), may, when we least expect it, come or be brought to bear upon matters of the most immediate and pressing practical importance. And in this spirit I must say a word upon the way in which the pathology of snake-bites bears upon the matters I have been speaking of, and the extent of the debt which practical men owe to such societies as our Ray Society, and to such publications as their colossal volume on the snakes of India, in which Dr. Giinther's views as to the real history of the striking and terrible yet instructive phenomena alluded to are com- bined ('Reptiles of British India,' Ray Society, 1864, p. 167). That the snake-poison is an animal poison is plain enough ; that it is fatal to men and animals everybody knows; but I rather think that these two facts relative to it are not equally notorious, rich in light though they be, viz. that the potency of this particular animal