813 PEODUCED BY MAN. the Palacartic Region, and this is all that is necessary for my present arg-ument. As regards the ox, the sheep, the horse, and the goat, I cannot think that with our present knowledge of zoogeography there can be any question that their parent'Stocks were Palaearctic animals; and I am further prepared to express my belief that further investiga- tion will render it highly probable that it was in that particular though very extensive part of the Palaearctic Region spoken of vaguely as ' Asiens Buckel,' or ' Hochasien/ and comprehending portions of all the great mountain ranges from the Caucasus proper to the northern side of the Hindoo Koosh, and from the Taurus to the Altai mountains, that these several parent-stocks were brought under the influence of domestication. Wild animals are still to be found in some one or other or in several spots within that ai*ea from which we have no a jiriori reason for doubting that man mio-ht in the course of ages have educed the three last-named of the four domestic animals, the ox, the sheep, the horse, and the goat; and that a wild ox existed in the regions in which the Old Testament writers lived, not only their writings, but the Assyrian sculptures^ and not only the Assyrian sculptures, but geological remains testify. The case, however, for the ox having been first domesticated in Central Asia, is the weakest of the four, and it may be well to take it first. The Rev. William Houghton has in his memoir on the domestic mammalia of the Assyrian sculptures ('Trans, Soc. Bibl. Archaeology,' v. i. st. i. p. 2, 1876, and ibid. i^77> P- 54) given us a very spirited drawing from one of the Assyrian sculptures representing the hunting and the killing of the wild ox. What is of special value in this sculpture is for our purpose the presence between the shoulder-blades of a hump, which is present in so many other of the larger Ruminantia, but which, as Mr. Houghton remarks, reminds us of the Indian zebu, and of the fact that there are no specific differences between these two oxen underlying their soft parts. There can be no doubt that the figure is intended to represent a wild animal. The Accadians, who were in the habit of giving names to animals which referred to the countries whence they obtained them, gave names to the ox, which Professor Sayce thinks must refer to the country between the Euphrates and Syria and to Phoenicia. The bulls of Bashan, and possibly of the Taurus range, may be rightly recalled to our