PRODUCED BY MAN. 787 will readily convince himself. It lias, I think, been said already by some one, and may now be said again^ that previously to the development of our railroad system all the experiences and sensations of the great majority of our rural fellow-countrymen were gained within an area limited by a horizon bounded by an uninteresting row of these hedg-erow trees. Of the evidence for the belief that this tree was really imported by the Romans, and not known here previously by the Britons, however familiar it be to us Saxons, I have spoken elsewhere ^. To the grounds for that belief, there stated, let me here add the authority, firstly, of the Cromer forest, in which no elm (not even the wych elm, of which I do not here speak) was found; and secondly, of Mr. Bentham ^, who says of it: ' In Britain it is the most frequent elm in central, southern, and eastern England, but in the north and the west only where planted. It is, indeed, doubtful, whether it be really indigenous anywhere in Britain.' Man's increasing command over the inoi'ganic world has, in yet another way and in another time, and that our own, very power- fully modified the botanical world around him; and as this parti- cular instance of the efficiency for good and evil is a matter of some practical consequence, and one which is still a subject of discussion and comes into the sphere of legislative interference, I will mention some of the facts concerning it. I refer to the effects which the by-products of certain manufactories exercise upon the vegetation of the districts in which they are situated. One of the most interesting papers I have ever had the good fortune' to listen to was one read by my friend Mr. Robert Garner, F.L.S., at the British Association Meeting held at Newcastle in the year 1863, and printed in the Report for that year at p. 114, as also in his 'North Staffordshire Tracts,' p. 10, reprinted from the ' Stafibrd- shire Advertiser' of 1871. His words run thus ^:— 'With respect to chemical impurities of the air, different plants have different snsceptibilities for such influence, and the greater or less impurity of the atmosphere may indeed be shown from the effects on plants. Thus the rhododendi-on will flourisli in an air fatal to the common laurel; wheat will luxuriate where a holly or oak will die. Some plants which appear naturally to luxuriate in the coal strata—as the oak, holly, or some fema—die when the mines begin to be worked. Fortunately, annuals * 'British Barrows,' pp. 72I-722, Article XVII, p. 324. ' ' Handbook of the British Flora,' p. 746. * British Association Report, I. c. 3 E 2