891 ADDRESS ON ANTHROPOLOGY. something- like their orig-inal independence, and in the possession of an unoverwhelmed numerical representation ? The latter of these two alternative possibilities is certainly often to be seen realised within the limits of a modern so-called 'Eng-lish'or so-called ' British'family; and His has laid this down as being- the result of the investigations above mentioned into the Ethnolog-y of Switzerland. At the same time it is of cardinal importance to note that His has recorded, thoug-h only in a footnote, that the skulls which combine the characters of his two best-defined types, the 'Sion-Typus' to wit, and the 'Disentis- Typus,' in the ' Mischform,' which he calls ' Sion-Disentis Misch- linge/ are the most capacious of the entire series of the ' Crania Helvetica/ exceeding, not by their maximum only, but by their average capacity also, the corresponding capacities of every one of the pure Swiss types ^. Intercrossing, therefore, is an agency which in one set of cases may operate in the way of enhancing individual evolution, whilst in another it so divides its influence as to allow of the maintenance of two types in their distinctness. Both these results are of equal biological, the latter is of pre-eminent archaeo- logical interest. Retzius ^ was of opinion, and, with a few qualifi- cations, I think, more recent Swedish Ethnologists would agree, that the modern dolichocephalic Swedish cranium was very closely aflBned to, if not an exact reproduction of the Swedish cranium of the Stone Period; and Virchow ^ holds that the modern brachy- cephalic Danish skull is similarly related to the Danish skull of the same period. There can be no doubt that the Swedish cranium is very closely similar indeed to the Anglo-Saxon; and the skulls which still conform to that type amongst us will be by most men supposed to be the legitimate representatives of the followers of Hengest and Horsa, just as the modern Swedes, whose country has been less subjected to disturbing agencies, must be held to be the lineal descendants of the original occupiers of their soil. I am in- clined to think that the permanence of the brachycephalic stock and type in Denmark has also its bearing upon the Ethnography of this country. In the Round-Barrow or Bronze Period in this country, sub-spheroidal crania (that is to say, crania of a totally different ' See Dr. Beddoe, 'Mem. Soo. Anth. Lond.' iii. p. 552; Huth, p. 308, 1875; D. Wilson, cit. Brace, 'Races of the Old World,' p. 380; and His, 'Crania Helvetica.' " ' Ethnoloj^Bche Schriften,' p. 7. ^ 'Archiv fiir Anthropylogie,' iv. pp. "J I and 80,