878 BIOLOGICAL TRAINING AND STUDIES. itself not being-, Von Baer says, German either. I am happy not to be able to find an exact equivalent for this word in any single English vocable; the opposite quality shows itself in facing conscientiously ' the drudgery of details, without which drudgery,' Dr. Temple tells us (' Nine Schools Commission Report,' vol. ii. p. 311), 'nothing worth doing was ever yet done.' Mr. Mill, I would add, speaks to the same effect, and even more appositely, as far as our purpose and our vocations are concerned, in his wise ' Inaugural Address at St. Andrews,' p. ^o. For the utter incom- patibility of an aTaXatTTcripos CqTrjaLs (these two words give a Tliucy- didean rendering of ' Ungenirtheit') with the successful investigation of natural problems, I would refer any man of thought, even though he be not a biologist, to a consideration of the way in which problems as simple at fii'st sight as the question of the feeding or non-feeding of the salmon in fresh water (see Dr. Mcintosh, ' Linn. Soc. Proc' vii. p. 148), or that of the agencies whereby certain molluscs and annelids bore their way into wood, clay, or rocks, must be investigated. It is easy to gather from such a considera- tion how severe are the requirements made by natural science investigations upon the liveliness and continuousness with which we must keep our faculty of attention at work. I shall speak of but one of the many purely moral benefits which may be reasonably regarded either as the fruit of a devotion to or as a preliminary to success in natural science. Of this I will speak in the words of Helmholtz, taking those words from a report of them as spoken at the meeting of the German Association for the Advancement of Science, which was held last year at Innsbruck. There Professor Helmholtz, in speaking of the distinctive charac- teristics of German scientific men, and of their truthfulness in particular, is reported to have used the following words :— ' Es hat diesen Vorzug auch wesentlich zu verdanken der Sittcnstrenge und der uneigennutzige Begeisterung welche die Manner der Wissenschaft beherrscht und beseelfc hat, und welche sie nicht gekehrt hat an aussere Vortheile und gesellschaft- liche Meinungen.' These words are, I think, to the effect that the characteristics in question are in reality to be ascribed to the severe simplicity of manners and to the absence of a spirit of self-seeking which form the guiding and inspiring principles of their men of science, and prevent them from giving themselves up to the pursuit of mere