ADDRESS ON ANTHEOPOLOaY. 887 your able, energetic, and eminently successful officer of health. Dr. David Davies. I hope he may favour us with his views upon this very interesting" subject, and may, knowing, as he well does, how much energy and knowledge is required for the reduction of a rate of mortality, tell us how much vsdckedness, perversity, and ignorance is necessary for increasing such a rate, whether in Great or in Greater Britain. I think that he will tell us that what is mysterious is not the power of the principles of action I have just mentioned, but the toleration of them. Such, at least, are my views ^. We have several philological papers promised us. Amongst them will be one by the Rev. John Earle, who is known to you in this neighbourhood as living near Bath, and who is knovm to people not so pleasantly situated on the earth's surface as you are, as the author of a Handbook of the English tongue. I shall, as he will be present hereafter to speak on philology, spare myself and you the trouble of any remarks on that truly natural science, observing merely that Dr. Farrar^ and Professor Hacked are both agreed upon one point, namely that the adoption of natural-history methods by the students of languages has opened up for them a fresh career of importance and interest and usefulness. Somersetshire is not without its historian ; and the possibility of his coming renders it unadvisable for me to say anything now as to the relation of history to our subject upon the present occasion. * Since I -wrote as above, we have received the news of the murder of Commodore Goodenough at Santa Cruz. Commodore Goodenough was one of those persons to have met whom makes a man feel himself distinctly the better for his interviews and intercourse. He was not only a typical representative of what is called 'Armed Science,' he not only possessed the eye to watch and the arm to strike, happily so common in our two services, but he added to all this a cultivation and refinement duly set forth and typified by manners which were ' not idle but the fruit Of loyal nature and of noble mind.' It is indeed a ' puzzling world,' as it has been forcibly phrased, in which such a man loses his life, and we lose his power for good, through the act of what Wordsworth calls ' A savage, loathsome, vengeful, and impure.' Still Corfe Castle is near enough to Bristol to prevent us from forgetting that we our- selves were once as treacherous and murderous as the modern Papuans, and that less than 900 years ago. If we have improved, there is hope for them. » Farraron the 'Growth of Language,' pp. 17, 18, 'Journal of Philology,' 1868. ^ Hackel, ' Anthropogenie,' 1874, P- 3^1.