ON THE DOMESTIC PIG OP PREHISTORIC TIMES IN BRITAIN. 519 earliest, possibly the very earliest, of animals which man domes- ticated ; and the question of the source or sources whence it was derived has consequently an ' ethnographisch-archiiolog-ische Bedeu- tungf* (to use the words of Fischer \ in his analogous investigation as to the sources whence the jade and nephrite of early European times were procured) of the first importance. Gibbon^ has re- marked that ' man is the only animal which can live and multiply in every country from the equator to the poles;' and he has pro- ceeded to aver that ' the hog seems to approach nearest to our species in that privilege.' As a matter of fact, Gibbon here, as so often elsewhere, was very nearly though not quite exact: the northward limit of the range of the wild boar may perhaps be taken as somewhere between 55째^ and 60째 N., and that of the tame pig as 64째 N., whilst that of the common fowlextends probably a little, and that of the dog certainly much, further northward. The mention of the Australian dingo suggests another amendment of the somewhat cynical remark of our great historian. Secondly, a very useful light is thrown, or may be thrown, upon the question of the extent to which the influences of civilisation act upon our own species, by the analogous enquiry into the efiects which domestication has been able to produce upon an animal linked so closely with ourselves in a many-sided commeusalism. The least pleasant aspect of that commensalism, that, namely, which is presented to us by the facts of our solidarity with swine in the maintenance of the alternation of the forms of life of Taenia and Trichina, must, it may be remarked, upon any view of the origination of the four species concerned, force upon our attention ' H. Fischer, ' Nephrit und Jadeit nach iliren mineralogischen Eigenschaften.' Stuttgart, 1875. For similar investigations as to the sources of the cultivated plants and the weeds of prehistoric times, see Keller's ' Lake-Dwellings,' translated by Lee, pp. 303 and 343. ^ ' Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire,' chap. ix. note 9. p. 352. Smith's edition. " For the northward range of the wild boar and the tame pig, see Brandt and Ratzeburg, 'Med. Zool.'p. 89 ; Fitzinger, ' Sitzungsberichte d. Akad. d. Wiss. Wien,' 1864, p. 387 ; Eadde, ' Reise im Siiden von Ostsibirien,' i. 236 ; Zimmermann, ' Geo- graphische Geschichte,' i. 189, 1778. Middendorf, in his ' Sibirische Eeise,' p. 1062, 1867, give.? 56' N. lat. as the extreme actual northward limit of the wild boai'. (Since I wrote as above, Mr. H. N. Moseley has procured for me a skull of a tame pig from Stene i Bti, Lofoten Islands, 2째 above the arctic circle.) * For the northward range of the domestic fowl, Gullus domesticus, see Brandt and Ratzeburg, I. c. p. 150.