818 MODIFICATIONS OF ASPECTS OF ORGANIC NATURE in the feral horses. See Pallas, 'Mongol. Volk,' i. pp. 117, 178, 179. from the steppe droves. But it is also true that the small number of naturalists of the first rank who have travelled over the Russian stejjpes, viz. the younger Gmelin, Pallas, and Middeudorff, are of the contrary opinion ; and that whilst acknowledging' that the steppe horse, like, perhaps, all other domestic animals except the sheep, may lapse into feral habits, they hold to the view that the true 'Tarpan' is a descendant of the pristine wild stock, whilst the ' Musin' is but a steppe horse run wild \ The main argument for the descent of the wild horses of the steppes from the domestic or semi-domesticated stocks of the Turanian nomads, rests on the fact that a great variety of colour is observed to exist in the free droves. This, however, appears to me to prove nothing more than that the tame and wild varieties breed freely together 2. I myself, long ago, succeeded in obtaining numbers of feral rabbits, parti-coloured with white, on an area already occupied by the ordinary English wild rabbit. The feral rabbits never attained an equality in numbers with the gray stock, but being spared in shooting, whilst the wild stock was not, they maintained themselves for a considerable number of years in what was for themselves as against predatory attacks of various kinds an only too conspicuous prominence. But nobody would have argued ^ See MiclrlenflorflP, 'Sibirische Reise,' iv. 2, 2, pp. 1308-1321 ; Gnielin, 'Raise durch Russland,' i. 45, 1770, and for drawing Tab. ix. It may be well, for several reasons, to give the exact facts as to the opinions which Pallas held at various times respecting the feral or the truly and aboriginally wild character of the so-called wild horse of the Steppes. In 1769 (see ' Voyages de Pallas,' French translation, 1788, vol. i. p. 324) Pallas inclined to the view of the Tarpan being simply a feral race; and he repeated this opinion in 177.3 (see 1. c, vol. V. p. 90). But in 1776, in the eleventh fascicle of his ' Spicilegia Zoologica,' p. 5, he expresses himself to the following effect: 'Equi feri in campis Bessarabicis circaque Tanain et per omnem Tatariam magnam in desertis vagantur gregatim, magnam quidem partem fugitivis Nomadum equis permixti atque multiplicati; ideoque versi- colores ; aliqui iamen habitu iolo a cicuratis adeo discrcpantes ut primitiva de stirpe feros esse dahltari vix posset. Conf. de iis qui ad Tanain atque in eremo inter Volgam et Jaikum habentur S. G. Gmelin [the younger Gmelin], Reisen durch Russland, vol i. p. 44 seq., et Itinerarii nostri, vol. i. p. 211 ; et vol. iii. part ii. p. 513.' See also the posthumously (1831) published ' Zoographia Rosso-Asiatica,' vol. i. p. 260. To these references I would add the ' Geographische Gescbichte,'i. p. i8x, 177^' of the zoologist Zimmerniann. Writing only two years after the appear.ance of Pallas's Memoir just cited, Zimmermann not only entirely accepted the view given above in italics, but 1. c, p. 204, speaks in not exaggerated terms of Pallas as ' der er.-ite aller von mir gekannten Reisenden.' ^ The Mongols and Kalmucks, from superstitious motives, take great pains to secure various colours for their domestic horses, sheep, and goats. Hence some of the variety