889 ADDRESS ON ANTIIROPOLOaY, ]ietual contradiction of the results of the skull-measurements carried out by others, which his paper (published in last year's 'Archiv fiir Antliropologie,' pp. I2, 14, 20) abounds in, furnishes a practical commentary upon the just quoted words. And Broca's words are especially worth quoting, from the ' Bulletin de la Societe d'An- thropologie de Paris,' Nov. 6, 1873,''p. 824: — 'Dans I'etat actuel de nos connaissances la craniologie ne pent avoir la pretention de voler de ses propres ailes, et de substituer ses diagnostics aux notions fournies par I'ethnologie et par I'areheologie.' I would venture to say that the way in which a person with the command of a considerable number of skulls procured from some one district in modern times, or from some one kind of tumulus or sepulchre in prehistoric times, would naturally address himself to the work of arranging them in a museum, furnishes us with a concrete illustration of the true limits of craniography. I say ' a person with the command of a considerable number of skulls ;' for, valuable as a single skull may be, and often is, as furnishing the missing link in a gradational series, one or two skulls by themselves do not justify us (except in rare instances, which I will hereinafter specify) in predicating anything as to their nationality. Greater rashness has never been shown, even in a realm of science in which rashness has only recently been proceeded against under an Alien Act_, than in certain speculations as to the immigration of races into various corners of the world, based upon the casual discovery in such places of single skulls, which skulls were identified, on the ground of their individual characters, as having belonged to races shown on no other evidence to have ever set foot there. It is, of course, possible enough for a skilled craniographer to be right in referring even a single skull to some particular nationality; an Australian or an Eskimo, or an Andamanese might be so referred with some confidence; but all such successes should be recorded with the reservation suggested by the words, ubi eorum qui peri- erunt ? and by the English line, ' the many fail, the one succeeds.' They are the shots which have hit, and have been recorded. But if it is unsafe to base any ethnographic conclusions upon the ex- amination of one or two skulls, it is not so when we can examine about ten times as many—ten, that is to say, or twenty, the locality and the dates of which are known as certain quantities. A craniographer thus fortunate casts his eye over the entire series, •t