ON THE DOMESTIC PIG OP 536 very mucli of their infantile eminence, whicli we see not rarely in adult men, may be taken as furnishing another parallel to the retention in some degree, by the adult Sus crisfaius, of the cha- racters of the young animaVs naso-frontal relations. In the fourth place, as regards the value of the relative shortness of the lacrymal bone as a means for differentiating the skulls of Stis cristatus and its allies from those Sus scrofa, war. ferus, I was for a long time of opinion that the same might be said of this all but invariably observed peculiarity of Sns crisiaiics, which I have already said, however shortly, of the straightness of its naso- frontal suture ; and that all this may, mutatis mutandis, be repeated as to the lacrymal's peculiarities in the two sub-species there can be no doubt. Anybody who will examine the figures given in Spix's ' Cephalogenesis,' or the reproduction of them in Erdl's ' Tafeln der vergleichenden Anatomic des Schadels,' 1841, can convince himself of the fact that the malar border of the lacrymal is very short as compared with its orbital border in the young pig^; and if he extend his observation to the various adult Suidae, he will find that this side of the bone goes on growing from a condition of permanent inferiority in Sus andamauensis till it reaches subequality or entire equality with the orbital length in some Suidae—such as Sus cristatus, Sus vittatus, Sus leucomysiax, Sus taivanus, Sus timoriensis, Sus papuensis, and Siis barbatiis, all Suidae without facial warts—and finally exceeds the orbital border in length considerably in Sus scrofa, var. ferus, and ordinarily in Sits verrucosus (and Sus cclebensis ?), and disproportionately, it may be added, in the African wart-hog [Phacochoerus). ^ Though I do not suppose that it would be possible to say in 1876 what Dr. Gray said ('Proc. Zool. Soc' 1868, p. 19) in 1868, to the effect that Natbusius's works were not to be had either in the library of the British Museum or in the library of either the Zoological, Koyal, or Linnean Society, it may nevertheless be convenient to give here the results of his measurements of the borders of the lacrymal bones at different periods of the life of Sm scrofa. They stand thus at p. 10 of his work of 1864:— Newly born, 2 months old. 6 months old. Adult. Lacrymal bone. millim. millim. milUm. millim. Height 7 ^3 ^8 21 Frontal border 11 20 42 60 Malar border 3 6 25 35 Batio of height I ly 2-6 3 Ratio of frontal border i i"8 3"8 5 5 Katio of malar border i 2 8*3 11 "6