JADE TOOLS IN SWITZERLAND. 688 LETTER 2. Jan. 2, i88o. Your correspondent Mr. H. M. Westropp is slow to take a well- meant hint suck as the one with which I ended my letter published by you on December 35. I. The views which he ascribes to M. Desor, it is true M. Desor did once hold, but he repudiated them at the International Con- gress of Anthropologists and Archaeologists which met at Brussels in 1872. Here are his old and his new views, as given in the • Comptes Rendus' of that Congress, published in 1873. Speaking of 'the wild hypothesis' of the importation of jade into Switzer- land, M. Desor, p. 353, says :—' Pour ma part, je n'ai pu admettre une hypothese aussi peu vraisemblable, et pendant longtemps j'ai pense avec M. de Mortillet que ces roches devaient se trouver dans les Alpes memes. Mais voici tantot vingt ans que nous cherchons sans rien decouvrir.' A page and a little more follows; and on p. 353, M. Desor sums up his altered view thus:—' Ma conclu- sion que j'^mets k defaut d'autres, est done celle-ci; ces roches, vu leur petit nombre, vu leur admirable etat de conservation, sont des reliques des temps les plus anciens; elles ont ete apportees d'Orient par les premiers colons qui ont succede aux peuplades de la pierre taillee.' 3. Mr. Westropp asks me to account for the presence of jade axes in Ireland ; but I do not know that any have ever been found there, though there is no reason why they should not, except the reason which explains their absence from Denmark and Sweden and which I leave your readers to divine. I say I do not know of any jade hatchets having been found in Ireland; neither did Sir Thomas Wilde, if we may judge from his ' Catalogue of the Antiquities of the Royal Irish Academy,' p. 39, 1857. 3. Sir John Lubbock's words in ' Prehistoric Times,' 4th ed. p. 83, are:—'Though, perhaps, it would not yet be safe to conclude that these jade axes were introduced from the East, no European locality for jade or jadeite has yet been discovered; and it is per- fectly possible they may have passed from hand to hand and from tribe to tribe by a sort of barter.' 4. I cannot verify the second reference made to Sir John