559 PREHISTOKIO TIMES IN BRITAIN. so Ion" relatively to its height as is often the case in the non-domesticated Sua scrofa, is yet longer than it is in Sus indicus, or in any of the Eastern pigs from which Sua indicus can with any probability be supposed to have descended. inches. Length from anterior external angle (apex) of fi-ontal to middle of occipital ridge . 5-9 Length from apex of frontal to apex of maxilla . . •4"^ Length from anterior border of orbit to temporal ridge . . 3-8 inches. Length from anterior border of orbit to posterior . T.4 Greatest width of occiput . 2.4 Length of molar series 2-3 Height of occiput 3-8 Height of lacrymal . 0.7 Length of lacrymo-malar suture , o-S The difference here noted between the height of the lacrymal and the length of its lower border amounts but to a tenth of an inch ; but in the female of Sus indicus, with the same stage of dentition, fig. 4, the height of the lacrymal, instead of being one tenth of an inch less, is 0-35 inch greater in length than its lacrymomalar border. Fig. 2. Orbito-laciymal region of Sus scrofa, var. ferus, old 9, from alluvium of Thames valley, obtained for the Oxford University Museum from the cutting for the drainage works near Ifl3ey, 1876, by Professor Prestwich, F.U.S. This skull combines the general contour and the slender snout of Sus scrofa, var. ferus, with a lacrymal bone differing little in its proportions from the lacrymals so characteristic of the Asiatic pigs, less Sus verrucosus (and celelensis). The fronto- parietal region does not form one continuous slope in the same plane as is the case in the Wild Boar of Germany (PI. IV. fig. 5) ; but this difference may be observed in skulls certainly of Wild Boars from the Thames-valley deposits ; whilst the great wear of the teeth and the slenderness and length of the naso-facial region are much in favour of considering this specimen to have belonged to the wild race. I have placed side by side with the measurements of this skull the measurements given by Riitimeyer, 1. c. pp. 45 and 183, of his ' Torfschwein,' Sus scrofa, var. palustris. Unhappily, Riitimeyer has never been able to procure (see pp. 43 and 45, note i) a skull of this variety of Sus with the facial bones in connexion with the brain-case, nor has Nathusius (see p. 149, 1. c.) ever been able to see an uninjured lacrymal bone from the same animal. These facts, whilst making the value of this skull (the oppor- tunity of figuring which I owe to the kindness of Professor Prestwich) greater, make the value of the comparison of its measurements less. The instructive observations of Nathusius (1, c. pp. 99-101), to the effect that ill-nourished pigs have the entire length of their skuUs greater as measured from the occipital crest to the apex of the snout, whilst the portion of that length made up by the frontal and parietal is somewhat shorter, and the nasal portion proportionally longer, when coupled with the fact of the great wear of the teeth in this specimen, enable us to explain the one great point of inferiority, that of the length of the fronto- parietal region, which this skull's measurements show us, compared with those of the •Torfschwein.' It may be added, that the true explanation of Dr. Gray's statement 'Brit. Mus. Catal.' 1869, p. 329), tiiat the nasal bones of the skull elongate as Suidae increase in age, • and especially as they reach adult and old age,' is probably that he had in his mind's eye skulls of old and ill-fed wild pigs, such as this specimen. On the other hand, when we are comparing such skulls as this with the ' Torfschwein' of Riitimeyer, we must recollect that he represents this latter variety of pig, and what ho