CEMETERY AT FRILFOED. 617 of this, the entire calvaria shows a more evenly ovoidal contour than the skulls composing- the rest of this series. These crania were found in g^raves in which no relics, except in one instance a nail, were found, and which ran in the ordinary semi-oriented Romano-British direction. And, so far as the brain case is con- cerned, these crania might be looked upon as embodying- the result of intermarriages of the broader ' Sion' type with the narrow ' Hohberg' type, and corresponding with the ' Misch-Form ' spoken of by His at p. 49 of the ' Crania Helvetica.' And they might perhaps be considered as representing the inevitable result of the settlement of a large Roman immigration in the midst of a dolicho- cephalic Celtic people. But, inasmuch as these crania show a not inconsiderable tendency to prognathism, and resemble herein the Anglo-Saxon, and differ from the Romano-British series, I incline to think they may have belonged to Christianised Anglo-Saxons who died before the churchyard had superseded the cemetery, but after the custom of burial with insignia had given way to the urgency with which its anti-Christian character may have been represented to the convert. The hypothesis of poverty will account for the absence of relics, but I do not incline to accept it here, partly on account of the presence of a nail, which may seem to imply the employment of a coffin in one of the interments, and partly on account of the resemblance which these skulls show to the male Anglo-Saxon cranium (No. 36, Researches at Long Wit- tenham, ' Archaeologia/ vol. xxxviii.) and to a female Anglo-Saxon cranium obtained for me by the kindness of the Rev. R. Taylor, from the Kemble Cemetery, described by Mr. Akerman in the ' Archaeologia,^ 1856, vol. xxxvii, in neither of which cases have we reason to suspect the existence of straitened means. The name of Magnus Maximus, the Maxen-lwedig of the Mabinogion, forbids us to think that in the days of Gratian there could have been, either in modes of life or in modes of burial, much difference between a Roman and a Romano-Briton. Tenants of leaden coflBns must, from the expensive character of their inter- ment, have been persons of distinction, such as were the 'Equites under the Roman empire; but Roman citizenship no more implied Roman blood in the days of Ambrose than it did in those of ' See Kemble's 'Saxons in England,'ii. 272 ; Pearson's 'History of England,' i.45; Coote's 'Neglected Fact in English History,' pp. 40, 45.