ON THE DOMESTIC PIG OP 554 domestiqne,' in the 'Journal de I'Anatomie et de la Physologie,' torn. iv. 1867, p. 38. In Professor Hartmann's memoir above referred to, it is stated (P- 35°) tliat certain Negro tribes, who disobey Mahommedan pre- cepts by eating as well as domesticating S. sennaarieusis, excuse themselves by saying it was formerly the custom to do so, a fact which goes some little way to disprove the view that this true Sus can be merely a feral variety of S. scrofa, imported by Europeans. Professor Hartmann, in a letter of date Sept. 38, 1876, says,— 'Sus sennaariensis ist ein kleines dem europaiscten Torfschwein (der Pfahlbauten) ahnliches Schwein, echtes Sus, welches wild durch einen grossen Theil von Mittel- Afrika vorzukommen scheint . . . Sus scrofa ferus in der Sahara und in Aegypten nicht selten, findet sich angeblich ebenfalls in Sennaar, indess weiss ich hiei tiber nichta voUig Sicheres,' Professor Busk, in a letter to me of Dec. 17, 1876, informs me that in the Etruscan Museum at Florence, amongst numerous little bronze articles extracted from the ancient Etruscan tombs, there were many figures of animals, one in particular being a very well made statuette of a pig, which to his eye very closely resembles the Berkshire breed, the only point in which it differed being the comparatively large eye, whilst the rest of the contour was quite what we might expect to see at an ordinary cattle-show. The animal was represented apparently as having a close curled tail. With it were a good many statuettes of stags, the horns of which were of the type of the pliocene Cervus ctenoceros. In' the very per- fectly restored Etruscan tomb erected in the Museum, with all its original contents and frescoes, Professor Busk noticed, amongst other figures of animals, one very well drawn of a monkey climbing up a tree or pole. I should suggest that the monkey and the pig, both alike, are representations of animals from the same quarter of the globe as that whence the kinsmen of the Etruscans in the time of Solomon brought, every three years, into Mediterranean regions, the ivory, apes, and peacocks, the Sanskrit names of which still remain to speak to their habitat. See Max Miiller, ' Lectures on the Science of Language,' 1861, ser. i. p. 190, and ser. ii, p. 234, for the source whence these animals and copper came to Europe. Professor Busk sent me by the same post odontograms of the teeth of -5". cristaius, S. scrofa, var. ferus, and S. scrofa, var. domes-