898 ADDKE88 ON ANTHROPOLOGY. And I am gkd to see that M. Broca is emphatically of this opinion, and that, after a judicious statement of the whole case, he ex- presses himself thus (' Revue d'Anthropologic,' ii. i, 38): ' Rien ne permet done de supposer que les rapports de la masse encephalique avec I'intelligence fussent autres chez eux que chez nous.' It is by a reference to the greater severity of the sti-uggle for existence, and to the lesser degree to which the principle of division of labour was carried out in olden days, that M. Broca, in his paper on the Caverne de I'Homme Mort just quoted from, explains the fact of the subequality of the skulls in the two sexes. This is an adequate explanation of the facts ; but to the facts as already stated, I can add from my own experience the fact that though the female skulls of prehistoric times are often, they are not always equal, or nearly, to those of the male sex of those times ; and, secondly, that whatever the relative size of the head, the limbs and trunk of the female portion of those tribes were, as is still the case with modern savages, very usually dispi-oportionately smaller than those of the male. This is readily enough explicable by a reference to the operations of causes exemplifications of the working of which are unhappily not far to seek now, and may be found in any detail you please in those anthropologically interesting (however other- wise unpleasant) documents, the Police Reports. Having before my mind the liability we are all under fallaciously to content ourselves with recording the shots which hit, I must not omit to say that one at least of the more recently propounded doctrines in Craniology does not seem to me to be firmly established. This is the doctrine of' occipital dolichocephaly' being a character- istic of the lower races of modern days and of prehistoric races as compared with modern civilised races. I have not been able to convince myself by my own measurements of the tenability of this position; and I observe that Ihering has expressed himself to the same effect, appending his measurements in proof of his statements in his paper, ' Zur Reform der Craniometrie,' published in the 'Zeitschrift fiir Ethnologic' for 1873. The careful and extensive measurements of Aeby ^ and Weisbach ^ have shown that the occi- pital region enjoys wider limits of oscillation than either of the other divisions of the cranial vault. I have some regret in saying * Aeby, ' Sohadelforin des Menschen und der Aifen,' pp. n, 12, and 128. ' Weisbach, 'Die Scbadelform der Eoumanen,' p. 32, 1869.