DOMESTIC CATS. 509 Mustela herminea, could not have failed to have had the well- marked club-shaped black tip of its much larger tail mentioned in contradistinction to that of the common weasel, Mtistela vulgaris, if these two animals had been the pair contrasted as yakri and t/crts ; and it may further be remarked that the comparatively small bulk of these animals^ as also of the Sardinian weasel, Mustela boccaviela, which has likewise had its claims advocated for the title of yahrji would have very sufficiently prevented them from being- the * fine thieves' which we know from Simonides, Aristophanes and Ba- briusj the yaXaX were. In looking over my notes of the anatomy of the last marten, a male which came into my hands, I find that there was upon its Unea alba a space of two inches in length almost bare of hair to direct attention to the fact mentioned by Aristotle, * Hist. Anim.' ii. 3. 5, fat yap 77 yaKr\ 6(ttovv ex^' '"o aihdiov, and to explain how he came to class this compai'atively small animal as ^ regards this carnivorous peculiarity with animals so much larger as the fox and the wolf. I will conclude the question of the marten cat with the lines from Nicander, the contemporary of Theocritus, which Schneider gives, 1. c, iv. p. 49, and I will add to them, what Schneider does not in extenso, viz. the commentary of the Scholiast as given in the Editio Princeps of Aldus Manutius, printed 1499, before the art of printing was sixty years old. I give the lines and the scholium, a;; both are much to the points just discussed and dismissed, and neither are hackneyed in the literature of the subject. Nicander, * Theriaca,' 1. 196:— 'M.op<pf) 8' IxvevTao KivamtTov olov dfivSprjs. iKTiSos ri T opviai KarotKidiriaiv oXtOpov fiaUrat, «f vnvoio KaOap-n&^aaa neTfvpojv. To these lines are laterally apposed in the cramped contractions of the edition specified, the following words of the Scholiast ^: a/xuSp^s ' I hope I shall not be considered presumptuous for saying that having seen the Pine Marten or Yellow-breasted Marten escape ' like a shadow,' as Longfellow describes the hare as doing, from the midst of an assemblage of men and dogs of all dimensions when smoked out from under some rocks, I believe I have a better idea of what Nicander, who may have been similarly privileged, meant by diivSp^s than the Scholiast had. Great as wag the creature's need, its agility was more than commensurate with it; and whilst the words abiit, excessit, evadt, and alas, for the interests of anatomical investi- gation, effugit also, are but weak symbols to express its speed, it takes a whole hexamettr-ful of imagery to give the picturesque effect which its lithe abstraction of itself from jawa and paws produced upon me. It fled •Par levibus ventis volucrique simillima somno.'