FURTHEB RESEARCHES IN AN 658 neighhoiivs,' Without raising any objection to the view which woukl af-sig-n the tendency to attack one's neighbours e7i masse to the religion which is ordinarily said, and by members of the Society of Friends believed, to teach lessons of peace, I would remark, that history does not seem to me to bear out Mr. Kemble's view, and that the finds in many unmistakeably Teutonic burials by inter- ment seem to me to suggest the idea of heathendom by their shallowness, their want of orientation, their possession of secular relics, and by the frequency, especially in the north, with which the skeleton is discovered to be in the contracted position. In the case of Kent, the great salient facts recorded by the historians as to the conversion of ^thelberht are almost or even quite as in- disputable as the facts of the ' Inventorium Sepulchrale' with regard to the comparative rarity of cremation urns in that earliest to be founded of Saxon kingdoms. It is true, as Mr. Kemble him- self has shown ('Horae Ferales,' p. 91), that cremation urns are not entirely unknown in Teutonic cemeteries in Kent; but no one can doubt that this comparative rarity in that locality, when coupled with the facts that Kent was sufficiently powerful and thickly peopled for the Frankish King Charibert to give his daughter to the King of Kent, and that this King ^thelberht, and, by consequence, most of his Court, were nevertheless heathen, shows that a Saxon population, at all events when firmly estab- lished in a country, could give up cremation before taking up with the teaching of the missionaries. The drawings which I lay before the Society^ represent a num- ber of urns from a Saxon cemetery at Sancton, co. York, a village a little south of Market Weighton, and the once better known Goodmanham. These urns, the acquisition of which I owe to the kindness of Charles Langdale, Esq., of Houghton Hall, mark, as I believe, and as far as is known, the northern limit of cremation as practised to any considerable extent by Teutons in the north of England. But, little ^ as we do know of the history of the Con- quest of Northumbria, we have some reason for believing that ^thilfrith was an unbeliever, and that by his great victory at Dsegsastan in 603 a Pagan Saxondom was established under his * These drawings were reproduced in the ' Archaeologia,' plate xxxiii, 1879, vol. xlv. 2 For statements as to this littleness, see Stubbs, ' Constitutional History,'p. 6i; Freeman, 'Norman Conquest,' i. 25, 26.