EXCAVATIONS IN AN ANCIENT 608 has been suggested, was the case with a millstone found split to pieces in a Saxon grave discovered ^ at Winster in Derbyshire, and showing, which this grave did not, signs of a fire having been lighted in it. But one of the many valuable hints which I owe to Professor Phillips has made me think that it may be to frost rather than to fire that we ought to look to account for the fractures of volcanic products such as these. A porous soil would allow the cavities of such a piece of lava to become filled with water, and a shallow grave in a severe winter might furnish the other requisite conditions. Some mortar-like matter was adherent to the exterior of the piece of lava besides and distinct from the calcareous in- crustation which the water of the soil had deposited upon it. The lava itself, as containing haui/ne, we may be justified in regarding as having, in all probability, come from Niederraennig, which is a place whence, in the time of Augustus ^, the Romans took building materials for the bridge at Treves, and whence, as a matter of fact, millstones are now largely exported, and whence, consequently, we may think it not wholly unlikely^ they were exported in former and Anglo-Saxon times. It is diflScult, of course, to be quite sure that a sub-globular mass such as the piece of lava I found at the feet of this Anglo-Saxon female had been a piece of a quern; but fragments, of identical and closely identical mineralogical characters, found ' near a barrow in Norfolk,"* and ' in a British barrow at Thetford,' respectively, have been considered as pieces of a mill- stone by the well-known antiquary J. Wickham Flower, Esq., to whose kindness I owe the opportunity of comparing these several sets of volcanic fragments together. Schaaffhausen * has put on record several instances of Germanic interments either in cofiins made out of tufa, or in graves with fragments of such volcanic matter set round their copes, together with other stones, and it is just possible that the Niedermennig lava may have been put, as it was in this grave, at the foot of the grave, whilst other stones were set round the sides, as a kind of reminiscence of what the 'setting^ of the interment might have 1 Extract from the 'Times,' Thursday, Oct. 23, 1856, given in 'Horae Ferales,' p. 104. " Daubeny, on ' Volcanoes,' pp. 49, 64. 3 See Bruce, 'Roman WaU,' ed. iii. 1867, p. 438, seen by me subsequently to writing as above. * 'Op. cit.' pp. 122, 127; Wren, 'Tarentalia,' p. 27.