757 THE HARVEIAN OEATION. I do not wish to assert that Harvey was wholly independent of the works of his predecessors j he himself would, as his repeated references to them show, have been the very last man to make any such claim for himself; nor would I say that he owed nothing to the times— 'The spacious times of great Elizabeth'— in which he lived. It is true, I think, in science, as it is also true in morals and politics, that the times make great men as much as great men make the times. Many metaphors have been used to express this latter half-truth. Such is the metaphor, an acquaint- ance with which I owe to Mr. Picton's new and striking work, ' The Mystery of Matter,' p. 365, used by St. Augustine, in which great men are compared to great mountains, dwelling apart in loneliness, and sending floods of blessings down upon the little hills and plains at their feet. Such, again, is the metaphor used by Wordsworth in apostrophising Milton: 'Thy soul was like a star, and dwelt apart.' Such is the metaphor used by Sir Coutts Lindsay, in his poem on the Black Prince, where a hero 'Stands like a beacon, throwing light far out Over the rippling tides of centuries.' Now all these metaphors strive, and profess, to express but half a truth, and they are imperfect even for this imperfect purpose, as they are borrowed from inorganic nature and the arts, and are unfit to be used as illustrations of the complexities of life and thought. I would venture to suggest a metaphor which has struck me, during this investigation, as being more appropriate and close-fitting, even if less beautiful, than those which I have quoted. A group of horsemen are attempting to cross an arm of the sea, up which the tide has been running, and obscuring the ridge, or spit of sand, by which it is fordable. They form them- selves into a line, and advance slowly: rider after rider flounders off into deep water, and, if wise, retires towards the rear of the caval- cade of his companions, who still feel and advance upon the bottom beneath them. The line by degrees narrows into a column, and the column, after a longer interval, narrows into a single file. To the foremost horseman courage is necessary, as imagination is to the discoverer, and, impelled by this feeling, he may put a wide