CEMETERY AT FRILFORD. 643 iii. Skull of young woman, with long leg-bones and patellae; short stature; teeth curious ; and abscess in alveolar processes. Elongated type. Lower jaw all but destroyed by water-wear. iv. Skull of adult man. No femora; no lower jaw; carious teeth. Skull high and • long, but not delicate, though possessing transverse post-coronal depression. (Compare skidl v of Sept. 1S67, and skull i of March 23, 1868.) No femora were found with it; the skeleton having been thrown down in a 'fall' during the quarrying operations. V. Skull of young A nglo-Saxon woman, very much contorted and distorted by post- mortem pressure, found in a grave 2 ft. 4 in. deep, with six beads, some near head, some over chest, perforated, of various sizes, of blue spongy glass, striated con- centrically ; fibula on either shoulder of flat shape, circumference gimped, and immediately within a circle of stamped round depressions, diameter, 1.3, of much the same pattern, but not identical, nor of quite same weight as another fibula of uncertain date and place from this cemetery; of quite difierent pattern from the two other sorts of fibulae found here, though of same general shape, flat, as fibulae of xiii, May, 1867. A skewer-shaped bronze pin, 4 in. on the left breast; a knife, 3 in. long, near the waist. For pin fastening shroud, see ' Pagan Sason- dom,' p. 71, pi. XXXV. fig. 5 ; ' Archaeologia,' xxxv. 477. The direction of the grave was not quite that of the Romano-British, viz. W.N.W. to E.S.E., but w.as very nearly this, running, as it did, from a little to the north of W.N.W. to a little to the south of E S.E. There was some Roman pottery in the grave, animals' bones, an ox tooth, an oyster-shell, and a flint. The skull and the other bones are much water-worn. But we can see that the skull is small and short, that the nasals rose from a level with the glabella, which was little prominent, though underlaid, as also the similarly low superciliary ridges, by sinuses. The parietal tubera are fairly marked, the minimum frontal diameter apparently very small, 3.7 in , though it may have been diminished by compression, the same minimum frontal being 3.9 in. in each of the two other Anglo-Saxon women from Fiilford. The interior of the skull has the smooth polished appearance character- istic of youth. The wisdom-tooth in the right half of the lower jaw is very small, and not at all worn. The premolars are also little used in comparison with the two true molars, though more than the third molar. The chin seems to have been emarginated unusually below, but to have been fairly pronounced. The upper jaw, judging from a small portion of the right side, must have been slightly prognathous. None of the teeth are carious. There is copper staining on some of the ribs, the clavicle of the left, and the humerus of the right side. vi. Patterned urn. Probably a holy-water vessel, with characteristic bosses. Found a little to the south of the grave of Anglo Saxon woman No. v. It was about 4 in. from the surface of the ground with its top edge, which had escaped the plough; its bottom was about 6| in. Close to this urn or holy-water vessel was a mass of infant skull hones, the child having been about (before or after) the time of n.itural birth. It is possible that the diggers of the Anglo-Saxon woman's grave may have disturbed this um in the process, and having broken the urn may have reinterred it in fragments, and its contents .ipart from the fragments. A plain fragment, which does not appear to have belonged to the patterned fragment, was also found at some little distance from the patterned urn and the baby bones. And it is again possible that the child may have been deposited in the um of which this latter fragment was a part. But I incline to think this was not the case, as the child's bones do not bear marks of fire; and though the Eoman rule expressed in the words ' minor igne rogi' (Juv, xv, 140 ; Plin. T t 2