CEMETERY AT FRILFORD. 585 In all the inhumations which I have examined at Frilford, the bodies had been extended at full length, and in the cases of Eomuno-British burials more or less oriented. The fact that the deviation from orientation is usually towards the south may seem to indicate that the majority of deaths took place then, as now, in the winter-quarters of the year, when the point in the horizon at which the sun would rise would be south of east ^. I. Of the 'Roman Interments in Leaden Coffins discovered at Frilford. By a reference to Mr. Akerman's paper already quoted, it may be seen that two leaden coffins, each of which contained a skeleton, and one of which contained a coin of Constantine the Great also, were found in the Frilford cemetery in the autumn of 1864. The commencement of my researches in this cemetery dates from the discovery in it of a third and fourth coffin of similar character and contents to these, in the month of January, 1867. These inter- ments were near to each other, ten feet only intervening between the foot of the one and the head of the other grave. The direction of the graves was 45° south of east, which, when corrected for the magnetic variation, would give E.S.E. as the true bearing. The coffins were at a depth of about five feet below the present surface of the soil, and this greater depth, as well as their greater intrinsic costliness, would seem to show that their tenants had been persons of greater wealth and consideration than the occupants of the similarly oriented graves of which we shall have to speak next. The length of the coffins is 6 feet 4 inches, and their breadth i foot 6 inches. Both of the coffins have undergone much mechanical change in the way of contortion and crushing, and they contrast herein to disadvantage with certain coffins of the same period in the British Museum, and in the Museum of Antiquities at York, which still retain the form which was conferred upon them at their manufacture 2. The Frilford coffins have also undergone much * Cf. Abb^ Cochet, 'Normandie Souterraine,' ed. i. pp. 192,193, 255, 265. ' The leaden coffins to be seen in the British Museum were dug up in Camden Gardena, Bethnal Green, in the excavations for the New Docks at Shadwell, and in Whitechapel. For the coffins in the York Museum, see Professor Phillips's ' York- shire,' p. 247, and ' Descriptive Catalogue of Antiquities in York Museum,' by the Rev, C. Wellbeloved, p. 77, and his 'Eburacum/ p. 11 a.