MODIFICATIONS OF ASPECTS OF ORGANIC NATURE I show you yet another work, an English Parliamentary Report, of date 1875, ^6b. i, respecting the Production and Consumption jeher einzelne Sommer gegeben, in denen das Wasser ungewohnlich niedrig stand. Wir kenuen Zeuguisse hiertiber aus der Zeit Peters des Grossen, und ohne Zweifel wird man sie aus noch friiherer Zeit finden wenn man darn:ich sucht.' And to supplement a second time the bibliography of Herr LofFelholz-Colberg, I will say that the following quotation from the well-known and accomplished writer of the sixteenth century, Bernard Palissy, may fairly take its place with the foregoing more strictly scientific opinion of yon Baer. Mr. Marsh shall introduce it for us (I.C., p. 303):—'In an imaginary dialogue in the "Recepte Veritable," the author, Palissy, having expressed his indignation at the folly of men in destroying the woods, his interlocutor defends the policy of felling them by citing the example of divers bishops, cardinals, priors, abbots, monkeries and chapters, who by cutting their woods have made three profits, the sale of the timber, the rent of the ground, and the " good portion " they received of the grain grown by the peasants upon it. To this argument Palissy replies: " I cannot enough detest this thing, and I call it not an error, but a curse and a calamity to all France ; for when forests shall be cut, all arts shall cease, and they who practise them shall be driven out to eat grass with Nebuchadnezzar and the beasts of the field. I have divers times thought to set down in writing the arts which shall perish when there shall be no more wood ; but when I had written down a great number, I did perceive that there could be no end of my writing, and having diligently considered, I found there was not any which could be followed without wood .... And truly I could well allege to thee a thousand reasons, but it is so cheap a philosophy, that the very chamber-wenches, if they do but think, may see that without wood it is not possible to exercise any manner of human art or cunning."' — Oiluvres de Bernard Palissy, Paris, 1844, P- 82, first published in 1563- I may do well to neglect chronological order and mention the work by Dr. J. C. Brown, a Fellow of the Royal Geographical Society, which appeared in 1876 under the title, ' Reboisement in France; or Records of the Replanting of the Alps, the Cevennes, and the Pyrenees with Trees, Herbage, and Bush, with a view to arresting and preventing the destructive consequences and eflfects of Torrents.' Dr. Brown has besides this and other woi'ks on kindred or on the same subjects, given us a work on 'The Hydrology of South Africa, or Details of the former Hydrographic Condition of the Cape of Good Hope, and of Causes of its present Aridity.' Professor Ernst Ebermayer's work,' Die Physikalischen Eiuwirkungen des Waldes,' being the ' Resultate der Forstlichen Versuchs-Stationen im Konigreicli Bayem,' AschafFenburg, is of later date (1873) than the bibliographical pricis of LofFelholz- Colberg, and would not therefore have been referred to by that writer as it ought to be by all subsequent writers on the same subject. Professor Karl Koch's ' Vorlesungen iiber Dendrologie,' one third part of which is devoted to the subject of the ' Influence of Woods on the Health of Men, and on Climate,' is similarly of later date (1875) than the last edition of Mr. Marsh's 'The Earth as modified by Man's Action.' Latest in order of time, but by no means last in order of merit, I must place Professor Wellington Gray's ' Notes on Tree-Planting and the Water Supply of the Deccan,' Aug. 1877, contained in the excellent 13th Annual Report of the Sanitary Commissioner for Bombay, Dr. T, G. Hewlett. The influence on climate of cosmical as compared with local agencies ; of mountain and monsoon, that is, as compared with man's plantations ; and on the other, the influence of the brute population of India,