622 EXCAVATIONS IN AN ANCIENT look at the other side. The lower jaw in the former of the two skulls is very well formed; in the latter it is comparatively feehle, especially in the region of the chin ; the teeth in both are less worn than the age testified to by the rest of their skeletons would have led us to expect. The occupiers of these coffins were both tall men ; the stature of the man found with the coins must have been nearly five feet eleven inches, that of the other nearly six feet. A skeleton of an old man, the skull of which closely resembles that of the former of these (see 'Catalogue,' infra, No. xiv. May 1867), and which bears less ambiguous marks of its owner having been a warrior in the gaping, though healed^ wound on its left side, be- longed, as its femur of 19-5 inches length shows, to a man of fully six feet in height. The stature of each of these three warriors was much above that of the average Roman of ancient days, who spoke of the Germanic and Celtic races as possessing im7nania ac procera corpora, as it is also above that of his modern Italian representative ^, and above that of the Long-barrow British skeletons^. The better food of civilization may have increased the stature of the former of the two occupiers of the leaden coffins, and of the owner of the beautifully elegant and vaulted cranium (No. xiv. May 1867); whilst intercrossing would account for the increase in height in the skeleton to which the flatter skull belonged, if, with Edwards, Cardinal Wiseman 3, Sandifort, and Ecker, we should consider it to be probably Roman. The eraniography of the occupiers of the graves which I have spoken of as Romano-British or British, and which the archaeo- logical evidence above adduced shows to have belonged to the times of the later Roman empire, is a subject of considerably greater difficulty than that of the Anglo-Saxon and of the leaden coffin interments. An examination of fifty-three of these interments, and a comparison, carried on at great cost of time, of their contents with those of several other cemeteries, has conducted me to the following conclusions as to the tribal characters of the pre-Saxon inhabitants of this district with whom I have had to deal. In the * See Edwards, ' Des Caractferea Physiologiques des Eacea Humaines,' p. 53. See Keysler, I.e. p. 220, for the stature of the ancient races under comparison, ibique citata. ^ See Thurnam, op. cit. pp. 40-41. 3 'Lectures on the Connexion between Science and Eevealed Religion,' p. 152, cit. Nott and Gliddon, 'Indigenous Races,' pp. 311, 312,