838 MODIFICATIONS OF ASPECTS OF ORGANIC NATURE furnishing Cheviot sheep are so abundantly forthcoming- as to enter even into the landscape. It were a still greater and more serious mistake if any one were to compare, for succulence or sapidity, the flesh-food as yet procurable in the tropics with that which we have furnished us in every well-ordered house^ and even hostel, in the United Kingdom of the chilly and rainy isles. The subject is not altogether romantic, as I have already acknowledged; there is the more reason therefore for putting its practical side prominently forward, and thereby, as we may hope, doing something, however humble, for' the bettering of man's estate. That it is not altogether visionary to hope for some im- provement in this direction, or to strive to make acquisitions in the way of domestication under a tropical of the same kind as those which our forefathers made under a Central Asiatic sun, the follow- ing utterance of the late Dr. J. E. Gray, of the British Museum, an authority untainted with enthusiasm, may be taken as showing. Speaking at the 1864 (Bath) Meeting of the British Association (see Report of Address, p. 83, in Transactions of Sections) of our at present available domestic animals, Dr. Gray said:— ' An attentive study of the list, and of the peculiarities of the animals composing it, induces me to believe that, in attempting to introduce new domestic animals into some of our colonies, it would be desirable not to confine ourselves to the European breeds, but to ascertain whether some of the domestic races of Asia or Africa might not be better adapted to the climate and other conditions of the colony, although for reasons, to which I have before adverted, it would neither be worth the trouble, nor consistent with good policy, to attempt their introduction here. ' Tliere is evidently ample room for such experiments, which might bo advantageously made, for instance, in the colonies of the coast of Africa, where our horse, ass, oxen, sheep, and goats, and even dogs, have greatly degenerated, where the horse and the ass live only for a brief period, where the flesh of the ox and sheep is described as bad and rare, and the flesh of the goat, which is more common, is said to be tasteless and stringy. The pig alone, of all our domestic animals, seems to bear the change with equanimity: and the produce of the ' milch pig' is often sold to passengers of the mail packets, and the ships on the stations, as the milk of the cow, or even the goat, is rarely to be obtained. Unfortunately both the white and the black inhabitants are merely sojourners in the land, and do not seem to possess suflScient energy or in- clination to make the experiment themselves.' There is a more serious aspect or rather prospect of our future relation to the animal world. In this realm of activity, as in some others, we have of late been very rapidly extending our responsi- bilities. A man needs not to have spent years in the Malay Archipelago as Mr. Wallace has done, nor in the very different