APPENDIX. 942 digging out the humus, which had collected in it, teeth of ox and deer and a good deal of pottery were found, but throughout the field the humus is charged with similar pottery. On the floor a portion of a bivalve shell was found.' Most of the skeletons and other objects collected at Wytham are pre- served in the Oxford University Museum, NOTES ON ARCH^OLOGICAL DISCOVERIES AT YARNTON, OXFORDSHIRE. During the years 1875 to 1877, both inclusive, several human skeletons were exposed in an ancient burial-place to the south-west of the church of Yarnton, Oxfordshire, on the north side of the railway station. The excavations leading to the discovery of the skeletons were made for the purpose of getting gravel as ballast in connection with railway works then going on in that district. Whilst removing the soil two ditches of a semicircular form were opened into. These ditches were situated in close proximity to each other, and, as appears from a plan constructed by Sir H. Dryden, had the con- cavity of the semi-luue turned in opposite directions. The ditches were filled with black earth, and in and near them the graves containing the skeletons were found. One ditch is noted (May 13-15, 1876) as 'about 7' 10" wide, and about 1' 6" below the surface, with sloping sides, and may consequently have been a little less wide when first dug out. Its depth is from 5' to 5' 10".' This ditch was exposed for a space of about 60', running nearly north and south, but trending a little east- wards. On May 13, 1876, Dr. RoUeston noted :— ' We found a skeleton in a grave sunk through the side of the above ditch in such a way as to show that the ditch had been filled up, and the grave sunk into partly the fiUing-up of the ditch and partly into the side or escarpment of it. The skeleton was lying so near the slope of the ditch that it would have been broken into pieces in the digging out of the ditch. There can be no reasonable doubt that the ditch was the earlier of the two. This is confirmed by the fact that in another of these ditches two bodies were found, one on the top of the other, in 1875. The buriers struck upon a ditch as a place to dig a grave in, and sank this grave as it happened within the limits of the ditch on either side. I think the ditches may have been simply places for living in. As a general rule we have found very little in them, and that very little, animal bones—ox, dog, goat.'