836 MODIFICATIONS OF ASPECTS OP ORGANIC NATURE personal discomfort and create the required stimulus for their gratification, when they are tempted to let themselves lapse into savage Corsican sloth. In the thousands of years which may yet intervene between us and the necessity for a southward exodus, these cravings and uneasinesses will have become more inseparably a part of our nature than even the most optimistically-minded member of the London School Board can as yet assert they have become. I have not far to look for another authority who will assure us that the desire and appetite for intellectual enjoyment may become as really a ' constitutional demand' as those lower stimuli which in 'old, unhappy, far-off times' enabled man to subdue other gregarious animals to his own uses, and, so aided, to overrun victoriously the whole globe. Your secretary, Mr. Bates, after eleven years of absence from England, to which the world owes his charming work the 'Naturalist on the River Amazon,' and after seeing many tribes living in the happy position in which a moderate amount of light work will produce for the simple, peaceful, and friendly people all the necessaries of their simple life (1. c. vol. ii. p. 137 of the ' Mundurucus^), found yet (p. 416)— ' after three years of renewed experience of England, how incomparably superior is civilised Ufe, where feelings, tastes, and intellect find abundant nourishment, to the spiritual sterility of half-savage existence, even if it were passed in the garden of Eden. What has struck me,' says Mr. Bates, ' powerfully is the immeasurably greater diversity and interest of human character and social conditions in a single civilised nation, than in equatorial South America, where three distinct races of man live toge- ther. The superiority of the bleak north to tropical regions, however, is only in their social aspect, for I hold to the opinion that although humanity can reach an advanced state of culture only by battling with the inclemencies of nature in high latitudes, it is under the equator alone that the perfect race of the future will attain to complete fruition of man's beautiful heritage, the earth '.' ' V. Baer, who after making himself in his earliest years a prince among biologists, became in his later years a not inconsiderable geographer, expressed himself in Russian 80 long ago as 1848 in one of the geographical manuals of the Geographical Society of Russia to much the same effect as the two writers above quoted. His words were translated into German no earlier than 1873, and stand as follows in his ' Studien aus dem Gebiete der Naturwissenschaft,' Theil ii. Halfte i. pp. 45-46 :— 'Mit recht propheziet daher aus dieser Productions-Kraft der Tropenwelt ein geistreicher Botaniker, Herr Meier in Konigsberg, dass der Mensch, in der civilisirten Welt rasch sich mehrend, in die heisse Zone zuriickwandem werde. Jamaica allein, so gross ungefiihr als das Konigreich Sachsen, werde vielleicht 25, ganz gewiss aber 12^ Mai so viel Menschen ernahren konnen als Sachsen. Und wie viele, setzen wir hinzu, die Waldfiache Brasiliens ! Verkehrt genug nennt man diesen Boden einen jungfraulichen. Er trug nur fiir den Menschen bisher wenig Frucht. Dagegen hat der Haushalt der Natur Jahrtausende hindurch in ihm organischen Stoff aufge-