PRODUCED BY MAN, 817 was brouglit under domestication. This fact as given by Alilquist in his interestiuff work, 'Die Kulturworter der Westfinnisehen Sprachen,' 1875, p. 14, is to the effect that the Tatars, by which word he means presumably Turkic and Tung-usic tribes in the neig-hbourhood of the Lake Baikal, have words of their own for ram and ewe, fdkd, to wit, and sarik, which the Tscheremissians, who live now as far away from that lake as is the river Volga, use as loan words. It is, I submit, not easy to imagine that a word would have maintained its life thus intact and vigorous if the thing which it represents had not been part of the national life of the tribe using and retaining it. And this suggestion gains in force when we learn from the same authority, 1, c, that the Hungarian language has adopted Slavonic words for the ewe, the ram, and the lamb, and find him deducing from this the conclusion that the Hungarians, albeit a steppe tribe, had not been shepherds before they came into relation with the Slavs. It may have been due to this, but it may also have been owing to a prepotency either in the Aryan language or in the pastoral craft of the Slav race. For except upon one or other of these latter hypotheses, it is difficult to see why the Tscheremissians on the Volga should have retained their Mongolian names for the ewe and ram, whilst not only the Hungarians but the Ostjaks, the Vogals, the Mordvins, the Syrians, and the Wotjaks, from the Volga to the Irtisch, should be using more or less modified Slavonian words for the same things. Anyhow, that a lowly, organised language, such as the Tataric, should have words of its own for the domestic ewe and ram, is a point of great signi- ficance, especially when we consider that these Tatars lived around the spurs of the Altai range on the lower and middle zones of which the Argali was then, as now, available for the purposes of domestication. Thirdly, of the horse. The fossil or semi-fossil bones of the horse, Equus cahallus, are found in the lower Thames valley gravels under our feet, and from this area of the world's surface all the way to the regions round the Lake Baikal; and in this latter district the horse is found, as I think may be safely said, in a wild state at the present day. It is true that a very large number of naturalists of the first rank, such as Mr. Darwin and Mr. Wallace, have acquiesced in the view which teaches that the so-called ' Tarpan' is but a ' feral' animal, the offspring of runaway stallions and mares 3 o