860 BIOLOGICAL TRAINING AND STUDIES. I need not refer to Dr. Sanderson's valuable Report (just published in the Privy Council's Medical Officer's ' Blue Book,' Twelfth Re- port, 1870, p, 229) upon those contagion particles which he pro- poses to c ill by the convenient name, slightly modified from one invented by Professor Bechamp, of ' Microzymes'; for Dr. Sander- son is here to refer to the matter for himself and for us ; and when this meeting is over we shall all do well to lay to heart what he may tell us here and now, and, besides this, to study his already printed views upon the matter. It may be perhaps my business to remind you that these views, so far as they are identical with Pro- fessor Hallier's as to the importance of those most minute of living organisms, the micrococcus of his nomenclature, the microzymes of Mr. Simon's ' Blue Book,' were passed in review as to their botanical correctness by a predecessor of mine in this honourable office—namely, by the Rev. J. M. Berkeley, at the Meeting held two years ago at Norwich ; and that some of the bearings of the theory and of the facts, howsoever interpreted, upon the Theory of Evolution, were touched upon by Dr. Child in his interesting volume of ' Physiological Essays,' p. 148^ published last year. It would not perhaps be exactly my business to express my dissent from any of these results or views put forward by any of these investigators I have mentioned ; but I wish to point out to the general public that none of these inquirers would affirm that the agencies shown by them to be potent in the causation of certain diseases were types and models of the agencies which are, did we but know it, could we but detect them, potent in the causation of all diseases. Many diseases, though, possibly enough, not the majority of the strictly infectious diseases, are due to material agents quite distinct in nature from any self-multiplying bodies, cytoid or colloid. To say nothing of the effects of certain elements (and elements, it will be recollected, in their singleness and simple atomicity, have, as the world happens to be constituted and governed, never been honoured with the office of harbouring life) which when volatized, as mercury, arsenic, and phosphorus may be, or indeed which, when simply dissolved, may be most ruinous to life, there are, I make no doubt, animal poisons produced in and by animals, and acting upon animal bodies, which are neither organised nor living, neither cytoid nor colloid. Dr. Charlton Bastian is not likely to underrate the importance of such agents, howsoever pro-