561 PREHISTORIC TIMES IN BRITAIN. convexity of the fronto-lacrymal ridge is well marked, and, like the straight naso- frontal suture and the two other peculiarities specified, serves to differentiate Sus andainaneitsis from specimens of simihir size from the Palaearctic region, and to show that it is a member of the group repi-esented by Sus cristatus. Again, this skull resembles Sus criftatus and differs from Sus scro/a in being somewhat shorter, and having the paroccipitals, temporal bullae, and pterygoid processes more crowded together. The length of the nasals is a little less than that of the fronto-parietal region in the vertical aspect, as is often, though not always, the case in Sus cristatus, though very rarely, if ever, in Sus scro/a. Measurements op Skull op inches. Greatest frontal width between ectorbital processes . . 3-3 Least width on vertex . . 0-8 Greatest interzygomatic width . 4-65 Height of occiput from inferior border of foramen magnum . 3-7 Length of vertex from level of supraorbital foramina to middle of occipital ridge . . . 4.5 Horizontal distance from anterior border of orbit to temporal ridge 3.05 Length of intermaxillary along alveolar border . . .2-0 Maximum length of skull from apex of intermaxillaries . . io-8 Length of nasals .... 5 Length from apex of intermax- illaries to anterior edge of fora- men magnum .... g.i 'Sus ANDAMANENSIS,' FEMALE. inches. Length from apex of frontal to middle of occipital ridge . . 5-95 Length from middle of fronto- nasal suture to middle of occi- pital ridge . . . .5-5 Length from anterior border of orbit to posterior . . • 1*5 Greatest width of occiput . . 2-5 Breadth of nasals at commence- ment of naso-frontal suture, which is the broadest part of nasals . . . . . i-o Maximum width of intermaxillary region ..... 1.2 Height of lachrymal along rim of orbit 17 mm. Length of lachrymal along malar suture ..... 8 mm. Length of molar series . . 2.0 Length of premolar series . . i-^ Fig. 4. Orbito-lachrymal region of skull of wild Indian sow, Sus cristatus, British Museum. See • Catalogue of Carnivorous, Pachydermatous, and Edentate Mammalia,' 1869, P- 334 (where this skuU is catalogued as '716 m. Skull of young female. Length loi, height 7^ inches. Terai, Nepal; Dr. Oldham '), or Hand-List, pubUshed 1873, p. 64. ^ This skull has been figured to show the points in which it contrasts with the British pig's skull (Fig. I) on the one hand, as to racial characters, and with the Indian boar's skull (Fig. 6) as to sexual characters, agreeing as it does with the one as to sex, and with the other as to age. It is, as may be seen by consti-ucting two triangles with the three first measure- ments given of it and of that of Sm cristatus (Fig. 6) respectively, a very much amaUer skull than that; the principal points, however, enumerated in the description of that skull, as differentiating it from Sus scrofa. can be recognised in its smaJler contours. The third molar in the upper jaw has the part posterior to its second principal lobe much smaller relatively and absolutely than is the case in boars of Sus cnstatus ; this posterior factor, however, effloresces into as many as seven cusps in the upper and five in the lower jaw of this specimen. 0 0