842 MODIFICATIONS OF ASPECTS OF OKQANIC NATURE before it began to be modified by man's interference ; the liegnum Hominis would not be succeeded by the Recjnum Canum familiarium, but by that of Canum lupomm; and generally the largery^rae naturae^ both those which eat others and those which are eaten by others, would resume an importance even in the landscape which their extirpation within our four seas has rendered an impossibility for all future time short of the time when the Channel will once ao-ain become dry land. In concluding a Lecture the title of which might serve for the often-to-be-repeated title of many successive and closely printed volumes, let me take as a text the following words from Victor Hehn's book ('Kulturpflanzen und Hausthiere,' 3rd edition, 1877 ; Berlin ; p. 435), to which I owe more even than I have expressed: 'Was die moderne Welt von der alten unterscheidet ist Natur- wissenschaft, Technik und Naturalokonomie'—what makes the modern world to differ from the old is natural science; command of apparatus, and political economy. As regards this last differential peculiarity, I have to remark that Herr Victor Hehn's last edition bears the date of 1877, and that, consequently, he cannot have had colonial tariffs either of Melbourne or of Canada before his eyes; nor, though living in Berlin, could he have heard the words uttered there only ten days ago, though they were in an authoritative voice (see ' Times,' May 2nd); nor, finally, could he have been present at a meeting attended in Paris by the representatives of no less than fifty-eight Chambers of Commerce on the very day before, the first, that is, not of April, but of May in this very year of grace 1879. Otherwise I cannot but think that Herr Hehn would not have said the political economy of the present, either as put out in words, or as carried out in practice, was so very different from that of ancient times. To any one at all thick of sight or hard of hearing the proportions of any such difference are wholly inappre- ciable. I turned to what was one of the favourite studies of my youth, my Aristophanes, and I find Dicaeopolis\ to adapting whose * Acharn. 33-36 :— rhv S' \y.hv Sjjfiov noduv, bs ov5tiTU)iT0T' ftnev, avOpaicas TTpioj, dW' avTUs f<ptp( Trdvra vp'iajv dn^v. Cato and Varro appear, according to the passage given in Helin, p. 425, to have been similarly in the dark, the first of these averring, 2. 5, in words very nearly reproducing that of Dicaeopolis, ' Patrem familiaa vendacem non emacem esse oportet,' whilst the