542 ON THE DOMESTIC PIG OF in the young-, and secondly the presence of mandibular warts, such as one of our domestic breeds, viz, the Galway greyhound pig, still retains, or did till quite lately retain, we may be tempted to think that some form allied to Sus verrucosus or Sus celebensis may have been the single parent stock of all our domestic breeds, except, of course, such as the Westphalian and Turkish, which are striped in their youth, and would be referred to the indigenous Siis scrofa, var, fer us, as their parent stock, la favour of such a view, we have, of course, the general principle ' Entia non sunt multiplicanda praeter necessitatem.' But the wide range ^ of Sus vitiatus, over Java side by side with Sus verrucosus, over Borneo with Sus barbatus, and, as stated, also over Amboyna, Macassar, Banka, and Sumatra, gives it special claims to attention. This pig appears to me to be very closely allied indeed to Sus cristatus, and to be similarly and readily dis- tinguishable from our European wild boar. In this latter point I differ from Riitimeyer {I. c. p. 187), whilst I should agree with him in considering it all but identical with Sus leucomystax. The claims of Sus vittatus and Sus leucomystax, and Sus taivajius of Formosa (occurring, as they do, in an area comprising Japan as well as Java), to have given origin to Sus indicus, the domestic Chinese pig, in days sufficiently far off to have allowed the tendency to striping of the young to become eliminated, are very strong, and can scarcely be considered antagonistic. Closely allied as Sus cristatus is to these races, its severe struggle for existence entailed by its habitat on a continental area tenanted ' It is interesting to compare with these statements, as to the geographical distri- bution of the Asiatic Suidae, the following words from M. Gabriel de Mortillet's memoir in the 'Revue d'Anthropologie,' iv. 4. 1875, p. 653, as to the origin of bronze: ' Reste le groupe de I'extreme Orient Asiatique. C'est Ik ^videmment oil U. faut ehercher I'origine du bronze. Les principaux gisements sent dans la pres- qu'ile de Malacca et surtout dans I'ile de Banca, mais ils s'^tendent dans d'autres lies de la Sonde et remontent jusque dans I'einpire Birman oil I'etain est encore exploits actuellement dans le district de Merguy. Ce mineral, dans tous ces gisements, se recueille de la manifere la plus simple et la plus facile dans les alluvions. Ce sont bien certainement les alluvions les plus riches du monde en etain et celles qui 00- cupent la plus grande ^tendue. II est done tout naturel que ce soit celles qui lea premieres aient attir^ I'attention de I'homme. Le cuivre se rencontre dans les mfiraes regions. Tout le monde connalt les gisements de cuivre des iles de la Sonde, Timor, Macassar, Borneo. La Birmanie anglaise prdsente dee mines de cuivre k c6t^ de ses exploitations d'^tain. Le pays se trouve done dans les meilleures conditions pour avoir vu naltre I'industrie du bronze.' Gallus hankiva, the parent stock of our oommoa fowl, is found over the same area.