533 PREHISTOKIC TIMES IN BRITAIN. of five skulls of modern wild Indian hog-s thus sent by Sir Walter Elliot, three show the upgrowth of parietal crests, which Lieu- tenants Baker and Durand had supposed to be characteristic of the fossil animal, and to contribute towards justifying- its claim to be considered specifically distinct. These three skulls have the follow- ing- labels and histories appended to them by Sir Walter Elliot, which, Avhen coupled with the localities assigned below to the British Museum specimens (specimens not, so far as I can see, diflerent in any essential point from Sir W. Elliot's), bear im- portantly on the question of the unity of Sus cristatiis:— No. 71. Large boar, killed near Eajkote, in Kattywar, June 4, 1832. He was with a large sounder, and ripped two horses severely. Eajkote is in the ex- tensive open plains of the Kattywar peninsula. No. 330. Nilgherry Hills, 1840. No. 428. Jaggiapettah, 1851. On the east side of the Madras Presidency, in the Masulipatam district, on the high road from Masulipatam to Hyderabad.' These three skulls agree in having their third molars considerably worn and their canines large, their muscular insertion-surfaces marked with polygonal reticulations^ in some places, and with arborescent markings in others, and, thirdly, in the spar-like hard- ness and density of the bones generally; and they must be sup- posed consequently to have belonged to old and powerful male animals. In all of these points they differ more or less from the other two skulls, also of male but of younger and less powerful animals. But such differences as these are far from being of specific value, either in comparison of modern races with fossil ones, or in comparison of modern races infer se. All the five skulls, however, lent to me by Sir Walter Elliot possess the lacrymo- frontal ridge developed into a very considerable prominence; and though every now and then I have had occasion, in going over the extensive series of skulls of Indian wild hogs which have been available to me, to note an almost, I have never noted an entirely complete disappearance of it. The fronto-lacrymal ridge is not, even in the aged hog, a mere expansion or dilatation of the frontal bone: it is underlain, it is true, by an arm of the frontal sinuses; but it has thick and independent walls of its own. Though not (^uite exactly homologous with the supraciliary ridges of human anatomy, it is nevertheless very closely comparable with them. In • For similar reticulation in Bos primrgenim, see Riitimeyer, ' Fauna der Pfalil- bauten/ taf. iii. fig. 3.