PRODUCED BY MAN. 785 whilst mentioning (1. c. p. 293} Bremontier, couples with his name that of M. Desbiry, but adds that the greatest credit of all is due to M. Iviy, of Bordeaux, whom he visited himself in 1864, on his own plantations at Pian, and found to be still a vigorous man though eighty-six years of age. Professor Koch pays a meed of praise to the late Emperor Louis Napoleon for his exertions in the same direction and locality; and it is, I think, to another name connected with the Second Empire that the credit is, rightly or wrongly \ assigned, of having enabled the wastes of Gascony to produce and to boast of the heterogeneous multitude of useful pro- ducts displayed in our industrial exhibitions as being now manu- factured out of the pine imported thither from Corsica, It is in this same many-sided connection interesting to note, if we in these recent centuries have re-introduced several conifers which were indigenous, like the spruce, in the immediately pre- glacial, or like the silver fir, in the still later period of the deposi- tion of the peat, but perished either before or during the pre-historic human period 2, and if we are still actively employed in adding to the number of species of this natural order in our landscape by importation from every quarter of the globe, from China to Chili, in proportions represented by a descriptive catalogue of more than 400 ' plants of the fir tribe suitable for the climate of the United Kingdom,' we have, I think it may be shown, also considerably diminished the numbers of one of the few of our native repre- sentatives of this order. This is the yew {Taxus baccata). It is a tree which, though valuable to the turner, nevertheless grows too slowly to pay well in these days when the spirit which makes haste to be rich makes a 'vegetable manufactory' of the hill-sides of our Lake District (to use Wordsworth's prose), by covering them with the rapidly growing larch—to say nothing of the severe competition, even as a wood for the turner, to which the beautiful woods of New Zealand and other southern colonies now subject it. Formerly matters stood somewhat differently, when it could be said : — ' England were but a fling But for the eugh and the gray goose wing.* ' Wrongly very likely—in England we are content to ascribe the invention of the safety lamp to George Stephenson. ' .See De Candolle, ' Geogr. Botan.' 807. 3 E