573 ON THE GEOQRAPHrCAL DISTRIBUTION » 'Hiat. Nat, des Mollusques,' ii. 1820-1851, pp. 23 and 54. animal so marked is possibly not indigenous, was removed from the Limax agrestis, and prefixed to the curious name 'Arion fuscus, Miill/ It is difficult to understand how the late Dr. O. A. L. Morch can have come, in 1875, to alter his previous entry in this manner. For the name ' Arion' was unknown to Miiller, the author of the ' Historia Vermium,' having been introduced into malacology by Ferussac, as he himself tells us ^; and as regards the animal itself, on the supposition that Dr. Morch, by his entry 'Arion. fuscm, Miill.,' intended to have written 'Limax fuscus, Miill.and knowing that this Limax, so called by Miiller, was really an Arion [hartensis), and not a slug with a posteriorly placed respiratory inlet and a continuous shell, it is still more difficult to see how he could have added the word L. agrestis, L., apparently as a synonym. For in the thirteenth edition of the ' Systema Naturae,' tom. i. pars vi. pp. 3101-3102, the (true) ' Limax agrestis ' is distinguished from the 'Limax fuscus^ Arion hortensis hodie) of 'Miiller, Hist. Verm. ii. p. ii. n. 209.' On referring to Dr. O. A. L. Morch's 'Faunula Molluscorum Islandiae,' communicated on the 13th April 1866, and published in 1868, in Danish, in the 'Vidensk. Medd. fra den naturhist. Forening i. Kbvn,' pp. 185-227, I find at p. 196, 3, that '•Limax agrestis, L.' stands with a ? after its name, even though there can be no doubt from references to Olafsen, several of which are, in fact, given by Morch, that a gray slug, as well as the black slug, Arion ater, exists in Iceland. And a suggestion at the end of the entry, to the effect that the specimens may possibly belong to the species Limax tenellus, appears to explain the presence at the beginning of it of a ? after the words Limax agrestis. Perhaps, therefore, the true explanation of the entry in the Manual of 1875 is as follows. In the interval between 1857 and 1875 a black slug may have been proved to Dr. Morch's satisfaction to have been found in Greenland, and he may have identified it as the Arion fuscus of Moquin-Tandon, which is the same as the Arion hortensis of Ferussac, and as the Limax fuscus of Miiller and Linnaeus ; and he may, by a very slight slip, have entered it as ' Arion fuscus, Miill.,' instead of ' Avion fuscus, Moquin-Tandon,' or ' Limax fuscus, Miill.' To his addition ' Probably introduced,'