872 BIOLOGICAL TRAINING AND STUDIES. from him and from Mr. Tylor, the human mind l)lunders and errs and deceives itself in these subjects in just the same way as it does in the kindred, though more immediately arising, pressing, and im- portant matters of social and political life. In these latter spheres of observation we are apt occasionally to mistake one of those intermittent reactions of opinion, produced as eddies are produced in a river by the deposit of sand and mud at angles in its onward course, for a deliberate giving up of the principles upon which all previous progress has been dependent. The straws which float upon the surface of a backwater may be taken as proofs that the river is about to flow upwards, and a feeble oarsman in a light boat may be deceived for some moments by the backward drifting of his small craft. Now an analogous blunder is often made in matters of purely historical interest; and we may do well to learn from the experience thus cheaply earned. ' The history of the human race has/ says Sir John Lubbock, p. 322, I.e., 'I feel satisfied, on the whole been one of progress: I do not of course mean to say that every race is necessarily advancing; on the contrary, most of the lower are almost stationary:' but Sir John regards these as ex- ceptional instances, and points out that if the past history of man had been one of deterioration, we have but a groundless expectation of future improvement; whilst on the other, if the past has been one of progress, we may fairly hope that the future will be so also. Mr. Tylor's words are equally to the purpose, though, as forming the end of a chapter merely and not the end of a book, they are less enthusiastic in tone (p. 193, Tylor, 'Early History of Mankind'). They run thus :— ' To judge from experience, it would seem that the world, when it has once got a firmer grasp of new knowledge or a new art, is very loath to lose it altogether, especially when it relates to matters important to man in general, for the conduct of his daily life, and the satisfaction of his daily wants, things that come home to men's " business and bosoms." An inspection of the geographical distri- bution of art and knowjedge among mankind seems to give some grounds for the belief that the history of the lower races, as of the higher, is not the history of a course of degeneration or even of equal oscillations to and fro, but of a movement which, in spite of frequent stops and relapses, has on the whole been forward; that