THE HARVEIAN ORATION. 743 Every gradation, in fact, exists between the entire obsolescence of the moderator band, which wo sometimes see in the human heart, through the typical, and I should anticipate, constant, but not functionally important, representation of it in the rabbit, up to the important and structurally prominent development attained to by it in the ungulate mammal, and this solitary instance for the class of birds, and the sub-class, with such generalised affinities, of struthiones. And, speaking of the method of gradations, I take this opportu- nity of saying that its application in the case of the muscular right auriculo-ventricular valve of birds will, in my judgment, put an end to the disputes which have taken place as to its homology with one or other of the two valves in the crocodiles. The two portions of the valve in the Casiiarius mistmlls are so nearly equal—the larger being 1-7 inch, as against I-4 of the smaller—as to do away with the difficulty which might be felt in holding that both croco- dilian valves are represented here. There are other reasons for this view, which I reserve for another occasion. But whilst speaking of the heart of the bird, I cannot forbear pointing out how the struc- tural arrangements of its auricle, differing as they do strikingly from those of the same compartment in the mammalian heart, help us by that contrast to get a true idea of the working of this latter. Firstly, the walls of the bird's right auricle are relatively thicker, not only as compared with the walls of its own ventricle, but also as compared with the walls of the corresponding auricle in the mammal, the musculi pectinati standing out in as sharp relief as the similarly working muscular ridges in a hypertrophied bladder, and inclosing anfractuosities and recesses almost as deep. But, secondly, and what is of more importance, the bird's auricle is furnished with a large and functionally active valve, protecting the entrance of the great veins, and preventing regurgitation into those vessels just as the auriculo-ventricular valves prevent regur- gitation from the ventricles. It is fair to argue a priori that if the what I would call the ' conad^ and ' dextrad^ cusps of the tricuspid, to an origin on the interventricular septum, sending a root up to the point of origin of one of the chordae tendineae of the third cusp, called ' septal' by Mr. Galton. See also Mr. Galton's Letter to 'British Medical Journal,' July 26; 1873, p. 83. I have to thank Dr. Headlam Greenhow for a reference to another notice of the presence of a moderator band in a human heart. It will be found in an interesting paper of his in the 'Transactions of the Pathological Society,' vol. xxi. 1870, p. 88. [It should be stated that Mr. T. W. King had figured and described a moderator band in the human heart and in several mammals other than the Ungulates.—Editoii.]