eTr.o'ue^ ywmr locts\s22101727020Med K9745MENUS MADE EASY.Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b2808200xMENUS MADE EASY; 03 HOW TO ORDER DINNER AND GIVE THE DISHES THEIR FRENCH NAMES. E"7 NANCY LAKE, AUTHOR OF “ DAILY DINNERS." THE EIGHTH EDITION, REVISED AND ENLARGED. LONDON: FREDERICK WARNE & 00. AND NEW YORK. 1894.WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. &cr *INTRODUCTION. This publication is a humble endeavour to afford some assistance to ladies in the daily difficulty of what to order for dinner, and how to describe it. Cooks are not generally gifted with fertile imagi- nations, and are inclined to get into a routine which is a source of annoyance to those who desire a variety of dishes, if not for themselves, at least for their friends. Ladies often wish to be ready with suggestions of a change in the proposals of the cook, and even when in some measure provided with these, a second difficulty arises—What are these dishes to be called ? What are the correct technical names for them ? The French of cookery is a language of itself, and those who are not learned in it are often entirely at a loss when suddenly called on to write out a correct French menu with no other assistance than that of a dictionary. In carrying out this a 8INTRODUCTION. vi idea, lists of various dishes have been given, arranged in courses, with the French names, as well as the English equivalent or description. It is not intended to give recipes, such as would he adequate for the preparation of the dishes in the kitchen; the dishes are only so far described as to enable the mistress to recognize them, giving a general idea of their ingredients and of their appearance when sent to table,PREFACE TO REVISED EDITION, In this edition a considerable number of dishes have been added, and such alterations made as are demanded by the changes of fashion. Dishes of a very elaborate character have, for the most part, been rejected. They are often merely (what a botanist would term) “sports” from well-established originals, differing from them, perhaps, only in some details of fantastic decora- tion, the fashions of which are very short-lived, and are quickly succeeded by some newer fancy. With regard to decoration, it is suggested that very fanciful effects should be avoided. In a zeal for originality in this respect, the object of all decoration—viz. to render the dish attractive— seems occasionally to be forgotten, and a contrary effect is produced. Dishes are presented more fit to adorn a confectioner’s window than to appear at a gentleman’s table.viii PREFACE TO REVISED EDITION. Compounds of preserves and ices have actually been made to represent, with painful accuracy, boiled legs of mutton, hoars’ heads, etc., etc It is a mistake, too, to give fantastic names to the dishes. A menu is intended to convey in- formation, not to mislead or confuse; and few people care to bestow sufficient attention to the subject to enjoy a succession of “ surprises.” Neither is a dish more generally appreciated for bearing an extravagant name—even when under such a name as Sastartees a la Malay are revealed the homely aspects of curried veal! One is re- minded of the old saying, “Fine feathers do not make fine birds.” Names given to quenelles, creams, etc., often have reference to the fancy moulds in which they are dressed. For instance, Petites cremes an Chevalier are creams steamed or set in moulds made to represent little horseshoes. So petites cignes, petits chevanx, papillons, etc., refer to the moulds. Even petites langues, petits jambonneaux, petits 2)oulets, do not necessarily imply something made of tongue, ham, or chicken. Very few such names are introduced in these pages. They are obviously only the passing fashion of the moment, and do more credit to thePREFACE TO REVISED EDITION. ix skill of the ironmonger than to that of the cook. From the number of dishes described, it is hoped that it will be found easy to select such as shall be suited to the occasion for which they are re- quired, whether for homely dinners, or for more elaborate entertainments. Complete menus of the former class will be found in the author’s “ Daily Dinners,” which, with the assistance here given, may be enlarged or varied without difficulty. In planning a dinner, ladies are reminded not to be content with dishes individually excellent, without regard to the contrast they bear to one another. Variety is required, not only in the material, but also in the style of dressing, and in the accom- panying sauces and garnishes. Light and dark dishes should as far as possible succeed one another. The same sauce should not appear twice. Several sorts of pastry should be avoided. When cold dishes form part of the menu, they should be interspersed judiciously among the others. The author has adhered to her original inten- tion of giving descriptions rather than recipes. They will probably be sufficient, in most cases, to enable the mistress to give directions which aX PREFACE TO REVISED EDITION. fairly competent cook may carry out without the aid of a detailed recipe. But should they be found insufficient, recourse may always be had to som* of the excellent cookery-books now published.CONTENTS. r > r. k Introduction . . . . i » • • • V Preface to Revised Edition , , , . , . vii CHAPTER I. Hors d’CEuvres CHAPTER II. Soups or Potages—Clear and thick;. , . , t , 8 CHAPTER III. Fish or Poissons—Different modes of dressing Fish ; Shell- Fish and Fish Entrees 17 CHAPTER IV. Entrees—Of Beef, Yeal, Mutton, Lamb, Pork, Poultry, Game . 46 CHAPTER Y. Removes or Releves—Of Beef, Veal, Mutton, Lamb, Pork, Poultry, Game 106 CHAPTER VI. Roasts, or Rots . 136Xll CONTENTS CHAPTER VII. TAGE Vegetables, ok Legumes, and Salads . , , , 130 CHAPTER VIII. Eggs and Omelettes 1(U CHAPTER IX. Entremets—Cakes ami Pastry, Puddings, FriIters, Compotes of Emit, Creams, Jellies .... 1GG CHAPTER X. Savoury Entremets , , . . • . .201 CHAPTER XI. Ices, or Graces, and Sorbets ..... 214 CHAPTER XII. Sauces and Garnishes , , . . . • .218 Index ' 227MENUS MADE EASY. CHAPTEE I. HORS D’CEUVRES. A large dinner may begin with one of the following hors cl’oenvres:— Huitres au naturel. Oysters, served in the shells, with lemon, and slices of brown bread and butter. Saucisson de Bologne, de Lyons, etc. Thin slices of Bologna, Lyons, or other sausage, garnished with small salad. Sardines a Vhuile. Sardines in oil; aux tomates, in tomato sauce. A la Boyale, they are served on shred celery, seasoned with oil and vinegar, and are garnished with strips of beetroot, gherkins, and white of hard-boiled egg. Anchois. Anchovies ; d la Liable, devilled. A la Burlington, small fillets, seasoned with oil and vinegar, are rolled and served on slices of hard-boiled egg, garnished with shred lettuce ; garnished with capers and anchovy butter, they are d la Victoria. BMENUS MADE EASY. 2 Olives. Olives ; farcies, stuffed. A la Metropole, they are stuffed with green butter, set in little moulds of aspic, and served on slices of Bologna or other sausage, garnished with green butter. Caviar sur croutes. Caviar spread on buttered crohtes. Garnished with prawns, it is called aux crevettes. As Blini au caviar, it is spread on buttered crumpets, well seasoned with lemon juice. Lax sur croutes. Lax on buttered crohtes. If more variety is required, many of the dishes given in the chapter on savoury entremets will he found suitable. Hors d’oeuvres are usually served in very small fancy plates, one to each person.( 3 ) CHAPTER II. SOUPS OR POTAGES. Soups may be divided into two classes : 1st. Clear, transparent soups, or consommes, of meat, game, or poultry, varying according to the floating garnish added to them. 2ndly. Thick soups, including purees of game, vegetables, etc. At a large dinner, when there are two soups, one is thick and the other clear. Consomme a, la Julienne has a floating garnish of vegetables cut in strips. a la Xavier has a garnish of threads of vegetables. a la Jardiniere is garnished with vegetables cut in small fancy shapes. a la Brunoise has vegetables cut in small dice. This is sometimes called Potage Faubonne. a la Printani'ere, or Potage printanier, has early summer vegetables cut in small shapes, with green peas and asparagus heads. d la Kursel is Printaniere soup with lettuces. a la Chiffonade has lettuces stamped out with a cutter, and peas.4 MENUS MADE EASY. Consomme a la D’Esclignac lias a garnish of turnips, and small squares of custard. a la Uoyale and a VImperiale have small shapes of custard, which may he white, or coloured red and green. Printanier a la Royale has the vegetables as in “ a la Printaniere,” and the little pieces of custard as in “a la Royale.” a la Portugaise is garnished with shreds of leeks, and French plums. a la Franqaise has a mixed vegetable garnish. With the addition of rice it is called a la Fleury. a la Clermont has little slices of onion fried brown. a la Crecy is garnished with shreds of carrots. a la Prince has turnips cut into little balls. a la Russe has shreds of carrot, celery and leeks. a la Dustan has haricot beans. a la D’Artois, or a la Saint-Germain, has a garnish of peas. aux chouxfarcis has stuffed Brussels sprouts. aux pommes olives has potatoes cut in the shape of olives. aux trois racines is garnished with carrots, turnips and celery. aux pointes d’asperges has asparagus heads. Any vegetable or herb may be used as a garnish, and the soup is named accordingly. aux oeufs poclies has poached eggs.SOUPS OR POTAGES. 5 Consomme aux profiterolles has little baked balls of a light “ choux ” paste. aux quenelles has very small quenelles. a la Komaine has little quenelles made of bread- crumbs. a la Baviere has quenelles made of semolina. a la Florentine has cheese quenelles. This is sometimes called a la Venitienne. a la Parmentier has quenelles made of potatoes. aux epinards has quenelles made with spinach. auxpetits jambonneaux has little quenelles of ham. au macaroni has a garnish of macaroni; au vermicelle has vermicelli. Grated Parmesan should be served with these soups. aux nouilles has poached strips of German paste made of flour, eggs, butter, etc. aux pates d’ltalie, sometimes called Potage aux lazagnes, has pieces of Italian paste. a la semoule, au tapioca, and au riz are respectively garnished with semolina, tapioca, and rice. aux huttres is garnished with oysters. aux ceufs files is garnished with an egg custard in threads, made by passing it through a colander. a la Poissonniere is garnished with quenelles of fish. a la Montglas has quenelles made of liver farce. a la Sevigne has little shapes of chicken cream. a la Prince de Galles has little pieces of chicken enveloped in forcemeat, pieces of custard cut in the same shape, and asparagus points.G MENUS MADE EASY. Consomme a la Colbert lias a garnish of lettuce, celery, Jerusalem artichokes and button onions. a la Jerusalem, or a la Palestine, has Jerusalem artichokes cut into very small balls. a la macedoine is garnished with several kinds of vegetables. a la Nivernaise has vegetables cut in thin small shapes, Italian paste, and quenelles cut in slices. Another soup which bears the same name is garnished with quenelles made of a puree of carrots. ci la Duchesse is garnished with little balls of a light cheese paste and small shapes of vegetables. a la Napoleon has tiny rissoles in paste boiled in the consomme. a la Lelie has shreds of chicken, almonds, carrot and tarragon. a VInnocent has shreds of chicken and almonds, with quenelles, and little shapes of custard. a la Pompadour has little shapes of vegetables and custard of several different colours. a la Bernhardt has little slices of marrow, tiny quenelles, and watercress. a la Grande Duchesse has little anchovy quenelles and cheese quenelles, and shreds of chicken and tongue. a VAlexandra has small round slices of chicken, and cherries. a la Christina is garnished with chestnuts and cherries.SOUPS OR POTAGES. 7 Consomme a la Valetta has slices of Tangerine oranges and shreds of the peel. a la D’Orleans has little quenelles coloured green, red and white. a la Rachel has green, red and black quenelles, made with tarragon, lobster and truffle. Another soup of this name is garnished with little shapes of steamed white and yolk of egg, carrot, turnip and French beans. a la Rosi'ere has little cheese quenelles and ham quenelles. d la Chasseur has little quenelles of game. A clear game soup is also called by this name. a la Due de York is a clear game soup, garnished with quenelles of game. d la Pnncesse is a clear chicken soup, garnished with vegetables cut in fancy shapes. de poisson is a clear fish soup. d la Dufferin is a clear curried fish soup. It is served with rice and little round slices of fillets of soles. a VIndienne is clear Mulligatawny soup. Potage Baraquine is garnished with tapioca, and strips of chicken and truffles. croutes au pot has toasted crusts. de riz au gras is Brunoise or Jardiniere soup with the addition of rice. Bouillon is gravy soup, or broth. It may be served au riz—with rice, or d la Colbert—with poached eggs. The following soups can be either clear or thick:— Dotage d la tortue. Turtle soup.8 MENUS MADE EASY. Potage d lafausse tortue. Mock turtle. aux abatis cl’oie. Giblet. aux queues de bceuf. Ox-tail. Thick ox-tail soup is called queues de bceuf a VAnglaise. tete de veau. Calf’s head. aux grouses. Grouse. aux perdreaux. Partridge. aux faisans. Pheasant. aux becasses. Woodcock. au lapereau. Rabbit. au levraut or d la lievre. Hare. a la venaison. Yenison. Of the thick soups there are also:— Potage queues de bceuf d VIndienne. A curry soup with pieces of ox-tail in it. Mulligatawny. Curry soup. With this and all soups “a Tlndienne,” rice is served on a separate dish. d la Hesse. Ox-cheek soup. aux rognons. Kidney soup. Ox-kidney soup is called Potage a la Sydney, queues de veau. Calf s-tail soup. A VIndienne, it is curried. aux pieds de veau. Calf’s-feet soup. With the addition of barley, it is called d la Balmoral, tete de veau d VIndienne. Calf’s-head soup, curried. aux queues d'agneau. Lamb’s-tail soup. d Vanguille. Eel soup. d la Bisque. Crab soup. Bisque a la Normande. Shrimp soup.9 SOUPS OR POTAGES. Potage Bisque de liomard. Lobster soup. a la bisque d’eci’evisses. Crayfish soup. aux huitres. White oyster soup. Dupoise. Mussel soup. aux raviolis. Game stock with small pieces of forcemeat wrapped in paste. a la Victoria. White soup with barley or rice. d la Reine, or a, la Princesse. Chicken puree with cream, garnished with quenelles of chicken, or with dice of fried bread. a la chasseur. Game soup, garnished with pieces of the game. aux herbes printanieres. White soup with shred lettuces and other vegetables. a la Russe. Brown soup with vegetables and round balls of sausage meat. a Vltalienne. Fowl stock with puree from vege- tables, anchovies, etc., garnished with small pieces of the fowl. a la Regence is a game soup with barley, and hard-boiled yolks of eggs cut in small pieces. d la Frankfort is a chicken soup garnished with asparagus points. d la Prince de Galles is mock-turtle soup with quenelles. d la Castelaine is a brown soup made of beef. d VAurore is egg soup—of stock with yolks of eggs. a VAndalouse is a fish soup with puree of onions and tomatoes, garnished with pieces of cray- fish or prawns.MENUS MADE EASY. 10 Potage a la Provengale or Bouillabaisse is a fish soup with shred Portugal onions, garnished with fillets of several kinds of fish. a la Comtesse. White soup of veal stock and sweetbreads, with dice of fried bread. a la Clianoincsse. White soup with quenelles of fish, and mackerel roe cut in small square pieces. a la Bonne Femme. White soup with yolks of eggs and shreds of green vegetables. a la Colbert. White soup with poached eggs. a la Milanaise is a white soup with grated cheese. It may be garnished with macaroni, or with vegetables cut in shreds. a la Hollandaise is a white soup with cream and yolks of eggs. d la Romaine is a white soup garnished with little balls of rice. d la Duchesse is a white soup garnished with quenelles. d la Moderns is a white soup with shreds of fried lettuce. This is often called a Vlmperatrice. d la Maltaise is a rich white soup, garnished with slices of oranges, and shreds of capsicums, chillies and of orange peel. d la Florenza is a white soup with macaroni and grated cheese. Creme d la Royale is a white soup with little dice shapes of cheese custard. Creme d la Zingari is a white soup garnished with red, black and yellow quenelles.SOUPS OR POTAGES. II Potage Jardiniere a la Hollandaise is white soup with a Jardiniere garnish. Cookie leekie is made of pheasant or chicken with leeks. French plums may be added to it. d la Friar Tuck is a chicken soup, garnished with pieces of the chicken and shreds 0/ leeks. au sagou is sago soup; au tapioca—tapioca soup. Garnished with strips of chicken, tongue and truffles, it is Potage d la Gouffe. vermicelle a la Hollandaise is vermicelli soup with cream and yolks of eggs. Pilau de riz is rice boiled in stock. au mouton. Mutton broth served with the mutton in it. d VIrlandaise is mutton broth with potatoes. d I’Ecossaise. Scotch broth of mutton with barley, chopped parsley, and vegetables cut in dice. Sheep’s-head soup is also called by this name. Iloche-pot. Hodge-podge soup, of mutton with vegetables. de riz d la Turque. Mutton broth served with rice. Pot-au-feu. Uncleared stock served with the vegetables in it. Livonien. Puree of vegetables and rice, with cream and yolks of eggs. Solferino. Stock with young vegetables, puree of tomatoes, chopped parsley, etc. a la Grecque. Pea soup and Jardiniere soup12 MENUS MADE EASY. with pieces of braised mutton. Another Potage a la Grecque is a fish soup with tomatoes, garnished with oysters. Potage a la Bagration. White fish soup with curry powder, crayfish tails, chopped sole, and vegetables. avx filets cle soles. Veal or fish stock with fillets of sole. a la Poissonni'ere, or Creme de poisson. White fish soup.. Bisque au riz is a shellfish soup with rice. a la Nimoise. Fish stock with yolks of eggs. d la Brisse. Chicken soup with small shapes of vegetable cream, made of a puree of the vegetable with eggs. d la Marechale is a bread soup garnished with quenelles of crayfish or shrimps. d la Tyrolienne is barley soup garnished with carrots. d VAllemande is white sago or tapioca soup with Brunoise vegetables. d la Polonaise is a potato soup with cheese and macaroni. d la Pluche is a potato soup with shreds of carrots. d la Conservative is a puree of potatoes with cream and yolks of eggs, garnished with little red and white quenelles. It is sometimes made in the same way with a puree of carrots. d la Boston is made with tomatoes, potatoes, and okra.SOUPS OR POTAGES. 13 Potage a la Flamande is a white vegetable soup. a la Jubile is made of a puree of tomatoes and mushrooms. a la Dauphine is a puree of peas and tomatoes, garnished with little strips of ham and of vegetables. a la Modena is a spinach soup with eggs. a la St. Louis is a puree of white vegetables with shreds of carrot. d’amandes a, la Colbert is a white almond soup, garnished with poached eggs. au macaroni. Macaroni soup. With the ad- dition of rice, it is called a la Turque; or with cream and yolks of eggs, a la Hollandaise. Garnished with little pieces of game, it is a la Chasseur. Besides these there are the Purees :— Puree de gibier. Puree of game. Puree de lapereaux. Puree of rabbit. Puree de grouses. Puree of grouse. Puree de volaille. Puree of fowl. It may be served a la Milanaise, garnished with macaroni; or a la Napolitaine, with the addition of pounded almonds, and a garnish of pieces of chicken and tongue. And the Vegetable Purees :— Puree de pommes de terre. Potato puree. This is often called Potage Parmentier, on account of Parmentier having introduced potatoes into France. It may be curried and served d l Indienne; or aux quenelles, garnished with14 MENUS MADE EASY. quenelles; a la St. Germain, with peas; a la Milanaise, with macaroni. Puree de petits pois or pois verts. Puree of green peas. This can also be called Potage d la D’Artois. Served with whole peas in it, it is Potage a la St. Germain. Potage a la Palestine. Puree of Jerusalem "arti- chokes. Potage a la Crecy. Puree of carrots. Puree d'asperges. Puree of asparagus. It can he served a la Princesse with the addition of rice. Puree de celeris. Purde of celery. Puree de marrons. Puree of chestnuts. Potage d la Bretonne. Purde of turnips. As Puree de navets a la Franchise, it is served with fried bread. Puree de choux-fieurs. Puree of cauliflower. This soup with the addition of tapioca is called Potage a la Chartreuse. Puree de concombres. Puree of cucumbers. Potage a la Soubise. Purde of onions. Puree d'epinards, or Potage vert-pr'e. Puree of spinach. Puree de tomates, or Potage d VAmericaine. Puree of tomatoes. Served dt la Mancelle, it is garnished with chestnuts. Puree de potirons. Puree of vegetable marrow. Potage d la Conde. Puree of red haricots. Potage Pomeranienne, or a la Dustan. Puree of white haricots.SOUPS OR POTAGES. 15 Potage d la Chantilly. Puree of lentils. Potage a la Stamboul. Puree of rice and tomatoes. Puree d’artichauts. Puree of artichokes. Puree d’oseille. Puree of sorrel. Puree def'eves. Puree of beans. Puree de pois. Puree of dried peas. Puree de chicoree. Puree of endive. Potage Crecy a la Chantilly. Puree of carrots and lentils. Puree de marrons a la Mancelle. Puree of chestnuts with puree of game. When made with the addition of cream, these purees are often called Creme d’artichauts, etc., instead of Puree. Potage a, la creme cVorge. Cream of barley soup. Garnished with quenelles of chicken, it is called a la Marie Louise. a la creme de riz. Cream of rice. With the addition of Parmesan, it may he called a la Milton. Garnished with asparagus heads, it is Potage a VArgenteuil. a la creme de tapioca. Cream of tapioca. a la creme d’avoine. Cream of oatmeal. When chervil is added to a soup, a la peluche, or a la chiffonade, de cerfeuil may be appended to the name. With poached eggs, it is called d la Colbert, or with mixed vegetables, d la Paysanne. If maigre soups are required, Potage Julienne, and many of the vegetable soups, may he made without stock. The following are also sug- gested :—MENUS MADE EASY. 16 Potage au lait d’amandes is made of rice milk and almond milk. aux noix de coco. Cocoanut soup. d la Paysanne. Mixed vegetable soup. d la Savoyarde. Vegetable soup, poured over slices of bread sprinkled with grated cheese. d la Monaco. Milk with yolks of eggs, poured over toast.( 17 ) CHAPTER III. FISH OR POISSONS. When fish is plainly boiled, the French name for it is given on the Menu, with the name of the sauce served with it; as Turbot, sauce Eol- landaise, for boiled turbot served with Hollandaise sauce in a sauce-boat. BARBEL. Barbeau, or Barbillon, grille is broiled, and should be served with anchovy sauce; or sauce pi- quante, with piquante sauce. au Parmesan—pieces of barbel with Bechamel sauce, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan, and browned. a Vetuvee is boiled in wine, and served in the sauce with flour and butter. au court-bouillon is boiled in a bouillon of wine and water with onions, cloves, herbs and lemon peel. BASS. Bar, sauce au beurre is boiled or broiled, and served with butter sauce. c18 MENUS MADE EASY BREAM. Breme grille is broiled, and served with brown caper sauce. au vin blanc is boiled in white wine sauce. BRILL. Barbue aux cdpres is boiled and served with melted butter and capers; a la Hollandaise, it is served with Hollandaise sauce; sauce homard, with lobster sauce. a la puree de cdpres is served with a sauce of melted butter, puree of capers, gherkins and spinach. a VEspagnole—served in a rich brown sauce. d la Sicilienne—served in a white sauce with lemon juice, and shreds of lemon peel and tarragon. d la Bavigote—baked, and served in green Ravi- gote sauce with capers. d la Conti—cooked with oil, stock, white wine and herbs. d la Sainte-Menehould. Pieces of brill with white sauce, covered with breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan, and browned. Filets de barbue a la Juive. Fillets of brill cut in two or more pieces, breadcrumbed and fried. Served with Hollandaise sauce. d la Provcnqale are fried fillets served in anchovy sauce, garnished with stuffed olives.FISH OR POISSONS. 19 Filets de barbue en matelote are fried fillets dressed on a border of mashed potatoes, with Matelote sauce. They are also dressed au gratin, a la meuniere, a Vlmperatrice, and in many of the ways given for turbot. CARP. Carpefrite is split and fried. d la maitre d’hotel is grilled and served with Maitre d’hotel butter. d Vltalienne—stewed in Italian sauce. aux fines herbes—served in a brown sauce with chopped mushrooms and herbs. farcie—stuffed and baked. It may be served with a brown sauce. d la bi'ere—boiled in beer with bacon, onions, carrots, etc. d la Marquise—stewed, and served in a white sauce with whipped cream, chopped gherkins, and capers. d la Chambord—larded, stuffed with forcemeat, boiled in court-bouillon and browned. d la Mariniere is saute with butter, breadcrumbs, chives, garlic, etc. au bleu is pickled. Coquilles de laitances de carpe is carp roe scalloped. Casserole de laitances. Carp roe steived in stock with wine and herbs, and served in the sauco with butter, flour and lemon juice.MENUS MADE EASY. 20 CHAR. Ombre Chevalier en terrine is potted char. COD. Cabillaud a, la Hollandaise is served with Hol- landaise sauce; a Vltalienne, with Italian sauce. a la Victoria—served in a Cardinal sauce with anchovies. a la Portugaise—slices dipped in flour and fried; served in tomato sauce with anchovy, etc. a la Grand Hotel—slices cooked in wine with butter and lemon juice, and served in the sauce, garnished with shreds of parsnips and little sprigs of parsley. d VIndienne is fried or grilled, and served with curry sauce. a, la Garonne—pieces of cod with oil, chopped capers, anchovies and parsley; covered with breadcrumbs and browned. a la creme—pieces of cod in Bechamel sauce, covered with breadcrumbs and browned. farci—stuffed and baked. grille a la Colbert—broiled, and served on Maitre d’hotel butter, with Maitre d’liotel sauce. recrepi, sauce aux huitres—crimped, and served with oyster sauce; aux monies, with mussel sauce. en fricassee d la Suede is a fricassee of cod in mayonnaise sauce with horseradish. It isFISH OR POISSONS. 21 served in an ornamental border of mashed potatoes. Filets de cabillaud d VAurore are little slices broiled and served with egg sauce. Served in a cheese sauce, they are d la Morny. Morue au beurre noir. Salt cod, boiled, and served with black-butter sauce. Served with egg sauce, it is called d la Capucine. au -gratiii. Pieces of salt cod, with a sauce of butter, flour and cream; sprinkled with bread- crumbs, grated cheese and melted butter, and browned. Brandade de Morue. Salt cod, in small pieces, with oil, melted butter, parsley and garlic; stirred to a cream. DABS. Served as Limandes/rifes they are fried. EELS. Anguilles au soleil are cut up, stewed in wine and water with vegetables, etc.; the pieces rolled in the sauce, breadcrumbed and fried. en ragout are stewed in the same way, and served in the sauce with the addition of wine. Served in oyster sauce, they are d la Parisienne. d la broclie are larded and roasted. d la minute—boiled, and served with rnaitre d’hotel sauce and potatoes. d la Poulette—stewed with broth, wine, butter, onions, mushrooms, etc. Served with yolks of eggs and lemon juice added to the sauce.22 MENUS MADE EASY. Anguilles a VAnglaise are small slices wrapped in paste, or dipped in batter, and fried. Served with anchovy sauce. a la Tartare—small pieces, breadcrumbed and fried; served in Tartare sauce. a la Suffren—larded with strips of gherkins and anchovies, braised with vinegar and herbs, and served in tomato sauce. en mayonnaise a la Dieppe are pieces stuffed with forcemeat, rolled, covered with Mayonnaise sauce, and served on a border of green aspic with salad in the centre. en matelote—stewed, and served in Matelote sauce. Filets d’anguilles en paupiettes are pieces stuffed, rolled, breadcrumbed and fried. a Vaspic are pieces of stewed eels set in a mould of aspic. EEL-POUT. Lottes en matelote are stewed in wine with mush- rooms and herbs, and served in the sauce. a la Parisienne—stewed, and served in white sauce with oysters. d Vltalienne—fried, and served with Italian sauce. a la Prussienne—boiled in a sauce of stock, oil, champagne, etc. FLOUNDERS. Carrelets frits are fried. Served with tomato sauce, they are called d la Orly, grilles—broiled.23 FISH OR POISSONS. Souche de camlets. A water souche of flounders boiled with strips of carrot and turnip, sprigs of parsley, etc. Tench, perch, eels, and many other fish are dressed in this way. GUDGEON, Goujons frits are fried. GURNARD. Grondin farci an four is stuffed and baked. Filets de grondins en matelote. Fillets cut in halves, breadcrumbed and fried; served on a border, with Matelote sauce. d Vltalienne are saute, and served with Italian sauce; d la Maitre d’hotel, with maitre d’hotel sauce. , a la Venitienne are served in a white sharp sauce with chopped tarragon. HADDOCK. Merluche grillee is broiled. Served with tarragon butter, it is a Vestragon. d la Hollandaise—served with Hollandaise sauce; a la maitre d’hotel—with maitre d’hotel sauce. sauce aux ceufs—boiled and served with egg sauce. farcie—stuffed, baked, and served with brown gravy. d la Syrienne—served in a brown sharp sauce with chopped gherkins. d la Viennoise—served in a white sauce with chopped ham and tarragon.MENUS MADE EASY. 24 Filets de merluche a la tartare are fried fillets served with Tartare sauce. a I’lndienne are served with curry sauce. a la Boyale are saute, and dressed in a crown, covered with anchovy sauce, and garnished with fillets of anchovies and hard-boiled egg. HAKE. Merlus a Vlndienne is cut in slices, broiled, and served in curry sauce. HALIBUT. Fie tan d la Moray. Small fillets served in a cheese sauce. Hake and halibut may be dressed like cod; but, as they are rather coarse fish, a highly seasoned sauce should be selected. HERRINGS. Harengs grilles, sauce moutarde, are broiled, and served with mustard sauce. d la creme—boiled, and served with a sauce of cream, butter and lemon juice. d la Bohemienne are served in a brown sauce with red currant jelly. au jus d'oranges—served with orange sauce. farcis are boned, stuffed and baked. en matelote are stewed with herbs, etc. en paupiettes are boned, rolled and fried. en caisses are baked in paper cases. au gratin—baked witn herbs and covered with breadcrumbs.FISH OR POISSONS. 25 Harengs d la Mariniere—boned, rolled, boiled, and served on toast, with the roes cut in small pieces and fried. fumes a la Bruxelloise are fillets of smoked herrings broiled in a paper case with a layer of stuffing between them. Served with pieces of lemon. For Croquettes de liarengs they are broiled, made into balls with mashed potatoes, and fried. They can also be made into little cakes, or petits pains, and served a la Tartare with Tartare sauce. JOHN DORY. Jean Dore, or Saint Pierre, en ravigote is served in Eavigote sauce. a la cremiere is boiled in milk and water, and served with a sauce of cream, butter and lemon juice. a la puree de crevettes—served in a puree of shrimps with white sauce. a la hateliere—served in white sauce with button onions, mushrooms and essence of anchovy. en matelote mariniere—served in Matelote sauce with oysters. a V Orleannaise is stuffed with fish forcemeat, braised, and served in Cardinal sauce with tarragon vinegar, and slices of gherkins and beetroot. It is dressed au gratin, d la Vatel, d la Parisienne, etc., in the same way as turbot.26 MENUS MADE EASY. LAMPREY. Lamproie a Vltalienne is filleted, and stewed in wine with oil, onions, herbs and lemon juice. au supreme is cut up, saute, and served in a sauce of red wine with truffles. They are also dressed in many of the ways given for eels. MACKEREL. Maquereaux, sauce fenouil are boiled and served with fennel sauce. a la maitre d’hotel—broiled, and served in Maitre d’hotel sauce. Fillets are also dressed in this way. aux cerises are broiled, and served with cherry sauce. a la Normande are stuffed and baked. a la Flamande—stuffed with chopped shallots and chives, butter and lemon juice; and broiled. grilles au beurre noir—grilled, and served with black-butter sauce. aux groseilles vertes—stuffed with green goose- berries, pieces of herring, etc.; boiled, and served in green gooseberry sauce. Filets de maquereaux a la Venitienne—fillets saute, and served in a rich brown sauce with chopped tarragon and truffles. d la Orly—fried fillets served with tomato sauce.27 FISH OR POISSONS. RED MULLET. Rougets en caisse are broiled in papers, sprinkled with chopped parsley and oil. en papillotes are baked in papers and served with Italian sauce. Served with white Eavigote sauce, they are called a la Eavigote. aux fines lierbes—cooked with butter, wine, Harvey sauce and anchovy. Served in the sauce with chopped mushrooms, parsley, shallot, and lemon juice. sauce vertc—served with green sauce. a la Claudine—served in a brown sauce with anchovies, mushrooms and capers. a la Metropole—stewed in white wine with herbs, and served in the sauce thickened with butter and flour. a la maitre d’hotel—served in Maitre d’hotel sauce. They are dressed in this way in fillets. Filets de rougets a la Montesquieu. Fillets cut in halves, saute in butter with wine, lemon juice, etc., and served in the sauce with melted butter and milk. GREY MULLET. Mulets au beurre fondu are broiled, and served with melted-butter sauce. They are also served au vert, with green sauce; or sauce piment, with capsicum sauce.28 MENUS MADE EASY. PERCH. Perches d V Espagnole are baked and served in a brown sauce. Filets de perches a la Romaine are fillets seasoned with oil and herbs, fried, and served with tomato sauce. They may be dressed in the same way as carp, tench, and trout; and also in a water souche. PIKE. Brochet farci is stuffed and baked. Served with Matelote sauce, it is called en matelote. sauce au beurre d’anchois—boiled, and served with anchovy sauce; aux capres, with caper sauce. au bleu—pickled. d la Busse is served with horseradish sauce. PILCHARDS. Pelamides are dressed in the ways suggested for herrings. PLAICE. Plie au gratin is baked in brown sauce, covered with breadcrumbs. d la Portugaise is stuffed and baked; served in tomato sauce with slices of Spanish onions and tomatoes. d VAmericaine is stuffed with a tomato stuffing, baked, and served in tomato sauce.FISH OR POISSONS. 29 Filets de plie aux fines herbes are fillets served in fine-herbs sauce. d VAmbassade are fillets covered with a red fish sauce, sprinkled with Parmesan and browned. Petits filets de plie d la tartare are little rolled fillets, fried, and served with Tartare sauce. They are also dressed in the same way as soles. SALMON. Saumon a VEcossaise is crimped and boiled. a la Hollandaise—served with Hollandaise sauce. a la Beyrout—slices broiled in papers, and served in anchovy sauce with vinegar, Harvey, chopped onions and mushrooms. d la creme d’ancliois—slices served in anchovy sauce. d la Cardinal. A whole fish stuffed with fish forcemeat, braised, and served in Cardinal sauce. d la Regence. A small fish covered with force- meat, to which chopped truffles are added; served in Perigueux sauce. en matelote—served in Matelote sauce. en kari a la Durand is curried and served with rice. Tranche, or Dame, de saumon grillee is a grilled slice of salmon. Filets de saumon d VIndienne are fried fillets,'served with curry sauce. d la Marechale—fillets saute, and served in30 MENUS MADE EASY. Aurora sauce, garnished with shrimps or oysters. Filets de saumon a la Tartars are fried fillets, served with Tartare sauce; a la Ravigote, with Eavigote sauce. a la Maintenon—fillets broiled in paper cases. d la Suede—fillets baked in paper cases with tomato sauce, and garnished with cucumber, beetroot and tarragon. d la Richelieu—fillets served on a border of salmon forcemeat, masked with a puree of tomatoes, and garnished with crayfish and truffles. Mazarine de saumon is a steamed mould of salmon forcemeat. It may be garnished with prawns, or served with Cardinal sauce. As Pain de saumon a la Russe, it is served cold with horse- radish sauce. Mayonnaise de saumon. Pieces of cold salmon, with lettuce or other salad, and Mayonnaise sauce. Cotelettes de saumon en Mayonnaise are cutlet moulds of salmon forcemeat, served cold with salad and Mayonnaise sauce. Chaudfroid de saumon a la Tartare is cold salmon served in Tartare sauce. d VAlexandra. Little slices of salmon on croutes of fried bread or light pastry, dressed on a salad border with a whipped Mayonnaise cream in the centre.FISH OR POISSONS. 31 SHAD, Alose a la Maitre d’hotel is baked, and served with Maitre d’hotel sauce. It is also dressed in fillets, saute. SKATE. Raie a la Maitre cVliotel is boiled and served with Maitre d’hotel sauce; an beurre noir, with black butter sauce. a la Orly—fried and served with tomato sauce. a la Hollandaise—served with Hollandaise sauce. d la Genoise—served in a brown sauce with anchovy and chopped parsley. a, la noisette—served in butter sauce with the pounded liver of the skate, and Tarragon vinegar. aux fines lierbes—cooked with milk, butter, flour, lemon, herbs, etc., and served with fine-herbs sauce. Skate is obtained crimped and filleted. It is never served whole. SMELTS. Eperlans a la Juive are breadcrumbed, fried, and served without sauce. Served with anchovy sauce in a sauce-boat, they are called a VAn- glaise; or with tomato sauce, a la Orly, en ragout—stewed in white stock with herbs and wine. au gratin—baked with melted butter and dried herbs, covered with breadcrumbs.32 MENUS MADE EASY. Buisson d’eperlans—breadcrumbed and fried with their tails in their mouths. Melted butter should be served with them. SOLES. Soles frites a VAnglaise are breadcrumbed and fried. au gratin—covered with brown sauce and bread- crumbs, and baked. a la Normande—stewed and served in a rich brown sauce with oysters. a la Portugaise are dressed in the same way as plaice. a la creme d'anchois—boiled and served in a white sauce, with anchovy and whipped cream. d Vaurore—stuffed and baked; served in a white sauce, with grated Parmesan and hard-boiled egg- d la Cardinal—stuffed, baked, and served in Cardinal sauce. d la Colbert—stuffed with Maitre d’hotel butter, and served with Maitre d’hotel sauce. d la Maitre d’hdtel—served in Maitre d’hotel sauce. The same dish may be made with fillets. d la Trouville—cut in two or three pieces, and cooked with butter, breadcrumbs, chopped onions and cider. Filets de soles au gratin. Fillets breadcrumbed and fried; covered with brown sauce and bread- crumbs, and baked. d Vltalienne are saute, and served in whiteFISH OR POISSONS. 33 Italian sauce. They are served a la Hol- landaise, in Hollandaise sauce; or en Ravigote, in Eavigote sauce. Filets cle soles en matelote are cut in halves, bread- crumbed and fried; dressed in a crown, with Matelote sauce in the centre. a la Vienne are rolled, stuffed with fish force- meat, and served with anchovy sauce. If served in a white sauce, they are called d la Reine. a la Bohemienne are folded fillets served in a white sauce, garnished with truffle, hard-boiled egg, lobster coral, and chopped parsley. a la Due cle Naples are served cold, masked alternately with green and white Mayonnaise aspic, on an aspic border with salad in the centre, and are garnished with cucumber and hard-boiled white of egg. a la Dauphine are rolled, stuffed, breadcrumbed and fried, and served with lobster sauce. If stuffed with oysters, etc., and served with oyster sauce, they are called a la Rothschild; or stuffed with lobster sauce and served with tomato sauce, d la Chesterfield, d la Rouennaise are coated with whiting force- meat coloured with lobster spawn, and served with white Matelote sauce. They may also be served en caisses, in little cases; or cold en Mayonnaise, with salad and Mayonnaise sauce; or en aspic, set in moulds of aspic. D34 MENUS MADE EASY. SPRATS. Esprots a VAnglaise are fried. au gratin are baked with herbs and breadcrumbs. a la Diablc are devilled. STURGEON. Esturgeon en fricandeau is cut in thick slices, larded, stewed with bacon and mushrooms, and browned. d la Boyale—tied up in the form of a bolster, covered with forcemeat, and ornamented with pieces of truffle, tongue, etc. Dame d’esturgeon au four is a baked slice of sturgeon. braisee is larded and braised. grillee sauce piquante is broiled, and served with Piquante sauce. d la Bourguignotte is served with Bourguignotte sauce. TENCH. Tanchefrite is fried. sur le gril is grilled. au court-bouillon—boiled in court-bouillon, and served with caper sauce. farcie—stuffed and baked. TROUT. Truites au bleu are turned blue with boiling vinegar, and boiled in it with wine and vegetables; served with oil and vinegar. frites are fried.FISH OR POISSONS. 35 sauce. Truites en ragout are stewed. a la Bey rout are dressed in the same way as salmon. a la Maitre d’hdtel—served with Maitre d’hotel sauce. d la Ghambord—cooked in marinade sauce, and garnished with crayfish, quenelles of fish, and sweetbreads. d la hussarde—stuffed with butter and herbs; broiled, and served with Poivrade sauce. d la Perigueux—stuffed with a truffle stuffing, and served with Perigueux sauce. This is also called d la Rothschild. Filets de truites d la Mazarine are fillets saute, and served in a sauce of melted butter, yolks of eggs, lobster spawn, anchovy, etc. d Vaurore are covered with white sauce, grated Parmesan, and hard-boiled egg. d la Gcnevoise are served with Genevoise sauce. d VAlexandra are rolled, and served cold, garnished with green butter and little balls of cucumber. They are sometimes served in little paper cases. TUNNY. Thon frit is cut in pieces and fried. It is served with Eemoulade sauce. TURBOT. Turbot d la Hollandaise is boiled, and served with Hollandaise sauce; sauce homard, with lobster36 MENUS MADE EASY. Turbot a la creme—served with a sauce of cream, yolks of eggs and lemon juice. a la creme d’anchois—served in a sauce of melted butter, anchovy butter, and cream, sprinkled with chopped gherkins and capers. a la Mazarine—served in the same sauce as fillets of trout “ a la Mazarine.” a la Basse—served with horseradish sauce. d la Napier—served in a white sauce with mussels. d la Morny—served in a cheese sauce. a la Beligieuse—served in Hollandaise sauce, sprinkled with chopped tarragon and truffle, and garnished with hard-boiled egg. grille a la Vatel—grilled, and served with mussel sauce, and crayfish or prawns. d la Parisienne—stuffed and baked, and served with a white sauce. Served with white Matelote sauce, it is called d la Normancle. an gratin, or d la Bechamel. Pieces of turbot in Bechamel sauce, covered with breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan, and browned. Dressed with shrimp sauce and served in scallop shells, it is called a la Reyniere. d la creme gratine. Alternate layers of pieces of turbot and of a sauce of milk, butter, flour, yolks of eggs, parsley, etc., sprinkled with bread- crumbs and grated Parmesan, and browned. au gratin d la Provengale. Alternate layers of pieces of turbot and ProvenQale sauce, bread- crumbed and browned,37 FISH OR POISSONS. Petit turbot a la Meuniere is a small fish crimped, grilled, and served in a sauce of melted butter, yolks of eggs and lemon juice. Filets die turbot a I'lmperiale are small fillets, masked alternately with red and white sauce, and served with Cardinal sauce. a rimperatrice are masked with white forcemeat, decorated with red forcemeat, and are served on a forcemeat border with a red sauce. WEAVERS. Vives au gratin are stewed, breadcrumbed, and baked. a la Normandie—larded with pieces of eel and anchovy; cooked in wine with butter and vegetables, and served in the sauce. If served with Italian sauce, they are called a la Burcle- laise. a la Maitre d'hotel—broiled, and served with Maitre d’hotel sauce. WHITEBAIT. Blanchailles are fried. They should be served with lemon, cayenne, and slices of bread and butter. a la Diable are devilled. WHITING. Merlans au gratin, or a VAnglaise, are bread-MENUS MADE EASY. 38 crumbed and fried with their tails in their mouths. Merlans a la Franqaise—dipped in milk, floured, and fried; served with anchovy or any other sauce. Filets cle merlans a la Hollandaise. Fillets served with Hollandaise sauce. They may also be served with Italian, Bordelaise, Fines-lierbes, and other sauces. a la Orly are floured, fried, and served with tomato sauce. a VAurore are served in an egg sauce with cheese. a la Vatel are served in tomato sauce, garnished with strips of anchovies and gherkins. a la Comtesse are baked in paper cases, and garnished with forcemeat balls, and prawns or crayfish tails. a VExcellence are fried, and served in a rich white sauce with capers and anchovies. Petites cremes de merlans a Vaspic are little creams of whiting, served cold, garnished with aspic. Souffle de merlan en surprise is a baked souffle of whiting with a ragout of lobster in the centre. WHITING POLLOCK. Colin frit is cut in slices, fried, and served with oil and lemon.39 FISH OR POISSONS. sauce. SHELL FISH AND FISH ENTREES. CRAB. Coquille de crabe is scalloped crab, served in the shell. As Supreme de crabe aux tomates, it is dressed with tomato sauce and breadcrumbs, and served in the shell. Petites eoquilles de crabe en mayonnaise are little shell moulds of crab forcemeat, served with salad and Mayonnaise sauce. It may also be dressed in little fried cakes, as Crepinettes de crabe, in a souffle, and in many of the ways suggested for lobster. CRAYFISH. / Ecrevisses au court-bouillon are boiled in court- bouillon. If served in Bordelaise sauce, they are called d la Bordelaise. Aspic d'ecrevisses—a mould of aspic with crayfish, and vegetables cut in shapes; served with Mayonnaise sauce. Petits pates aux ecrevisses—covered patties, filled with crayfish and quenelles of fish. Langouste d la broche. Sea crayfish roasted. LOBSTER. Homard au court-bouillon is boiled in court-bouillon, and served with lobster sauce. d la Bordelaise—cut up and served in Bordelaise40 MENUS MADE EASY. Homard au kari—curried; served with boiled rice. en aspic—slices coated with white sauce, in a mould of aspic. en del is a cream made of pounded lobster with clotted or whipped cream, served in little cases. Cotelettes de liomarcl are lobster cutlets. They may he served with Mayonnaise sauce. Miroton de homard d la Cardinal. Slices of lobster, half of them dipped in white sauce, and half in the same sauce coloured with lobster butter; dressed on a salad with Mayonnaise sauce. Coqaille de homard. Scalloped lobster, served in the shell. Croquettes de homard are croquettes of lobster, bread- crumbed and fried. Rissoles de homard is the same preparation folded in thin pieces of paste, breadcrumbed and fried. Petits vol-au-vents, or petits pates, de homard are little puff paste patties filled with the croquette preparation of lobster. Boucliees de homard a la Bechamel are patties smaller than the vol-au-vents, filled with chopped lobster in Bechamel sauce. Mayonnaise de homard—the lobster cut up and served with lettuces and Mayonnaise sauce; ornamented with anchovies, olives and hard- boiled egg. Salade de homard a VIndienne—cut in slices and served on a salad with Indian pickles and Mayonnaise sauce; garnished with hard-boiled egg-41 FISH OR POISSONS. Gateau, or Pain, de komard is a mould of lobster forcemeat. Timbale moulds of this forcemeat may be served cold with salad and Mayon- naise sauce as Timbales de komard en Mayon- naise. Petits pains de komard a la Hollandaise are little moulds or cakes of lobster, served with Hol- landaise sauce. Quenelles de komard a la Russe are quenelles of lobster served with horseradish sauce. Served with Hollandaise or Mayonnaise sauce, they are called a la Belle Vue. MUSSELS. Moules a la poidette are cooked in butter with chives and parsley, and served in the sauce with yolks of eggs. a la Villeroi are masked with Villeroi sauce, breadcrumbed and fried. au gras—stewed with bacon, stock, flour, mush- rooms, etc. Coquilles de monies—scalloped; served in scallop- shells. SCALLOPS. Petoncles en coquilles are scalloped and served in the shells. OYSTERS. Huitres a la Villeroi. Large oysters, each coated with Villeroi sauce, breadcrumbed and fried.MENUS MADE EASY. 42 Huitres an Parmesan—browned with breadcrumbs, grated Parmesan, chopped parsley, and wine. en papillotes—rolled in oval-shaped pieces of a paste made of mashed potatoes, flour and butter, and baked. a la Diable are devilled—broiled, seasoned with butter, lemon juice and cayenne. Slices of brown bread and butter are served with them. a VAmericaine are breadcrumbed and fried. a la Virginie are breadcrumbed and broiled; served with tomatoes and a brown sauce. Ragout aux huitres—stewed with vegetables, butter, flour, etc. Served in the sauce with yolks of eggs. Coquilles aux huitres—scalloped and served in scallop-shells. Petits pains aux huitres — stewed with bread- crumbs and butter, and baked in very small rolls, from which the crumb has been scooped out. Croutes aux huitres — pounded with cream and spread on small pieces of toast. Andouillettes aux huitres are small oyster sausages, made with suet, breadcrumbs, etc. Pouchees aux huitres are small oyster patties. Croquettes aux huitres are croquettes of oysters, breadcrumbed and fried. Kromeskys aux huitres are small pieces of oyster croquette preparation wrapped in thin slices of bacon, dipped in batter and fried. Rissoles aux huitres are made of the same pre-43 FISH OR POISSONS. paration folded in paste, breadcrumbed and fried. With the addition of chopped truffles, they are called Rissoles a la Hollandaise. Timbale aux liuitres is a steamed or baked timbale mould of oyster preparation. It may be served with white or Cardinal sauce. Crepinettes aux liuitres are little fried oyster cakes. They may be served a la Hollandaise, or a la Tartare, with Dutch or Tartare sauce. Beignets aux liuitres are oyster fritters. Oysters can also be curried, or dressed in a souffle, a vol-au-vent, or an omelette. SHRIMPS AND PRAWNS. These are dressed in Rissoles or Petits pates in the same way as lobster. They are called Rissoles or Petits pates, de crevettes—of shrimps, de chevrettes —of prawns. Friantines de crevettes are fritters of shrimps. The preparations of shellfish generally appear as entrees, but such dishes as crab or lobster, scalloped, in aspic, or as a Mayonnaise, may be substituted for a roast or dressed vegetable in the second course. Fish entrees can be made with almost any kind of fish. They may be prepared in any of the ways given foi shellfish, and take their name from the fish of which the dish is composed; or they may be called simply Petits pains, etc., de poisson. In addition to those already enumerated, the44 MENUS MADE EASY. following are suggested. In each case the name of the fish used may he substituted for “poisson." Poisson au supreme. Pieces of fish with white sauce in a potato border, decorated with hard-boiled egg, etc. Pain, or Boudin, de poisson d la Turque is a steamed mould of fish dressed with rice, etc. A la Milanaise, it is dressed with macaroni. Gateau de poisson a, la Palermo is a fish cake baked or steamed in a mould, and served in a brown sauce with lemon juice and shreds of lemon peel. The same preparation of fish steamed in little moulds is served as Petits boudins, or timbales, de poisson d la Cardinal—with Cardinal sauce, d la Venitienne—with Venetian sauce, d la Tartars—with Tartare sauce. A I’aspic, they are served cold, set in aspic, or on a border of aspic with a salad garnish. Petits pains de poisson d la Mazarine are little fish cakes made with anchovy cream and served with anchovy sauce. Poisson en ballotines are little fish balls, poached or fried. Creme de poisson is a cream made of pounded fish with eggs, and cream or panada—a preparation of butter, water, and flour. It is steamed in a mould, or in several small moulds. Cold fish creams, set in moulds, or served in little cases, are sometimes called Petites mousses de poisson. Cotelettes de poisson a la Bergen are cutlet mouldsFISH OR POISSONS. 45 sauce. of fisli cream, served cold on croutes of fried bread, garnished with a cucumber salad and aspic. A VAlexandra, they are set in red aspic, and are garnished with salad, and little moulds of tomato cream. Souffle cle poisson glace is an iced fish souffle. Petits zephyrs de poisson are a very light form of little steamed fish souffles. This name is also frequently given to quenelles of fish. Croustades de poisson are little cases of pastry, or of fried bread, filled with dressed fish. They are sometimes called Cassolettes, Talmouses h VIndienne are tartlets of anchovy pastry filled with curried fish. Pctites caisses a la Peclxeur are china or paper cases filled with dressed fish in white or red sauce, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and lobster coral, and browned. Pilau de poisson is a fish pilau—dressed with rice, saffron, spice, raisins, etc. Pate de poisson a VIrlandaise is a baked shape of mashed potato filled with fish dressed in whiteMENUS MADE EASY. 46 CHAPTER IY. ENTREES. BEEF. The fillet, or undercut of the sirloin, is the part most used in the preparation of entrees. It is cut in little slices and dressed as— Filets de boeuf a la Franchise—broiled, and served with Maitre d’hotel butter and fried potatoes. a la Chateaubriand — broiled, and served in Chateaubriand sauce. They may be served aux cerises or aux oranges— ■with a compote of cherries or of oranges in the centre of the dish; a la Tartars—with Tartare sauce; or with any dressed vegetable, and are named accordingly. a Vltalienne—floured, fried, and served in Italian sauce- a la Russe—saute, and served with horseradish sauce. d la Perigueux — served with tomatoes and Perigueux sauce. d la Pompadour—served with a slice of tomato47 ENTREES. and a tiny pat of Maitre d’liotel butter on each fillet, and a garnish of Sparghetti macaroni with cheese in the centre of the dish. Filets de bceuf a la St. James—spread with foie-gras or liver forcemeat, saute, and served with a garnish of mushrooms and cherries. a la Carlsbad—served with a compote of cherries, and a brown sharp sauce with horseradish and currant jelly. a la Reforme—covered with slices of bacon, bread- crumbed, with chopped ham mixed with the crumbs, and fried; served with Reform sauce. d la Nemours—covered with forcemeat and slices of ham, breadcrumbed and fried; served with a white sauce. a VOstende—spread with an oyster sauce, bread- crumbed and fried; served in a brown sauce with anchovy. au chasseur—larded, soaked in marinade, and braised; served with brown sauce and currant ^ jelly. d la Grande-Bretagne—larded, split, and stuffed with macaroni and horseradish sauce; served with a brown sauce and potato chips. Petits filets de boeuf d la Riga are rolled fillets, stuffed with bacon and forcemeat, braised, and served with peas and a brown sauce, garnished with slices of tomatoes. Grenadins de boeuf d la Financiere are little fillets, larded, braised, and served with a Financiero garnish.48 MENUS MADE EASY. Tourneclos d la sauce poivrade. Slices of cooked fillet dressed in a crown alternately with fried slices of bread of the same size; Poivrade sauce in the centre. This may be served with olives or French beans, instead of Poivrade sauce; and would then be called Tourncdos aux olives, or aux haricots verts. Slices of the fillet served with Piquante, PIol- landaise or other sauce, are called after the sauce with which they are served. A la Naples, they are served with a cheese sauce; aux pruneaux, with a compote of prunes. Mironton de hoeuf are slices of cooked beef in a sauce of onions, butter, gravy, flour, etc.; covered with breadcrumbs and baked. This dish is often called Escalopes de hoeuf au gratin. It may be served aux cdpres—with a sharp sauce and capers, and a la St. Jacques—with a garnish of mushrooms and cherries. Mironton de hoeuf aux choux is the dish known as Bubble-and-Squeak. Olives, or Paupiettes, de hoeuf are slices of beef spread with forcemeat, rolled, stewed, and served in the sauce. They may be garnished aux olives— with olives, or aux tomates—with tomatoes. Salade de hoeuf d la Chateau. Little rolled slices of beef served on an aspic border with a mixed vegetable salad in the centre. Bouilli en matelote. Slices of boiled beef in a sauce of stock, wine, onions, mushrooms, etc.ENTREES. 49 Entre-cotcs de boeuf a la Bordelaise are thick slices of ribs of beef, broiled and served in Bordelaise sauce with pieces of beef marrow. Timbale de boeuf a la Milanaise is a mould lined with macaroni, filled with a preparation of minced beef. A mould of beef is served as Gateau, or Pain, de boeuf, a la Naples—with a cheese sauce, a la Milanaise—with a garnish of macaroni. Cotelettes de boeuf a la Moltke are cutlet moulds of beef forcemeat, served with a Milanaise garnish and a rich tomato sauce. Dormers de boeuf are beef dormers—the whites of hard-boiled eggs filled with a puree of beef. They are sometimes breadcrumbed and fried. Petits pains a la Mena fere are little moulds of minced beef served with brown sauce and mushrooms. The same preparation may be made into little rolls or cakes, wrapped in pork caul and fried, and served as Crepinettes, or dressed in little patties, as Petites bouchees, (i la Menag'ere. Gdufs a, VEcossaise&re hard-boiled eggs coated with minced meat or forcemeat, breadcrumbed and fried, and then cut in halves. If covered with crushed vermicelli instead of breadcrumbs, and served with a sharp sauce, they are called a la Garfield. Curried beef is served as Kart de boeuf, or Boeuf a VIndienne; d VOrient, it is garnished with olives and gherkins. E50 MENUS MADE EASY. Rissoles a VIndienne are curried rissoles. Rissoles a la Suisse are flat cakes of mince, served ■with gravy. Boidettes d la Franqaise are little balls of minced beef with breadcrumbs, etc., served with gravy and fried potatoes. Chaudfroid a la Paysanne is a mould of aspic, decorated with vegetables, and filled with a puree of meat. Mo'elle de boeuf a la Orly. Beef marrow cut in long pieces, dipped in batter and fried; served with tomato sauce in a sauce-boat. Queyielles a la inoelle are quenelles of beef marrow with breadcrumbs, eggs, etc. Petites bovtbes a la mo'elle are made of the same preparation, steamed in little bombe moulds. Bouchees a la mo'elle are small patties filled with marrow and a savoury sauce of cream, shallot, chives, etc. Petites croustades a la mo'elle are made of the same preparation put into little cases of fried bread, breadcrumbs strewed on the top, and browned. Friantines de moelle d la St. Marc are 'slices of marrow laid on slices of tomato, covered with forcemeat, and fried in batter. Vol-au-vent d'amourettes a la creme is a vol-au-vent of beef tendons with Bechamel sauce and mushrooms. Palais de boeuf a la Robert. Ox palates cut in round or oval pieces, and served with Robert sauce. This dish may be served with other51 ENTREES. sauces instead of Robert, changing the name accordingly. Palais de bceuf a la Lyonnaise, or a la Marseillaise, are served in soubise sauce. a la Bavigote. Oval pieces, dipped in white sauce with shallot, parsley, etc., breadcrumbed and fried; served with Ravigote sauce. a la Vivandiere are dressed in the same way, but served in a brown sauce with onions, butter, port wine, etc. en papillotes. Oval pieces in white sauce with parsley and mushrooms, broiled in papers, and served with Italian sauce. For Croquettes de palais de bceuf, the palates aro cut in pieces and rolled, with forcemeat in the centre of each, dipped in batter, and fried. They are also dressed in a vol-au-vent, or, if preferred, in several small ones, as Petits vol-au- vents de palais de boeuf. Ox-clieeh, braised or stewed, and cut in small pieces, is served as— Tete de boeuf a la St. Germain—with green peas ; d la Portugaise—with Spanish onions. d la Czarina is served in a sharp brown sauce with currant jelly, sultanas, and gherkins. Ox-tongue is served as— Langue de bceuf au Parmesan. Slices cooked with stock, wine, and grated Parmesan. en papillotes. Slices wrapped in papers with slices of bacon and broiled. d la Napolitaine. Slices covered with cheeseMENUS MADE EASY. 52 sauce ancl breadcrumbs, and served with macaroni and tomatoes. Turban de langue de bceuf a VEcarlate. Oval slices cut from two tongues, one pickled red, the other fresh; dressed in a crown alternately, with tomato sauce. a la Macedoine is dressed in the same manner, and served with a white Macedoine garnish in the centre, and white sauce. Vouchees a Vecarlate are little patties of tongue. Ox-tails are dressed as— Queue de boeuf en haricot, or en ragout, cut in joints, stewed, and served in the sauce with onions, carrots and turnips cut in shapes. aux navets au brun—stewed, and served with turnips cut into small balls, and brown sauce. a la jardiniere—served with brown sauce, and vegetables cut in small shapes. en Jcari—curried, and served with boiled rice. d la Milanaise—stewed, and served in white sauce with macaroni. aux marrons—served in brown sauce with braised chestnuts. a la Ste. Menehould—served in a brown sauce, covered with breadcrumbs and browned. d la Marseillaise—the pieces masked with a puree of onions, breadcrumbed and fried; served in a highly seasoned brown sauce. / VEAL. Yeal Cutlets are served as: Cotelettes de veau d la Busse—fried, spread onENTREES. 53 one side with a preparation of horseradish, and breadcrumbed with grated Parmesan mixed with the crumbs; served with thin tomato sauce. Cotelettes de veau d la Maintenon—coated with a sauce of mushrooms, ham, eggs, etc., and baked or grilled in papers. This dish is sometimes prepared with little slices of veal fricandeau. enpapillotes—soaked in oil with mushrooms, lemon juice, etc.; wrapped in papers and cooked in the seasoned oil. a la Boulanger—saute, and served in tomato sauce with a puree of apples in the centre. a la Talleyrand—seasoned with chopped mush- rooms and shallots, cooked and served in a white sauce with lemon juice and chopped parsley. a la St. Clair—served with slices of fried ham and tomato sauce. d la Drayton—thickly coated with a rich brown sauce, breadcrumbed and saute. d la sans faqon—breadcrumbed with chopped shallots and parsley mixed with the crumbs, broiled, and dressed round mashed potato. d la Marquise—covered with a slice of ham and a coating of forcemeat, breadcrumbed and fried, and served in a white sauce with chopped ham. d la Reine—breadcrumbed and broiled; served with truffles and mushrooms, and clear gravy. d la Marechale—breadcrumbed with grated cheese54 MENUS MADE EASY. mixed with the crumbs, and fried; served with orange sauce. Cotelettes de veau a la Financiere—larded, braised and glazed; served with Financiere sauce. aux champignons—larded, braised and glazed; served with a puree of mushrooms. They are also served with tomato, Jardiniere, or other sauce, or with dressed cucumber or asparagus, and named after the sauce or garnish with which they are served. A la [Rnsse, they are served with horseradish sauce ; a la Brctonne, with a puree of turnips. Yeal cutlets dressed in this way are often called Grcnadins de veau instead of cotelettes. a la St. Garat—larded with bacon and tongue, and braised. Set in aspic ornamented with hard-boiled egg, truffles, etc., and cut out; served cold. a la Princesse—braised in white stock, coated with Mayonnaise sauce, and served cold with salad and aspic jelly. Served with iced toma- toes, they are called a VAmericaine. The tendons, or gristly part of the breast, cut in pieces, are dressed as— Tendrons de veau aux petits pois—stewed with peas, etc. frits—soaked in vinegar and water, and fried. Served with horseradish sauce, they are called a la Russe. ct la Poulette—cooked in a white sauce, with onions, mushrooms, etc.ENTREES. 55 Tendrons de veau a la noble dame. Small pieces coated with a white sauce, dipped in batter and fried. Dressed with fried watercress in the centre, and a sauce of cream and butter. aux epinards. Oval pieces, braised and glazed ; served with dressed spinach. en kari—curried; served with a slice of fried bacon between each piece, and with rice in the centre. d la Naples—served in a Soubise sauce with cheese. en Mayonnaise—served cold in Mayonnaise sauce, with onions and gherkins. Escalopes Ecossaises are slices of veal seasoned with spice, served in a savoury sauce, garnished with rolls of fried bacon, forcemeat balls, and lemon. Haricot de veau a la Normande is a haricot of veal with herbs and green peas. Blanquette de veau is a white fricassee of veal; d Vecarlate, it is dressed with tongue. A fri- cassee of veal can also be served a I’Anglaise— with fried bacon, or aux oeufs poches—with poached eggs. Pilau de veau a la Madras. Pieces of veal dressed with curried rice, spice and raisins; garnished with rolls of fried bacon. Pilau de veau d la Bombay is dressed with savoury rice with spice and raisins, and is garnishe'd with slices or divisions of oranges, and shyeds of lettuce and orange peel.MENUS MADE EASY. 56 Medciillons cle vean a la Belle Vue are slices from a galantine of veal, coated with a white sauce and served on an aspic border with a salad in the centre. Pain de veau is a mould of minced veal. Served a, la Napolitaine, it has a white sauce with cheese. Petites croustades a la Napolitaine are little pastry cases filled with minced veal in a white cheese sauce. Timbale a VIndienne is a mould of minced veal or veal forcemeat, served with Indian sauce and garnished with Indian pickles. Timbale a la Talleyrand is a mould of forcemeat and tongue. Made in a shape of pastry, it is called Cronstade a la Talleyrand. Andouillettes de Troyes grillees are broiled veal sausages, made with mushrooms, truffles, eggs, etc. Poupiettes, or Olives, de veau are slices of veal spread with forcemeat, rolled and stewed. Creme de veau, is a cream of veal steamed in a mould. It is served a la Perigueux, with Perigueux sauce. A la Richelieu, it is steamed in a mould lined with chopped truffles, and served with truffle sauce. A la Jardiniere, the mould is ornamentally lined with vegetables, and it is served with a thin brown sauce; this dish is frequently called Chartreuse a la Bour- geoise. These creams or boudins are also steamed in small timbale or bombe moulds. They may be57 ENTREES. lined in the same manner, or served with a vegetable garnish, or a la Bourgeoise—with mixed vegetables. Quenelles cle veau a la puree de champignons are poached quenelles of veal forcemeat served with a puree of mushrooms. They are also served aujambon, with ham sauce, with browm or white sauce, or with any dressed vegetable. As Cliaudfroid de quenelles aux cerises, they are served cold with a compote of cherries, or with cherry sauce. Souffle d la Bourgeoise is composed of minced or pounded veal in a rich white sauce, covered with a savoury meringue and browned; dressed in a souffle dish. This preparation of veal may be served cold, as Petitcs gelees—set in little moulds of aspic, and garnished with a vegetable salad. Petits pates a la Bourgeoise are small patties filled with veal forcemeat. Petits pates d la Turque are rice patties filled with minced veal in white sauce with currants 01 sultanas. Gateau de riz d la Menagere is a mould of rice with a preparation of minced or pounded veal in the centre. Pain d la Franqaise consists of layers of slices of veal, bacon and calf’s liver in a mould of aspic. Calf’s head for an entree is boned, boiled, and cut in pieces. It is dressed as— Tete de veau a la Sainte-MenehoiUcl—the piece58 MENUS MADE EASY. coated with a sauce of butter and flour, bread- crumbed, sprinkled with melted butter, and browned. Tete de veau en moule—minced, and baked in a mould in alternate layers with chopped ham. a la Financiere—served with Financiere garnish. Turban cle tete de veau a la Maitre d’hotcl—the pieces dressed in a crown, and served with Maitre d’liotel sauce. a la ITollandaise—served with Dutch sauce; a la poulette—in white sauce with mushrooms, onions, and yolks of eggs. Calves’ Brains are dressed as— Cervelles de veau a la Provengale—cooked in stock with wine, oil, parsley, garlic, etc., and served in the sauce. d la Eavigote—boiled, cut in slices, and arranged in a circle, with Eavigote sauce. en caisses ait gratin. Small slices with a white sauce, baked in paper cases, with breadcrumbs on the top. This preparation may be served in little cases of pastry or fried bread, as Petites croustades de cervelles. Croquettes de cervelles—made into croquettes with breadcrumbs, milk, eggs, etc., breadcrumbed and fried. Fritot de cervelles. Fritters made of pieces of the brains soaked in vinegar, dipped in batter, and fried. They are also served with Matelote, black butter, or other sauce, and take their name from it.59 ENTRIES. Calves’ Ears dressed as— Oreilles de veau aux champignons are boiled, and served in a brown sauce with yolks of eggs and mushrooms. farcies—stuffed with forcemeat, breadcrumbed and fried; served with gravy. cn marinade—cut in strips, steeped in vinegar, etc., dipped in batter and fried; served with tomato sauce. Calf’s Tongue as— Langue de veau same tomates is larded, stewed, cut in two, and served in tomato sauce. a la jardiniere—stewed in white stock, cut in oval slices, glazed, and served with a Jardiniere garnish. It is also served with Mushroom, Eavigote, or Piquante sauce. The Liver is dressed as— Foie de veau a Vltalienne. Slices cooked with oil, wine, bacon, mushrooms, etc., and served in the sauce. au lard, or a VAnglaise. Slices saute, and served with slices of bacon. Cooked with bacon and a few vegetables and herbs, pounded and passed through a sieve, it is used as a substitute for foie gras. It may be dressed in croustades, bouchees, and a variety of ways. Pain de foie de veau is a steamed mould of liver forcemeat served with thin brown sauce. Calf’s Kidney is served as— Rognon de veau saute—minced, and saute with butter, wine, brown sauce, etc.MENUS MADE EASY. 60 Hognon de veau en ragout a la Nivernaise—stewed and served with carrots and turnips cut in small shapes. a la Turque—stewed with rice. a la Tuilerics—minced with bacon, and served in a parsley sauce, with a border of puree of mushrooms, garnished with potato straws. en caisses. Small round slices in brown sauce with chopped shallots, mushrooms, etc., baked in paper cases, the tops sprinkled with bread- crumbs. Calves’ Feet may be boiled, and dressed in tomato, poulette, or other sauce; the dish is called— Pieds de veau aux tomates, or according to the sauce. a la Tartare are breadcrumbed and broiled, and served in Tartare sauce. a la bourgeoise are stewed with bacon, veal, carrots, onions, etc., and served in the sauce, with the vegetables and meats. For Pieds de veau en friture or en marinade small pieces are steeped in vinegar and water, dipped in batter, and fried. Calf’s Tail, cut in pieces and boiled, is served as— Queue de veau d la Ravigote—in Kavigote sauce; or a la poulette—in white sauce with onions and mushrooms. Sweetbreads are dressed as— Ttis-de-veau a la Villeroi, Slices coated with61 ENTRIES. Allemande sauce, breadcrumbed and fried; served with a white sauce and any dressed vegetable. Ris-de-veau a lapoulette—cocked with flour, butter, mushrooms, onions, etc. a VAnglaise—breadcrumbed and roasted; served with gravy. frits—dipped in batter and fried; served with tomato sauce. a la Provengale—braised in stock with bacon and garlic, and served in the sauce. al'Espagnolc—larded, braised in stock with veal, bacon, onions, etc., and served in the sauce. a la Toulouse—larded and braised; served with a Toulouse garnish, or in a white sauce with mushrooms and quenelles. a la St. Cloud—larded and braised, and served with truffles and tomato sauce. a la Dauphine—larded and braised, and served with a puree of sorrel. d la Montpensier—larded and braised, and served with rice, and a white sauce with truffles or mushrooms. a la Constance—larded with strips of truffle and tongue, braised, and served with white sauce, garnished with braised olives and little heaps of chopped truffle and tongue. enfricandeau—larded, braised, and glazed; served on a puree of spinach or tomato. piques a la Turque—larded, braised, and glazed ; cut in halves and dressed on a border of62 MENUS MADE EASY. forcemeat, with rice in the centre, and supreme sauce over the rice. Ris-de-veau piques aux trajfes—larded, braised, and served with truffle sauce. Jardiniere or Finan- cier sauce, dressed peas or cucumber, may he substituted for the truffle sauce, altering the name according to the sauce or vegetable with which they are served. en bigarrure. Small sweetbreads, half of them larded and braised, and half breadcrumbed and roasted; dressed alternately, and served with tomato sauce. a la Chinoise. Small sweetbreads larded and braised, set in little moulds of aspic orna- mented with hard-boiled eggs, beetroot, etc.; served cold, with rice in the centre of the dish. Jldtelettes de ris de veau are larded slices of sweet- bread, roasted and served on little skewers. Cotelettes de ris de veau are slices of sweetbread, breadcrumbed and fried; served with plain gravy or with a white sauce. Served with Indian sauce, they are a VIndienne. Cotelettes de ris de veau au supreme are saute slices served with supreme sauce; aux champignons, with mushroom sauce. Au Montpellier, the slices are set in aspic and served with asparagus points and Mayonnaise sauce. His de veau en' caisses are small round slices in brown sauce with chopped mushrooms, etc., baked in paper cases, sprinkled with bread- crumbs.63 ENTRIES. Blanquette de ris de veau aux truffes are round slices cooked with slices of truffles in white sauce with cream and yolks of eggs. Garnished with fried croutons of bread. Petites croustades de ris de veau are little cases of pastry filled with sweetbread cut in dice, and white sauce with chopped truffles or mush- rooms. Petites caisses d la St. Clair are little pastry cases filled with sweetbread in white sauce, garnished with little balls of cucumber. Petites caisses a la Whitstable are filled with sweet- bread and oysters, and are garnished with chopped truffles. Vol-au-vent a la Toulouse is a vol-au-vent filled with a Toulouse garnisfi, or with a preparation of sweetbread and mushrooms in white sauce. MUTTON. Cotelettes de mouton sauce tomates are grilled, and served with tomato sauce. d la jardiniere are served with stewed vegetables ; d la Milanaise, with macaroni. d la Soubise are stewed with stock, etc., and served with the sauce round, and thick Soubise sauce in the centre. d la Provengale are covered with an onion sauce, breadcrumbed, with grated Parmesan mixed with the crumbs, and browned; served with fried potatoes. Served with Soubise sauce, they are d la Marseillaise.MENUS MADE EASY. 04 Cotelettes de mouton a la Vicomtesse are coated with a sauce of ham, mushrooms, yolks of eggs, stock, etc., breadcrumbed and fried; served with paper frills round the bones. il la Bohemienne—soaked in marinade, bread- crumbed and broiled; served with a sauce of some of the marinade with tomato and brown sauce, currant jelly, etc. en robe de cliambre—covered with forcemeat of veal, breadcrumbed and browned; served with gravy. a la financi'ere—braised, and served with Finan- cier garnish. braisees aux navets—larded, braised, and dipped in aspic with Poivrade sauce; served cold with dressed turnips and broken aspic. ci la Viennoise—larded and braised; served in a brown sauce with currant jelly. a la Maintenon are split, stuffed with Duxelles sauce, broiled, and served with a Jardiniere or Financier garnish. Stuffed with an onion sauce, they are called a la Pompadour, a la Marquise. A slice of ham laid on each cutlet, and veal forcemeat spread on it in a mound ; sprinkled with breadcrumbs and browned ; served in white sauce with chopped ham. a la Reforme—breadcrumbed, with chopped ham mixed with the crumbs, fried, and served with Reforme sauce. They may have a Reforme garnish in the centre.65 ENTRIES. Cotelettes de mouton a la Juive—coated with forcemeat, glazed, and served with a Macedoine garnish. a la Durcelle—put into paper cases, and baked in brown sauce with Harvey sauce, chopped onions, mushrooms, etc. panees grillees—breadcrumbed and broiled, and served with clear gravy. a la Bretonne are breadcrumbed and fried, and served with mashed turnips, or with a puree of white haricot beans. a la Palestine are served with Jerusalem arti- chokes cut in little balls, and white sauce. an parmesan have parmesan mixed with the breadcrumbs, and are served with a cheese sauce. a la Dreux are served with mashed potatoes, and are garnished with chopped ham and gherkins. a la Napolitaine are served with Chevreuil sauce, garnished with strips of truffle, tongue and macaroni. a la Cussy are served in a white sauce with chopped ham and mushrooms. aux pointes d’asperges—served with a garnish in the centre of asparagus in white sauce. aux truffes—served in brown sauce, with truffles cut in slices. aux petites racines—on a mashed potato border with carrots and turnips cut in long shapes, and brown sauce. They are also served with FMENUS MADE EASY. 66 any kind of dressed vegetable or puree of vegetable, or with Hollandaise, Italienne, Lyonnaise, Maitre d’hotel or other sauce. They are named after the sauce or vegetable with which they are served. For Chaudfroicl de cdtelettes d Vaspic they are spread with forcemeat in a mound, coated with brown sauce, and served cold on a border of the forcemeat, garnished with aspic. Chaudfroid de cdtelettes d la Fermiere—coated with Maitre d’hotel sauce with cream, and served cold, dressed in a crown with a salad in the centre. If coated with brown sauce, they are called d la Russe ; or with sauces of two or three different colours, a la Pompadour. Cdtelettes d la Prince de Gcdles are pieces of stewed breast of mutton, breadcrumbed and fried; served with a puree of turnips, and gravy. Epigramm.es de mouton d la Smyrne are cutlets from a boned breast of mutton, half of them saute, and half breadcrumbed and fried; served in a sharp white sauce with raisins and pickled onions. Ragout de mouton d VIrlandaise is Irish stew. Haricot de mouton is haricot mutton. It is now often called Navarin de mouton. A VAllemancle, it is served in a sharp brown sauce with currant jelly and prunes. Filets de mouton d la Franqaise are mutton chops cut from the loin, broiled and served with fried potatoes.67 ENTREES. Petits filets de mouton au clievreuil, or a la Chas•> seur, are slices cut from the fillet or under part of the loin, larded, soaked in marinade, and braised; served with Chevreuil sauce and French beans. Dressed in this manner they are also served aux epinards, with spinach, or d la Macedoine, with a Macedoine garnish in the centre and brown sauce. a la minute are cooked in stock with bacon, and served in the sauce. a V Orient are dressed with savoury tomato rice, and curry sauce with olives. d la Palestine are served with a puree of Jeru- salem artichokes. Noisettes de mouton a la Syrie?me are little slices from a neck or loin of mutton, served with savoury rice, and Indian sauce with sultanas * or raisins. A la Parisienne, they are dressed on croutes of fried bread with slices of toma- toes, and are served with Supreme sauce. The chump end of the loin, cut in thin slices, is dressed as Escalopes de mouton aux fines herbes— cooked with butter, flour, stock, chopped mush- rooms, etc.; served with a garnish of fried crofitons, or sippits, of bread. Carbonade de mouton (see Removes) is dressed as an entree, cut in slices, and served with Piquante, Poivrade, or other sauce. The slices are also dipped in Maitre d’hotel sauce with cream, and served cold with a salad in the centre, as Carbonade de mouton d la Fermiere.MENUS MADE EASY. 68 Escalopes, or Filets, cle mouton a VIndienne are slices of mutton in a curry sauce; served with rice. a la Normahal are served with savoury tomato rice and a spiced tomato sauce. a VAmericaine are served with stuffed tomatoes; a la Bourgeoise, with brown gherkin sauce; a la Czarina, with Czarina sauce. a la Galloise are served on croutes of fried bread, with a ragout of mushrooms and olives in the centre, and brown sauce. Ragout de mouton a la Turque is stewed mutton, served with stuffed cucumbers. Served with a puree of tomatoes, it is called a VAmericaine; or with a compote of prunes, a VAlgerienne. Fricassee de mouton au riz is a white fricassee of mutton with rice. Pilau de mouton d la Turque is a mutton pilau. Small pieces dressed with savoury rice cooked with spice, saffron, raisins, etc. Croustade a, la Turque is a baked shape of rice, filled with a preparation of minced mutton. The same preparation is served in little balls of rice as Ballettes a la Turque; or in little patties made of semolina as Petites croustades d la semoule. Petites croustades d la Menagere are pastry cases filled with mince, with poached eggs on the top. Cassolettes d VIrlandaise are little patty shapes of mashed potato, filled with mince. Chartreuse aux epinards is a mould of spinach,ENTREES. 69 filled with minced or pounded mutton and brown sauce. Bobotages a VIndienne are made of pounded mutton, curried, steamed in little moulds, and served with a curry sauce. Kabobs a VIndienne are little pieces of curried mutton put on skewers with button onions and slices of tomatoes; served with rice, and curry sauce. Pate d la Romaine is a baked mould of macaroni filled with layers of mince and macaroni. Petits pates de mouton a la Windsor are small covered patties filled with minced mutton, brown sauce, chopped mushrooms, etc. Petits pates de Cornouailles are Cornish pasties. Kidneys dressed as— Rognons de mouton d Vepiaurienne are cut open, breadcrumbed and broiled, and the hollows filled with Tartare sauce; served with devil sauce. a la brochette are dressed in the same way, the hollow of the kidneys filled with a lump of Maitre d’hotel butter. d la Venitienne—cut in halves, fried in butter with chopped shallots, and dressed on a border; brown sauce with anchovy butter, etc. an vin de Champagne. Thin slices served in a white sauce with champagne, or other white wine, and mushrooms. en ragout. Thin slices cooked in butter, with wine, flour, chopped mushrooms, shallot, etc.MENUS MADE EASY. 70 Bognons de mouton sautes aux epinards. Slices saute, and served with dressed spinach. Served on a border of spinach with a rich brown sauce, they are d la Princesse. They are also dressed d la Dufferin—with brown caper sauce and fried potatoes; d la Milanaise—with macaroni; a la Maitre d’hotel—with Maitre d’hotel sauce. Petits pates, or Vouchees, aux rognons are slices in white sauce put into little patties. Sheep’s Tongues are served as— Langues de mouton braisees—larded, braised, and served in the sauce with capers. au parmesan—braised, and served in a cheese sauce. d VAllemande—braised, and served with a com- pote of pears and brown sauce. en ragout—stewed. Served with Brussels sprouts, they are d la Bruxellaise; or with currant sauce, d la Bohemienne. Cervelles de mouton en caisses are Sheep’s Brains cut in small pieces, with Bechamel sauce, baked in little souffle cases, the tops sprinkled with breadcrumbs. Queues de mouton au riz are braised Sheep’s Tails, coated with rice, breadcrumbed and fried. They are also served au Parmesan, omitting the rice, and mixing grated Parmesan with the breadcrumbs. Sheep’s Trotters, though rarely seen at a gentle- man’s table in England, are much more often71 ENTREES. served in France. Boiled and cut in pieces, they are dressed as— Pieds de mouton en marinade—soaked in marinade, dipped in batter and fried, and served with tomato sauce; or d la Robert, served in Robert sauce. a la poulette are served with Poulette sauce in a baked shape of rice. LAMB. Lamb Cutlets are dressed in most of the ways which have been suggested for mutton cutlets. There are also— Cotelettes d’agneau Superlative—coated with Alle- mande sauce with chopped mushrooms and herbs, breadcrumbed and fried; served with white sauce, and dressed spinach in the centre. Served with asparagus in the centre, they are called a la Princesse; for the cold entree of this name the cutlets are saute, and served in Mayonnaise sauce. a la Duchesse—coated with Duxelles sauce, bread- crumbed and fried; dressed on a high vege- table border, with vegetables in the centre, and white sauce. a la boulangere—dipped in oil and then in flour; broiled, and served with a cream sauce. d la Robert—breadcrumbed, broiled and glazed; served with Robert sauce. d VAngelique—broiled, and served in a rich brown sauce, garnished with cucumber.MENUS MADE EASY. 72 Cotelettes d’agneau a la Maltaise—fried, and served in a white sauce with wine and orange juice and shreds of orange peel. aux petits legumes — breadcrumbed and fried; served with carrots and turnips cut in long shapes in the centre, and brown sauce. au Parmesan—dipped in a white sauce with grated Parmesan, breadcrumbed and fried. a la Pompadour—coated with veal forcemeat with truffles, and served in papers. farcies aux truffes—larded, coated with a puree of truffles, breadcrumbed and fried; served with brown sauce. A puree of artichokes, asparagus, mushrooms, or turnips, may be used instead of truffles, and the name altered accordingly. en belle rue—larded with tongue, ham, or truffles, and braised; set in aspic and cut out. Served cold, with Mayonnaise sauce or Jardiniere garnish. a Vaspic. Cutlets from a larded and roasted neck of lamb, coated with Proveii5ale sauce, and served cold with aspic. a la Chatelaine—coated with a white sauce with Soubise sauce, and served cold with a compote of prunes or cherries, garnished with aspic. Epigrammes d'agneau a Vancienne are cutlets cut from a boned breast of lamb, half of them saute, and half breadcrumbed and fried; served with small round slices of lamb in the centre with mushrooms and white sauce.73 ENTREES. Epigrammes d’agneau d la Dauphine are coated with white sauce before being breadcrumbed, and are served with a puree of green peas. They are also served aux concombres, with dressed cucumber, or with any other vegetable garnish. Tendrons d’agneau auxpointes d’asperges is a braised breast of lamb cut up and arranged in a crown alternately with fried slices of bread, with dressed asparagus in the centre. Noisettes d’agneau d la Beatrice are little slices from the neck or loin, dressed with slices of cucumber on croutes of fried bread. Served with brown sauce, and a garnish of potato balls, and artichoke bottoms filled with peas. Filets d’agneau en belle vue are fillets of lamb masked with Mayonnaise sauce, and served on an aspic border with a vegetable Mayonnaise in the centre. Fricassee d'agneau a la Villeroi is a white fricassee of lamb, covered with breadcrumbs and grated cheese; a la Milanaise, it is dressed with macaroni. Roulades d’agneau are thin slices of lamb, rolled, breadcrumbed and fried, and served on little skewers. Blanquette d’agneau. Small round slices of lamb and of ham or tongue, with white sauce, parsley, etc. It is sometimes served in a baked shape of rice, or in a croustade, or fried shape of bread. Blanquette d agneau a l Indiennc is a white curry of lamb; served with rice.74 MENUS MADE EASY. Blanquette d’agneau d la Viennet. Small square pieces of lamb in white sauce, with layers of pieces of hard-boiled eggs of the same size, covered with a cheese sauce. Timbales d la Pompadour are little moulds lined with macaroni and filled with minced lamb or any white meat, steamed, and served -with a white sauce. Timbales en aspic d la Menagere are little timbale moulds of mince, set in aspic. If made in cutlet moulds, the dish is called Chaudfroid de cotelettes d Vaspic. Petites croustades d Vltalienne are little cases of rice dressed with tomato sauce, breadcrumbed and fried; filled with mince in white sauce, covered with whipped whites of eggs, and browned. Minced lamb may also be made into cutlet shapes, coated with rice, breadcrumbed and fried, and served as Cotelettes de riz a la Turque; or the little cutlets may be dressed on croutes of fried bread, and served with brown sauce and stuffed tomatoes as Cotelettes d V Americaine. Lambs’ Feet are dressed en marinade and d la poulette, in the same manner as sheep’s feet. As— Pieds d’agneau farcis, they are stuffed ; served in Hollandaise sauce with chopped gherkins. Casserole de riz aux pieds d'agneau—stewed and served in a casserole, or baked shape, of rice. Lambs’ tails are dressed in the same way. Queues d’agneau d la cremiere are Lambs’ Tailsbraised and served in white sauce with whipped cream, etc. Cervelles d’agneau a Vinnocent are Lambs’ Brains cut in thin slices and put in paper cases with white sauce, chopped parsley, etc., sprinkled with breadcrumbs and browned. Lambs’ Ears are stewed and served as— Oreilles d’agneau farcies, filled with a stuffing of veal forcemeat, etc., breadcrumbed and fried; served on a border, with Italian sauce. a la Bavigote are served on a forcemeat border, with Bavigote sauce. a la Marquise are served on a border with a peeled plover’s egg in each ear. White sauce with cream, cocks’ combs, mushrooms, etc., in the centre. Langues d’agneau a la Persane are stewed Lambs’ Tongues, cut in halves and dressed in a circle, covered with a white sauce with wine, mush- rooms, etc., sprinkled with breadcrumbs and baked ; served with white sauce. Lambs’ Sweetbreads are dressed as— Ris d’agneau a la Munich—larded and braised; served with rice, and cocoanut sauce. a Vaspic—set in little moulds of aspic, garnished with truffle, etc. aux huitres—dressed with oysters in a white sauce. a la jardiniere—larded, braised and glazed; served with a Jardiniere garnish. Dressed in this way they are served aux petits pois, aux concombres, aux pointes d’asperges, etc.,MENUS MADE EASY. 76 with dressed peas, cucumber, asparagus or other vegetable in the centre, instead of Jardiniere garnish. Casserole de viz aux ris d’agneau. Sweetbreads and cocks’ combs with Allemande sauce, in a baked shape of rice. They may also be dressed in many of the ways suggested for vis de veau. PORK. Pork Cutlets are saute, broiled, or breadcrumbed and fried. They are served with Robert, Tomato, Ravigote, Piquante, Indienne, or Remoulade sauce, and called Cotelettes de pore frais sauce tomates, or a la liobert, according to the sauce with which they are served. Aux coings, they are served with a compote of quinces. Cotelettes de pore a la Bolognaise are bread- crumbed, with grated Parmesan mixed with the crumbs, and fried; served with brown sauce, and a garnish in the centre of short pieces of macaroni, mushrooms and tongue, with tomato sauce and grated cheese. a VAmericaine are masked with a tomato sauce with aspic, and served on an aspic border with tomatoes in the centre. aux marrons are braised, and served with a puree of chestnuts in the centre, and brown sauce. If orange juice and shreds of orange peel are added to the sauce, they are called a la Dauphinoise. d la Navarraise are pickled and braised, and served with rice and tomato sauce.ENTREES. 77 Filets de pore a la Marechale are small fillets cut from the under part of the loin, breadcrumbed and broiled. a la Idanovenenne are larded, braised and glazed ; dressed in a crown with white pickled cabbage in the centre, and brown sauce. They are aux epinards or aux pommes, with spinach or apple sauce in the centre instead of the cabbage. d la Maltaise are served in a savoury white sauce with orange juice, and chopped orange peel, mushrooms, and parsley. Escalopes de pore d la Lyonnaise are fillets cut in oval slices, breadcrumbed and fried; dressed in a border, covered with Soubise sauce, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and browned. Escalopes de pore d la Robert are breadcrumbed and fried, and served with Robert sauce; d VIndienne—with Indian sauce. Croustades de pore d la Diablo are little fillets on croutes of fried bread, covered with a tomato sauce with cayenne, and sprinkled with grated cheese and breadcrumbs. Ragout de pore d la Portugaise is a stew of pork with Spanish onions. Aux cornichons, it is dressed with pickled gherkins. Crepinettes d la sauce piquante are fried sausage balls or cakes, served with piquante sauce. They are also served aux epinards, with spinach; and d la Frangaise, with fried potatoes. Ham for an entree may be minced or pounded,MENUS MADE EASY. 78 steamed in little moulds, and served with spinach as Petits pains cle jambon aux epinards. Quenelles of ham as Quenelles de jambon a la D’Artois are served with peas; aux champignons, with mush- rooms. Pctites cremes de jambon en Mayonnaise are little creams of ham, served with salad and Mayon- naise sauce, garnished with aspic. Ham is also dressed as a souffle, and in little iced souffles or petites mousses. Pig’s Ears dressed as— Oreilles de pore a la Ste. Meneliould are bread- crumbed and baked, and served with Remoulade sauce. braisees are braised and served in the stock, on dressed spinach. a la Lyonnaise—cut in strips and cooked in stock with slices of onion, etc. Pigs’ Feet are dressed en marinade in the same way as sheep’s feet; and as— Pieds de coehon a la Ste. Menehould—pickled, breadcrumbed and fried. a la Marseillaise—stuffed, and served with Soubise sauce. POULTRY. A very large number of dishes can be made with chickens, and they are, perhaps, more useful than anything else in the preparation of entrees. Cut in joints, they are dressed in the following ways:—ENTREES. 79 Poulet a la Tartare—breadcrumbed and broiled; served with Tartare sauce and pickles. a, la Tyrolienne—breadcrumbed and fried; [served with tomato sauce and fried parsley. a la bonne femme—stewed and served in white sauce. au chasseur—soaked in oil with onion, etc., breadcrumbed and broiled; served in “Yin de Madere ” sauce with chopped ham. a la Ghabert—cooked in oil with tomatoes, chopped parsley, shallots, etc. a la Marengo—cooked in oil, and served in Italian sauce with the oil in which it was cooked. en kari is curried, and served with rice. Gar- nished with little heaps of grated cocoanut and of sultanas, it is a la Simla, a la Provengale—covered with a white onion sauce, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and browned. en marinade—soaked in vinegar with herbs, etc., and fried in batter. saute—the joints are saute, and served in a sauce of stock, wine, chopped mushrooms, etc. saute aux truffes—saute, and served in brown sauce with truffles. a la Demuloff-—saute, and served with a border of rice, and brown sauce with wine. a la Pondichery—saute, and served with a border of rice, and brown sauce with puree of apples, orange juice, and shreds of orange peel.so MENUS MADE EASY. Fricassee de poulet—cooked in a white sauce with mushrooms, cocks’ combs, pieces of sweet- bread, etc. a Vancienne—cooked with flour, butter, milk, young onions, etc. Fritot de poulet—the joints are seasoned with oil and herbs, floured, and fried. Served with tomato sauce, it is d la Orly. A la Suisse, they are fried in batter. Small fillets cut from the breast of fowls are dressed as— Filets de volaille, or poulardes, an supreme, on a border, covered with Supreme sauce. aux champignons—covered with white sauce with cream and mushrooms. If slices of truffles are substituted for the mushrooms, the dish is called aux trufes instead of aux champignons, a la Duchesse—saute, and dressed in a crown, with cocks’ combs in the centre, and white sauce with cream, etc. a la Talma—half of them larded, braised and glazed, and half stuck with pieces of French beans and saute; arranged alternately on dressed spinach, and served with brown sauce. a, VAmbassadrice—cut in slices, and coated with forcemeat of fowl with chopped truffles; breadcrumbed, half of them with chopped truffles and half with chopped ham mixed with the crumbs, and saute. Arranged alter- nately ; a puree of cucumbers with cream in the centre.81 ENTREES. Filets de volaille a la Dimas—masked with a puree of cucumbers with white sauce, etc., bread- crumbed and fried; served on a puree of cucumbers with cream. a la Nesselrode are served cold, masked with a white sauce with cream, etc., and dressed alter- nately with glazed slices of tongue on a border of hard-boiled eggs; a salad in the centre with Mayonnaise sauce. aux concombres are arranged in a circle alter- nately with stewed pieces of cucumber; served with a puree of cucumber. aux pointes d'asperges are coated with Supreme sauce, and dressed alternately with pieces of tongue of the same size; asparagus points in the centre. Supreme de volaille is the same dish served with Supreme sauce, and with truffles instead of asparagus in the centre. It may be served cold as Chaudfroid de filets de volaille an supreme. For Supreme de volaille a la Royale, the fillets are dressed on an ornamental border of vegetables, with a macedoine garnish in the centre, and a small piece of truffle or tongue on each fillet. Saute de filets de volaille a la Cardinal is composed of saute fillets arranged in a circle with alternate slices of truffle; Cardinal sauce in the centre. Poulet a la Princesse is a cold entree prepared with fillets of chickens cut in oval slices, coated with a sauce of aspic and cream, set in aspic82 MENUS MADE EASY. and cut out; served on an aspic border, with salad. Salade de volatile a la Brunow. Small round slices of fowl and slices of cucumber, stewed with white sauce, aspic, and peas; cut in square pieces when cold, and dressed on a salad border, with Tartare sauce. Blanc, or Blanquette, de volatile aux concombres. Slices from the breast of a roast fowl, with pieces of cucumber, white sauce, cream, etc. • Cutclettes de volatile a la Dauphine are made with the legs of fowls from which the thigh-bone has been removed. They are dipped in Alle- mande sauce, breadcrumbed and fried ; served with a dressed vegetable in the centre, and white sauce. Legs of fowls are also boned, stuffed with force- meat, and served as Cuisses de volatile, or jjoulardes, a la jardiniere, with a Jardiniere garnish; aux concombres, or aux petits pois, with dressed cucumber or peas. As Ballotine de volatile a la Kusse, the stuffed legs are cut in slices, and served with alternate slices of tomato, and a vegetable garnish in the centre. Cuisses de volaille au soleil are stuffed with force- meat, larded in rays, braised, and served on a pyramid of forcemeat, with mushroom sauce. a Vecaillere are stuffed with forcemeat and oysters, and dressed on a pyramid of force- meat, with oyster sauce.83 ENTREES. Cuisses de volaille truffees a la Perigord—stuffed with truffles aud Maitre d’hotel butter; served with paper frills round the bones, and with truffle sauce. a la Bayonnaisc—the thigh-bone removed, they are cooked in oil with onions, and served in a white sauce, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and browned. farcies aux jpetits legumes are stuffed and braised; dressed on a border, with carrots and turnips cut in shapes, and brown sauce. Chaudfroid de volaille. Cooked fowls cut in pieces, coated with white sauce and aspic, and served cold, dressed in a circle with alternate slices of tongue. A la Marie, the pieces are coated with a curry sauce, and served with rice and stuffed olives. En Mayonnaise, they are coated with Bechamel sauce, and served on a salad with Mayonnaise sauce, or with aspic whisked to a froth with Tarragon vinegar and oil. Mayonnaise de volaille. Pieces of fowl served on a salad, covered with Mayonnaise sauce, and garnished with olives, anchovies, etc. Salade de volatile d la Carlton. Pieces masked with Mayonnaise sauce with chopped ham, capers, etc.; served with a vegetable mayonnaise, garnished with strips of cucumber and beet- root. Chaudfroid de fricassee is a fowl cut up and coated with a white sauce; served cold, garnished with aspic. Capolitade de volaille. Pieces of fowls served in84 MENUS MADE EASY. Italian sauce with capers, or in brown sauce with vine, garnished with croutons of fried bread. Chartreuse de volatile is an ornamental mould of mixed vegetables, with pieces of chicken in the centre. Creme de volatile. A pure'e of fowl with cream, steamed in a mould decorated with truffles, tongue, etc. Petits souffles de volaille are made of a puree of fowl and beaten eggs, baked in little souffle cases, or steamed. Souffle glace de volaille. Minced chicken soaked in oil, vinegar, etc.; put into a soufflb dish in alternate layers with aspic whipped to a froth, and iced. Aspic a la Royale is prepared with small round slices of fowl, slices of truffle, mushrooms and cocks’ combs, with Bechamel sauce and aspic; cut into oval pieces and dressed in a mould of aspic, ornamented with hard-boiled white of egg and truffles. Vol-au-vent de volaille aux huitres is a vol-au-vent filled with shreds of chicken in white sauce with oysters. Small puff paste patties filled with minced chicken and white sauce, with tongue, mushrooms or truffles, are served as Petites houcliees, or Petits pates, a la Reine. This preparation of chicken is also dressed in little china or paper cases as Petites caisscs a la85 ENTRIES. Heine; or with poached eggs on the top, a la Victoria. Petites caisses a la Belle Isle are filled with chicken or game in white sauce with chopped mush- rooms and ham, garnished with shreds of truffle and almonds. Bordufe de riz a la Heine is a round wall of rice filled with minced, or puree of, fowl. It is sometimes garnished with plovers’ eggs round the edge. Minced chicken, with ham or tongue, can he made into croquettes, breadcrumbed and fried, or into rissoles, folded in thin paste and fried. The latter are sometimes coated with broken vermicelli. Croquettes de volatile aux truffes are made with chopped truffles instead of ham or tongue, and are served with truffle sauce. Dressed with tongue and served in a white sauce with chopped tongue, they are called Croquettes de volatile a I'ecarlate. Petites bornbes a la Heine are little moulds of chicken forcemeat. They may be served cold, set in aspic, as Cliaudfroid en aspic d la Heine. Petites bombes a la Princesse are moulds made of chicken forcemeat with croquette preparation in the centre, and are served with white sauce and a vegetable garnish. Crepes a la Heine are small pancakes folded over chicken croquette preparation, cut in halves and served in a crown. Dormers de volatile are chicken dormers—the whitesMENUS MADE EASY. 86 of hard-boiled eggs filled with chicken force- meat ; served with spinach or any vegetable garnish, and a white sance with chopped ham. Quenelles de volaille are quenelles of chicken force- meat. They are poached and served with a dressed vegetable, or dipped in white sauce, breadcrumbed and fried. An Supreme, they are served with Supreme sauce. En demi deuil, half of them are rolled in chopped truffles; dressed in a crown, with white sauce and chopped truffles. A Vecarlate, they are dressed alternately with glazed slices of tongue of the same size, and served with Supreme sauce. If a Russian tongue is used, they are called d la Russe instead of d Vecarlate. Boudins de volaille a la Lucullus are quenelles of chicken forcemeat with a piece of puree of truffles in the centre of each; served in a croustade, or shape of fried bread, with Alle- mande sauce. Boudins de volaille a la Richelieu are oblong pieces of quenelle forcemeat, dressed in a crown with Perigueux sauce. Cigarettes a la Reine are made of chicken forcemeat with white sauce and chopped truffles; pieces the shape of cigars, breadcrumbed and fried. Rissolettes de volaille a la Pompadour are diamond- shaped sandwiches of the preparation for chicken croquettes with truffles, between layers of chicken forcemeat; dipped in batter and fried.87 ENTREES. Timbales a la Pahlen are small moulds lined with macaroni, filled with a white forcemeat—veal or fowl—and a black forcemeat of truffles, etc., in the centre. Ravioles a la Napolitaine are little pieces of chicken or game forcemeat wrapped in paste ; arranged in a'circle with alternate slices of Parmesan cheese; baked, and served with brown sauce. Croustades de beurre d la Due de York are little croustades of butter, thickly breadcrumbed and fried; the butter removed, and the cases filled with a puree of fowl with dice of stewed cucumber; served with plovers’ eggs on the top. Timbale de Nouilles is a mould lined with paste, filled with German paste, minced chicken, grated cheese, etc. Timbale d la Champenoise is filled with minced chicken, anchovies, gherkins, truffles, etc., with white sauce and wine. Foie gras d Vaspic is a mould of aspic with pieces of foie gras in it. Foie gras can also be dressed with truffles in little patties, as Petits pates d la Montglas; or larded with pieces of truffle, braised, and served with truffle sauce as Foie gras d la Perigueux. DUCKS. Filets de canetons aux petits pois are fillets of roast ducks dressed in a circle, with stewed peas in the centre. A la Macedoine, they88 MENUS MADE EASY. are served -with a vegetable Macedoine; a la Bigarade, with Bigarade sauce. Filets de caneton farcis. A boned duck covered with forcemeat of fowl, cut in pieces the shape of fillets, and dressed in a crown with a vegetable garnish in the centre. Caneton a la Diable is a roast duck cut up and devilled—served in a sharp sauce with mustard and cayenne. Aiguillettes de canetons aux oranges are slices cut from the breast, dressed in a circle with a compote of oranges in the centre, and orange sauce. The legs of roast ducks, in a sauce of stock and wine with shallots, etc., are served as Salmis de cuisses de canetons. Salmis de caneton a VAmericaine is a salmis of duck in a brown sauce with black currant jelly. Cotclettes de canetons a la Portugaise are cutlets made of minced duck, breadcrumbed and fried; served with a dressed vegetable and tomato sauce. Bissoles de caneton d la Careme are little round rissoles of duck in brioche paste. Timbale de caneton a la Valencienne is a steamed mould of minced duck, served in an orange sauce, garnished with slices of oranges. A la Milanaise, it is steamed in a mould lined with macaroni, and is served in a white sauce with grated cheese.GOOSE. The legs of a roast goose are cut in pieces, fried with slices of onion, and served with Piquante sauce as Quartiers, or cuisses, d’oie a la Lyonnaise. Fricassee cVoie aux pommes is a fricassee of goose, served with a puree of apples in the centre. Cliaudfroid d’oie d VIndienne is curried goose, served cold with rice. Ragout d'abatis d VOrient are stewed giblets, served with savoury rice, and a curry sauce with olives and gherkins. TURKEY. The pinions of a Turkey as— Ailerons de dindon, or dinde, d la puree de celeris are honed, and served in a circle with a puree of celery in the centre. a la Ste. Menehould are boiled in stock with wine, etc., coated with the sauce, breadcrumbed and broiled. Escalopes de dinde en blanguette, or Blanquette de dinde, are slices cut from the breast of a roast turkey, served in white sauce with cream, etc. With the addition of slices of ham, it is called au jambon. Dressed with chestnuts, it is called a la Mancelle; or garnished with poached eggs, d la Reine. Supreme de dinde a la Victoria. Little slices served in Supreme sauce, garnished with poached eggs and croutes of fried bread.90 MENUS MADE EASY. jE mince de dinde d Vltalienne are slices served with Italian sauce and gherkins. Chartreuse de dinde is an ornamental mould of mixed vegetables, filled with minced turkey and white sauce. Medallions de dinde d la Financiere are made with the legs of a turkey. They are honed, stuffed with forcemeat and braised; cut in slices, coated with a puree of chestnuts, and served with chestnut sauce or a Financiere garnish. This dish can also he made with slices of a galantine of fowl or turkey, and can be served cold with salad and aspic. Abatis de dinde a, la Cliipolata are the giblets stewed and served with Chipolata garnish. PIGEONS. Fillets of Pigeons are served as— Filets de pigeons a la Duxelle—coated with Duxelle sauce, breadcrumbed and fried; served with Provencale sauce and mushrooms. d la Parisienne—spread with forcemeat, bread- crumbed and fried; dressed on fried croutons of bread, with a brown puree of cucumbers in the centre. Served with brown sauce and a Macedoine garnish, they are called d la Duchesse. a la Modcrne—coated with liver forcemeat, breadcrumbed and fried; served with tomato sauce and dressed spinach. Cotelettes de pigeons d la Czarina are filletsENTRIES. 91 breadcrumbed and fried, and a small piece of bone stuck in each to imitate cutlet bones; served with Czarina sauce. This dish may be served ci Vltalienne with Italian sauce, or with any vegetable garnish. Cotelettes de pigeons a la Mazarine are pigeons cut in halves, spread with forcemeat, bread- crumbed and fried; served with tomato sauce. They are also cut in halves and boned, with the exception of the leg bones, stuffed, bread- crumbed and broiled, and served as Cotelettes de pigeons a la Financiere, with a Financiere garnish. Compote de pigeons a VAlgerienne are pigeons cut up, stewed, and served with a savoury brown sauce and pickled plums. Cliaudfroid de pigeons a la Castillane is made of pigeons, boned, stuffed with forcemeat, and braised; cut in slices, masked with brown game sauce, and served cold with a compote of dried cherries, garnished with aspic. GAME. VENISON. Hachis de venaison is hashed venison. Venison Cutlets, saute and dressed in a crown, are served as— Cotelettes de venaison aux olives—with brown sauce and olives; aux champignons — with mushrooms.92 MENUS MADE EASY. Cotelettes de venaison a VAmericaine are served with a rich Espagnole sauce. an jus de groseilles—with Poivrade sauce and red currant jelly. Ilouelles de cerf d la St. Hubert are slices of fillet of venison, larded, and cooked in brown sauce with wine, slices of gherkins, etc.; served with a compote of French plums. Cotelettes de chevreuil sautees are cutlets of roe- buck cooked in butter, with wine, stock, mush- rooms, etc., and served in the sauce. sautees sauce Poivrade are sautd, and served in Poivrade sauce with pickled mushrooms. d la Boliemienne are soaked in marinade, bread- crumbed and broiled; served in brown sauce with some of the marinade, currant jelly, etc. Civet de chevreuil is jugged roebuck. Slices from any joint are served in Piquante sauce w7itli currant jelly, etc., as Emince de chevreuil. For Salmis de chevreuil d la Sultane, the meat is soaked in marinade, stewed, and served in a brown sauce with port wine and pickled sultanas. HARE. Lievre, or levraut, saute is cut in pieces, saute, and served' in a sauce of broth and wine with mushrooms, etc. Civet de lievre is jugged hare; d la St. Hubert, it is served with a compote of cherries, and a rich sauce writh wine and chopped truffles. Filets de lievre, or levraut, are fillets of hare friedENTRIES. 93 and dressed in a circle with a brown sauce. They are also piques — larded and braised, and served with Poivrade sauce. Served with tomato sauce, they are piques sauce tomates. A la Bourguignotte, they are cut in halves, larded and braised; dressed in a crown with a brown sauce, bacon cut in dice, young onions, etc. Cotelettes cle lievre a la Dauphine are slices cut from the fillets with a small piece of hone stuck in each, breadcrumbed and fried; served with Piquante sauce and chopped olives. Arranged alternately with little cutlet shapes of rich hare stuffing, and served with a game sauce, garnished with mushrooms and button onions, they are called a la Chef. For Turban de lievre ci la Peronne, the fillets are dressed in the same way, and arranged in a circle alternately with quenelles of forcemeat of hare; white sauce with vinegar and pickled onions. Bjudins de lievre. Rolls of forcemeat of hare, breadcrumbed and browned. Aux cerises, they are garnished with stewed cherries. l RABBITS. Cut in joints, Rabbits are served as— Lapereau, or Lapin, saute aux fines herbes—saute, and served in fine-herbs sauce. saute aux truffes—with brown sauce and slices94 MENUS MADE EASY. of truffles; or aux olives, substituting olives for the truffles. Lapereau, or Lapin, a la Venitienne — larded, braised in oil and wine with veal and garlic, and served with the sauce. a la Suisse—fried in batter. en Icari, or a la Madras—curried and served with rice. en gibelotte—stewed with onions, bacon, wine, etc.; served in the sauce with mushrooms. en papillate—boned, coated with a stuffing of bacon, mushrooms, etc., and broiled in papers. The backbone with the fillets, cut in sections, larded, and braised, is served as Grenadins de lapin or lapereau, with brown sauce and spinach. Cotelettes de lapereau a la Soubise are made with the legs, cut in two, boned, spread with forcemeat and served with Soubise sauce. Filets de lapereaux aux concombres are fillets of roast rabbits in a white sauce with slices of cucumber. a, la Valenciennes are dressed in a crown with white sauce, cream and mushrooms. With alternate pieces of ham, they are called d Vecarlate. They are also served d la Musulmane—larded and braised ; dressed in a crown with curry sauce, and rice in the centre. Turban de lapereau a la Douariere is composed of small fillets larded and braised; served withENTREES. 95 quenelles of forcemeat of rabbit in the centre, and brown sauce with wine, etc. Lapereau en salade. Fillets of roast rabbits soaked in oil and vinegar; served cold on a salad, garnished with hard-boiled egg, beetroot, etc. Escalopes de lapereau au fumet. Fillets cut in oval slices, and arranged with a little slice of truffle on each piece; covered with a white sauce made of rabbit, and baked. Aux pointes d’asperges, the slices are served in a white sauce with asparagus. For Fricassee de lapereau the rabbit is cut up and cooked in a white sauce with mushrooms, etc. Supreme de lapereau a VIndienne is a white curry of rabbit. It may be served cold as a Cliaud- froid. Boudin de lapin is a poached roll of rabbit force- meat ; served with mushrooms or truffles, in brown sauce. It is also cut in pieces and dressed on a border. d la Richelieu. A roll of forcemeat of fowl, truffles, etc., thickly covered with forcemeat of rabbit, breadcrumbed and broiled; served with Perigueux sauce. Cotelettes de lapereau d la Maintenon are cutlet shapes of minced rabbit, breadcrumbed and fried, and served in a brown sauce with wine. a la Duchesse Marie are cutlet moulds of rabbit cream, coated alternately with chopped ham and chopped truffles ; served with white sauce and a vegetable garnish.96 MENUS MADE EASY. Petits cannelons de lapereau are little rolled pastry cases filled with minced rabbit. Chartreuse a la Mikado is a preparation of minced rabbit, steamed in a mould lined with force- meat and decorated with rings of different coloured vegetables. Timbales de semoule au chasseur are small moulds of semolina, breadcrumbed and fried, filled with forcemeat of rabbit and puree of mush- rooms. Many of the ways in which chickens are dressed are also suitable for rabbits. PHEASANT. A roast Pheasant, cut up, is served with Salmis sauce and mushrooms or truffles, as Salmis de faisan. Aux pruneaux—it is garnished with stewed prunes. Faisan au veloute de gibier is served in a white game sauce ; a la puree de gibier in a puree of game sauce. a la Bohemienne is served in a rich brown sauce with chopped ham and mushrooms. a la bonne femme is cooked with square pieces of ham, slices of Portugal onions, etc. Fillets of pheasants are served as— Filets de faisans piques aux legumes—larded and braised; dressed in a crown alternately with stewed pieces of cucumber of the same size ; Jardiniere garnish in the centre. a la Comte de Brabant—larded and braised;97 ENTRIES. arranged alternately with slices of bacon round a pyramid of Brussels sprouts. Fumet of game sauce. Filets de faisans a la Marquise—half of them larded and braised, and half breadcrumbed and fried; arranged alternately, with cocks’ combs in the centre, and white game sauce. a la Maintenon—very small fillets coated with a white sauce with chopped mushrooms, etc. ; broiled in papers, and served with gravy. Cliaudfroid de filets defiaisans is a cold entree of small fillets of roast pheasants coated with a game sauce, and garnished with hard-boiled eggs. Galantine defaisan aux truffes is a pheasant boned, and stuffed with game forcemeat with truffles, etc.; braised, and served cold with aspic. Boudins de faisan a la Richelieu are oval-shaped pieces of forcemeat of pheasant, breadcrumbed and fried ; served with Richelieu sauce. Quenelles of forcemeat of pheasant, dressed in a crown with game sauce and mushrooms or truffles, are called Quenelles de faisan cn turban. PARTRIDGES. Perdreaux en ragout, or en gibelotte, are cut in joints, stewed and served in a rich game sauce. Roast partridges, cut up, are served as Salmis de chasseur in a sauce of oil, wine, lemon, etc. As Salmis cliaudfroid de perdreaux, the joints are masked with Salmis sauce and aspic jelly; served cold with a garnish of aspic. n98 MENUS MADE EASY. Filets de perdreaux aux petits legumes are fillets of roast birds, dressed in a crown, with young onions, carrots and turnips cut in shapes, and game sauce. For a Chaudfroid de filets de perdreaux, the fillets are dressed with alternate slices of tomato.; garnished with aspic, and a puree of game in the centre. Cotelettes de perdreaux a la Bacchante are fillets with a piece of hone stuck in each, bread- crumbed and fried; served in a white game sauce with raisins, juice of grapes, etc. They are also served a la Douariere, with quenelles of partridge in the centre, and game sauce. Epigramme de perdreaux aux champignons is com- posed of fillets, half of them saute, and half larded and braised; served with game sauce and mushrooms. For Epigramme de perdreaux a la Pcrigord, the fillets are dressed alternately with quenelles of par- tridge; served with chopped truffles in a game sauce. Escalopes (thin round or oval slices) cut from the fillets, are served as Perdreaux en escalopes, or Saute de perdreaux, in a white game sauce with mushrooms, etc. If truffles are substituted for the mushrooms, the dish may be called Saute de per- dreaux aux truffes. Chartreuse de perdreaux is an ornamental mould of vegetables, filled with larded and braised partridges, pieces of sausage, dice of bacon, etc. Fain de perdreaux is a puree of partridge steamed in a mould; served with brown game sauce.99 ENTRIES. Petits •pains de perdreaux d la Dauphine are little moulds of a puree of partridge with truffles ; served in a brown sauce with wine, mush- rooms and asparagus points. Fritot de penlreaux a la creme are fritters of a puree or cream of partridge fried in batter. Perdreaux en souffle, or Omelette soufflee de perdreaux, is made of a puree of roast partridges with eggs, etc., and is baked in a souffle dish or in small paper cases. GROUSE. Eoast grouse, cut up, are dressed as— Grouse a la Ailsa—covered with a game sauce, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and browned. a la Commodore—the joints coated with force- meat of grouse, and dressed in a pyramid with a rich game sauce. For Salmis de grouse aux truffles they are served in a rich salmis sauce with slices of truffles; d la St. Hubert, with cherries. Salade aux grouses—the joints masked with salmis sauce and aspic; dressed on a salad with Mayonnaise sauce, garnished with hard-boiled eggs, etc. The fillets are served as Filets de grouse d la Chanceli'ere, dressed in a crown, with small quenelles of veal in the centre, and game sauce. Black-game and Ptarmigan are dressed like grouse.MENUS MADE EASY. 100 WILD DUCK. Roast wild ducks, cut in joints, arc served as— Canards, or Canetons, sauvages en salmis, with a salmis sauce. a la bigaracle—with bigarade sauce. d la Muette—in a rich saknis sauce with wine and truffles. The fillets as— Filets de canetons sauvages aufumet de gibicr are served with fumet of game sauce. d Vessence—served with a brown game sauce, port wine, shallots, etc. d la Syrienne—dressed alternately with slices of fried bread spread in a dome shape with the livers with butter, etc. ; served with brown game sauce and olives. TEAL. Teal are dressed in the same way as wild ducks; also as— Sarcelles a la puree de champignons—cut in joints and arranged in a circle with a puree of mush- rooms in the centre ; served with a macedoine garnish, they are called a la macedoine. Filets de sarcelles aux anchois are fillets of teal with stock and grated Parmesan, a fillet of anchovy laid on each, sprinkled with bread- crumbs and Parmesan, and browned. d la Toulouse are dressed in a crown, with fumet of game sauce, pickled mushrooms, etc.101 ENTRIES. Filets cle sarcelles d la moderne are spread with forcemeat of game, and served with a brown game sauce. WOODCOCKS. Salmis de becasses—the birds cut up and served in salmis, or fumet of game, sauce. au chasseur—served in a game sauce with wine, mushrooms, etc. ; the insides spread on crou- tons, and arranged round the dish. Chaudfroid de becasses—the joints masked with brown game sauce, and brown meat jelly; served cold. Filets de becasses d la Lucullas. Fillets coated with forcemeat, and served on a border with a thick puree of woodcocks piled in the centre, and game sauce round. d la Talleyrand are dressed in a crown, with the insides spread on croutons of fried bread of the same size as the fillets. Fumet of game sauce with truffles. en canape are laid on croutons of bread and covered with a stuffing of the trail with bacon, etc.; served with a game sauce. Croustade de becasses d la Comtesse is a low oval croustade, or shape of fried bread, filled with a puree of woodcocks; the fillets dressed on the top alternately with cocks’ combs. SNIPES. Snipes are dressed in the same way as wood-MENUS MADE EASY, 102 cocks, but are cut in halves where woodcocks are filleted. They are also served as— Becassines a la bonne louche, filled with a force- meat of foie gras and bacon; dressed on a forcemeat border, covered with forcemeat and baked; served with truffle sauce. This is sometimes called a la Superlative. QUAILS. Cailles aux laitues are braised, and served with stewed lettuces. aux petits pois are'roasted with vegetables, and served with stewed peas in white sauce. aux truffes are stuffed with the livers, truffle, etc., and are served with Perigueux sauce. a la Beaconsfield—wrapped in slices of bacon, braised, covered with a puree of peas, and served with mushrooms in a rich brown sauce. a la Lucullus—boned, stuffed with foie gras and truffles, and baked in paper cases with truffle sauce. a la bonne louche are stuffed with foie gras and braised. au delice are boned, stuffed with foie gras and braised; served cold, masked with a white sauce, and garnished with truffles and pista- chios. d la Financi'ere—cut in halves and dressed on a border, with Financiere garnish in the centre. They are also served aux concombres, with stewed pieces of cucumber, and a puree of103 ENTREES. cucumbers in the centre; or as a Gliaudfroid, masked with game sauce and served with aspic, and salad, or any vegetable garnish. For Compote de cailles they are cooked in wine and stock with slices of sweetbread, ham, truffles, etc.; garnished with croutons. They may also be dressed in a vol-au-vent with Toulouse garnish, as Vol-au-vent de cailles. PLOVERS. Plovers can be dressed in any of the ways that are suggested for woodcocks. The fillets of roast birds are served as— Filets de pluviers aux champignons—in a circle alternately with croutons spread with the trail; game sauce with mushrooms. LARKS. A salmis of larks is called Mauviettes en salmis. Mauviettes grillees are broiled ; served on slices of fried bread. d la chipolata are cooked with Chipolata garnish. en caisses are boned, stuffed with forcemeat and baked in paper cases. en cotelettes are boned, spread with forcemeat and served with brown sauce. Turban de mauviettes d la Parisienne. The larks are boned, stuffed with game forcemeat and truffles, and braised; dressed in a crown, with small quenelles of veal in the centre, and a game sauce. Dressed alternately ’frith large104 MENUS MADE EASY, quenelles of game forcemeat, they are called aux quenelles. Chaudfroid de mauviettes—boned, stuffed with force- meat, coated with brown sauce and served with aspic. Set in little moulds of aspic, they are called en aspic. Croustade de mauviettes—honed, stuffed, and baked in a croustade of fried bread with Perigueux sauce and mushrooms. Vol-au-vent de mauviettes — honed, stuffed, and served in a vol-au-vent case with wdiite game sauce and mushrooms. ORTOLANS. Ortolans a la Perigourdine are served in truffles, of which the centres have been cut out. en caisses are baked in small paper cases with Perigueux sauce. Blanquette de gibier aux champignons is composed of small pieces of game in a white sauce with mushrooms. Mayonnaise de gibier a Vaspic is a mayonnaise of game, garnished with aspic. Quenelles a la Chasseur are quenelles of game, served in a white sauce with mushrooms or truffles. Creme de gibier is a puree of game, steamed in a mould, or in several small moulds. As Petites cremes a la Moderne, they are served in a white sauce with chopped truffles.105 ENTREES. Boudins a la Chasseur are little moulds of minced game, or game forcemeat, served in a game sauce with mushrooms. P'etites Vouchees de gihier are little patties of game. Petits pates a la puree de gihier are patties filled with puree of game. Kromeskis a la Basse are made with pieces of any kind of forcemeat or croquette preparation, wrapped in slices of bacon, dipped in batter, and fried. A la Nemours, a coating of a puree of mushrooms is substituted for the slices of bacon. Cassolettes de riz are patties of rice, breadcrumbed and fried; filled with forcemeat or croquette preparation. Timbale a la Milanaise is Milanaise garnish in a shell of paste. Another dish of the same name is composed of a preparation of minced game or chicken, steamed in a mould lined with macaroni. Fritot a VEcossaise are Scotch fritters of minced game with mushrooms, etc., dipped in batter and fried. Game is also dressed in a croustade, or raised pie, in souffles, chaudfroids, etc.106 MENUS MADE EASY. CHAPTER Y. REMOVES OR RELEVES. BEEF. A roast sirloin of beef is called Aloyau a la troche. For Aloyau de boeuf d la Provengale the sirloin is larded and spread with a stuffing of marrow, anchovies, garlic, etc.; roasted, and served with Piquante sauce. The upper part of the sirloin, honed and rolled, is served as— Aloyau en cannclon—roasted; sauce raifort, with horseradish sauce. braise a la royale—larded and braised. d la Printaniere—braised, and served with young vegetables. d la Portugaise—larded and braised; served with stewed Portugal onions and brown sauce. a la Godard—braised, and served with slices of sweetbread, mushrooms, etc. The fillet, or undercut of the sirloin, is usually cut out and dressed as a separate dish. It is roasted and served as Filet de boeuf roti, and may have a vegetable garnish—Macedoine,REMOVES OR RELEVES. 107 Jardiniere, or Printaniere—and be named accord- ingly. An jus d’orange, it has orange sauce. Filet de boeuf aa macaroni is garnished with macaroni. a la Napolitaine—larded, roasted, and served in a savoury brown sauce with Tarragon vinegar, currant jelly, raisins and French plums. au jus de groseilles—larded, soaked in marinade and roasted; served in a brown sauce with currant jelly. pique aux legumes pnntaniers—larded, roasted and glazed; served with young vegetables and brown sauce. d la Milanaise—larded, roasted, and served in white sauce with macaroni, etc. Served with macaroni dressed with tomato sauce and grated cheese, it is d la Bomaine. d la Toscane—larded and braised; served with tomatoes and stuffed artichoke bottoms. d la Bohemienne—larded, soaked in marinade, and roasted or braised; served with fried slices of potatoes, and Poivrade sauce with pickled onions, pickled mushrooms, and olives; or cold, with tomato sauce, currant jelly, etc. Braised, it is served as Filet de boeuf braise; a la sauce Madere, it has Madeira sauce; d la Paysanne, it is garnished with vegetables. A Bound of beef as— Rouelle de boeuf bouillie is boiled; d VAnglaise it is served with carrots and turnips and small suet dumplings.MENUS MADE EASY. 108 The Brisket as— Piece de boeuf a la Flamande is braised and garnished “ a la Flamande.” a la Bonne Femme is stewed. Served with fried onions, it is called a la Bourgeoise. Noix de boeuf braisee is a braised chump of beef. Bibs of beef, rolled and braised, are served as—• Cotes de boeuf braisees a la puree de tomates—with tomato sauce ; or d la Milanaise — with macaroni. aux racines—larded and served with carrots; d la Portugaise — with Portugal onions ; d VEspagnole—with button onions. Piece de boeuf a la St. Florentin is rolled, and served with Bohert sauce. Beef or Bump Steak as— Bifteck a la Franchise is broiled, and served with fried potatoes. en ragout is stewed; with onions, it is d la bonne bouche. Chateaubriand grille is a broiled fillet steak. A la Busse, it is served with horseradish sauce; d la Bruxelloise—with a puree of Brussels sprouts. It is also served aux huitres—with oysters; au beurre d'ancliois—garnished with anchovy butter ; and aux pommes frisees—with fried potato ribbons. As Filet de boeuf d la Mirabeau, it is larded, broiled, and served with Maitre d’hotel butter, anchovies, olives, and water- cress. As Cannelon cle boeuf, it is stuffed, rolled, and braised.109 REMOVES OR RELEV^S. Boiled beef is served with a Flamande garnish as Piece de been/ bouillie a la Flamande. Garnished with sausages, bacon and cabbages, it is garni de choux. A la Macedoine, it is served with a Mace- doine garnish. Rosbif a VAnglaise is roast beef, served with horse- ' radish and Yorkshire pudding. Boeuf braise aux haricots verts is braised beef served with French beans ; a la Jardiniere—with Jardiniere garnish. a la Mode is stewed with vegetables. a la Hollandaise is rubbed with treacle, etc., salted, smoked and boiled. It is eaten cold. ait chasseur is spiced beef. It may be served with Chevreuil or Poivrade sauce, or with currant jelly. froid aux Indes is served cold with Indian pickles ; a VAmericaine—with a tomato salad. Fricandeau de bceuf is a beef fricandeau. It can be served with macaroni, a la Milanaise; or cold, with salad, a la Jardiniere. Slices of a beef fricandeau can be dressed for an entree in a sharp brown sauce, with currants and sultanas, as Grenadins de boeuf d la Romaine. Pate de boeuf aux pommes de terre is a pie of minced beef and mashed potatoes, with a crust of mashed potatoes. Pate chaud de boeuf is a hot beef pie. Pate de boeuf aux huitres is a beef-steak pie with oysters.MENUS MADE EASY. 110 Pate de tete de bceuf is an ox-cheek pie. This is also called Pate a la Hesse. Ox-tongue, or Langue de bceuf, boiled and glazed, is served a la prima clonna with a border round it of quenelles of veal, and white sauce with Brussels sprouts. A la Princesse, it is covered with Mayon- naise sauce, and garnished with salad and cucumber. VEAL. A Fillet of veal is dressed as— Rouelle de veau aux petits pois—larded and roasted; served with peas in white sauce. d la Pontoise—stuffed, roasted, and served cold with Tartare sauce. d la potagere—larded and roasted; served with carrots cut in shapes, onions, cauliflower, and brown sauce. d la jardiniere—stuffed with a piece of bacon, roasted, and served with a Jardiniere garnish. d la Princesse—stuffed with forcemeat, mush- rooms, etc.; roasted, and served with slices of tongue and bacon,'and white sauce with cream. a la Versaillienne—stuffed with a tongue and forcemeat; roasted, and served with quenelles, slices of stewed cucumber and white sauce. en thon—larded with fillets of anchovy, pickled, and cooked in oil. A Chump of veal, larded and braised, is served as— Noix de veau d Voseille, or aux epinards, on a puree of sorrel or spinach; a la bourgeoise—with brown sauce.REMOVES OR RELEV^S. Ill Noix ds veau a la Trianon—with a puree of chestnuts, and clear gravy. a la potagere is braised white, and served in a white sauce with peas and pieces of cauli- flower. a la Montpensier is larded with strips of truffles and bacon, and braised. It is also served a la puree de champignons, on a puree of mushrooms; or aux petits legumes, with stewed young carrots, turnips and onions, and brown sauce. For Veau en fricandeau, veal is larded on one side with thick strips of bacon, on the other side with fine ones, and braised. The Loin as— Longe de veau is roasted. Served a la Strasbour- gienne, it has slices of Strasbourg or other bacon round it, and Poivrade sauce. It is served cold au jarnbon, with oval slices of ham and croutons of aspic; or a la dame blanche, with a sauce over it of Bechamel and aspic with Tarragon vinegar, etc., garnished with Indian pickles. This is sometimes called a la Princesse. Longe de veau a la Montglas is braised, and served with clear gravy or half glaze, garnished with strips of chicken, tongue, truffles, and mush- rooms. Larded and braised, it is served piquee braisee, or a la Boy ale; a la macedoine de legumes—with a vegetable macedoine. A la Cambaceres, it has a border round it of small slices of tongue, truffles112 MENUS MADE EASY. and encumber; white sauce with wine, chopped mushrooms, etc. The under part of a loin is roasted and dressed as Filet de veau d la cremiere, with poached eggs, and Bechamel sauce with cream, etc. Filet de veau d la Cliipolata is a veal steak braised, and served with balls of sausage-meat, fried bacon, and tomato sauce. It is also served with capsicum sauce, sauce piment. A Neck of veal dressed as— Carre de veau au naturel is stewed, and served in the sauce with chopped gherkins and vinegar. A la Bourgeoise, it is stewed with vegetables. A la Milanaise, it is braised, and served with a Milanaise garnish. Boasted, it is served a la puree de celeris, with stewed celery, and celery sauce. A la St. Clair, with slices of fried ham and tomato sauce. .4 la Bruxellaise, with Brussels sprouts and white sauce. A la Pnntaniere, with spring vegetables. A Breast of veal as— Poitrine de veau rotie is roasted; d la Soubise, it is served with Soubise sauce. Boned, stuffed, rolled, and braised, it is served d la Jardiniere—with young vegetables; or a la Cliipolata—with Chipolata garnish. A Knuckle of veal as— Jarret de veau d la Mancellc is stewed and served with chestnuts.REMOVES OR RELEVES. 113 Galantine cle veau is a galantine of veal. It is served cold, garnished with aspic. Calf’s head is served as— Tete de veau au naturel, stewed, and garnished with the tongue and brains. farcie—stuffed with forcemeat, etc., and stewed. Served in a white sauce with currants and sultanas, it is d VAllemande. en tortue—cut in pieces and boiled with vegetables and turtle herbs—basil, marjoram, thyme, bay leaves, etc.; served in the sauce with wine and mushrooms. Yeal and ham pie is called Pate de veau aujambon. Pate d Vltalienne is a veal and ham pie, with yolks of hard-boiled eggs, and small balls of stuffing. Timbale d la Franqaise is a pie of layers of slices of larded veal, ham and forcemeat, in a shell of paste. Pate de pieds de veau d VEcossaise. A pie of calf’s feet minced with suet and apples, with gravy and wine. Pate cliaud de godiveau is a hot pie of veal or fowl forcemeat. MUTTON. Hanclie de mouton is a roast haunch of mutton. It maybe served aujus de groseilles with brown sauce, currant jelly, etc. d la Bohemienne—soaked in marinade, roasted, and served in a brown sauce with pickled onions, olives, currant jelly, etc. iMENUS MADE EASY. 114 A leg or neck of mutton is also dressed in this •way. A fore-quarter of Southdown mutton is called Quartier de pre-sale. Served with haricot beans, it is d la Bretonne. A Saddle of mutton as— Selle de mouton d VAnglaise or en broche is roasted. au laver—served with laver and a brown sauce. rotie d lavenaison—it is hung a fortnight, roasted, and served in a brown sauce with wine, etc. d la Mirabeau—roasted, and served in Poivrade sauce with chopped gherkins and beetroot. d la Polonaise. The meat of a roast saddle is cut out, minced, and put back again with brown sauce, etc., keeping the shape by a wall of mashed potatoes; it is sprinkled with bread- crumbs, and browned. Dressed in this way, with a puree of onions over the mince, and served with Soubise sauce, it is called d la Marseillaise. A Leg of mutton as— Gigot roti is roasted; d la Portugaise, it is served with Spanish onions. d la Russe—roasted, and the cooking finished in burning brandy; served with the gravy and brandy. d la Provenqale—garlic inserted into the leg; roasted and served with Bretonne sauce, en chevreuil—larded, soaked in oil and roasted; served with Poivrade sauce.115 REMOVES OR RELEVES. Gigot a la Flamande—boiled, and served with car- rots and mashed turnips. It is also served with caper sauce—sauce aux cdpres. a la Royale is larded and braised; a la Jar- diniere — with a Jardiniere garnish ; a la Napolitaine—with macaroni and Neapolitan sauce; a la Soubise—with Soubise sauce and potato croquettes. de sept heures is boned, and stewed for seven hours with vegetables. farci is boned, stuffed and roasted; served with tomato or Soubise sauce. d la Bretonne is stuffed and braised, and served with Bretonne sauce and haricot beans. a la Polonaise is braised, cut in slices without severing them from the bone, and a stuffing put between each slice. A Neck of mutton as— Carre de mouton is roasted; bouilli—boiled; aux cdpres—served with caper sauce; a la Niver- naise—with carrots and mashed turnips, and caper sauce in a sauce-boat. an riz—cooked with rice, slices of onion and dice of ham. d Vlrlandaise is braised and served with onions and potato croquettes. a la Dustan is served with a puree of haricot beans; d la Jardiniere — with a Jardiniere garnish; or with any dressed vegetable or puree, naming it accordingly. d la Prove?igale—spread with a puree of onions.MENUS MADE EASY. 116 breadcrumbed and browned; served in a highly seasoned brown sauce. Carre de mouton a la So'ubise—larded, braised, and served with Soubise sauce. an chevreuil—larded, soaked in marinade and braised ; served with Chevreuil sauce and potatoes cut in little balls. If stewed prunes are substituted for the potatoes, it may be called a V Allemande. a VAlgerienne—larded, soaked in marinade and roasted; served in brown sauce with some of the marinade and French plums. Carres cle mouton a la legumiere are two necks roasted, put together like a saddle, and the space between filled up with mashed potato, garnished with other vegetables. A Loin of mutton may be dressed in many of the ways suggested for necks ; also as— Cannelon de mouton—boned and rolled. A la Polo- naise, it is larded, rolled, and braised, and served with stuffed mushrooms. Carbonade de mouton—boned, larded, and rolled with forcemeat in the centre, braised and glazed ; served with a dressed vegetable, Soubise or Piquante sauce, or a la Nivernaise— with stewed carrots. A la Sidtane, it has a rich savoury stuffing with raisins or sultanas, and is served in a brown sauce with orange juice and chopped ham. As Faux Canard, it has a duck stuffing of sage and onions; apple sauce may be served with it.117 REMOVES OR RELEVES. Poitrine de mouton aux cdpres is a breast of mutton braised, and served in Piquante sauce with capers. Boned, rolled, braised, and garnished with vegetables, it is called Gannelon de mouton a la Windsor. A shoulder pf mutton boned, stuffed, and roasted or braised, is served with Piquante sauce as Epaule de mouton farcie. En ballon—it is boned, larded, made into the shape of a balloon and braised. This is sometimes called en musette. A mutton steak, broiled or stewed, can be served as Filet de mouton d la Soubise—with Soubise sauce; a la Pretonne—with haricot beans; or with any dressed vegetable. Soaked in marinade and braised, it is served a la Polonaise with stuffed mushrooms. A mutton pie made with potatoes and onions, covered with potato paste, is called Pate de mouton a rirlandaise. Pate a VEcossaise is a sheep’s head pie. Boudin, or Casserole, de mouton is a mutton pudding in suet crust. Aux rognons, it is dressed with kidneys; d la Milanaise—with macaroni. LAMB. Hanche d’agneau is a roast haunch of lamb. It is sometimes called Bosbif d’agneau d la broclie. The Fore-quarter as— Quartier d’agneau d la broclie is roasted. d l hoteliere roasted, and served in a sauce of Maitre d’hotel butter with cream.118 MENUS MADE EASY. Quartier d’agneau farci—a stuffing put between the neck and shoulder, roasted and served with brown sauce. i Cotes d’agneau a la Chanceliere is a roast fore- quarter, the shoulder cut out, and the meat of it minced with ham, truffles, etc., mixed with white sauce, and put into the space the shoulder was cut from ; breadcrumbed, browned, and served with white sauce. Selle d’agneau rotie is a roast saddle of lamb. It is served d VIndienne—with Indian sauce and Indian pickles ; and d la bonne fermiere—with lamb’s fry, breadcrumbed and fried, and mint sauce. braisee d VAllemande — boned, stuffed and braised; served with Allemande sauce and any vegetable garnish. d la Villeroi is dressed in the same way, covered with Allemande sauce, and sprinkled with breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan. d la Menagere is dressed like saddle of mutton d la Polonaise, with a white instead of a brown sauce, and the meat cut in small square slices. A Leg of lamb may be dressed the same as a leg of mutton; also as— Gigot d’agneau bouilli aux epinards—boiled and served on spinach; or d la Palestine—with a puree of Jerusalem artichokes. The Loin is roasted, or dressed en Cannelon, in the same way as mutton.REMOVES OR RELEVES. 119 The Breast as— Poitrine d’agneau aux petits pois is stewed with peas. a la Turque is boned, rolled and braised, and served with rice cooked in stock with saffron, currants and sultanas. The Neck as-— Carre d’agneau au cresson, is roasted, and served with watercress; aux legumes printaniers— with spring vegetables. a la Bruxellaise is braised and served on a puree of Brussels sprouts. aux cerises is served with cherry sauce. a la Douairiere is braised, and served in a white sauce with cocks’ combs, and braised lambs’ breads cut in slices. The Shoulder, or— Epaule d’agneau, is roasted; served a la Maitre cVliotel—with Maitre d’liotel sauce; or aux pointes d’asperges—with asparagus heads and white sauce. Boned, larded, braised and glazed, it is served cold as glacee. a la Montmorency—boned, stuffed with force- meat, larded and braised; served with Tou- louse garnish. It is also dressed a la Polonaise in the same way as a saddle of mutton. Pate cliaud d’agneau is a hot pie of lamb cutlets, with potatoes, white sauce, etc. PORK. Selle de pore frais is a roast saddle of pork. A la Robert—it has Robert sauce.120 MENUS MADE EASY. A Leg of pork as— Gigot de pore bouilli is boiled with the carrots, turnips and parsnips with which it is served. a la Piemontaise is roasted and served in a highly seasoned brown sauce, with Chili vinegar and olives. a VAllemande is pickled, boiled, and served with stewed red cabbage and pickled cabbage, carrots and turnips, and Poivrade sauce. Ecliinee de pore rotie is a roast chine of pork. Cotes de pore is a spare-rib of pork. A la Diplomate, it is braised and served in a brown sauce with sausages and stuffed potatoes. Carre de pore a la Bemoulade is a roast neck served in Remoulade sauce with chopped Indian pickles. d VAlsacienne is braised and served with pickled cabbage, potato croquettes, and sausage balls. d la Basse—braised, and served in orange sauce with sultanas. Longe de pore rotie is a loin roasted. A la Soubise, it is served with Soubise sauce. Pate d la Leicestershire is a pork pie in a crust made with lard. Pate d la Devonshire is a pie of layers of slices of pork, bacon and apples. Croustade d la Cliipolata is a raised pie filled with sausage-meat, bacon and chestnuts, and brown sauce. Salt pork boiled and served with cabbages and other vegetables, is called Petit sale aux clioux,REMOVES OR RELEVES. 121 or d la Fermiere; aux panais, it is served with parsnips. Cochon de lait is a sucking pig. It is plainly roasted; or stuffed with truffles, etc., a la Perigueux; or with chestnut and sausage- meat stuffing, and served with Chipolata garnish, a la Chipolata. a la Savoyarcle—stuffed with sausage-meat, rice, etc., and roasted; served with little sausages, and a white sauce with wine and mushrooms. en galantine is a braised galantine of sucking . ,pig< Pate froid de cochon de lait is a cold sucking pig pie. A Ham as— Jambon d la broche aux epinards is roasted, and served with spinach. If a York ham is used, the dish is called Jambon d’York a VAnglaisc. braise is braised. Served with sausages and peas puddings, it is called a la Polonaise, aux cerises is braised, and served in a brown sauce with wine and stewed cherries. a la Maillot is braised in wine; served with vegetables and Madeira sauce. glace a la Jardiniere is glazed, and garnished “a la Jardiniere.” It is also served a la Mace- doine, aux petits pois or aux haricots verts, with a garnish of Macedoine, green peas or French beans. Fromage de cochon is brawn. A haunch of boar, or Cuissot de sanglier, ma3r be served d la Boyale, larded, and braised in wine andMENUS MADE EASY. 122 water with vegetables, etc. Aux cerises, it is served with cherry sauce. Filet cle sancjlier au chasseur is a fillet of boar, soaked in oil, etc., and braised; served with Poivrade sauce. Hure de sanglier is a boar’s head. POULTRY. A capon boiled in stock with bacon, onions, etc., is served in the sauce as Chapon au gros sel. Stuffed with truffles, etc., and roasted, it is served d la Perigueux, with Perigueux sauce; or d la Piemon- taise, with tomato sauce and raviolis. A fowl boiled and served with Bourgeoise sauce is called Poule au pot. A fat pullet, or poularde, is roasted,, and served d la Financiere—with Financiere garnish ; or aux legumes printaniers—with stewed young vegetables and brown sauce. A la Grimod de la Beyni'ere, it is filled with a stuffing of the liver with truffles, mushrooms, etc., and roasted in slices of bread and ham. A l’Anvers, it is larded, roasted, and served with a compote of apples, and balls of forcemeat, and brown sauce. A la Begcnce, it is stuffed and braised, and served with truffle sauce. A la Lucidlus, it is stuffed with liver forcemeat with truffles, roasted, and served with a garnish of tomato rice with cheese, and truffle sauce. A la Montmorency, it is larded, stuffed with liver forcemeat, braised and glazed.123 REMOVES OR RELEVES. A la Guillaume Tell, it is boned, stuffed and braised; set in a mould with the stock, garnished with truffles, and served cold. For Tilau de poularde it is cooked with spice, onions, rice, etc.; masked with the rice, and garnished with hard-boiled eggs. Poulet a la sauce is a boiled chicken served with white sauce. It may be au celeri—with celery sauce, au macaroni—with macaroni, or with any vegetable garnish. Served cold, covered with a white sauce and garnished with strips of tongue and truffles, it is called a la Belle Vue. au riz is boiled with rice. A la Turque, the rice is dressed with saffron, currants and sultanas. d la Genoise is boiled, and served in a white curry sauce with cheese and macaroni. a la Chivry is cooked in mirepoix with slices of bacon, and served in Ravigote sauce. a la Mona—cooked with wine, tomato sauce, Portugal onion and bacon. a la d'Escars—larded, and braised in stock and wine with bacon, vegetables, etc. roti d la peau de goret has a crackly skin from melted lard having been dropped on it while roasting. a la Milanaise—stuffed, roasted, and served with Milanaise garnish. d la Ilambourgeoise—stuffed with butter, chopped parsley, etc., and roasted.MENUS MADE EASY. 124 Poulet a Vestragon lias a stuffing made of the liver, bacon, tarragon, etc.; it is roasted, and served in a white sauce with chopped tarragon. a la Royale is stuffed and braised. a la Chevaliere is larded, braised, and served in a rich white sauce with mushrooms. a la Carmelite■—the back and breast bones re- moved, it is stewed and served in rich brown sauce with button onions, olives, and artichoke bottoms cut in slices. a la St. Cloud is larded with strips of truffle and bacon, braised, and served in brown sauce with wine. a Vltalienne—filled with a stuffing of the liver with bacon, mushrooms, etc.; roasted, and served in a white sauce with oil, wine, tarra- gon, etc. a la sauce tomates is stuffed, braised, and served with tomato sauce ; aux champignons—with mushroom sauce. Petits poulets a VIndienne are young chickens stuffed with rice, breadcrumbs, curry powder, etc.; braised, and served with rice and Indian sauce, garnished with Indian pickles. Petits poussins are very young chickens. They are larded and braised, and served a la Veni- tienne in a white sauce with wine, cocks’ combs, chopped mushrooms, truffles, etc.; or d la Chevaliere, in white sauce with button onions and mushrooms.125 REMOVES OR RELEVES. Pate chaud cle volatile au jambon is a hot chicken and ham pie. Patefvoid de volatile aux truffes is a cold chicken pie with forcemeat and truffles. Galantine de pouiet is a galantine of chicken. j DUCKS. Ducks are roasted and served au jus d'orange, with orange sauce; or braised and served aux petits pois, or aux champignons, with stewed peas or mushrooms. Canards, or eanetons, a la Mancelle are braised and served with chestnuts. aux groseilles vertes are roasted or braised, and served with green gooseberry sauce. au P'ere Douillet are braised in wine and stock, and served in the sauce. a la St. Michel—braised in wiue and broth, and served with mushrooms, etc., in the sauce. a VEspagnole—braised with vegetables, oil, and 4 garlic; served in a brown sauce with olives. a puree verte are stewed, and covered with a puree of green peas. a la Provence—stewed and served with mush- rooms and olives. en surprise—the breasts are cut out, minced, and put back again with highly seasoned brown sauce ; sprinkled with breadcrumbs and browned. a VAndalouse are boned, stuffed with sausageMENUS MADE EASY. 126 meat and braised; served -with slices of toma- toes, and artichoke bottoms. They are also served aux navets, anx choux, au celeri, or aux olives, with stewed turnips, cabbages, celery, or olives. With a puree of turnips, they are a la Nivernaise. Au vert pre, they are stewed with green herbs. GOOSE. Oie rotie is a roast goose, served with apple sauce in a sauce-boat. a la Mount Vernon is served with baked apples, and brown sauce with currant jelly. braisee a la Jardiniere is braised, and served with brown sauce and Jardiniere garnish. a la Cliipolata—served with Chipolata sausages. d la puree d’oseille—served with Sorrel sauce. a Vorange—with slices of oranges and orange sauce. rotie, farcie de marrons—stuffed with the liver, chestnuts, etc., and roasted. d la Portugaise—stuffed with slices of Portugal onions, etc., roasted, and served with stewed Portugal onions and a brown sauce. d VArlesienne—stuffed with onions, truffles, chest- nuts, etc., braised in mirepoix, and 'served in tomato sauce. a la Daupliinoise—stuffed with chestnuts, etc., braised, and served in brown sauce with orange juice and shreds of orange peel. d la Roy ale—boned, stuffed and braised, and127 REMOVES OR RELEVES. served in a brown sauce with anchovy and port wine. Oie en daube is stuffed and braised, and is served cold covered with the sauce. Pate aux abatis cl'oie is giblet pie. Casserole aux abdtis is a giblet pudding. TURKEY. Dinde rotie is a turkey roasted, and garnished with sausages. rotie parfaite is stuffed with sausage-meat, chest- nuts and truffles, and roasted. a la St. James is stuffed with sausage-meat and roasted. It has a brown sauce, and is served with currant jelly. d la puree de celeris—boiled, and served with celery sauce and slices of fried bacon; aux marrons—with chestnut sauce. d la Chipolata—stuffed with sausage-meat and chestnuts, roasted, and served with Chipolata garnish. truffee — stuffed with forcemeat and truffles, roasted, and served with gravy and chopped truffles. d la Provengale—stuffed with onions, bread- crumbs, etc., roasted, and served with truffle or tomato sauce. en daube — larded and stewed; served cold, covered with the sauce. d la Yorkshire—the legs are cut off, it is boned and stuffed with forcemeat and a tongue;128 MENUS MADE EASY, braised, and served with white sauce and. vegetables. Dinde a la Sultane—the breast-bone removed, it is larded, roasted and glazed ; served in a brown sauce, with sausages, balls of stuffing, and tomatoes. A young turkey, roasted, is served as Dindonneau a la Duchesse, with a puree of cucumbers, garnished with quenelles, small pieces of tongue, and French beans. Galantine de dinde is a braised galantine of turkey ; it is served cold. Aux foies gras, it has fat livers of fowls added to the forcemeat. PIGEONS. Pigeons stewed in stock, with bacon, mushrooms, onions, etc., are served in the sauce as Pigeons en compote. Pigeons a la Crapaudine are vbreadcrumbed and broiled; served with Piquante sauce. en ragout d’ecrevisses, or a la Merveilleuse, are stewed, and served in a rich white sauce with mushrooms and crayfish. a VAlgerienne are stewed and served with French plums. a la Princesse are stuffed with foie gras and mushrooms, stewed, and served with Espagnole sauce. aux petits pois, or d la St. Germain, are stuffed, and stewed with green peas. A la Nivernaise, they are served with mashed turnips.129 REMOVES OR RELEVES. Pate chaucl dc pigeons, or pigeonneaux, is a hot pigeon pie. Pate de pigeons a VAnglaise is a pigeon pie with collops of beef steak. GAME. VENISON. The haunch of venison, or Handle de venaison, ranks first among removes. Dressed d la Corintliienne, it is larded, soaked in marinade and roasted; served in a brown sauce with port wine, currants, currant jelly, etc. Quartier de venaison is a fore-quarter of venison. Gigot de cerf, or venaison, is a leg of venison. Filet de cerf, or venaison, is a fillet of venison. Epaule cle cerf, or venaison, is a shoulder of venison. Carre de cerf, or venaison, is a neck of venison. The fore-quarter of a roebuck is served as Quartier de chevreuil; the leg, as Gigot de chevreuil; the saddle, as Cimier de chevreuil. Dressed a, la St. Hubert, it is soaked in marinade, larded, braised, and served in a rich brown sauce with prunes. A venison pasty is called Pate de venaison. hare. Lievre, or Levraut, sauce Poivrade, is larded, roasted, and served with Poivrade sauce. au jus de groseillcs—larded, roasted, and served in brown sauce with currant jelly and olives. K130 MENUS MADE EASY. Lievre, or Levraut, rotie a la Finnoise—larded, roasted, and served in a sauce of stock, vinegar, sour cream, etc. a la Matanzas—soaked in marinade, stuffed 'with a forcemeat of fowl, and braised. en daube is boned, and stewed in a jar with bacon, veal, game stock, etc.; it is served cold, in the jar. liable de lievre roti is a baron of bare, larded and roasted. .4 la St. Denys, it is stuffed, braised, and served with truffle sauce. Pate de lievre a VEcossaise is a pie of bare stewed with wine, etc. Pain de lievre d la Yorkshire is a pie of layers of slices of bare, bam, and hard-boiled eggs, with game jelly; it is served cold. RABBITS. Lapereaux a VAnglaise are stewed, and served with Soubise sauce. grilles are flattened and broiled; served with butter and chopped parsley. d la sauce are boiled, and served in white sauce. aux petits pois are cooked in a white sauce with onions, green peas, etc. If mushrooms are substituted for the peas, they are called a la Taverniere. d la Jardiniere are cooked in white sauce, with young onions, carrots and turnips cut in little balls, and peas.REMOVES OR RELEVES. 131 Lapereaux a la villageoise—stuffed, roasted, and served in melted butter sauce with shallots, etc. aux groseilles vertcs are roasted or stewed, and served with green gooseberry sauce. Galantine de lapin is made of rabbit boned, stuffed, and braised. It is served cold, garnished with the sauce in a jelly. Rabbit pie is served as Pate cliand de lapereaux. If made in a raised pie dish, it is called Lapereaux en terrine. PHEASANTS. Faisans a la Soubise are braised pheasants covered with Soubise sauce ; aux matrons—with chest- nut sauce. a la puree de gibier are larded, braised, and served with puree of game sauce. a la Fontainebleau—the breasts are larded in a square; they are braised in white stock v,Titli lettuces, sausages, etc., and served with the lettuces and sausages, and brown sauce. a la Gitana—stewed with bacon, slices of Portu- gal onions, tomatoes, wine, etc. a la Flatnande—stevted with bacon, sausages, cabbages, etc. ; served with the cabbages pressed and cut in shapes, carrots and turnips, and Poivrade sauce. a Vetouffade—larded and stewed; served with game sauce. a la Beauharnais—braised, and served in truffle132 MENUS MADE EASY. sauce, with mushrooms, artichoke bottoms, ancl asparagus points. Faisans a la Victoria—stuffed with a forcemeat of oysters, bacon and herbs, stewed, and served with oyster sauce. aux foies gras—stuffed with foie gras, ham, truffle, etc., and roasted. truffes a la Piemontaise — stuffed with truffle stuffing, roasted, and served with a sauce of aspic and wine with slices of truffles. a la Bohemienne—stuffed with foie gras, truffle, etc.; cooked in mirepoix, and served in the sauce with truffles and foie gras. a la Connaught—stuffed with chestnut stuffing, roasted, and served with a watercress salad. a la Saint-Cloucl—boned, filled with a stuffing of the livers with partridge, truffles, etc.; roasted, and served on toast with Italian sauce and truffles. Pate chaud defaison aux truffes is a pie of pheasant with forcemeat and truffles. PARTRIDGES. Partridges braised in stock with bacon, cabbages, etc., are served as Perdreaux aux clioux, with the cabbages and slices of bacon. Perdreaux braises are larded and braised. d Vctouffadc—larded, and stewed in stock and wine with onions, etc. a la Parisienne—cooked in a brown sauce with wine, and served in the sauce.133 REMOVES OR RELEVfs. Perdreaux a VAnglaise—stuffed with the livers and butter, and roasted. A stuffing of shallots, breadcrumbs, etc., is inserted under each joint, and they are served in a sauce of stock and wine. truffes a la Perigord—stuffed with truffle stuffing and roasted; served in a white sauce with truffles. a la Mecklenbourg—stuffed with chopped French plums, game forcemeat, etc.; braised in stock and wine, and served in the sauce with tomato sauce and currant jelly. « la Barbaric—stuffed with truffle stuffing, and larded ornamentally with truffles; braised, and served with Financiere sauce. a la Pompadour—stuffed with foie gras and truffles, larded, braised, and served with truffle sauce. a la Cussg—boned, with the exception of the leg bones, and stuffed with a forcemeat made of sweetbread, truffles, mushrooms and cocks’ combs ; braised, and served with truffle sauce. a la Victoria—the breast bones removed, stuffed with game forcemeat, larded and braised; served with brown sauce, wine, etc. Pate de perdreaux au chasseur is a pie of partridges with veal and bacon, mushrooms, and game sauce. GROUSE. Grouse are dressed like pheasants a la Piemon-134 MENUS MADE EASY. taise. A la Kinnaird, they are stuffed, roasted, and served with Financiere garnish. Pate de grouse a VEcossaise is a pie of grouse with beef steak, etc. Grouse en timbale is a grouse pie baked in a French raised pie mould. BLACK GAME. As Cogs noirs, -or Cogs de bruy'ere, a la royale, blackcocks are larded, braised, and served with a white sauce and little rissoles of game. A la Bob Boy, they are stuffed, roasted with sprigs of heather and whiskey, and served with melted-butter sauce. Grouse are also dressed in this way. SNIPES. Snipes cut in halves, baked on layers of bacon, with butter, are served cold as Becassines en terrine a Vlrlandaise. Boudin de becassines a VEpicurienne is a pudding of snipes, with mushrooms, truffles, etc., and wine, in suet crust. Quails, Plovers, and Larks, may be dressed in hot pies, and served as Pates chauds de cailles, pluviers, or mauvicttes; or in cold pies, as Pates froids. Any small birds may be used for these pies. Pate de mauviettes d la Melton Mowbray is a lark pie with veal and bacon, mushrooms, truffles, etc. Pate de mauviettes a la Moderne is a raised pie of boned larks stuffed with beef forcemeat.REMOVES OR RELEvtfs, 135 Larks or other small birds are dressed as Boudin a la Chipolata, with Chipolata garnish in suet crust. Pate froul de gibier is a cold pie made of the meat of several kinds of game. Pate a la Yorkshire is composed of goose, hare, grouse, and snipes, with spices, sausage-meat, and slices of ham.MENUS MADE EASY. 136 CHAPTER VI. ROASTS, OR ROTS. Black Diver—Macreuse. Dressed au chocolat, they are served covered with chocolate. Black game—Coqs noirs, or Coqs cle bruyere. A la Stockholm, they are larded on one side, and barded with vine leaves on the other side. Bustard—Outarde canepeti'ere. A la Russe, they have a slice cut in the hreast and a stuffing inserted, and are served with brown sauce. Capon—Chapon. Served with watercress, it is called au cresson. Chicken—Poulet. A la Forrester, it is covered with watercress leaves, mustard and cress, etc. Barde, it is barded—roasted with a slice of bacon over the breast, and served with the bacon on it. Roti a la Stael, it has a white crust from being sprinkled with flour during the roasting. Spring chickens—Petits poulcts. Young chickens—Petits poussins, Duck—Canard.ROASTS, OR ROTS. 137 Duckling—Caneton. Served with orange sauce, it is called au jus cVorange or a la bigarade. Goose—Oie. Green goose—Olson or Oisillon. Grouse—Grouse. A la bonnie lassie, they are served on brown bread toast with melted-butter sauce. Guinea fowl—Pintade. Piquee, they are larded; bardee, barded. Hare—Li'evre. Hazel hen—Gelinotte. A la Victoria, they are stuffed and larded, and are served with a brown sauce. L apwings—Vann eaux. Larks—Mauvieites. Leveret—Levraut. Ortolans—Ortolans. Partridges—Perdrix or Perdreaux. “Perdrix” is usually applied to older birds. A brace of par- tridges is Accolade de perdreaux. Perdreaux de Bussie are Russian partridges. Peahen—Paonne. Pheasant—Faisan. Pigeons—Pigeons. Young pigeons—Pigconneaux. Bardes aufeuilles de vignes, they are roasted with vine leaves and slices of bacon over the breasts. Pintail—Pilet. Plovers—Pluviers. Prairie birds—Poules dc Prairie. Pat Pullet—Poularde,MENUS MADE EASY. 138 Quails—Cattles. They are bardees aux feuillcs de vignes in the same way as pigeons. Eabbit—Lapin. Young rabbit—Lagereau. A brace of young rabbits—Accolade de lagereaux. Shovellers—Rouges de riviere. Snipes—Becassines. Teal—Sarcelle. They are served au cresson with watercress; and a la Bigaradc, with Bigarade sauce. Turkey—Dindon (m.), or Linde (f.). Turkey poult—Dindonneau. They are pique, larded; barde, barded; and farci, stuffed with forcemeat and truffles. Widgeon—Canard siffleur. They are sometimes called Macreuses. Wild Duck—Canard, or Caneton, sauvage. Woodcocks—Becasses. Served a la Piemontaise, they have game sauce and slices of truffles.( 139 ) CHAPTER VII. VEGETABLES, OR LEGUMES, AND SALADS. ARTICHOKES. Artichokes plainly boiled are served with butter sauce in a sauce boat as Artichauts sauce au beurre, or with Dutch sauce, sauce Hollandaise. Artichoke bottoms as— Artichauts a la bonne femme are boiled and served wTith white sauce. d la Bnixellaise are cut in quarters, cooked in wdiite sauce, and arranged in a border with Brussels sprouts and Maitre d’hotel sauce in the centre. au veloute are dressed in the same way, and served in the sauce with cream and yolks of eggs. a la Lyonnaise—cooked in butter and served in brown sauce with onions, etc. a Vltalienne—cooked in stock, wine, etc., and served in Italian sauce. farcis—stuffed, and cooked with oil and bacon, etc. a Vessence de jarnbon—stuffed, braised, and served covered with a puree of ham.140 MENUS MADE EASY. Artichauts a la Valentine—stuffed with braised chestnuts and white sauce, covered with whipped white of egg and baked; served on croutons with tomato sauce. d la Marquise—stuffed with chopped mushrooms, ham, herbs and breadcrumbs, and cooked in wine and stock. ft la Barigoule—stuffed with chopped bacon, mushrooms, etc., braised and served with Italian sauce. farcis a Vltalienne—the stuffing is made of onion, breadcrumbs and grated cheese. d la Hollanclaisc—stuffed with a puree made from the leaves, and served with Hollandaise sauce. en mayonnaise—served cold, coated with Mayon- naise sauce and sprinkled with chopped parsley. Creme cVartichauts is a puree of artichokes with cream, steamed in a mould; served with cream sauce. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. Topinambours a Vltalienne are cut in fancy shapes, cooked with butter, stock, etc., and glazed; served with Italian sauce. They are also sautes in thin slices. A puree of Jerusalem artichokes with cream, sprinkled with grated Parmesan and browned, is called Topinambours au gratin. ASPARAGUS. Plainly boiled, they are called Aspcrges en branches.VEGETABLES, OR LEGUMES, AND SALADS. 141 They are served a la sauce—with white sauce ; au beurre—with butter sauce ; a Vhuile—with oil and vinegar; a la Tartar c, or a la Hollandaisc— with Tartare or Hollandaise sauce. Asperges d la Piemontaise are served in white sauce with grated cheese. d V Espagnole are served with poached eggs sprinkled with chopped herbs, and tomato sauce. This is also called d la Colbert. en Mayonnaise are served cold in Mayonnaise sauce. d la Nigoise are served cold in a sauce made of hard-boiled yolks of eggs with oil and vinegar. Cut up small, they are dressed en petits pois— stewed and served in a white sauce; as Pointes cVasperges aujus—stewed in stock; or d la creme— served in Bechamel sauce; d la Pompadour—in a sauce of butter, yolks of eggs, vinegar, etc. FRENCH BEANS. Cut in strips and boiled, they are served as-— Haricots verts d VAnglaise — with butter and chopped parsley. d la Mattre d'hotel—with Maitre d’hotel sauce. d la Poxdette—with Poulette sauce. au beurre noir—with black-butter sauce. aux fines herbes—in a butter sauce with chopped parsley and shallots. sautes are saute in butter with chopped parsley. Haricots panaches dla Maitre d’ hotel are French beans and haricot beans with Maitre d’hotel sauce.MENUS MADE EASY. 142 HARICOT BEANS. White haricot beans, boiled, are served as— Haricots blancs d la Maitre d'hdtel, or d la Bretonne—with Maitre d’hotel or Bretonne sauce; art, beurre cle piment—with capsicums pounded with butter; d la moelle—with beef marrow, etc. au, jus are stewed in stock. They are also served en puree with stock ; or as Puree cle haricots d la creme—a puree with cream. Haricots rouges d la Bourguignonne are red haricot beans cooked in stock with onions, wine, etc. Flageolets may be dressed au jus—stewed in stock; d la Poulette—boiled and served in Poulette sauce; and in many of the ways suggested for peas. BROAD BEANS. Feves de marais d I’Anglaise are boiled, and served with parsley and butter. d la creme are boiled in milk with chopped parsley; served in the sauce with cream, etc. d la Eomaine are stewed, and served with a puree of tomatoes. d la Mentone are served in Soubise sauce, gar- nished with little rolls of bacon breadcrumbed and fried, and croutons sprinkled with grated cheese. Puree cle feves is a puree of beans. BEETROOT. Cut in slices, beetroot is served as— Betteraves d la creme—boiled in a white sauce.VEGETABLES, OR LEGUMES, AND SALADS. 143 Betteraves a la Poitevine—served in brown sauce with onion, spice, etc. a la Chartreuse. Sandwiches of a slice of onion between slices of yellow beetroot, dipped in batter and fried. Broccoli is dressed in the same way as cauli- flower. BRUSSELS SPROUTS. Choux de Bruxelles a la Mattre d’hotel are boiled, and served in Maitre d’hotel sauce. Sautes, they are saute in butter with lemon, etc. A la Frangaise, they are dressed with alternate layers of a white sauce with cream and grated cheese, covered with breadcrumbs and hard- boiled yolk of egg, and garnished with croutons. CABBAGE. Choux farcis—the heart is cut out, and a stuffing of sausage-meat, etc., put between each leaf; it is braised, and served in the sauce. en surprise—the heart cut out, it is filled with sausage-meat and boiled chestnuts, and stewed. CARDOONS. Boiled cardoons are served an veloute—in white sauce; a VEspagnole—in brown sauce; or au gratin —covered with breadcrumbs, sprinkled with melted butter, and browned. If grated cheese is mixed with the breadcrumbs, they are called d Vltalienne. Cardons au jus are stewed, and served in brown sauce with beef marrow. Garnished with144 MENUS MADE EASY. pieces of toast spread with beef marrow, they they are called a la moelle. A puree of cardoons with cream, etc., garnished with croutons, is served as Puree cle cardons aux croutons. CARROTS. Boiled and cut in shapes, carrots are served as— Carottes d la Bechamel, in Bechamel sauce, garnished with croutons; or d la poulettc— glazed, and served in Poulette sauce. d la Flamande are served in a tomato sauce, garnished with pieces of cooked tomatoes on croutons. d la menagere are cut in slices and served in a white sauce with wine, herbs, etc. aux petits pois—cut in dice and served with peas in a white sauce. au sucre—mashed, and dressed with milk, sugar, eggs, etc., the top sprinkled with sugar. d VIndienne—served in a curry sauce with a border of rice.' d la Malden are stewed, and served in a vol-au- vent with slices of beef marrow, capers, and a rich brown sauce. Young carrots stewed in white sauce are called Petites carottes, or Carottes nouvcllcs, d la sauce blanche. Stewed and glazed, they are glacees; or d VAlle• mande, served with Allemande, or brown sauce. CAULIFLOWERS. Chouxfleurs au gratin are masked with a whiteVEGETABLES, OR LEGUMES, AND SALADS. 145 sauce -with grated Parmesan, breadcrumbed and browned. They may also be called au Parmesan. Chouxfleurs sauce au beurre are served with butter sauce ; a la__sauce—with white sauce. a la Reine—served in a rich white sauce with chopped ham. a la Piemonlaise—served in a white sauce with grated cheese. Pieces of cauliflower, masked with white sauce, dipped in batter and fried, are called Marinade de chouxfleurs. Soujfle de chouxfleurs d la Baronne is composed of pieces of cauliflower in layers with slices of raw tomato, covered with cheese souffle mixture, and baked. CELERY. Celeri aujus is stewed in stock. a la moelle is stewed, and served on toast with brown sauce and beef marrow. d la creme—stewed, and served in a white sauce with cream. a VEspagnole—stewed, and served in Espagnole sauce. d la Chetwynd—stewed with onions, and served on toast with the onions, and Bechamel sauce with cream, etc. d la Genevoise—stewed, covered with white sauce, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and grated cheese, and browned. L146 MENUS MADE EASY. Celeri a la Villeroi—masked with Allemande sauce, breadcrumbed and fried. Beignets cle celeri are fritters of celery fried in batter. They are sometimes served with tomato sauce. Celery roots are served with butter sauce as Celeri-rave a la sauce au beurre; stewed and served au jus ; or glazed—a la demi glace. They are also dressed as a Puree de celeri-rave. CHESTNUTS. Though properly a fruit, a puree of chestnuts cooked -with stock and wine may be served as a vegetable, and called Puree de marrons. They are also dressed as a souffle. CUCUMBER. Slices of cucumber cooked with cream, butter and flour are called Concombres a la creme. Concombres a la poulette—cut in pieces, and cooked with butter and sugar ; served in white sauce with cream, chopped parsley, etc. farcies d la creme—the centres scooped out, they are stuffed and stewed; served in Bechamel sauce with cream and sugar. d VEspagnole—cut in short lengths, stuffed, stewed, and served with brown sauce. Served in white sauce with grated cheese, they are d Vltalienne. d la moelle—the stuffing is made of breadcrumbs, beef marrow, etc. ; they are served with a brown sauce;VEGETABLES, OR LEGUMES, AND SALADS. 147 EGG PLANT. Aubergines farcies are cut in. halves, the centres chopped, and put back into the skins with oil, brown sauce, etc.; sprinkled with breadcrumbs and browned. ENDIVE. Chicoree aujus is stewed in stock. a la creme is chopped, and dressed with cream, white sauce, etc.; garnished with croutons. Garnished with slices of hard-boiled eggs, it is a la Theodora. If the cream is omitted, it should be called en puree. LEEKS. Poireaux aujus are stewed in stock. a la Mediterranee are braised, stuffed with sausage- meat, breadcrumbed and fried, and served with slices of cooked tomatoes. LENTILS. A puree of lentils with stock, garnished with croutons, is served as Puree de lentilles aux croutons. Boiled and served in white sauce, they are en fricassee. LETTUCE. Lettuce is served au jus, stewed; or as Laitues farcies, the centres cut out, filled with forcemeat and braised. MORELS. Morilles aux croutons are stewed and served on buttered toast*148 MENUS MADE EASY. Morilles a Vltalienne are served in Italian sauce. d VAndalouse are cooked with oil, wine, bam, etc,, and served in the sauce. MUSHROOMS. Champignons a la sauce are stewed, and served in white sauce. d la Superlative are laid on pieces of toast spread with Devonshire cream, and the cream piled on the top ; and are cooked in a covered dish. a la Milanaise are seasoned with oil and vinegar, dipped in beaten eggs with grated cheese, and fried. a la Bordelaise are soaked in oil, broiled, and served in the oil with chopped parsley, etc. farcis or au cjratin are filled with stuffing, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and baked. They may be served with brown sauce. d la Napolitaine—filled with a stuffing made of the stalks with herbs, breadcrumbs and grated cheese ; baked, and served with gravy. For CroiUes aux champignons they are broiled and served on toast. En fritot, or as Beignets de champignons, they are fried in batter with slices of bacon. Cut in slices, they are dressed en ragoiU—with broth, chopped parsley, etc. ; or d la creme—with butter, cream, etc. For Puree de champignons they are chopped, and served with butter, gravy, etc., garnished with croutons.VEGETABLES, OR LEGUMES, AND SALADS. 149 Pctites gelees aux champignons are little mushroom jellies, served with a garnish of aspic and salad. ONIONS. Stewed Portugal onions are served as Oignons au jus. Stewed in a white sauce with puree of ham, they are en ragout. For Oignons farcis the centres are cut out, they are stuffed, and braised. Small onions served in Poulette sauce are a la poulctte. Au sirop dore they are stewed with butter, sugar, etc., and are served in the sauce. A puree of onions with stock is called Puree d'oignons d la Bretonne. It is garnished with croutons. PARSNIPS. Panais ct la TIamelin are dressed in a puree with a rich white sauce, covered with green peas. PEAS. Petits pois d VAnglaise are boiled, and served on a lump of butter. a la Frangaise are stewed, and mixed with flour and butter. d la Parisienne—boiled with onions, butter, sugar, etc., and served with the sauce. aujus—stewed in stock. aux laitues—stewed with lettuces.150 MENUS MADE EASY. Petits pois a I’ancienne mode—stewed, and served with cream and yolk of egg. a la Venitienne are served in an onion sauce, garnished with slices of tomatoes. en cosses are boiled in their shells. They are also served an lard—stewed in stock with dice of bacon, etc.; or au janibon—with dice of ham, young onions, etc. Creme d la D'Artois is a cream of green peas. Cotelettes de pois a la Comte de Paris are cutlets of peas with Soubise sauce, breadcrumbed and fried; served with Soubise sauce, and peas in the centre. POTATOES. Pommes de terre en chemise are boiled in their skins. Boiled and cut in slices, they are served a VAnglaise—with butter ; d la Maitre dlidtel—in Maitre d’liotel sauce ; d la creme—in white sauce; an lard—in white sauce with dice of bacon. Au gratin, they are dressed with white sauce and grated Parmesan, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and browned; a la Norvegienne, they are served in a cheese sauce. a la Parisienne are cooked in butter and water, with onions, etc. melangees are cut in slices and stewed with slices of apples. a la Lyonnaise—cut in slices and saute in butter with shallot, etc. If oil is used instead of butter, they are called a la Provengale. ServedVEGETABLES, OR LEGUMES, AND SALADS. 151 in Soubise sauce, sprinkled with chopped parsley and grated cheese, they are a la Turque. Pommes de terre Chateau are cut in oval shapes and fried. sautees—cut in slices and fried. a la Macaire are fried potato trimmings. frisecs are fried potato ribbons or curls. pailles are fried potato straws, the size of matches. farcies, or a la Beaufort—the centres are scooped out, and filled with forcemeat or mince pre- paration ; they are baked and served with gravy. soufflces—baked in their skins ; the potatoes mixed with butter, grated Parmesan, eggs, etc., put into the skins and browned. These souffles may be served in little cases, and called Petits souffles de pommes d laNapolitaine. A la Christina, they are made with the addition of cream and chopped parsley, etc. d Vltalienne are dressed in the same way, but the potato pulp is mixed with rice, grated Parmesan, etc. They are served in the skins. nouvelles d la creme are young potatoes boiled in cream with chopped parsley, etc. Croquettes de pommes de terre are potato croquettes, breadcrumbed and fried. This paste saute in small shapes, and dressed in a crown with white sauce, is called Pommes d la Duchesse. It is also made into quenelles.152 MENUS MADE EASY. Croquettes de pommes d la Bechamel are potato croquettes with Bechamel sauce. A puree of potatoes as Puree de pommes gratinee is sprinkled with breadcrumbs and browned. Mixed with white sauce, it is called a la Maria. A la Theo- dora, it is garnished with little balls of cucumber. In writing a menu, Pommes de terre is usually curtailed to Pommes. PURSLANE. The stalks of Purslane with cinnamon, etc., dipped in hatter and fried, are called Pourpier on friture a la Milanaise. SALSIFIS. Salsifis a la creme is boiled and served in a white sauce; d la Bechamel, in Bechamel sauce. d la moelle—stewed, and served with beef marrow spread on pieces of toast, and brown sauce. d la poulette—served in white sauce with cream, mushrooms, etc. frits—soaked in oil, etc., breadcrumbed and fried. If the pieces are dipped in batter and fried, they are called' Beignets de salsifis. Coquilles de salsifis is scalloped salsifis served in scallop shells. Fondues de salsifis are made of a puree of salsifis with eggs, baked in little cases, sprinkled with chopped parsley and breadcrumbs. SEA-KALE. Boiled sea-kale served on toast with butter sauce is called Choux de mcr d la sauce; d VEspagnolc,VEGETABLES, OR LEGUMES, AND SALADS. 153 it is served in Espagnole sauce; a la Hollandaise, "with Hollandaise sauce; au jus, it is stewed and served with gravy. SPINACH. Spinach is served a VAnglaise—with butter or cream; d la Frangaise—with butter, stock, etc. Epinards a, VAllemande — dressed with butter, cream, breadcrumbs, etc. d Vltaliennc—dressed with anchovy butter and raisins, garnished with croutons. aa veloute—with veloute sauce. d la creme—with cream and sugar. aujus is served with gravy, garnished with glazed crohtons. au sucre—cooked in butter and mixed with sugar, etc. aux ceufs is served with poached eggs. This is often called d la Colbert. Beignets aux epinards are spinach fritters. It is also dressed as a souffle and as a cream. TOMATOES. Tomates farcies or au gratin—the centres are cut out, they are stuffed, sprinkled with bread- crumbs and baked. d la JProvengale—the centres are mixed with oil, chopped onions, etc., put back into the skins and baked. farcies aufromage are stuffed with cheese mixture. These are frequently called d la Napolvtaine. a la Cardinal are stuffed with anchovy sauce.MENUS MADE EASY. 154 Tomates a la Graham are stuffed with a puree of potato. a la Caroline are stuffed with savoury rice with grated cheese. a la St. Jacques are stuffed with button mush- rooms in mushroom sauce. a la Toscane are stuffed and braised, and served with truffle sauce. a VAmericaine are raw tomatoes stuffed with Mayonnaise sauce with chopped olives, an- chovies and tarragon, and garnished with aspic. en surprise are little round moulds of tomato jelly, filled with forcemeat or mince in white sauce. Tomatoes may be cut in slices, and served a la creme, with cream sauce ; or as Cotelettes cle tomates, breadcrumbed and fried, and served with broiled mushrooms and Tartare sauce. Souffle de tomates is tomato pulp with eggs, baked in small souffle cases. TRUFFLES. Truffes a la serviette are cooked in wine and broth, and served on a napkin. sous la cendre—wrapped in slices of bacon and paper, and broiled in hot cinders. au vin de champagne—cooked with bacon, veal, mushrooms, champagne, etc., and served in the sauce. a la Piemontaise—cut in slices, fried in oil withVEGETABLES, OR LEGUMES, AND SALADS. 155 garlic, etc., ancl served on buttered toast with Italian sauce. Truffes demi Piemontaise are dressed in the same way, substituting a highly seasoned tomato sauce with wine for Italian sauce. a la Bino. Truffles dressed “au vin de cham- pagne ” are used for this dish ; the centres chopped with forcemeat, etc., put back into the shells, braised, and served with truffle sauce. For Croutes aux trufes, they are cut in slices, cooked in brown sauce with wine, and served on toast. TURNIPS. Navets au jus are stewed in stock and served in the sauce. effaces au sucre—cooked with butter, sugar and stock, and glazed. farcis d la creme are stuffed, stewed, and served in cream sauce. d la Poulettc—cut in shapes and cooked in white sauce. They are also dressed in a puree, garnished with croutons, as Puree de navets, and in a souffle. VEGETABLE MARROW. Potirons, or Giraumons, « la Hollandaise are cut in pieces, baked, and served in Hollandaise sauce. d la Provengale are cut in halves, fried, and filled with a stuffing of onions, breadcrumbs, oil, etc.156 MENUS MADE EASY. Potirons, or Giraumons, au gratin—a puree of vegetable marrow with cream, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and browned. YAMS or SWEET POTATOES. Patates au beurre are cooked, cut in slices and served with butter. a la Frangaise are cut in pieces, and served in a sauce of butter, flour, cream, etc. For Beignets cle patates they are cut in pieces, soaked in brandy, dipped in batter and fried. SALADS. Salade a la Macedoine is composed of separate heaps of vegetables, with oil and vinegar. cle pommes de terre—slices of potatoes and beet- root, with chopped parsley, etc., oil and vinegar. de crcsson aux pommes—watercress and slices of potatoes, with oil and vinegar. de tomates—slices of raw tomatoes with chopped shallots, etc., oil and vinegar. de choux rouges a la Basse—red cabbage, with sauce of sour cream, hard-boiled yolks of eggs, etc. aux concombres—slices of cucumber with oil and vinegar. aux betteraves—slices of beetroot, with chopped Portugal onions, oil and vinegar. de chicoree d la Frangaise—endive, with oil, vinegar and garlic. d la Frangaise—lettuce, or any one kind of salad only, with oil, vinegar, etc.VEGETABLES, OR LEGUMES, AND SALADS. 157 Salade a VAnglaise — lettuce, celery, beetroot, endive, etc., with oil and vinegar. a VAllemancle—slices of potatoes, Brussels sprouts, cauliflower and celery, with oil, vinegar, etc. a Vltalienne—several kinds of salad and vege- tables, with meat or fish, anchovies, olives, etc., and Tartare sauce. a VIndienne—lettuce and mustard and cress, with a sauce of claret with chutney, vinegar and spice ; in a border of plovers’ eggs, or hard- boiled eggs cut in halves. It may be gar- nished with curried shrimps and slices of lemon, and is served with brown bread and butter. a la Flamande—Dutch herrings, or any dried fish, pickled shrimps, apples, beetroot, potatoes, etc., with oil and vinegar. a VEspagnole—a border of slices of tomatoes, and pickled onions with Mayonnaise sauce in the centre. a la Russe—carrots, parsnips and beetroot cut in shapes, pieces of fowl or game, anchovies, olives, caviar, etc., with oil, vinegar and mustard. Another form of Russian salad is a mould of vegetables with yolks of eggs, cream, puree of spinach, etc. d la Suede—pickled herrings, beef, apples and potatoes, cut in dice, with chopped herbs, gherkins and capers, oil and vinegar; garnished with anchovies and olives.158 MENUS MADE EASY. Salade a la Vienne—lettuce with shreds of ham, tarragon and chervil, oil and vinegar, etc. a VAnvers—lettuce with shreds of chicken, ham and oapsicums, in a Mayonnaise sauce with curry powder, garnished with slices of potatoes. a la Napolitaine—a border of slices of hard-boiled eggs and Bologna sausage, and a salad with Tartare sauce in the centre. a la Rachel—shreds of celery and hard-boiled whites of eggs, in Tartare sauce with chopped herbs ; garnished with the yolks of eggs and sausages cut in slices. This is sometimes called a la Heine. a la Cazanova—dice of ham and fish, with celery, hard-boiled whites of eggs, etc. Mayonnaise sauce with powdered yolks of eggs. , a la Tartare—lettuce, with pickled cucumbers, onions, etc., herrings cut in dice, oil and vinegar. a la Demidoff—slices of potatoes and truffles, with oil and vinegar, young onions, etc. a Madame—lettuce, with sauce of oil, vinegar, yolk of egg, etc. a VAdeline—salsifis with Mayonnaise sauce, in a border of tomato mayonnaise with aspic; garnished with strips of cucumber and tomato. d'Estrees—endive and celery in Mayonnaise sauce, with a border of slices of potato and beetroot. d la Pompadour—pieces of cauliflower in Mayon- naise sauce with cheese, in a border of slicesVEGETABLES, OR LEGUMES, AND SALADS. 159 of potatoes, carrots and leeks. Savoury cream sauce. Salade a la Jardiniere—fine strips of vegetables, •with oil, vinegar, etc. Cerises d la vinaigrette is composed of stoned cherries, fillets of anchovies, young onions, chopped bacon, etc., with oil, vinegar, mustard and spice. Mayonnaise a la Macedoine, or d la Jardiniere, is composed of mixed vegetables with Mayonnaise sauce. Mayonnaise d la Bretonne—shreds of lettuce and of fish, with anchovies and olives, and green Mayonnaise sauce. Mayonnaise de tomates d Vaspic—chopped tomatoes with Mayonnaise sauce in a border of aspic; garnished with tarragon and olives. Mayonnaise de tomates d la Couronne—chopped tomatoes in Mayonnaise sauce with aspic, set in little paper cases. Salade d la Duchesse de Fife is a mould of tomato puree with aspic and Mayonnaise sauce, decorated with hard-boiled egg, and served with salad. Timbale d la Macedoine is a mould of aspic, decorated with egg, and filled with a vegetable Macedoine in Mayonnaise sauce. Petites cremes d la Jardiniere are little moulds of mixed vegetables in Mayonnaise sauce with aspic. Chartreuse de legumes is an ornamental mould of160 MENUS MADE EASY. mixed vegetables, filled with chopped vegetables stewed in brown sauce. Kari de legumes is a curry of vegetables. It may be served hot or cold. Crepes a la Jardiniere are pancakes made with chopped vegetables. Crepes aux fines herbes are made with chopped herbs. Puree de legumes d la Romaine is a puree of mixed vegetables, garnished with little moulds of cheese custard breadcrumbed and fried.CHAPTER VIII. EGGS AND OMELETTES. These are specially useful for luncheon, and for dinner when maigre dishes are required. Some of them are suitable for savouries. At luncheon they are usually served first, as at a foreign dejeuner, but they are sometimes introduced as second-course dishes. This does not, of course, apply to the sweet omelettes. Poached eggs, or (Eufs poches, may be served au jus, with brown gravy, garnished with fillets of anchovy placed crosswise on each egg; or an jambon, on oval slices of fried ham, with Poivrade sauce. So-called “ buttered ” eggs—cooked with butter, etc.—are served as (Eufs brouilles. (Eufs brouilles aux pointes d'aspergcs, aux cham- pignons, aux truffes, or au jambon, are dressed in the same way, with the addition of asparagus cut up, chopped mushrooms, truffles, or ham. brouilles a VIndienne are cooked with butter, chopped onion, curry powder, etc. M162 MENUS MADE EASY. CEufs au bewrre noir—fried, and served in black- butter sauce. a la Siiisse are baked in a dish lined with slices of cheese, covered with cream and sprinkled with grated cheese. au kari, or a VIndienne, are poached in a sauce of milk, butter, onions, curry powder, etc. au miroir are baked with butter, etc., in the dish in which they are served. aux pistaches—mixed with cream, pounded pis- tachio nuts, etc., and baked. a la bonne femme—baked with chopped onions and vinegar. au soleil—poached, dipped in batter and fried. These are sometimes called enfritot. a la matelote—poached, and served on croutons, garnished with strips of anchovies and gher- kins, with fine herbs sauce. a la Portugaise—poached, and served on croutons, covered with half tomatoes filled with savoury stuffing. a la neige—spoonfuls of whipped whites poached in milk, etc.; served in the milk wdth yolks of eggs. cn eaisse—cooked in little souffle cases half filled with breadcrumbs. au bouillon—steamed with stock in little moulds; served with gravy. a la Provengale—cooked in small moulds with brown sauce, chopped onions, etc., and served with brown sauce. a la Florentine are lightly boiled, shelled, and163 EGGS AND OMELETTES. served on a pur6e of fowl, garnished with fried pastry straws. CEufs a la Bechamel are hard-boiled, cut in halves, and served in Bechamel sauce. a la Norfolk—hard-boiled, cut in halves, bread- crumbed and fried; served with Piquante sauce. ciu vcloute—hard-boiled, cut in slices and served in white sauce. a la Tripe—slices of eggs with slices of onions and Bechamel sauce with garlic, etc. au gratin—slices in layers with white sauce, grated Parmesan, etc.; sprinkled with bread- crumbs and grated Parmesan, and baked. a Vaurore—shred hard-boiled whites of eggs in Aurora sauce, in layers with grated Parmesan and the yolks of the eggs powdered. a la St. James—boiled hard in moulds, the yolks mixed with chopped truffles and put back into the whites; served in Mayonnaise sauce with chopped truffles. farcis, or cn canapes—hard-boiled and cut in halves, the yolks mixed with chopped parsley, butter, etc., and put back into the whites ; a la creme, they are served with Bechamel sauce. farcis au Parmesan have a cheese stuffing, and are served with cheese sauce. a la Normande have a stuffing with pounded shrimps, etc., and are garnished with small salad. a la Poonah have an anchovy and shrimp stuff- ing, and are served with rice, and curry sauce.164 MENUS MADE EASY. CEufs en aspic—slices of hard-boiled eggs set in a mould of aspic. Beignets aux ceufs are slices of liard-boiled eggs, dipped in batter and fried. Crepinettes d’ceujs d la Soubise are slices of hard- boiled eggs, coated -with Soubise sauce, wrapped in pork caul, breadcrumbed and fried. Plovers’ or Lapwings’ eggs are set in a mould of aspic, or served with a border of aspic round them, as CEufs de pluviers, or vanneaux, en aspic, or d Vaspic. A la Charmante, they are set in little moulds of aspic garnished with strips of beetroot, gherkin and white of egg, and are served with a mayonnaise of shred cucumber and celery. OMELETTES. A simple omelette is called Omelette au natural. Omelette aux fines herbes is a savoury omelette— with chopped parsley and shallot. au Parmesan—with grated Parmesan. If Gruyere cheese is used instead of Parmesan, it is called aufromage. aujambon—with chopped ham. au lard—with chopped fried bacon, d la puree de volatile, or gibier, has a puree of fowl or game in the centre of the omelette. aux truffes has slices of truffles in brown sauce in the centre of the omelette. aux champignons has mushrooms in brown sauce in the centre. aux tomates has dressed tomatoes in the centre.EGGS AND OMELETTES. 163 Omelette aux olives has olives and brown sauce in the centre. aux ImUrcs has oysters in white sauce in the centre. aux abatfs—stewed giblets with herb sauce in the centre. aux rognons--kidneys with fine herbs in the centre of a savoury omelette. aux ancliois has fillets of anchovy on pieces of toast in the centre; it is served with gravy. d la Normande has shrimps in anchovy sauce in the centre. d la Macedoine has a Macedoine garnish in the centre. d la Jardiniere is made with chopped vegetables mixed with the eggs. In addition to these there are the sweet omelettes —au sucre. Omelette aux confitures—a sweet omelette folded over jam. au rhum—a sweet omelette with rum, and a sauce of burning rum. a la Cdestine—a small sweet omelette, with apricot marmalade in the centre. aux/raises—a sweet omelette with a compote of strawberries in the centre. These can be made with any fruit. An Omelette soufilce is made with sugar, beaten yolks and beaten whites of eggs, and is baked. For Omelette soufflee d la creme, whipped cream is used instead of some of the whites of eggs.MENUS MADE EASY. IflO CHAPTEB IX. ENTREMETS. CAKES AND PASTRY. Gateau Napolitaine is a cake composed of thin round pieces of a paste of pounded almonds, flour, butter, yolks of eggs, etc., spread with preserve and piled one on the other. It may be garnished with pistachio nuts, or masked with the preserve, or glazed with sugar icing. Served with cream, it is called Gateau Napoli- taine a la Chantilly. a la Compiegne is a light cake cut in slices, spread with apricot marmalade, and put together again. a la Victoria—a cake with dried cherries, citron, etc.; served with almond custard. cVamandcs—a cake of ground almonds, eggs, sugar, etc. Baked in a shallow mould lined with paste, it is called Gateau Saint-Charles. cle pistaclies is made in the same way with pistachio nuts instead of almonds. Saint Louis—a light cake of flour, butter, whites167 ENTREMETS. of eggs and pounded almonds, in a shell of paste; sprinkled -with chopped almonds. Gateau de Moka is a coffee cake, served -with cream. a la Monico is composed of layers of chocolate cake, and of a cake with almonds and cherries, spread with preserve, and the whole covered with chocolate icing and decorated with pink and white icing. de viz—rice cake. Served an caramel it has burnt sugar sauce. de riz a la bourgeoise—a rice cake baked in a mould lined with breadcrumbs; served with any fruit sauce. de semoule—semolina cake. Served with cream it is called d la creme. Baba au rhum—a light cake made with yeast, with sultana raisins, citron, etc., baked in a mould decreasing in stages, and served with a sauce of apricot syrup and rum. It is sometimes called Baba d la Polonaise. A la Parisienne it is soaked with syrup, covered with a puree of apricots, and decorated with dried fruit ; served with a compote of fruit and cream in the centre. Brioches d la creme are light yeast cakes served with cream. If served with stewed fruit they are called Brioches aux fruits. Savarin is another light cake made with yeast. Aux fruits it is served with stewed fruit. Pdtissene genoise is Genoese pastry. Gateau genoise aux abricots is a cake of Genoese1G8 MENUS MADE EASY. paste cut in slices, spread with apricot marma- lade, and put together again; covered with the marmalade, and served with whipped cream. Little shapes or cakes made of this paste decorated with pink and white icing are called Genoises glaces a Vltalienne. As Genoises aux amancles, they are masked with meringue mixture, and sprinkled with chopped almonds, etc. Gcnoise aux confitures is a thin piece spread with jam and rolled. This is known as a Swiss roll, and is sometimes called Cannelon a la Suisse. A Genoese cake cut into sandwiches with jam is served as Biscuits a la Venitienne, coated with pink and white icing. As Puits d’amours it is cut in shapes an inch thick, the centres cut out, the space filled with whipped cream and preserve, and the whole glazed with sugar icing. These are also made with pound cake instead of Genoese. They may be coated with chopped pistachios and almonds instead of the icing, and called Petits nids aux confitures. Made in sponge cake with little handles of citron they are called Pctitcs corbcillcs d la Lucullus. Any cake cut in small shapes and glazed with chocolate is served as Chocolat glace. Sponge biscuits glazed with chocolate are called Biscuits glaces au cliocolat. Served with custard they are Biscuits a la creme. Biscuit de Savoie is Savoy or sponge cake.109 ENTREMETS. As Gateau a la Duchesse it is cut in slices, spread with preserve and put together again; decorated with icing. For Gateau a la St. Honore it is soaked in wine, covered wdth whipped and flavoured cream, and surrounded with balls of meringue. For Gateau a la Parisienne the centre is cut out and filled wflth a puree of fruit; it is covered with coffee icing, and decorated with dried cherries and whipped cream. Gateau aux vins, or au cognac, is a tipsy cake. Petits pains a la Parisienne are sandwiches of finger biscuits "with preserve, masked w'itli alternate lines of meringue mixture and pre- serve. Petits gateaux aux amandes are small shapes of pastry with chopped almonds strewn on the top; they are served with whipped cream or preserve in the centre of the dish. au chocolat are little chocolate cakes. They may be served with cream, or with a chocolate custard. a la Peine—small shapes of a paste of pounded almonds, sugar and whites of eggs; glazed with sugar icing. a la Victoria—little cakes of flour, butter, pounded almonds, maraschino, etc., spread with orange marmalade, and glazed with j^ellow icing. Madeleines are little cakes of a batter of flour, butter, eggs, brandy, etc. Darioles—a batter of flour, sugar, eggs, cream, pounded almonds, etc., baked in dariole mouldsMENUS MADE EASY. 170 lined with paste, with candied orange flowers on the top. Flavoured with vanilla or coffee, they are called ci la vanille, or au cafe. Darioles a la Duchesse are Duchess cakes made of a hatter with citron, angelica, dried cherries, etc.; glazed with white sugar. Ballettes dorees are little cakes of pounded almonds with breadcrumbs, etc., and apricot jam. Biscuits d Vltalienne are fancy shapes of a light paste with chopped almonds, spread with jam, and put together in pairs. They are served in a crown with whipped cream in the centre. aax peches are round-topped biscuits spread with jam and put together in pairs in the shape of peaches; coated with white icing and a little red colouring. aux abncots are made in the same way, but of a smaller size. Apricot jam should be used, and yellow icing. G ateau aux /raises, etc., is composed of layers of light cake and of mashed strawberries or other ripe fruit, covered with cream. It can be made with slices of bread, instead of cake, soaked in a syrup of the fruit. de fruits d Vltalienne—a light cake soaked with a liqueur or fruit syrup, with a compote of fruit in the centre, decorated with fruit and whipped cream. feuillete is puff paste cut in shapes. de mille feuilles—a pile of thin round pieces of puff pastry, spread alternately with apricot171 ENTREMETS. marmalade, orange marmalade and currant jelly; masked with apricot marmalade, and garnished with dried cherries. Garnished with angelica and a piping of whipped cream, and with stewed fruit in the centre, it is called Puit de fruits aux blanches couronnes. Gateau de Nantes—a pile of rings of puff pastry, with an almond paste with chocolate in the centre, decorated with icing. Gateaux a la Conde—thin oblong or fancy shapes of puff paste, the surface covered with chopped almonds, sugar, etc. This is sometimes called Patisserie d'amandes d la Conde. d la creme—pastry of cream, flour and butter, in fancy shapes. Petits gateaux d'abricots are square pieces of puff paste folded over apricot marmalade. d la Polonaise are little folded envelopes of puff paste, garnished with red currant jelly. Eventail aux cerises—strips of puff pastry on a border of apple marmalade with stewed cherries in the centre. Petits vol-aU'Vents d la Chantilly are little vol-au- vents of puff pastry filled with marmalade and Chantilly cream. These are sometimes called Puits d'amours. d la gelee mousseuse are covered with chopped sugar coloured red, and filled with Maraschino jelly whipped to a froth. As Petits jpuits aux pis- taches they are covered with chopped pistachio nuts and sugar, and filled with whipped cream.172 MENUS MADE EASY. Patisserie a la tartine—sandwiches of puff pastry and jam. Gaufres a la Franchise are wafers made of a batter of flour, sugar, whipped cream, eggs, etc., baked in gauffre irons. a VAllemande, a la Flamande, and cle Carlsbad, are varieties of the French wafers. aux amandes are almond wafers baked in thin pieces, coiled round and filled with whipped cream. Suedoises a la creme—a batter of flour, sugar, almonds, etc., baked in small balls, and served with whipped cream. Petits choux are Spanish cakes made of a batter of flour, butter, eggs, sugar, etc., baked in small balls. They are served aux amandes, or a la creme, covered with chopped almonds and sugar, or filled with cream; an caramel, they are dipped in boiled sugar and covered with chopped pistachio nuts and sugar. a VEspagnole are fried in the shape of small balls. These are sometimes called Sovpirs, or Peis, de nonnc. a la comtcsse are baked in finger-shaped pieces and filled with cream. If masked with choco- late or coffee icing, they are called Eclairs an chocolat or au cafe. cn gimblettes are deep rings of the paste covered with chopped pistachio nuts and sugar. au chevalier are made in the shape of horse- shoes, filled with cream and decorated with vanilla and coffee icing.1/0 ENTREMETS 1 T0 Petits pains de la Mecqiie, or Mecca loaves, are small oval cakes made of the same paste with the addition of whipped cream; sprinkled with chopped sugar. Flavoured with lemon, they are called Petits pains de la Mecque au citron. Profiteroles au chocolat are small oval cakes of milk, butter, sugar, eggs, etc.; served with chocolate sauce. Gateaux fourres aux confitures are jam turnovers or puffs. fourres a la creme are turnovers or puffs filled with frangipane. fourres de pommes a la Parisienne are turnovers filled with stewed apples and apricot mar- malade. d’Artois, or a la Manon, are covered puff paste tarts or tartlets filled with any kind of pre- serve. They may be called D’Artois aux abricots, etc., according to the jam with which they are filled. Au chocolat, they are filled with a chocolate custard. Mince pies are called Pates d’emince. Small balls of mincemeat, coated with crushed ratafias, and with chopped citron and cocoanut, are called Ballotines de Noel en surprise. Petits cannelons a la Chateaubriand are little strips of puff pastry spread with mincemeat and rolled. Cannelons a la creme are rolled strips of pastry filled with cream. Rolled pieces of crisp gingerbread, knowm as Brandy snaps, are often used for this dish.174 MENUS MADE EASY. Cannelons de Moka are made with coffee pastry. Tartlets are filled with any kind of preserve, and take their name from it—as Tartelettes de firaises, aux censes, aux 'prunes, etc.; a la vanille, they are filled with pounded almonds, vanilla sugar, whipped whites of eggs, etc. Tartelettes de creme a la Frangipane are filled with frangipane. a la Mosaique are filled with preserve, and covered with a mosaic of paste. a la Pompadour are filled with a ball of brioche paste folded over apricot or other marmalade, and sprinkled with sugar. a la Pnncesse are filled with preserve, meringued over, and covered with coffee icing. a la Mikado are filled with an almond custard with raisins or dried cherries. Dauphines are tartlets filled with preserve, with custard over it, and meringue mixture piled on the top. Fanchonettes are tartlets filled with custard, meringued over, and the tops ornamented wfith little miniature meringues. In Fancho- nettes d la vanille the custard is flavoured with vanilla. Mirlitons dux fieurs d’oranger are tartlets filled with a hatter of eggs, sugar, butter, pounded macaroons, candied orange flowers, etc. They are flavoured in various ways—aux amandes, with almonds instead of the orange flowers; or au chocolat, with chocolate* Aux confitures>175 ENTREMETS. they are half filled with jam before the batter is put in. Talmouses are cheese-cakes. au citron—lemon cheese-cakes. aux amancles—almond cheese-cakes. aux oranges are made of pounded almonds, orange-flower water, sugar, butter and eggs, with orange marmalade. aux confitures are cheese-cakes with jam. a la creme are cream tartlets—filled with custard. aux abricots a la creme are filled with preserved apricots and covered with cream. aux fruits are filled with any kind of preserved fruit. Of the fruit tarts there are :— Tarte aux abricots — apricots; aux prunes — plums ; aux reine-Claudes—greengages; de peclies —peaches; de pommes—apples; de pommes aux coings—apple with quince ; de poircs—pears ; de framboises et groseilles—raspberries and currants; de groseilles, vertes, or d maquercau—green goose- berries ; de groseilles—currants; de cassis—black currants; de raisins verts—green grapes; de cerises —cherries; de rhubarbe—rhubarb. Tourte d la creme d'amandes is an open tart filled with almond cream. d lafrangipane is an open tart filled with fran- gipane—a custard of flour, eggs, cream, butter, etc. d la Frangaise consists of alternate layers of light pastry and jam, covered with meringuei176 MENUS MADE EASY. Flan de poires, de cerises, de fraises, etc., are open fruit tarts. d'oranges is an open tart filled with stewed oranges. d’abricots d VAllemande—an open tart filled wfith apricots, and apricot marmalade over them. d'abricots a, la Metternich is filled wfith apricots and cherries, and the pounded kernels with cream on the top. de pommes d VEcossaise is filled with stewed apples, covered with orange marmalade. d'amandes d la d'Escars is filled with a custard of green almonds with candied orange flowers, yolks of eggs, cream, etc. This is also made with filberts. d la creme pralinee is filled with custard, and is sprinkled with sugar and glazed. Fleur de peclies, etc., is also an open tart, baked in a “ fleur ” ring; de groseilles a la creme is filled with stewed gooseberries with cream or custard. de pommes d la Suede is filled with a puree of apples with shreds of orange peel and burnt almonds, and is covered with meringue. d la Meringue is filled with layers of custard and jam, and covered with meringue. d VAllemande is filled with stewed fruit and custard. Little open tarts or tartlets are sometimes called Petits Jleurs, as Petits flairs aux fraises for straw- berry tartlets.ENTREMETS. 177 Pommes en croustade, or Croustade de pommes a VImperiale, is a baked shape of paste filled with apple marmalade and garnished with dried cherries, etc. Apple dumplings are called Dumplings aux pommes. A jam roll in suet crust, boiled or baked, is called Cannelon aux confitures. PUDDINGS. Plum pouding— Plum pudding. A Christmas pudding is called Pouding de Noel. Little round blocks of plum pudding, the centres cut out and filled with brandy butter, are called Puits d'amours a la Noel. Fouding au riz—rice pudding; au tapioca—tapioca; au sagou—sago; ct la semoidc—semolina; au macaroni — macaroni ; au vermiceUe — vermi- celli; d la creme de riz—ground rice. These puddings when steamed are often called Gateau instead of Pouding. A la Frangaise, they are served with a fruit sauce. au pain—bread-and-butter pudding. Another pudding “ au pain ” is made of breadcrumbs, milk, eggs, lemon peel, etc. au pain bis—brown-bread pudding. aux abricots—breadcrumbs, cream, sugar, yolks of eggs and apricots, baked in a mould lined with paste. aux groseillcs—a puree of gooseberries, with NMENUS MADE EASY. 178 breadcrumbs, eggs, etc.; baked in a mould lined with paste. Pouding aux marrons—a steamed pudding of pounded chestnuts with butter, milk, eggs, etc. It is served with apricot syrup or jam. aux pommes—a pudding of alternate layers of breadcrumbs and stewed apples. It can be baked or steamed. With the addition of powdered ginger and spice it is called Pond- ing de pommes au gingembre; with ginger syrup and pieces of preserved ginger, a Vlndienne; or with almonds and currants, d la Suisse. aux figues—a boiled mould of dried figs, suet, milk, eggs, breadcrumbs, etc. Aux dattcs is made in the same way with dates; aux raisins, with raisins. a Vananas—Pineapple pudding. Whip sauce, with the pineapple syrup, is served with it. au gingembre—Ginger pudding. au citron—Lemon pudding. aux oranges is made in the same way as lemon pudding, with oranges instead of lemons. aux sultancs—a light steamed pudding with sultana raisins. aux amandes—Almond pudding. aux noix de coco—Cocoanut pudding. a la creme—Custard pudding. d la vanille—a light steamed pudding flavoured with vanilla. au chocolat—a steamed mould of sponge cake in179 ENTREMETS. crumbs, butter, sugar, eggs, chocolate, etc. Made -with coffee instead of chocolate, it is called Pouding Mocha. Pouding au caramel—custard pudding in a mould with burnt sugar. It is usually served cold, with burnt sugar sauce, or with burnt brandy and sugar, as Creme au caramel. a la marmelacle—a steamed mould of flour, sugar, milk, eggs, marmalade, etc.; served with mar- malade sauce. souffle—a very light steamed pudding; it is served with wine or marmalade sauce, or with a syrup of fruit. Served with stewed fruit, it is aux fruits. dc cabinet, or a la Chanceliere—Cabinet pudding. This is also iced and served as Pouding glace a la Chanceliere. au biscuit de Savoie—a sponge cake with brandy, steamed in a mould with custard and dried cherries. Balceivell—a batter of eggs, butter and sugar, flavoured with lemon or pounded almonds, over apricot or other jam, baked in a dish lined with paste. a Varnbre is Amber pudding—a puree of apples or other fruit, with yolks of eggs, baked in a dish lined with paste, covered with meringue. au miel — a boiled pudding of damsons or cherries, with breadcrumbs, butter, eggs and honey. a la Crecy is carrot pudding—a boiled pudding ofMENUS MADE EASY. ISO chopped carrots, mashed potatoes, suet, flour, raisins and candied peel. Pouding a la Berkeley—a suet pudding flavoured with lemon, served with a rum custard. a la Baronne—a boiled pudding of suet, raisins, flour and milk. a la Portland—a rich boiled pudding of brown breadcrumbs, suet, chopped apples, ginger and dried fruits ; served with a brandy whip sauce. a la Snowdon—a boiled pudding of suet, bread- crumbs, brown sugar and marmalade. a la Cowley—a pudding of mashed potatoes, almonds, sugar, eggs, etc.; it is served covered with whip sauce. d la Mousseline—a steamed pudding of lemon, sugar, butter, eggs, etc.; served with a sweet or whip sauce. a la Victoria—a pudding of flour, breadcrumbs, dried cherries, candied peel, cream, eggs, brandy, etc.; served with whip sauce. Another pudding of the same name is a vanilla custard, served with a compote of fruit in syrup. d VAutrichienne—a rich raisin and marmalade pudding with brandy, boiled, and served with an orange brandy custard. a ritalienne—macaroni and marmalade pudding. d la Franchise—a breadcrumb puddiug, covered with jam, and then with a whip of whites of eggs and jam. d la Saxonne—a steamed brown breadcrumb pudding with almonds and dried fruits.ENTREMETS. 181 Pouding a VAllemande, or a la Viennoise—a steamed ' pudding of bread cut in dice, almonds, raisins, sugar, custard, wine, etc.; served with whip sauce. a la Jubile—a steamed breadcrumb and jam pudding, served with wine sauce. Made with raspberry or strawberry jam, it is sometimes called Savarin a la Nelson, au Paradis—a steamed breadcrumb and apple pudding with brandy. a la St. Martin—a boiled pudding of mincemeat . with rice and eggs; served with burnt brandy sauce. a la Genevoise—a baked apple and rice pudding. a Vlmperatnce—layers of rice and jam, with custard, baked in a dish lined with paste. a la Gitana—layers of bread and jam, with yolks of eggs and brandy, baked in a mould. a la Metropole—layers of sponge cake, jam and custard, baked in a dish lined with paste, and covered with meringue. dc neige—a breadcrumb and jam pudding, covered with whipped whites of eggs. a la Norvegienne—a mould of sago and fruit puree. d la Clarence—a sponge cake and custard pud- ding with brandy, steamed in a mould decorated with dried fruits or sweetmeats. d VEspagnole—a sponge cake and custard pudding steamed in a mould lined with French plums. d VIndienne—a sponge cake and custard pudding182 MENUS MADE EASY. with ginger and slices of preserved ginger; ginger and brandy sauce. Pouding a la Newcastle—a bread and custard pudding steamed in a mould lined with dried cherries. Made with cake instead of bread, and decorated with whipped cream coloured pink, and chopped pistachios and cocoanut, it may be called a la Louise, pana’che au cliocolat—a steamed pudding of layers of a chocolate cake and of a plain light cake, served with a fruit sauce. a la Venitienne—a cold custard and sponge cake pudding with layers of preserved fruits, set in a mould lined with jelly and decorated with fruit. Diplomate—a rich custard with dried fruits set in a mould lined with jelly. a VAlexandra—a steamed custard flavoured with vanilla. It may be served hot with a whip sauce, or cold with a macedoine of fruit. a la Reine Marguerite—a rich custard with raisins, citron and preserved ginger. a la Kaisir—a rich almond custard steamed in a mould decorated with citron, etc. a VAdolphe—a strawberry custard with chocolate cream and sponge cake in the centre, set in a mould lined with jelly and decorated with pistachios and cocoanut. Nesselrode, or a la Nesselrode—Ice pudding. Petits poudings a VAlexandra are little sponge cake and custard puddings decorated with chopped183 ENTREMETS. almonds, cherries and angelica; served in an apricot sauce with brandy. Petits poudings a la Florida are little light steamed puddings, garnished with dried cherries and served with a macedoine of fruit. Petits poudings de college are College puddings. Petits chateaux au vin are Castle puddings served with wine sauce. They may also be served cold, the centres cut out, filled with preserve and cream and decorated with little handles of angelica, as Pctites corheilles de fantaisie. Meringue d’oranges is a steamed orange and bread- crumb pudding covered with meringue. Croquettes de riz are rice croquettes; de creme de riz—ground rice ; de semoule—semolina; de vermicelle—vermicelli. Croustade de riz is a fancy mould of rice, the centre filled with a cornflour custard. Piiz meringue—rice, with milk, cream, sugar, whites of eggs, etc.; sprinkled with sugar and baked. a VImperatrice is a rice cream served with a compote of fruit. a la Parisienne is a rice cream set in a mould lined with jelly and decorated with angelica and dried cherries; served with a compote of fruit in the centre covered with whipped cream. Crepe a, VIndienne is a flat cake of rice, browned on the top, and decorated with preserved ginger and cherries, etc. Quenelles d la creme are small quenelles of a pasteMENUS MADE EASY 184 of flour, cream, eggs, etc. They are also made a la semoule with semolina. Soupe clore'e, or Pain perdu—small shapes of bread, soaked in milk, etc., dipped in beaten eggs and fried. FRITTERS. Beignets d'abricots d la Chartres are apricot fritters. d'abricots d Veau de vie—sandwiches of bread dipped in brandy and half apricots, fried in batter. de peclies a la royale—peach fritters. de peches au vin du Rhin—half peaches soaked in Rhine wine, etc., and fried; served in a syrup of the wine with the kernels. de brugnons—nectarine fritters. de pommes d la d’Orleans—apple fritters. ] de pommes d la Bavarie—apples soaked in brandy, etc., floured and fried. de poires—pear fritters. de/raises d la Dauphine—strawberry fritters. de groseilles a la Dauphine—currant fritters. d'ananas—pineapple fritters. d’oranges—orange fritters. de fleurs de sureau—fritters of sprigs of elder flowers. d la creme are custard fritters. aux confitures—small sandwiches of cake and jam, dipped in batter with wine, and fried. au riz—round or oval pieces of a paste of ground rice with milk, eggs, etc., breadcrumbed and fried.ENTREMETS. 185 Beignets cl la bonne femme—small fried balls of a paste of butter, sugar, eggs, etc. a la Chantilly are made of a batter of flour, eggs, cream cheese, wine, etc. de Cintra—thin round slices of cake soaked in cream, etc., floured and fried. a VAllemande—small round sandwiches of brioche paste and preserve, fried. a la Prussicnne are the same made of puff paste, with apple marmalade. a VEspagnole—small pieces of crumb of French roll soaked in cream, etc., and fried. a la Portugaise—balls of a paste of rice, milk, sugar, eggs, etc., with marmalade in the centre; breadcrumbed and fried. en surprise—apples with the stalks left on, soaked in brandy, etc., filled with apricot jam, dipped in batter and fried. a la Saint-Denys—cherries stuck on strips of angelica, dipped in batter and fried. Beignets souffles d la vanille are small fried balls of light “ choux ” paste flavoured with vanilla; aux fleurs cV or anger, they are flavoured with orange-flower water. aux confitures are served with preserve; a la creme—with cream; auchocolat—with chocolate sauce. Crepes are pancakes. aux confitures are spread with preserve and rolled. au riz are made of rice with sugar, cream, eggs, etc.MENUS MADE EASY. 186 Crepes a la Frangaise are folded over preserve. They are sometimes baked, and served in a pile, with layers of jam between them. a la Bengale are rice pancakes folded over pre- serve. COMPOTES, ETC., OF FRUIT. Abricots au viz are stewed apricots with rice. Served round a shape of rice cream, with apricot syrup, they are called a la Conde. Pears, peaches, apples, plums, etc., are dressed in the same way. a V Americaine—halves of stewed apricots on croutes of fried bread, glazed with sugar; served with custard. Compote d’abricots—apricots boiled in syrup. It is also made of green apricots. Compote d’abricots a la Breteuil—half apricots sprinkled with sugar and broiled; served with apricot and raspberry syrup. A la creme, it is served with cream or custard. Pain (Vabricots is a mould of apricot puree; it is served with cream in the centre. Meringue d’abricots—apricot marmalade with cus- tard over it, and meringue mixture on the top. Croutes aux abricots are fried slices of bread spread with preserved apricots, and served with a syrup of apricots. PSches en surprise are stewed peaches served in little cases, covered with cream. Chartreuse de peches is a mould ornamentally lined187 ENTREMETS. with pieces of peaches, and filled with peach marmalade. Compote cle peches—peaches boiled in syrup. They are also dressed in the same way as apricots. Compotes can be made of any fruit, hut soft ripe fruit requires no cooking, if boiling syrup is poured over it. Prunes au viz are stewed plums or prunes with rice. Gateau, or Pain, cle Mirabclles is a mould of Mira- belle plum marmalade. As Meringue cle prunes, plums are dressed in the same way as apricots. Pain cle prunes a la creme is a mould of stewed prunes, currant jelly, etc.; served with whipped cream in the centre. Pain cle prunes cle clamas is a mould of damson cheese or marmalade. Oroides aux reine-Claudes, brugnons, etc., are little patties of fried bread filled with compote of greengages, nectarines, or other fruit, and the syrup poured round. Pommes au beurre, or a la Parisienne, are apples filled with butter and sugar, and baked. Covered with apricot marmalade they are a la Portugcdsc. Filled with an almond paste they are a la Comtesse. au viz en timbale—a shell of paste filled with rice, and stewed apples in the centre; covered with apricot marmalade. au viz meringue are stewed, and served in a border of rice with custard over them, and the whole covered with meringue mixture.188 MENUS MADE EASY. Dressed in this way without the rice they are Pommes meringuees. Pommes a la Jiibile are stewed whole, filled with strawberry jam and covered with whipped cream. a la Frangipane—slices of apples with jam, covered with custard; baked in a dish lined with paste. a la Polonaise are dressed in an open tart, covered with orange marmalade and crushed macaroons. Miroton cle pommes—stewed apples with melted currant jelly and wine; garnished with dried cherries. Gateau, or Pain, de pommes a la creme is a mould of apple marmalade, served with a custard sauce ; aux abricots, it is covered with apricot marmalade; d la Basse, it has whipped cream in the centre, and melted currant jelly round. Croquettes de pommes are pieces of apple marmalade, breadcrumbed and fried. Meringue de pommes d la Portugaise—a round shell of paste filled with apple marmalade, with half apples on the top, and a well of custard in the centre; spread with orange marmalade, and covered with meringue mixture. Chartreuse de pommes is a mould ornamentally lined with slices of apples, coloured pink and yellow, and filled with apple marmalade. Charlotte de pommes is Apple Charlotte. If apricot jam is mixed with the apple marmalade it is called Charlotte de pommes aux abricots.ENTREMETS. 1SD Pears are dressed as Charlotte cle poires, and in many of the ways given for apples. Poires a VAllemande are stewed pears. a la Victoria are stewed, and served on a border of sponge cake custard coloured red. en surprise are halves of stewed pears imitating cutlets, with a strip of angelica for a bone, on a jelly border, with chopped fruit and cream in the centre like a vegetable mayonnaise. Timbale de poires is stewed pears in a shell of paste, covered with apricot marmalade. Compote de poires au viz is stewed pears served with a border of rice. Connote d la Normandc is a mould of pears stewed in cider. Slices of fried bread spread with this compote are called Croutes d la Normandc. They are dressed in a circle, with a syrup of the jam with wine in the centre. Croutes de poires d la Parisienne is a border of stewed pears on croutons, with a macedoine of fruit in the centre. Fraises a la Chantilly are strawberries with whipped cream. Croutes avx fraises d la Bellerive—strawberries spread on buttered buns. Chartreuse de fraises is a mould lined with straw- berries and filled with crushed strawberries and cream. This is also made with rasp- berries and other fruit. Gateau de fraises d la St. Georges—mashed straw0 berries with yolks and whipped whites of eggs,190 MENUS MADE EASY. baked in a mould lined with paste. It is covered with maraschino icing and decorated with strawberries and whipped cream. Meringue d la Mont-Ida—crushed raspberries covered with cream and then with meringue. Groseilles vertes a la Saint-IIonor'e are stewed green gooseberries in a shape of pastry, covered with cream, with a border of balls of choux paste. Cherries or any other fruit may be dressed in this way. Pain de mures sauvages a la Metropole is a mould of blackberries decorated with almonds and dried fruits. This is also made with black currants as Pain de cassis, or de cerises, with cherries. Salade aux oranges—slices of oranges with wine and raisins, garnished with angelica, etc. Mousse aux oranges is orange sponge—the juice whipped to a sponge with whites of eggs, etc. Charlotte aux oranges is an orange Charlotte. Bananes ciu rhum—stewed bananas served with a rum sauce. Pain d'ananas a la Royale is a mould of pineapple puree set in jelly and garnished with whipped cream. Compote a la Sarde is composed of green figs covered with milk which has been boiled to a custard, and baked. Marrons a la creme are powdered chestnuts covered with whipped cream. Gateau de marrons is a steamed mould of pounded chestnuts with cream, eggs, etc. Balls ofENTREMETS. 191 this preparation, breadcrnmbed and fried, are served as Croquettes dc marrons. Chestnuts are also served en compote—stewed in syrup. Chataignes croquantes are small crystallized pieces of pounded chestnuts with sugar, eggs, etc. Gateau cle figues is a mould of dried figs. Dates and prunes are dressed in the same way. Macedoine de fruits is composed of mixed fruits in syrup. Ait citron, it is flavoured with lemon. En gelee, it is set in a mould of jelty. Gateau de fruits is a mould of any kind of fruit; d la creme, it is served with cream or custard; a la Metropole, it is decorated with cherries or other dried fruits; a la lloycde, it is set in a mould lined with jelly, and is served with cream. Timbale cle fruits a la Parisienne is composed of mixed fruits in a mould of jelly flavoured with liqueur ; served with a fruit macedoine. Chartreuse de fruits is an ornamental mould of fruit. Croiites aux fruits are fried slices of bread spread with various preserved fruits, and served with a fruit syrup. Petits nougats d la creme are small shapes of nougat filled with cream; d la Chantilly, w7ith Chantilly cream. Croquantes are small pieces of nougat. CREAMS. Cr£me cm chocolat is chocolate cream. These192 MENUS MADE EASY. creams, served in little cups, are called Petits pots de creme cm chocolat, etc. Creme an cafe is coffee cream. dc the is tea cream. de the vert is green tea cream. a la vanille is vanilla cream. au ponche, an noyau, an marasquin,• are respec- tively flavoured with punch, noyau and mara- chinos. aux abricots is apricot cream. de/raises is strawberry cream. de framboiscs is raspberry cream. a Vananas is pineapple cream. aux millc fruits is made with preserved straw- berries, raspberries, apricots, plums and other fruits. cl'oranges is orange cream. cVamandes is almond cream. It is sometimes called Creme a la Ptomaine, de marrons is chestnut cream. aux flairs d'oranger is made of fresh orange flowers boiled in cream. de gingembre is made with ginger, and pieces of preserved ginger. dc riz, de tapioca, a Vorge, are rice, tapioca and barley creams. de pain bis is brown-bread cream. de groseilles vertes is gooseberry fool. Rhubarb, strawberries and raspberries are dressed in this way; a la Suisse, they are served with sponge cakes.ENTREMETS. 193 Creme de velours is made of cream, sugar, wine, etc. a la gelee—a mould of whipped jelly and cream. vicrge—small moulds of cream with pounded almonds, etc. a la Chantilly is made of whites of eggs and cream, with sugar, etc. a la Celestine—a mould lined with strawberries and filled with any kind of cream. a Vltalienne is made with cream, sugar, eggs, Curasao, dried cherries, candied peel, etc. a la Flamande is made of cream, eggs, sugar, arrowroot, madeira, etc. a la Hollandaise is made of yolks of eggs and wine, with whipped cream, etc. a la Bavaroise—a mould of whipped cream, with flavouring, etc. Served with stewed fruit or a syrup of fruit, it is called Bavarois aux fruits, d la Suisse is vanilla cream over sponge cakes. d l’Antoinette—a custard with preserved ginger and cherries, set in a mould lined in divisions with chopped pistachios and white cream, and grated cocoanut and chocolate cream; served with a macedoine of fruit. d la Venus—a mould of custard flavoured with rum, decorated with preserved ginger; served with a ginger custard. d la Marguerite is a chocolate custard covered with meringue; served with a sweet sauce. It is usually dressed in little moulds as Petites cremes. oMENUS MADE EASY. 194 Bavaroise aux pommes is a custard made of a puree of apples, -with eggs and cream. aux poires is made in the same way with pears. aux pistaches — pounded pistachio nuts and almonds, etc., with custard, coloured green; sprinkled with chopped pistachio nuts. au cafe is coffee custard. a la Mont-Ida is a raspberry custard. glacee is iced Bavarian cream. a la Ceylon is a chocolate custard set in a mould lined with a mottled pink and white cream, flavoured with lemon and liqueur. Blancmanger aumarasqumis blancmange flavoured with maraschino : a la vanillc, it is flavoured with vanilla; aux amandes, with pounded almonds. Set in a mould lined with jelly, and decorated with dried fruits, it is Bavaroise a la Princesse. Creme fouettee de f raises, or Mousse aux f raises, is whipped strawberries and cream. aux framboises—whipped raspberries and cream. Creme frite au chocolat, etc., is chocolate or other cream, cut in pieces, bread crumbed and fried. Meringues a la creme are meringues filled with whipped cream. aux f raises are filled with whipped strawberries and cream. a la Chantilly are filled with Chantilly cream; au chocolat, with chocolate cream. aux amandes are almond meringues—made withENTREMETS. 195 chopped or shred almonds; a la noix de coco— cocoanut meringues. Meringues aux champignons are made in the shape of mushrooms, the brown insides imitated with chocolate. Pctites meringues aux pistaches are small meringues sprinkled with chopped pistachio nuts, and filled with whipped cream. Meringue a la Parisienne—a pile of rings of meringue preparation, piped with currant jelly in stripes, the centre filled with cream and garnished with strawberries. Corbeille a la Chantilly is a shape of macaroons filled with whipped cream and preserved fruits. Charlotte Russe is a mould lined with finger biscuits, and filled with vanilla or other cream. Au, cafe, it is filled with coffee cream; aux groseilles vertes, with green gooseberry cream. a la Princesse is filled with vanilla cream with dried fruits, and is decorated with pink and white icing, etc. a VAlexandra is filled with a chocolate'custard and served with apricot sauce. Prussienne is a mould with half an inch of red jelly at the bottom, lined with finger biscuits, and the centre filled with Bavarian cream. auxfraises, etc.—a mould lined with strawberries or other fruit, and filled with maraschino cream. Bagatelle aux fraises is a strawberry trifle. Biscuits d la creme—a rich frothy cream, baked in small paper cases.MENUS MADE EASY. 106 Glace meringuce cm four is a mould of any kind of cream ice, covered with a meringue pre- paration, and browned. cle Plombieres is an ice of pounded almonds, sugar, cream, eggs, etc. This ice is not put in a mould, and is served with apricot jam. I Parfait ciu chocolat or au cafe is a tall conical mould of chocolate or coffee cream ice. Glaces au four are small pieces of ice, folded in paste and baked. Gateau glace a VEloise—a mould lined with whipped cream, and filled with custard and stewed cherries ; iced, and served with custard over it. Cartouches de M. cle Cupidon—Love’s cartridges— vanilla cream ice in the shape of cartridges, filled with chocolate. Bombe glacee—n cream of yolks of eggs with syrup etc., iced in a round “ bombe ” mould. Melon glace—a pistachio cream ice with an orange ice in the centre, iced in a melon-shaped mould. It is often called en surprise. JELLIES. Gel4e de pommcs—Apple jelly. A la creme, it is served with whipped cream. de prunes—Plum jelly. cVoranges—Orange jelly. de citron—Lemon jelly. de cassis—Black currant jelly. de cerises—Cherry jelly.ENTREMETS. 197 Gelee de framboises—Raspberry jelly. cle/raises is jelly coloured red, with whole straw- berries in it. If the jelly is flavoured with vanilla, it is called Gelee de /raises d la vanille. de mures—Mulberry jelly. de mures sauvages d la creme—a mould of black- berry jelly with whipped cream in the centre. a Vananas is a pineapple jelly, with pieces of pineapple in it. de nefles—Medlar jelly. de coings—Quince jelly. an jus de grenades—Pomegranate jelly. d la macedoine de /ruits—layers of mixed fruits in a jelly flavoured with maraschino or other liqueur. au madere—Wine jelly. au rlmm is flavoured with rum. d la Chartreuse is flavoured with Chartreuse. au curacao, au noyau and au marasquin are flavoured with curacao, noyau and maraschino. au ponclie is flavoured with punch; au Kirsch, with Kirschenwasser. de Dantzic aux /raises is flavoured with cherry brandy, and has whole strawberries in it. de marasquin aux abricots is flavoured with maraschino, and has pieces of apricots in it. de noyau aux/ruits is flavoured with noyau, and has pieces of apricots and strawberries, or other fruits, in it. aux violettes printanieres is made of an infusionMENUS MADE EASY. 198 of fresli violets in syrup. Jellies of fresh flowers are also made of roses, pinks, jonquils, etc. Gelee a la Bacchante is made with the juice of green grapes and champagne; coloured green. a la Duchesse is flavoured with liqueur, and decorated with shreds of pistachios and cocoa- nut, etc. a la Panachee—a mould of alternate layers of white and pink jelly. a la Russe—a mould of jelly whisked to a froth. mousseuse a Veau de vie—a mould of jelly whipped with brandy. mousseuse aux oranges—a mould of orange jelly whisked to a froth. fouettee aux fruits—whipped maraschino jelly, with pieces of apricots, cherries, strawberries, etc. Petites gele'es a la Napolitaine are creams of various colours set in little moulds of jelly. Kiselle is a jelly made of fruit syrup with flour. SOUFFLES. These maybe served in a souffle dish, or in small paper cases as Petits souffles. Souffle au cafe is flavoured with coffee. au chocolat is flavoured with chocolate. au cafe vierge is flavoured wTith green coffee. au citron is flavoured with lemon. a la vanille is flavoured with vanilla. au marasquin is flavoured with maraschino.ENTREMETS. 190 Souffle aux amandes is flavoured with pounded almonds. aux macarons is flavoured with macaroons. aux fleurs d'oranger is flavoured with candied orange flowers, or orange flower water. au gingembre is flavoured with preserved ginger. aux abricots is made with the addition of stewed apricots. Souffles are also made with other fruit. Little fruit souffids are sometimes called Petits zephyrs aux fruits. a la creme is made with whipped cream instead of some of the whites of eggs. Baked in small paper cases, it is called Biscuits souffles a la creme, au riz is a rice souffle flavoured with lemon or vanilla. a la creme de riz is made with ground rice; au tapioca, with tapioca. aupain bis is made with brown breadcrumbs. aux confitures is made with preserve. d la Paysanne—a puree of apples, with a puree of chestnuts with cream over it, and meringue mixture on the top. d VEspagnole—layers of sponge cake and preserve, soaked with wine and covered with meringue. glace au marasquin is an iced souffle flavoured with maraschino. Coffee or other flavouring may be substituted for maraschino, and the souffle named accordingly. Iced in a mould, instead of a souffle dish, it is called Mousse glacee, or in little cases, Biscuits glaces, au marasquin, etc.MENUS MADE EASY. 200 Souffle glace aux/raises is an iced strawberry souffle. glace vanille et chocolat—an iced vanilla souffle, with chocolate on the top. glace au curaqao—an iced souffle flavoured with Curasao and covered with a meringue pre- paration. Iced in small paper cases, this is called Biscuit mousseux glace en caisse. glace a la Victoria is a rich iced souffle flavoured with liqueur and coloured green, with a mace- doine of fruit in the centre.( 201 ) CHAPTER X. SAVOURY ENTREMETS. Souffle au Parmesan is a cheese souffle. As Petits souffles, it is served in small paper cases. Little steamed souffles are sometimes called Petits zephyrs defromage. Fondue an, Parmesan is a cheese fondu, baked in a souffle dish or paper case, or steamed. a la Napolitaine has the addition of short pieces of macaroni; au Stilton, of small dice of Stilton cheese. They may be served in little cases as Petites fondues. Ramequins are made of milk, flour, eggs, grated Parmesan, etc., baked in paper cases. a la Raymond are made with Gruyere cheese, and are baked in small lumps. a la Sefton, or au feuilletage, are small shapes of puff paste with grated Gruyere and Parmesan cheese. a la Genevoise—grated cheese with cream, baked on slices of bread. Salade au fromage is composed of beetroot andMENUS MADE EASY. 202 celery with a cheese Mayonnaise sauce, gar- nished with small salad and hard-boiled egg. Kluskis au fro mage a la creme are little poached rolls of a paste of cream cheese, butter, eggs, bread- crumbs, etc.; served with black-butter sauce. Quenelles cle Parmesan are cheese quenelles, served with a cheese sauce. Fritot, or Bcignets, cle frontage are cheese fritters. Crepes cle frontage are very small cheese pancakes. Ronds an Parmesan are fried rings of a cheese batter. Aigrettes au Parmesan are made of a light cheese paste, fried in spoonfuls. Canapes au frontage—dissolved Parmesan on round slices of fried bread. Croutes au frontage—grated cheese with butter, breadcrumbs, yolks of eggs, etc., spread on pieces of toast and browned. Brioches au frontage are small cakes of brioche paste with grated Parmesan and dice of Gruyere. Petits choux au frontage are fried balls of “ choux ” paste with cheese. Eclairs au Parmesan are made of the same paste baked in finger shaped pieces, and are filled with savoury cream. They are sometimes called Eclairs a la Palmerston. Pilled with anchovy cream, they are Eclairs aux ancltois. Creme cle frontage is a cheese cream or custard. It is usually served as Petites cremes. Petites mousses de frontage are a rich frothy cheeseSAVOURY ENTREMETS. 203 cream set in little moulds or served in cases. They are sometimes iced. Petits pains de fromage are little cakes of flour, butter and grated cheese. Petits pates, or Bouchees, de fromage are very small patties of puff pastry with cheese, filled with small dice of cheese in cheese sauce. These are often called Croastades a la Milanaise. a la Napolitaine, little bits of macaroni are substituted for the dice of cheese. Petites caisses de fromage—toasted cheese served in little cases. Petits fleurs de fromage are cheese tartlets. Tartelettes, or Talmouses, d la Sefton are tartlets of a paste of grated Parmesan, flour, butter, etc., filled with a cheese custard. Pailles au Parmesan are cheese straws. d la Sefton are cheese straws of puff paste with grated Parmesan. Diablotins au Gruyere are little fried balls, the size of chocolate drops, of a light paste with grated cheese. Ballettes de f romage are small balls of cheese paste, breadcrumbed and fried. Cannelons de fromage are little rolled wafers of cheese pastry. They may be filled with whipped cream. Pyramides au Parmesan are made of whipped cream with grated cheese piled on little cheese biscuits. Covered with a savoury meringue they are called Meringues de fromage.MENUS MADE EASY. 201 Biscuits aufromage are cheese biscuits. a la Diable are biscuits spread with cheese, mustard, cayenne, etc., and grilled. a la Ilusse—biscuits spread with chopped parsley, hard-boiled egg and anchovies, and ornamented with the separate ingredients. Talmouscs a la Saint-Dcnys are biscuits of flour, cream curds, cheese, butter and eggs. Timbale a la Diable is a mould of layers of rice with grated Parmesan, etc., with alternately slices of ham and of Gruyere cheese between the layers of rice. Baked and served with gravy. Olives farcies are stuffed olives. They are served on croutes. au Parmesan are served on cheese croutes or biscuits. en aspic are set in a mould of aspic, garnished with hard-boiled egg, etc. a la Saint-Augustine are stuffed with foie gras and set in little moulds of aspic. Croutes aux olives—served on little croutes, garnished with egg, anchovies or capers. an jambon are ham toasts ; a Vecarlatc—tongue toasts. aux anchois are spread with anchovy butter or paste. They are sometimes garnished with chopped parsley and liard-hoiled egg, or with fillets of anchovy. A la Frangaise, they have a stuffed olive in the centre. Canapes aux anchois are round slices of fried bread with chopped anchovies, capers, yolk andSAVOURY ENTREMETS. 205 xT white of egg arranged on them separately in quarters. An.ch.ois farcis—anchovies boned, stuffed, dipped in hatter and fried. a la Colmar—fillets of anchovies on croutes of fried bread, garnished with anchovy cream and yolk and white of egg. a la St. Augustine—anchovy creams set in little moulds of aspic. Allumettes d'anchois are strips of anchovies wrapped in paste and fried. Petites gelees aux anchois are fillets of anchovies with hard-boiled egg, chopped parsley and capers, set in little moulds of aspic. Talmouses aux ancliois are tartlets made of anchovy pastry, filled with cheese or anchovy cream. Petits nids aux anchois are egg shapes of anchovy cream served in little nests of pastry, garnished with sprigs of parsley, etc. Many of the savouries of cheese that have been enumerated are also made with anchovy—souffles, creams, pancakes, fritters, straws, etc. Sardines au Parmesan are sardines on buttered strips of toast spread with grated Parmesan. "Without the Parmesan, they are called sur croutes. en papillotes are boned, stuffed, and served in papers. farcies are stuffed; au Diable, devilled. a la Suisse are fried in batter. They are some- times called enfritot.MENUS MADE EASY. 206 Crevettes en surprise are shrimps served in little rolled slices of brown bread and butter, gar- nished with small salad. en mascarade are served on croutes with Mayonnaise sauce, covered with aspic whipped to a froth. Mousses aux crevettes are rich frothy creams made with pounded shrimps. They are usually served in little cases. Ilissolettes d la Normande are very small rissoles of shrimps. Huitres d la Saint-Patrice are oysters served raw on croutes spread with bloater roe. an caviar are served on thin slices of lemon spread with caviar, on croutes of fried bread. Anges a Cheval are oysters wrapped in little slices of bacon, broiled and served on toast. Harengs d la Duchesse—creams of pounded herring set in little moulds of aspic. Fritot aux liarengs—little fillets of herring fried in batter. These fritters are also made with dried haddock—merluche fumee. Fritot d la Busse—fritters made of a cream of any dried fish, fried in batter. Fnantines a la Madras are little fritters made of curried fish. Cassolettes aux Indes are small patties of rice filled with dried haddock devilled. Pailles d la Yarmouth are straws of pastry made with bloater paste. Paupiettes d la Yarmouth are fillets of bloaters, stuffed, rolled, and served on toast.207 SAVOURY ENTREMETS. Laitances a la Diable is devilled roe. It is served on toast. a la Madras—small pieces of roe, wrapped in little slices of bacon with capers and chutney, and served on toast. Chickens’ livers are dressed in this way as Foies de volatile a la Diable. Tomates en mascarade are little moulds of rice, the centres filled with a puree of tomatoes; served with a cheese sauce. Failles a VAmericaine are straws of pastry made with tomato sauce. Pompadours a la Portugaise are little rolls of cheese pastry filled with tomato cream. Marrons en mascarade are braised chestnuts, coated with a savoury forcemeat, and then half with grated ham and half with grated cheese; served in paper cases, a red and white one in each ease. Croquettes d la Mancelle are little croquettes made of chestnuts with white sauce, grated cheese, etc. Eoasted chestnuts may also be devilled and served in little cases as Marrons d la Diable. Wal- nuts, almonds or raisins may be served in this way. Pommes en kari are curried apples. Petits souffids piquants are little savoury souffles with chopped herbs. Highly seasoned with cayenne pepper, etc., they are called Petits souffles d la Diable. d la Yarmouth are bloater souffles. Petites geldes aux fines lierbes are little moulds of aspic with chopped mushrooms and herbs.MENUS MADE EASY. 208 Petites caisses a VAlgerienne are French plums stuffed with foie gras, or other rich forcemeat, served in little cases. a la Tunis are dates dressed in the same way. a la Florence—little cases filled with a puree of dried haddock covered with a savoury meringue. a la Westphalie are filled with a puree of ham, and garnished with slices of red and white radishes, and chopped parsley. Croutes a la Campagne—croutes garnished with anchovy puree in a rose design, sprinkled with chopped parsley. a la Frangaise are garnished with anchovy, cheese and parsley butter, with caviar in the centre. a la Russe are spread with a cream of horse- radish. a VIndienne are spread with a highly seasoned mixture of buttered eggs with chopped capers, anchovy, etc. d Vltalicnnc have slices of beetroot on them and rings of white and yolk of hard-boiled egg, an olive in the centre with an anchovy curled round it. d VEcossaise—Scotch woodcock on toast. d la Jubile have a puree of dried haddock piled on them, with an oyster in the centre covered with the puree. d la Marjorie are spread with a puree of dried haddock and garnished with hard-boiled egg.SAVOURY ENTREMETS. 209 Croutes a VAlbert are spread witli a mixture of buttered eggs 'with cheese, and sprinkled with chopped tongue. a la Rosamonde are rolled fillets of anchovies on slices of tomato, garnished with hard-boiled yolk of egg. a la Burlington are spread with minced chicken in Tartare sauce, covered with a slice of tomato, and garnished with cream of chicken and a stuffed olive in the centre. a la Berne are spread with chopped olives, shallots and parsley, covered with chopped tongue, and have a hard-boiled yolk of egg seasoned with oil and vinegar on each. They are served hot. a la Marie are spread with foie gras, garnished with dried cherries stuffed wuth foie gras, and decorated with whipped cream. a la Clarisse are spread with shreds of ham and anchovy, covered with little slices of bacon, and are dipped in batter and fried. a la Normande are spread with a shrimp paste. a la Yarmouth are spread with bloater paste. In addition to these, croutes may be served aux harengs, with fillets of herring; de homard a la Tartare, with chopped lobster and Tartare sauce; a la moelle, with marrow; aux cham- pignons, or aux epinards, with a puree of mush- rooms or spinach; and may be garnished with yolk and white of egg, chopped celery, beetroot, parsley, etc. Cheese biscuits are often used for croutes instead of fried bread. i>MENUS MADE EASY, 210 Canapes d’oeufs are biscuits or tartlets of clieese or anchovy pastry spread with buttered eggs. With curried eggs, they are d la Madras. a Madame—tartlets of anchovy pastry filled with chopped potato in Mayonnaise sauce, garnished with fillets of anchovies, and aspic. a la Prince de Galles—very small rolls filled with chopped ham, anchovies, gherkins and truffles, with oil, vinegar, etc. The tops covered with aspic or Mayonnaise sauce. Croustades d la Versailles are little souffles of anchovy on croustades of anchovy pastry. a la Mancelle—croustades of anchovy pastry filled with a savoury puree of chestnuts. Cremes aux fines herbes are little moulds of savoury custard with chopped herbs. de Galles is Welsh rare-bit. It is sometimes called Bonne-bouche ct la Galloise. With the addition of chopped gherkin it is d VIrlandaise. d VEgypticnnc—savoury creams of three different sorts and colours, served in small Neapolitan ice cases, imitating Neapolitan ices. d la Beatrice are little creams of cheese, bread- crumbed and fried. d la Richelieu—little anchovy creams, bread- crumbed and fried; served with a cheese sauce. Tartines de caviar—Russian caviar spread on small slices of buttered toast.211 SAVOURY ENTREMETS. Tartines or Sandwiches d la Jardiniere—little sandwiches of bread and butter with small salad and Mayonnaise sauce. a la Mancelle are made with a puree of chest- nuts. d VImpenale are made of brown bread and butter with a cream of bloater, and chopped celeiy and tarragon. d la Greville are made with brown bread, and pounded meat with capers and anchovies, and each one is masked half with brown and half with white sauce. a la Pompadour are made of brown bread with potted game or chicken, and are masked with several different coloured sauces — white, brown, and coloured with tomato and spinach. a la Princesse are made in the same way, but are masked with Mayonnaise sauce and decorated with macedoine vegetables. A variety of sandwiches may also be made with cheese, anchovy, shrimps, eggs, cucumber, etc. Macaroni au gratin—macaroni with grated cheese and white sauce, sprinkled with bread- crumbs, Parmesan and melted butter, and baked. d Vltalienne—macaroni with grated Parmesan, gravy and melted butter. d la Napolitaine, or d la creme—with grated Parmesan, butter, cream, etc. d la Milanaisc—with a puree of tomatoes and grated cheese; garnished with crofttons.MENUS MADE EASY. 212 Macaroni a la sauce tomates is dressed with cream, grated cheese, etc., and covered with tomato sauce. en timbale—a mould of macaroni dressed with butter and grated cheese. Timbale de macaroni a la Florentine is dressed with cream and anchovy sauce. Croquettes d la Milanaise are croquettes of macaroni with grated Parmesan, Bechamel sauce, etc.; breadcrumbed and fried. Macaroni thus dressed may be served in little cases as Fetites caisses a la Milanaise. It can also be made into small rissoles or rissolettes. Sparglietti a la Russe is Sparghetti macaroni dressed with chopped tomatoes and cheese sauce; garnished with shrimps or prawns. Vermicelle ait Parmesan—vermicelli dressed with cheese, white sauce, etc. d la Venise—a savoury cream of vermicelli with chopped ham ; served with gravy. Riz a VIndienne is curried rice. d la Diable is devilled rice. d la Turque is rice with melted butter. d la Milanaise—a mould of rice boiled in broth, with grated Parmesan, etc. d VEspagnole is served with tomato sauce, grated cheese, etc.; garnished with slices of ham. d la Florentine—curried rice with grated Par- mesan and shrimps or prawns. d la Piemontaise—dry rice with potato pulp,SAVOURY ENTREMETS. 213 grated Parmesan, etc.; garnished with fillets of anchovies. Biz a la Polonaise—served with slices of fried onion, grated ham and cheese. a la Mustapha—with melted butter and chopped truffles. a la Victoria—cooked with broth, etc., and served with poached eggs and rolls of fried bacon. Ballotines de riz d VIndienne are little balls of curried rice, breadcrumbed and fried. Dipped in batter and fried, they are called Fritot de riz d VIndienne. Eice is also dressed an Parmesan—with white sauce and grated cheese, and in any of the ways given for macaroni. The preparations of macaroni and rice are specially suitable for second course dishes at luncheon. If required for a savoury, they may be dressed in little cases.214 MENUS MADE EASY. CHAPTER XI. ICES, OR GRACES, AND SORBETS. At large dinners it is usually the custom to give the names of the ices—cream and water—on the menu; but they are often omitted from it, as they are served after the dessert has been put on the table, and therefore cannot be said to form part of the dinner. Creme de the—Tea cream ice. de the vert—Green tea cream ice. de vanille—Vanilla cream ice. de ratafias—Ratafia cream ice. de pain bis—Brown bread cream ice. aux fieurs d’or anger—Cream ice with infusion of orange flowers. Bavaroise—Bavarian cream ice. an caramel—Cream ice with caramel, flavoured with vanilla. a la Bisque—Cream ice with powdered macaroons, flavoured with madeira or sherry. a la Chateaubriand—Vanilla cream ice with whipped cream and strips of preserved fruits.ICES, OR GLACES, AND SORBETS. 215 Creme a la Japonaisc—Brown bread cream ice with almonds, flavoured with vanilla and maras- chino. The following can be cream or water ices— Creme, or eau, cle cafe—Coffee cream or water ice. de chocolat—Chocolate cream or water ice. de noyau—Noyau cream or water ice. cVabricots—Apricot cream or water ice. de peches—Peach cream or water ice. clefraises—Strawberry cream or water ice. de framboises—Raspberry cream or water ice. de framboises et groseilles—Raspberry and currant cream or water ice. de groseilles—Currant cream or water ice. de cassis—Black currant cream or water ice. de cerises—Cherry cream or water ice. de groseilles vertes—Green gooseberry cream or water ice. de raisins—Grape cream or water ice. cl'ananas—Pineapple cream or -water ice. de bananes—Banana cream or water ice. de rhubarbe—Rhubarb cream or water ice. de canneberges—Cranberry cream or water ice. de citron—Lemon cream or water ice. d’oranges—Orange cream or wrater ice. tVamandes—Almond cream or water ice. de pistaches—Pistachio nut cream or water ice. cle tutti-frutti—Maraschino cream or water ice, with pistachios, and dried fruit cut in small pieces. cle marrons—Chestnut cream or water ice.MENUS MADE EASY 216 Creme, or eau, de gingembre—Ginger cream or ■water ice. Panacliee—Ices of two or more different colours and flavourings. In addition to these there are—• Eau de ponclie—Punch water ice. de melon—Melon water ice. de grenade—Pomegranate water ice. d'epine-vinette—Berberry water ice. de mille fruits—Mixed fruit water ice. de candle—Cinnamon water ice. Glaces Napolitaines—Neapolitan ices, served in paper cases. Fruits varies—ices made in the form and colour of a variety of fruits, one of which is served to each person. If orange ice is made of Chinese oranges it is called de Chinois; if of Tangerine oranges, de Tangerines. Muscat grape ice is called de Muscat. For water ices fresh fruit is necessary, as preserved fruit can only be used for cream ices. Sorbets are half frozen water ices with wine or liqueur. They are served in glasses either before or after the remove at a large dinner. Ponche a la Romaine is Roman punch—a lemon water ice with whipped whites of eggs and rum. a la Regence is made with the addition of cham- pagne and Martinique or Arrack. a la Norfolk is made of Seville oranges with brandy or rum, etc.ICES, OR GLACES, AND SORBETS. 217 Ponche a la Cardinal is made of Seville oranges with champagne, and is coloured red. a la Russe is made of lemons, with green tea and Kiimmel. Granito Romaine is made with coffee. Sorbet d la Saint-Charles is a cherry water ice flavoured with cherry brandy. d la Provengale is a lemon water ice with whipped whites of eggs and shreds of candied fruit and almonds, flavoured with ginger and vanilla. d la Grecque is an orange ice with maraschino and ginger brandy, and small pieces of ginger and preserved fruits. d VAmericaine is an orange and lemon ice with champagne. d la Victoria is flavoured with liqueur, and is coloured pink. d la Cannes is made of tomatoes, apples, and apricot jam, with preserved ginger, rum and noyau. Besides these there are the Sorbets au champagne, au Kirsch, etc., and those made of fruit—aux/raises, d Vorange, d Vananas, aux peclies, etc. For Sorbet d VImperiale, the lower half of the glasses contains pineapple ice with rum, the upper half strawberry ice with champagne.218 MENUS MADE EASY. CHAPTER XII. SAUCES AND GARNISHES. SAUCES. The following are the principal sauces ancl garnishes which are used in cookery. Many of them have been mentioned in the course of these pages, and as the names frequently convey no idea of their ingredients, a slight description of them is given. The two chief sauces are Veloute—white, and Espagnole—brown. Many other sauces are made from these. Allemande is a thicker form of veloute sauce. Anchois (Anchovy)—melted-butter sauce with anchovy, etc. Aubois—a sweet sauce of syrup and yolks of eggs with whipped cream. Aurore—Allemande and tomato sauce, with Chili vinegar, etc. Bearnaise—yolks of eggs, butter, French vinegar, chopped parsley, etc. Bechamel—Veloute sauce with cream. For a maigre sauce it is made without stock. Beurre—melted-butter sauce.SAUCES AND GARNISHES. 219 Beurre noir—black-butter sauce of browned butter and vinegar. This sauce is usually served with skate or grilled mackerel. Bigarade is made of oranges with brown sauce. Blonde—melted-butter sauce made with stock instead of water. Bordelaise—brown sauce with wine, chopped parsley, etc. Bourgeoise—stock with French mustard, tarragon, etc. Bourguignotte—brown sauce with wine, onions, mushrooms and truffles. Bretonne—brown sauce with onions, etc. Capres (Caper)—brown or white sauce, with capers. Caramel—burnt sugar. It is sometimes made of burnt brandy and sugar. Cardinal—white sauce coloured with lobster or crayfish butter. Cazanova—Mayonnaise sauce with yolks of hard- boiled eggs, shred whites of eggs and truffles. Champignons (Mushroom)—brown or white sauce with puree of mushrooms. Chateaubriand—brown sauce with Maitre d’hotel sauce. Chevreuil—Poivrade sauce with wine, Harvey, red currant jelly, etc. Corniehons (Gherkin)—brown sauce with vinegar, and pickled gherkins cut in slices. Court-bouillon—wine, or vinegar and water, butter, vegetables, etc. This sauce is only used in cooking.220 MENUS MADE EASY. Creme—melted-butter sauce with yolks of eggs and cream. Crevettes (Slirimp)—Cardinal sauce with anchovy and shrimps. Czarina—brown sauce with sultana raisins, gher- kins, etc. Diable (Devil sauce)—brown gravy with Oude and Harvey sauce, vinegar, etc. Diplomate—Bechamel sauce with crayfish or lobster butter. Duchesse—white sauce with chopped mushrooms and tongue. D’Uxelles—white sauce with chopped ham, mush- rooms, parsley, etc. Estragon (Tarragon)—white stock with Tarragon vinegar, tarragon, etc. Fenouil (Fennel) — melted - butter sauce with chopped fennel. Financiere—brown sauce with wine, mushroom catsup, etc. Fines-herbes—brown sauce with chopped mush- rooms, shallots and parsley. Fouettee—sweet whip sauce of yolks of eggs, sugar and wine. Fumet de gibier—a brown game sauce with onions, wine, etc. Genevoise—brown sauce with wine, anchovy, chopped parsley, etc. This sauce is geneially used for freshwater fish. Groseilles vertes—green gooseberries with butter, breadcrumbs, etc. For mackerel.221 SAUCES AND GARNISHES-. Hollandaise—yolks of eggs and butter with vinegar, etc. Homard (Lobster) — melted-butter sauce, with lobster spawn and the flesh in small pieces. Hubert—a game sauce with wine and chopped truffles. Huitres (Oyster)—oysters in white or brown sauce. Indienne—tomato sauce with curry paste, anchovy, etc. White Indian sauce is made of Bechamel sauce with curry powder. Irlandaise—green Mayonnaise sauce with whipped cream and Tarragon vinegar, and vegetables cut in shreds. Italienne — brown or white sauce with wine, chopped shallots, mushrooms, etc. Jambon (Ham)—brown sauce with shred ham, butter, chopped shallots, etc. Jolie fille (Fair maid’s)—white chicken sauce with hard-boiled yolks of eggs, breadcrumbs, etc. Kari—Curry sauce. Lyonnaise—Tomato sauce with Portugal onions, etc. Maitre d’hotel—Bechamel sauce with chopped parsley, etc. It is also made without stock. Maltaise—white sauce with wine, chopped mush- rooms and herbs, and shreds of orange peel. Marinade—vinegar and water with onions, carrots, etc. Marrons (Chestnut)—chestnut flour with brown stock. White chestnut sauce is made of the flour with broth and milk.222 MENUS MADE EASY. Matelote—brown stock with wine, young onions, mushrooms, etc. White Matelote sauce is a white sauce with oysters, mushrooms and herbs. Mayonnaise—a cold sauce of yolks of eggs, oil and vinegar. Milanaise—grated Parmesan with cream sauce, or with brown sauce and mustard. Mirabeau—brown sauce and Tarragon vinegar, with butter and chopped herbs. Mirepoix—broth and wine with bacon, chopped vegetables, etc. Moules (Mussel)—a white sauce with anchovy and mussels. Mousquetaire—oil and Tarragon vinegar, with mustard, shallot, etc. Mousseline—Mayonnaise sauce, whipped aspic and cream. Served with fish. It is also a sweet sauce of whipped eggs and liqueur. Moutarde (Mustard)—melted-butter sauce with mustard, Chili vinegar, &c. For herrings. Napier—a white fish sauce with mussels. Naples—a white Soubise sauce with cheese and chopped truffles. Napolitaine—brown sauce with Port wine, Harvey sauce, ham, horseradish, currant jelly, etc. CEufs (Egg)—melted-butter sauce with hard-boiled eggs cut in pieces. Served with haddock and salt cod. Orange—brown sauce with orange juice and shreds of orange peel.223 SAUCES AND GARNISHES. Persil (Parsley)—melted-butter sauce with chopped parsley. P^rigueux—brown stock with w7ine and truffles. Piquante—a highly seasoned brown sauce with vinegar, shallots, etc. Poivrade—a well seasoned brown sauce with vine- gar, anchovy, ham, onions, etc. White Poivrade sauce is made of white sauce w7ith vinegar, onions, etc. Portugaise—butter, yolks of eggs and lemon juice. Poulette—Allemande sauce with chopped parsley. This is also called Blanquette. Proveneale—brown sauce and white wine with tomatoes, chopped capers, mushrooms, and shallots, etc. Raifort (Horseradish)—cream, vinegar and horse- radish. Ravigote—Maifcre d’hotel sauce with Chili vinegar, Harvey and anchovy. Ravigote verte—white sauce with pounded tar- ragon, chervil, etc. Reforme—brown sauce with wine, currant jelly and lemon juice. Remoulade—broth with mushrooms, chopped parsley, mustard, vinegar and garlic. Cold Piemoulade sauce is made of oil with chopped parsley, capers, garlic, etc. Richelieu—a white game sauce with onions and wine. Robert—brown stock with chopped onions, mus- tard and vinegar.MENUS MADE EASY. 224 Russe—a white sauce with horseradish, vinegar, yolks of eggs and cream. Saint-Menehould—milk, butter and flour, with chopped parsley, mushrooms, etc. Salmis—a brown game sauce with wine, oil, etc. Sicilienne—a white sauce with lemon juice and shreds of lemon peel and tarragon. Soubise—a puree of onions with cream. Su^doise—Mayonnaise sauce with grated horse- radish and cream. For a hot sauce white sauce with Chili vinegar is substituted for Mayonnaise. Supreme—a white chicken sauce with wine and cream. Tartare—Mayonnaise sauce, or oil and vinegar, with mustard, etc. Tomates (Tomato)—a puree of tomatoes with stock, etc. Truffes (Truffle) — brown sauce with chopped truffles. Venitienne—white sauce with Tarragon vinegar, chopped tarragon and mushrooms. Verte—green sauce made of wine and stock with pounded herbs, yolks of eggs, etc. Viennoise—a white sauce with chopped ham and tarragon, etc. Villeroi—white sauce flavoured with mushrooms, etc. Vin de Madere—brown sauce with Madeira or other wine. It is also a sweet sauce of yolks of eggs, wine, etc.SAUCES AND GARNISHES. 225 Vin d’Oporto—Port wine with shallots, Harve}7, etc. This sauce is used for wild ducks. GARNISHES. Chipolata—small round sausages, pieces of bacon, mushrooms, chestnuts, etc., with brown sauce. Financiere—cock’s combs, livers, quenelles, pieces of sweetbread, etc., with brown sauce and wine. Flamande—carrots, turnips, cabbages and other vegetables, with sausages. Godard—pieces of sweetbread, quenelles and truffles, with brown sauce. Italienne—minced sweetbreads, ham and mush- rooms, with Financiere sauce. Jardiniere—vegetables cut in shapes, in a light glaze. Macedoine—vegetables cut in shapes, with brown or white sauce. Milanaise—strips of macaroni, ham, chicken, truffles, etc., in white sauce with grated Parmesan. Montglas—minced chicken and truffles, with white or brown sauce. Reforme—shred ham, carrots, truffles and whites of eggs. Royale—minced chicken, sweetbreads, foie gras and mushrooms, with Bechamel sauce and lobster butter. Q226 MENUS MADE EASY. Toulouse—Financiere garnish made ■with white instead of brown sauce. This is sometimes called a -white Financiere garnish. Valenciennes—minced chicken, lobster, mush- rooms and artichoke bottoms, with rice, and white sauce with curry powder.soup, 15 steak, 108 INDEX. Almond blancmange, 191 cakes, 166, 169, 170 cream, 192 ices, 215 meringues, 191 pastry, 168, 169, 17J, 172, 171, 175 pudding, 178 souffle, 199 soup, 13, 16 tart, 175, 176 Amber pudding, 179 Anchovy hors d’ceuvres, 1 omelette, 165 savouries, 201 Apple charlotte, 188 compotes, etc., 187 cream, 191 curried, 207 dumplings, 177 fritters, 181 jelly, 196 puddings, 178, 1S1 tarts, 175, 176, 177 Apricot compotes, etc., 186 cream, 192 fritters, 181 ices, 215 pastry, 170,171,173 pudding, 177 souffle, 199 tarts, 175, 176 Artichokes, 139 | Artichokes, Jerusalem, soup, 11 Asparagus, 110 soup, 11 Aspic of crayfish, 39 of fowl, 81 Baba, 167 Bacon omelette, 161 Bake well pudding, 179 Bananas, 190 Barbel, 17 Barley cream, 192 soup, 12, 15 Bass, 17 Bavaroises, 191 Beans, broad, 112 soup, 15 flageolets, 112 French, 111 haricot, 112 soup, 11 Beef, brisket of, 108 chump of, 108 entries of, 16 fillet of, 106 little fillets of, 16 pies, 109 removes of, 106 ribs of, 108 roast, 109 round of, 107 sirloin of, 106228 INDEX, Beetroot, 142 salad, 156 Berberry ice, 21G Blackberry jelly, 197 mould, 190 Black-curraut ice, 215 jelly, 196 mould, 190 tart, 175 Black-diver, 136 Black game, 99, 136 removes of, 134 Blancmanges, 194 Blanquette of game, 104 lamb, 73, 74 poultry, 82, 89 sweetbread, 63 veal, 55 Bloater savouries, 206, 207 Boar, fillet of, 122 haunch of, 121 head, 122 Brains, call’s, 5S lamb’s, 75 sheep’s, 70 Brawn, 121 Bread pudding, 177 brown, cream, 192 pudding, 177 Bream, 18 Brill, 18 Brioches, 167 cheese, 202 Broccoli, 143 Broth, 7 mutton, 11 Scotch, 11 Brussels sprouts, 143 Bubble-and-squeak, 48 Bustard, 136 Cabbage, 143 red, salad, 156 Cabinet pudding, 179 Cakes, 166 cheese, 203 fish, 25, 39, 41, 43, 44 little, 169, 170, 171, 172, 173 Calf’s brains, 58 ears, 59 feet, 60 pie, 113 soup, 8 head, 113 entre'es of, 57 soup, 8 kidney, 59 liver, 59 tail, 60 soup, 8 tongue, 59 Canapes, savoury, 202, 204, 210 Capon, removes of, 122 roast, 136 Caramel ice, 214 pudding, 179 Cardoons, 143 Carp, 19 Carrots, 144 pudding, 179 soup, 14,15 Cases, savoury, 203, 208 Castle puddings, 183 Cauliflower, 144 soup, 14 Caviai-, hors d’oeuvres, 2 savoury, 210 Celery, 145 soup, 14 Chantilly basket, 195 cream, 193 Char, 20 Charlottes, 195 fruit, 188, 189, 190 Chartreuse of fruit, 1S6, 188, 1S9, 191 game, 96, 98 meat, 56, 68 poultry, 84, 90 vegetables, 159 Chaudfroid of fish, 30 game, 95, 97, 98, 101, 103, 104 meat, 50, 57, 66 poultry, 81, 83, 89, 91 Cheese omelette, 164INDEX. 229 Cheese savouries, 201 Cheese-cakes, 175 Cherry ice, 215 jelly, 193 mould, 190 salad, 159 tart, 175, 176 tartlets, 174 Chestnuts, 146 compotes, etc., 190 cream, 192 ice, 215 pudding, 178 savouries, 207 soup, 14, 15 Chicken, entrees of, 78 omelette, 164 removes of, 122 roast, 136 soup, 7, 9, 11, 12, 13 young, 124, 136 Chipolata boudin, 135 croustade, 120 garnish, 225 Chocolate cakes, 167, 108 cream, 191, 194 ice, 215 pudding, 178, 182 souffle', 198 Clioux pastry, 172 cheese, 202 Cinnamon water ice, 216 Cocoanut meringues, 195 pudding, 178 soup, 16 Cod, 20 salt, 21 Coffee cake, 167 cream, 192 custard, 194 ice, 215 pastry, 174 pudding, 179 souffle, 198 College puddings, 183 Compotes of fruit, 186, 187,189, 190 Consommes, 3 Crab, 39 soup, 8 Cranberry ice, 215 Crayfish, 39 sea, 39 soup, 9 Creams, 191 fish, 38, 40, 44 fowl, 84 game, 104 ham, 78 iced, 196 savoury, 202, 206, 210 veal, 56 vegetable, 140, 150, 159 Cre'pinettes of eggs, 104 fish, 39, 43 meat, 49, 77 Croustades, chicken, 87 fish, 45 game, 101, 104 meat, 50, 56, 5S, G3. OS, 71, 77, 120 savoury, 210 sweet, 177, 183 Cioutes, fruit, 186, 187, 1S9,191 mushroom, 148 oyster, 42 savoury, 202, 204, 208 truffle, 155 Cucumber, 146 salad, 156 soup, 14 Curasao jelly, 197 souffle', iced, 200 Currant fritters, 184 ice, 215 tart, 175 black, ice, 215 jelly, 196 mould, 190 tart, 175 Custard, 193, 194 fritters, 184 pudding, 178, 1S2 savoury, 202, 210 Dabs 21230 INDEX. Damson mould, 1S7 Darioles, 169 D’ Artois, 173 Dates, 191 pudding, 178 Dauphines, 171 Dormers, beef, 19 chicken, 85 Duck, entrees of, 87 removes of, 125 roast, 136 wild, entre'es of, 100 roast, 138 Duckling, 137 Dumplings, 177 Eclairs, 172 savoury, 202 Eel-pout, 22 Eels, 21 soup, 8 Egg-plant, 117 Eggs, 161 canape's of, 210 plovers’, 161 Scotch, 49 soup, 4, 5, 9 Elderflower fritters, 1S4 Endive, 147 salad, 156 soup, 15 Epigrammes, lamb, 72, 73 mutton, 66 partridge, 98 Fauclionettes, 171 Fig compote, 190 mould, 191 pudding, 178 Fisli entre'es, 43 savouries, 201-207 soups, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12 Flageolets, 142 Flounders, 22 Foie-gras, 87 Fondues, cheese, 201 salsifis, 152 Forcemeat, liver, 59 Forcemeat pie, 113 Fowl, 122 puree of, 13 Frangipane tart, 175 tartlets, 174 Fricandeau, beef, 109 veal, 111 Flitters, 184 brain, 58 egg, 164 fish, 43 game, 99, 105 savoury, 202, 206 souffle, 185 vegetable, 146, 148, 152, 153, 156 Fruit compotes, etc., 186 creams, 192 cro<ltes, 186, 187, 189, 191 fritters, 184 gateaux, 187, 188, 189, 190, 191 ices, 215, 216 jellies, 196 mace'doine, 191 sorbets, 217 souffle's, 199, 200 tartlets, 171 tarts, 175, 176 G'alantino of fowl, 125 pheasant, 97 rabbit, 131 turkey, 128 veal, 113 Game entrees, 91, 104 omelette, 164 pies, 134, 135 soups, 7, 8, 9, 13, 15 Garnishes, 225 Claufres, 172 Genoese cakes, 167 pastry, 107 Giblets, 89, 90 omelette, 165 pie, 127 pudding, 127 soup, 8INDEX. 231 Ginger cream, 102 ice, 21G pudding, ITS souffle, 199 Goose, entrees of, 89 removes of, 126 roast, 137 Gooseberry cream or fool, 192 ice, 215 pudding, 177 St. Honore, 190 tart, 175, 176 Grape ice, 215, 216 jelly, 19S tart, 175 Greengage crohtes, 187 tart, 175 Grenadins, beef, 47 veal, 54 Grouse, entrees of, 99 removes of, 138 roast, 137 soup, S, 13 Gudgeon, 23 Guinea fowl, 137 Gurnard, 23 Haddock, 23 Hake, 24 Halibut, 24 Ham croutes, 204 entre'es of, 77 omelette, 164 removes of, 121 Hare, entrees of, 92 removes of, 129 roast, 137 soup, 8 Haricot of mutton, 63 of veal, 55 Haricot beans, 142 soup, 14 Hazel bens, 137 Herrings, 24 savouries, 206, 209 Hodge-podge soup, 11 Honey pudding, 179 Hors d’oeuvres, 1 Iced creams, 196 pudding, 1S2 souffle's of chicken, 84 of fish, 45 of fruit, etc., 199 of bam, 7S Ices, cream, 214 Neapolitan, 216 water, 215, 216 Irish stew, 66 Jam fritters, 184 omelette, 165 puffs, 173 roll, 177 souffle, 199 fartlets, 174- Jellies, aspic, with eggs, 164 fish, 22, 33, 39, 40, 44 foie-gras, 87 fowl, 84 larks, 104 meat, 57, 74 sweetbread, 62, 75 fruit, etc., 196 mushroom, 149 savoury, 205, 207 tomato, 154 John Dory, 25 Kabobs, Indian, 69 Kidney, calf’s, 59 omelette, 165 sheep’s, 69 soup, 8 Iviselle, 19S Kromeskies, 42, 105 Lamb, brains, 75 breast of, 119 cutlets, 71 cars, 75 entre'es of, 71 feet, 74 forequarter of, 117 haunch of, 117 leg of, 118232 INDEX. Lamb, loin of, 118 neck of, 119 pie, 119 removes of, 117 saddle of, 118 shoulder of, 119 sweetbreads, 75 tails, 74 soup, 8 tongues, 75 Lamprey, 26 Lapwing, 137 eggs, 164 ^ Larks, entrees of, 103 pies, 134 roast, 137 Lax, 2 Leeks, 147 Lemon ice, 215 jelly, 196 pudding, 178 souffle, 198 Lentils, 147 soup, 15 Lettuce, 147 Leveret, 137 Lobster, 39 crohtes, 209 soup, 9 Macaroni, 211 pudding, 177 soup, 5, 13 Mace'doine, fruit, 191 garnish, 225 jelly, 197 omelette, 165 salad, 156, 159 soup, 6 Mackerel, 26 Madeleines, 169 Maraschino blancmange, 191 cream, 192 jelly, 197 souffle, 198, 199 Marinade, 221 Marmalade pudding, 179 Marrow, 50 Marrow crofitcs, 209 Mayonnaise, eels, 22 fowl, 83 game, 104 lobster, 40 salmon, 30 soles, 33 vegetable, 159 Medlar jelly, 197 Melon ice, 216 Meringues, 194 cheese, 203 fruit, 183, 186, 187, 188, 190 tart, 176 Mince pies, 173 Mirepoix, 222 Mirlitons, 174 Mock-turtle soup, 8, 9 Morels, 147 Mulberry jelly, 197 Mullets, grey, 27 red, 27 Mulligatawny soup, 7, 8 Mushrooms, 148 crofttes, 148, 209 omelette, 164 Mussels, 41 soup, 9 Mutton, breast of, 117 broth, 11 carbonade, 67, 116 chops, 66 cutlets, 63 entrees of, 63 fillets, 67, 68 haunch of, 113 leg of, 114 loin of, 116 neck of, 115 pies, 117 pudding, 117 removes of, 113 saddle of, 114 shoulder of, 117 Southdown, 114 steak, 117233 INDEX. Noisettes of lamb, 73 of mutton, 67 Xougat, 191 Noyau cream, 192 ice, 215 jelly, 197 Oatmeal soup, 15 Olive hors d’ceuvres, 2 omelette, 165 savouries, 201 Olives, beef, 48 veal, 56 Omelettes, 164 soufflee.s, 165 sweet, 165 Onions, 149 soup, 14 Orange compotes, etc., 190 cream, 192 fritters, 184 ice, 215, 216 jelly, 196, 198 meringue, 183 pudding, 178 tart, 176 Orange-flower cream, 192 ice, 214 Ortolans, entrees of, 104 roast, 137 Ox cheek, 51 pie, 110 soup, 8 kidney soup, 8 palates, 50 tail, 52 soup, 8 tongue, 110 entre'es of, 51 Oysters, 1, 41 omelette, 165 savouries, 206 soup, 5, 9 Pancakes, 185 cheese, 202 chicken, 85 Pancakes, vegetable, 160 Tarfait, 196 Parmesan omelette, 164 savouries, 201 Parsnips, 149 Partridge, entrees of, 97 removes of, 132 roast, 137 soup, 8 Pastry, almond, 169 clioux, 172 Genoese, 167 puff, 170-172 rolled, 173 Pasty, Cornish, 69 venison, 129 Patties, beef, 49 cheese, 203 chicken, 84> crayfish, 39 foie gras, 87 game, 105 kidney, 70 lobster, 40 marrow, 50 mutton, 69 oyster, 42 shrimp, 43 tongue, 52 veal, 57 Peach, compotes, etc., 186 fritters, 184 ice, 215 tarts, 175, 176 Peahen, 137 Pears, compotes, etc., 189 custard, 194 fritters, 184 tart, 175, 176 Peas, 149 soup, 14, 15 Perch, 28 Pheasant, entrees of, 96 removes of, 131 roast, 137 soup, 8 I Pics, beef, 109 ] calPs feet, 113INDEX. 234 Pies, chicken, 125 forcemeat, 113 game, 134, 135 giblet, 127 grouse, 134 hare, 130 lamb, 119 lark, 134 mutton, 117 ox-cheek, 110 partridge, 133 pheasant, 132 pigeon, 129 pork, 120 rabbit, 131 sheep’s head, 117 sucking pig, 121 veal, 113 Pig’s ears, 78 feet, 78 Pigeon, entre'es of, 90 removes of, 12S roast, 137. Pike, 28 Pilau, fish, 45 fowl, 123 mutton, 68 of rice soup, 11 veal, 55 Pilchards, 2S Pineapple cream, 192 fritters, 184 ice, 215 jelly, 197 mould, 190 pudding, 178 Pintail, 137 Pistachio cake, 166 custard, 194 ice, 215 Plaice, 2S Plover, entrees of, 103 pies, 134 roast, 137 Plovers’ eggs, 164 Plum compotes, etc., 187 jelly, 196 pudding, 177 Plum tart, 175 tartlets, 174 Pomegranate ice, 216 jelly, 197 Pork, chine of, 120 cutlets, 76 entrees of, 76 fillets, 77 leg of, 120 loin of, 120 neck of, 120 pies, 120 removes of, 119 saddle of, 119 salt, 120 sausages, 77 spare-rib of, 120 Potatoes, 150 salad, 156 soup, 12, 13 Prairie birds, 137 Prawns, 43 Profiteroles, 173 soup, 5 Prunes, 1S7, 191 Ptarmigan, 99 Puddings, 177 cold, 179, 181, 1S2, 1S3 fruit, 177,178 ice, 182 game, 134, 135 giblet, 127 little, 182, 1S3 mutton, 117 plum, 177 rice, etc., 177 Puffs, jam, 173 Pullet, removes of, 122 roast, 137 Punch, 216 cream, 192 ice, 216 jelly, 197 Pure'es of fowl, 13 game, 13 rice, barley, etc., 15 vegetables, 13soup, 11 Purees, dressed vegetable, 142, 144, 146, 147, 148, 149, 152, 155, 160 Purslane, 152 Quails, entrees of, 102 pies, 134: roast, 138 Quenelles, cheese, 202 cream, 183 fish, 41, 45 fowl, 86 game, 104 ham, 78 marrow, 50 pheasant, 97 potato, 151 semoliua, 184 veal, 57 Quince jelly, 197 and apple tart, 175 Rabbit, entrees of, 93 removes of, 13 J . roast, 138 soup, 8, 13 Ramequius, 201 Raspberry cream, 192 custard, 194 ice, 215 jelly, 197 meringue, 190 Ratafia ice, 214 Rhubarb ice, 215 tart, 175 Rico cake, 167 cream, 192 fritters, 184 moulds, etc., 183 pancakes, 185 pudding, 177 savoury, 212 souffle', 199 soup, 5, 7, 11,15 Roe, 19 savouries, 207 Roebuck, entries of, 92 removes of, 129 Sago pudding, 177 soup, 11, 12 Salads (see also Mayonnaises), 156 beef, 48 cheese, 201 cherry, 159 fowl, 82, 83 grouse, 99 orange, 190 Salmon, 29 Salsifis, 152 Sandwiches, savoury, 211 Sardines, hors d’ceuvres, 1 savouries, 204 Sauces, 218 Sausages, Bologna, 1 oyster, 42 pork, 77 veal, 56 Savarin, 167 Savouries, cases, 203, 208 cheese, 201 creams, 210 croutes, 202, 204, 208 fish, 204 jellies, 205, 207 macaroni, 211 rice, 212 sandwiches, 211 souffles, 201,207 vegetable, 204, 207 vermicelli, 212 Scallops, 41 Scotch broth, 11 collops, 55 eggs, 49 woodcock, 208 Seakale, 152 Semolina cake, 167 croquettes, 183 pudding, 177 quenelles, 184 soup, 5 Shad,31 Sheep’s brains, 70 head pie, 117INDEX, 236 Sheep’s feot, 70 kidneys, GO soup, 8 tails, 70 tongues, 70 Shovellers, 138 Shrimps, 43 savouries, 206 soup, 8 Skate, 31 Smelts, 31 Snipes, entrees of, 101 pies, etc., 134 roast, 138 Soles, 32 soup, 12 Sorbets, 216, 217 Sorrel soup, 15 Souche of fish, 23 Souffle's, 198 cheese, 201 fish, 38, 45 fowl, 84 game, 90 iced, fish, 45 fowl, 84 ham, 78 sweet, 199 meat, 57, 78 savoury, 207 vegetable, 145, 151,154 Soups, chicken, 7, 9, 11, 12, 13 clear, 3-8 fish, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12 game, 7, 8, 9, 13, 15 maigre, 15,16 pure'es of fowl, 13 game, 13 rice, etc., 15 vegetables, 11, 12, 13-16 thick, 7-16 Sparghetti macaroni, 212 Spinach, 153 crohtes, 209 soup, 13,14 Sponge cakes, 168 pudding, 179 Sponge, orange, 190 Sprats, 31 Strawberry chartreuse, etc., 189 creams, 192, 194, 195 fritters, 184 gateau, 170 ices, 215 jelly, 197 omelette, 165 souffle, iced, 200 tartlets, 174 tarts, 175, 176 trifle, 195 Straws, bloater, 206 cheese, 203 potato, 151 tomato, 207 Sturgeon, 34 Sucking-pig, 121 Sue'doises, 172 Sultana pudding, 178 Sweetbread, 60 lamb’s, 75 Swiss roll, 168 Tapioca cream, 192 pudding, 177 souffle', 199 soup, 5, 11, 12, 15 Tartlets, 174,176 curried fish, 45 savoury, 203, 205 Tarts, 175 open, 175, 176 Tea cream, 192 ice, 214 Teal, entrees of, 100 roast, 138 Tench, 34 Tipsy cake, 169 Tomatoes, 153 omelette, 164 salad, 156, 159 savouries, 207 soup, 12, 13, 14 Tongue, calf’s, 59 crohtes, 204 lamb’s, 75 ox, 51, 110INDEX. 237 Tongues, sheep’s, 70 Trifle, 195 Trout, 34 Truffles, 154 omelette, 1G4 Tunny, 35 Turbot, 35 Turkey, entre'es of, 89 removes of, 127 roast, 138 Turnips, 155 soup, 14 Turtle soup, 7 Yanilla blancmange, 194 cream, 192 ice, 214 pudding, 178 souffle', 198, 200 tartlets, 174 Yeal, breast of, 112 chump of, 110 cream of, 5G cutlets, 52 entrees of, 52 fillet of, 110 knuckle of, 112 loin of, 111 neck of, 112 pies, 113 removes of, 110 steak, 112 tendons, 54 Vegetable chartreuse, 159 Vegetable curry, 160 mayonnaise, 159 omelette, 165 pancakes, 160 purees, 13, 160 Vegetable marrow, 155 soup, 14 Venison, entrees of, 91 hashed, 91 haunch of, 129 removes of, 129 soup, 8 Vermicelli croquettes, 1S3 pudding, 177 savoury, 212 soup, 5, 11 Wafers, 172 Watercress salad, 156 Weavers, 37 Welsh rare-bit, 210 Whitebait, 37 Whiting, 37 Whiting pollock, 38 Widgeon, 13S Wild duck, entrees of, 100 roast, 138 Wine jelly, 197 Woodcocks, entre'es of, 101 roast, 138 soup, 8 Yams, 156 PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LONDON AND I1ECCLES. LIBRARY LIMITED,Practical handbooks. I1 vice 2s, Get. each. HANDY INFORMATION BOOKS. In crown 8 vo, cloth gilt extra. By a Member of the Aristocracy. THE MANNERS AND RULES OF GOOD SOCIETY. Tlie Standard Handbook of Etiquette. New and Thoroughly Revised and Extended Edition. “ This book may be accepted as a standard work of reference on all question of etiquette.”—The Queen. SOCIETY SMALL TALK; or, What to Say and 'When to Say it. Tenth Edition. THE MANAGEMENT OF SERVANTS: A Practical Guide to the Routine of Domestic Service. Fourth Edition. 11 To masters and mistresses wo commend this very useful book of reference containing information for the management of servants in all grades of Bociety, detailing the work in each department.”—Lady's Pictorial. PARTY GIVING ON EVERY SCALE; or, The Cost of Entertainments. Second Edition. “This handy book is full of information of a really practical kind, and it takes into account innumerable wants of various circles."—Midland Herald. THE CORREOT GUIDE TO LETTER WRITING. Fifth Edition. HEALTH, BEAUTY AND THE TOILET: Letters to Ladies from a Lady Doctor. By Anna Kingsford, INI.D. Baris. Third Edition. *• A book we have much pleasure in recommending to every woman, young or old, who cares—as every real woman does—to look her best in the eyes of those around her.”—Le Follet. MENUS MADE EASY; or, How to Order Dinner and Give the Dishes their French Names. By Nancy Lake. Sixth Edition. 11 The book will be a great help to those who have to write menus, and I cordially recommend it.”—Hotel Mail. THE HOME, as it Should be : Its Duties and Amenities. By L. Valen- tine. Second Edition. TRICKS WITH CARDS: A Complete Manual of Card Conjuring. By Professor Hoffmann. Illustrated with over a Hundred Practical Illustrations and Diagrams. “ Without doubt the best and most practical book as a guide to the art of con- juring we have seen, the tricks and instructions given are clear and well illustrated in the diagrams.”—Lloyd't. BIRD-KEEPING: A Practical Guide to the Managementof Cage and Sing- ing Birds. By C. E. Dyson. Illustrated with numerous Wood En- gravings and Coloured Plates. DAILY DINNERS. 36G Menus in English and French. By Nancy Lake, Author of “ Menus Made Easy.” 11A capital little book for ladies who find difficulty in varying their menus and who are blest with idealess cooks, and it will be found most useful for planning out dinners which are both dainty and inexpensive.”—.Myra's Journal. HOW WE ARE GOVERNED: A Handbook of the Constitution, Govern- ment, Laws and Power of the British Empire. By Albany he Fonblanque. Sixteenth Edition, Revised and Re-edited by W. J. Gordon. " The book, besides being a capital one to put into the hands of a student, is so written as to be attractive to the reader seeking knowledge on the origin and progress of music as an art.”—Musical Standard.Frederick warne and Co.’s Publications.' Price 2s. Gd. each. THE CANARY: Its Varieties, Management and Breeding. By Rev. F. Smith. "A useful handbook giving extensive and accurate information as to the management of these most delightful of household pets."—Fancier's Gazette. MUSICAL GROUNDWORK: Being a First Manual of Musical Form and History for Students and Readers. By Frederick J. Crowest. . “We have not met with any manual of the same kind so well calculated to quicken the mind of the musical reader and thenco to stimulate him to a more extended study of the history and science of musical form."—Manchester Guardian, MODERN MANUALS. Price Is. Gd. each, Price Is. each, In square fcap. 8vo, cloth gilt. In square fcap. 8vo, neat binding (new style). MODERN ETIQUETTE, in Public and Private. Including Society at Large, the Etiquette of Weddings, the Ball-Room, the Dinner Table, The Toilet, &c. &c. A Hew and Revised Edition. . “ This little volume, which has long maintained the highest reputation, will be found in its new form to be still more useful and reliable on this complex subject." MODERN HOYLE; or, How to Play Whist, Chess, Draughts, Euchre, Poker, Napoleon, Besique, Backgammon, Dominoes, Solo Whist, Ecarte, &c. &c. By Professor Hoffmann. “ This volume is the recognised standard handbook, on the rules and methods adopted in playing Card Games, &c." THE BEST OF EVERYTHING. Practical Information on a Thousand Subjects. By the Author of “ Enquire Within.” New Edition. “ We have in this little work most useful information on subjects of every kind, given in plain language, rendering ;to the reader ‘ The Best of Everything ’ in a popular form, of easy reference and undoubted practical value.”—Brighton Examiner. HINTS ABOUT HOME AND FARM FAVOURITES: For Pleasure, Prize and Profit. By Gordon Staples, M.D., C.N., R.N. 11 This work may well be called a multum-in-parvo on the subject; with such a book as this anyone should be able, not only to choose a pet, but manage to keep that pet happy and well when they get it." Price Is. each. new edition of games foe family parties. In crown 8vo, picture boards. GAMES FOR FAMILY PARTIES. By Mrs.Valentine. With 100 Illusts. A most attractive volume, which will give much pleasure and amusement to i.ome circles. PROFESSOR HOFFMANN ON CARD CONJURINO. In crown 8vo, with Illusts. and Diagrams, stiff picture cover, cut flush, CARD TRICKS WITH APPARATUS. CARD TRICKS WITHOUT APPARATUS. In small crown Svo, cloth boards, round corners. HOME ACTING for Amateurs. First Series. Six Original Comediettas by Nella Parker. HOME ACTING for Amateurs. Second Series. Seven Original Come- diettas by Nella. Parker, &c. *#* Each of the Plays art published separately, sewed, price 3d.