MISTRESS OF A FAMILY. XX.xi.X of the want of gifts to the poor in tins land; but there is a mode of relief which would add greatly to their comfort, and which being prepared from superfluity, and such materials as are often thrown away, the expense would not be felt. In the latter part of this work some hints for preparing the above are given. By good hours, especially early breakfast, a family is more regular, and much time is saved. If orders be given soon in the morning, there will be more time to execute them; and servants, by doing their work with ease, will be more equal to it, and fewer will be necessary. It is worthy of notice that the general expense will be reduc- ed, and much time saved, if every thing be kept in its proper place, applied to its proper use, and mended, when the nature of the accident will allow, as soon as broken. If theeconomy of time was duly considered, the useful affairs transacted before amusements were allowed, and a regular plan of employment was daily laid down, a great deal might be done without hurry or fatigue; and it would be a most plea- sant retrospect at the end of the year, were it possible to enu- merate all the valuable acquirements made, and the good ac- tions performed by an active woman. If the subject of servants be thought ill-timed in a book upon familv arrangement, it must be by those who do not recollect that the regularity and good management of the hearts will be insuilicient, if not seconded by those who are to execute orders. It behoves every person to be extremely careful whom he takes into his service; to be very minute in investigating the character he receives, and equally cautious and scrupulous- ly just in giving one to others. Were this attended to, many bad people would be incapacitated for doing mischief, by abus- ing the trust reposed in them. It may be fairly asserted that the robbery or waste, which is but a milder epithet for the un- faithfulness of a servant, will be laid to the charge of that master or mistress, who knowing, or having well-founded sus- picions of such faults, is prevailed upon by false pity, or en- treaty, to slide him into another place. There are, however, some who are unfortunately capricious, and often refuse to give a character because they are displeased that a servant leaves their service; but this is unpardonable, and an- absolute rob- bery, servants having no inheritance, and depending on their fair" name for employment. To refuse countenance to the evil, and to encourage the good servant, are actions due to society at large; and such as are honest, frugal, and attentive to their duties, should be liberally rewarded, which would encourage merit, and inspire servants with zeal to acquit themselves. It may be proper to observe, that a retributive justice usually marks persons m that station, sooner or later, even in this world. The extravagant and idle in servitude are ill prepared for the industry and sobriety on which their own future welfare so essentially depends. Their faults, and the attendant punish- ments come home when they have children of their own; and