xli mistress of a pamilt. with plate. Tickets of parchment with the family name, num- bereii, and specifying what bed it belongs to, should be sewed on each feather-bed, bolster, pillow, and blanket. Knives, forks, and house-cloths, are often deficient: these accidents might be obviated, if an article at the head of every list required the former should be produced whole or broken, and the marked part of the linen, though all the others should be worn out. The inducement to care of glass is in some mea- sure removed, by the increased price given for old-flint glass. —Those who wish for trifle-dishes, butter stands, ,Vc. at a lower charge than cut-glass, may buy them made in moulds, of which there is great variety, that look extremely well, if not placed near the more beautiful articles. The price of starch depends upon that of flour ; the best will keep good in a dry warm room for some years: therefore, when bread is cheap, it may be bought to advantage, and covered close. Sugars being an article of considerable expense in all fa- milies, the purchase demands particular attention. The cheapest does not go so far as that more refined ; and there is difference even in the degree of sweetness. The white should be chosen that is close, heavy, and shining. The best sort of brown has a bright gravelly look, and it is often to be bought pure as imported. Hast India sugars are finer for the price, but not so strong, consequently unfit for wines and sweetmeats, but do well for common puqioses, if good of their kind. To prepare white sugar, pounded, rolling it with a bottle, and sifting, wastes less than a mortar. Candles made in cool weather are best; and when their price, and that of soap, which rise and fall together, is likely to be higher, it will be prudent to lay in the stock of both. This information the chandler can always give; they are better for keeping eight or ten months, and will not injure for two years, if properly placed in the cool; and there are few articles that better deserve care in buying, and allowing a due quantity of, according to the size of the family. Paper, by keeping, improves in quality: and if bought by half or whole reams from large dealers, will be much cheaper than purchased by the quire. The surprising increase of the price of this article may be accounted for by the additional duties, and a larger consumption, besides the monopoly of rags; of the latter it is said there is some scarcity, which might be Obviated if an order were given to a servant in every family, to keep a bag to receive all the waste bits from cuttings- out, &c. Many well-meaning servants are ignorant of the best means of managing, and thereby waste as much as would maintain a small family, besides causing the mistress of the house much chagrin by their irregularity ; and many families, from a want of method, have the appearance of chance rather than of regu- lar system. To avoid this, the following hints may be useful as well as economical t—>