jtl OBSERVATIONS FOR THE sometimes much sooner. They will see their own folly and wickedness perpetuated in their offspring, whom they must not expect to be better than the example and instruction given by themselves. . , , , It was the observation of a sensible and experienced woman, that she could always read the fate of her servants, who mar- ried ; those who had been faithful and industrious in her ser- vice, continued their good habits in their own fami ies, and became respectable members of the community; those who were the contrary, never were successful, and not unfrequently were reduced to the parish. A proper quantity of household articles should be always ready, and more bought in before the others be consumed, to present inconvenience, especially in the country. A bill of parcels and receipt should be required, even if the money be paid at the time of purchase; and, to avoid mis- takes, let the goods be compared with these when brought home. Though it is very disagreeable to suspect any one’s honesty, and perhaps mistakes have been unintentional; yet it is pru- dent to weigh meat, sugars, &c. when brought in, and compare with the charge. The butcher should be ordered to send the weight with the meat, and the cook to file these checks, to be examined when the weekly bill shall be delivered. Much trouble and irregularity are saved when there is com- pany, if servants are required to prepare the table and side- board in similar order daily. All things likely to be wanted should be in readiness; sugars of different qualities kept broken, currants washed, picked, and perfectly dry; spices pounded, and kept in very small bot- tles closely corked ; not more than will be \ised in four or five weeks should be pounded at a time. Much less is necessary titan when boiled whole in gravies, &c. Where noonings or suppers are served, (and in every house some preparation is necessary for accidental visitors,) care should be taken to have such things in readiness as are proper for either; a list of several will'be subjoined, a change of which may be agreeable, and, if duly managed, will be attended with little expense and much convenience. A ticket should be exchanged by the cook for every loaf of bread, which, when returned, will show the number to be paid for; as tallies may be altered, unless one is kept by each party. Those who are served with brewer’s beer, or any other articles not paid for weekly or on delivery, should keep a book for entering the dates; which will not only serve to prevent overcharges, but will shew the whole year’s consumption at one view. An inventory of furniture, linen, and china, should be kept, and the things examined by it twice a-year, or oftener, if there be a change of servants; into each of whose care the articles used by lum or her snould be entrusted.- "dth a list, as is done