xliv OBSERVATIONS FOR THE must proportion them until the true zest be obtained, and a variety of flavour be given to the different dishes served at the same time. . , , Those who require maigre dishes will find abundance in this little woik; and where they are not strictly so, by suet or bacon being directed in stuffings, the cook must use butter instead ; and where meat gravies (or stock as they are called) are ordered, those made of fish must be adopted. DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. The carving-knife for a lady should be light, and of a mid- dling size and fine edge. Strength is less required than address in the manner of using it; and, to facilitate this, the cook shall give orders to the butcher to divide the joints of the bones of all carcase-joints of mutton, lamb, and veal, (such as neck, breast, and loin;) which may then be easily cut into thin slices attached to the adjoining bones. If the whole of the meat be- longing to each bone should be too thick, a small slice may be taken off between every two bones. The more fleshv joints (as fillet of veal, leg or saddle of mut- ton, and beef,) are to be bellied in thin slices, neatly cut and smooth, observing to let the knife pass down to the bone in the mutton and beef joints. The dish should not be too far off the carver, as it gives an awkward appearance, and makes the task more difficult. At- tention is to be paid to help every one to a part of such arti- cles as are considered the best. In helping fish, take care not to break the flakes, which in cod and very fresh salmon are large, and contribute much to the beauty of its appearance. A fish knife, not being sharp, divides it best on this account. Help a part of the roe, milt, or liver, to each person. The heads of carp, parts of those of cod and salmon, sounds of cod and fins of turbot, are likewise esteemed niceties, and are to be attended to accordingly. In cutting up any wild-fowl, duck, goose, or turkey, for a large party, if you cut the slices down from pinion to pinion, without making wings, there will be more prime pieces. A Cod’s Head.—Fish in general requires very little carving, the fleshy parts being those principally esteemed. A cod’s head and shoulders, when in season, and properly boiled, is a very genteel and handsome dish. When cut, it should be done with a fish-trowel, and the parts about the back-bone on the shoul- ders are the most firm and the best. Take off a piece quite down to the bone, in the direction of a, b, c, rf, putting in the spoon at a, c, and with each slice of fish give a piece of the sound, which lies underneath the back-bone and lines it, the meat of which is thin, and a little darker-coloured than thr