NEW VOLUME OF MR. MERIVALE'S HISTORY OF THE ROMANS UNDER THE EMPIRE. Now ready, in 8vo. with Map and Plan, price 16s. cloth, HISTORY OF THE ROMANS UNDER THE EMPIRE. By the Kev. C. MEEIVALE, B.D., LATE FELLOW OF ST. JOHN'S COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE. Vol. VI. from the Reign of NERO to the Destruction of JERUSALEM. Opinions of Volume the Sixth. "The period upon which the latest historian of Imperial Rome has entered in his sixth volume, possesses peculiar interest at present, from the variety and vividness of the details no less than its pregnant facts and ominous analogies To English readers the opening scene of the History is specially attractive, setting forth the second great invasion of Britain The story as told by Mr. Merivale gives us. in picturesque and vivid chapters, details of the history of the early Christian times, as far a9 the de- struction of Jerusalem, with which the work concludes." Athenaeum. "The sixth volume commences with a chapter on the pacification of Gaul by Claudius and the subjugation of Britain ; re- turning to Rome, it conducts us through the reigns of Nero, Galba, Otho V'itellius, and Vespasian ; and concludes with the destruc- tion of Jerusalem by Titus, and his Judaean triumph. English literature and scholar- ship may well be proud of this masterly work, in every way worthy to take its place between Arnold and Gibbon. The unin- structed reader who runs glibly over the brilliant text of this history will form no adequate conception of the vast and various labour, the deep and comprehensive learn- ing, the patient and laborious investigation, the correct and ample scholarship, which have fitted the historian for the accomplish- ment of a splendid purpose. Sometimes into half a dozen words is compressed the reading of as many ancient historians and modern critics ; and the style is like the quintessence of the great originals whom the author cites in the footnotes, at once weighty and bril- liant, terse and full, severe and elegant, polished and unforced. We shall return to the volume in detail." Leader. " The sixth volume includes the reigns of Nero, Galba, Vitellius, Vespasian, and vespasia nificant if mea- Titus—filling a period ins suredby years, but unparalleled in its illus- tration ot imperialism as carried to its climax in Rome. We have never seen so full or lucid a presentation of Nero's career. It formed no part of Gibbon's plan to draw the full-length effigy of that tyrant. Suetonius, garrulous as he is, supplies only a fragmen- tary account; but Mr. Merivale, drawing from every source of authority, tempering traditionary statements by criticism, and working his materials into aconsistent shape, has written the best biography of Nero in existence. This alone would confer upon the new volume of his history a conspicuous and permanent importance ; but there are other episodes of deep interest upon which he has thrown a strong and clear light—the Clau- dian policy in Gaul, the suppression of the Druid hierarchy, the subjugation of Britain, the insurrection of Boadicea and the Iceni, as preliminaries to the operation of that great curse which gave the Romans to Nero during fourteen infamous and miserable years. After his fall, the stormy reign of Galba, the brief Btruggle of Otho, roused from voluptuousness to empire, the supre- macy of the glutton Vitellius, the c vil wai- led by Vespasian, the provincial revolts, the Fla- vian conspiracies, and the concentration of the Roman power against Jerusalem, fill man v pages ; but the moral of the narrative is nowfi velopeil in a form so imposing as in tin- ii Nero. The scene of his death is described in one of the most remarkable chapters we have i • many years A r.enturvof imperiahVm rendered ten with a singular strength and polish of style, is a work w hich the youth of Enalanrt may study with confidence and with admiration." Leader. tie Fall of JULIUS b? 28*. AUGUSTUS, .14*. 22101719547 C.H.BENSBERG, 344, Eolloway Road. & I68.PENTONVILLE R? LONDON, N. , School & College- Book*.