23 PUBLISHED BY LONGMAN", BROWN, AND CO. The Traveller's Library : A Col- lection of original Works well adapted for Travellers and Emigrants, for School-room Libraries, the Libraries of Mechanics' In- stitutions, Young Men's Libraries, the Libraries of Ships, and similar purposes. The separate volumes are suited for School Prizes, Presents to Young People, and for general instruction and entertainment. The Series comprises fourteen of the most popular of Lord Macaulay's Essays, and his Speeches on Parliamentary Reform. The department of Travels contains some account of eight of the principal countries of Europe, as well as travels in four districts of Africa, in four of America, and in three of Asia. Madame Pfeiffer's First Journey round the World is included ; and a general account of the Australian Colonies. In Bio- graphy and History will be found Lord Ma- caulay's Biographical Sketches of Warren Hastings, Clive, Pitt, Walpole, Bacon, and others; besides Memoirs of Wellington, Tu- renne, F. Arago, &c. ; an Essay on the Life and Genius of Thomas Fuller, with Selec- tions from his Writings, by Mr. Henry Rogers ; and a history of the Leipsic Cam- paign, by Mr. Gleig, —which is the only separate account of this remarkable cam- paign. Works of Fiction did not come within the plan of the Traveler's Lierart; but the Confessions of a j^^Bk'g Man, bySou- vestre, which is inde^^^Btion founded on fact, has been includ^^^Bd has been read with unusual interest by many of the work- ing classes, for whose use it is especially re- commended. Dumas's story of the Maitte- d'Armes, though in form a work of fiction, gives a striking picture of an episode in the history of Russia. Amongst the works on Science and Natural Philosophy, a general view of Creation is embodied in Dr. Kemp's Natural History of Creation ; and in his Indications of Instinct remarkable facts in natural history are collected. Dr. Wilson has contributed a popular account of the Electric Telegraph. In the volumes on the Coal-Fields, and on the Tin and other Mining Districts of Cornwall, is given an account of the mineral wealth of England, the habits and manners of the miners, and the scenery of the surrounding country. It only remains to add, that among the Mis- cellaneous Works are a Selection of the best Writings of the Rev. Sydney Smith ; Lord Carlisle's Lectures and Addresses; an ac- count of Mormonism, by the Rev. W. J. Conybeare; an exposition of Railway ma- nagement and mismanagement by Mr. Her- bert Spencer ; an account of the Origin and Practice of Printing, by Mr. Stark ; and an account of London, by Mr. M'Culloch.—To be had, in complete Sets only, at £5. 5s. per Set, hound in cloth and lettered. fig?* The Traveller's Library may also be had as originally issued in 102 parts, Is. each, forming 50 vols. 2s. 6d. each ; or any separate parts or volumes. Sharon Turner's Sacred History of the World, Philosophically con- sidered, in a Series of Letters to a Son. 3 vols, post 8vo. 31s. 6d. Sharon Turner's History of Eng- land during the Middle Ages; Com- prising the Reigns from the Norman Conquest to the Accession of Henry VIII. 4 vols. 8vo. 50s. Sharon Turner's History of the Anglo-Saxons, from the Earliest Period to the Norman Conquest. 3 vols. 36s. Dr. Turton's Manual of the Land and Fresh-Water Shells of Great Britain : With Figures of each of the kinds. New Edition, with Additions by Dr. J. E. Gray, F.R.S., &c, Keeper of the Zoological Collection in the British Museum. Crown 8vo. with 12 coloured Plates, price 15s. cloth. Dr. Ure's Dictionary of Arts, Manufactures, and Mines : Containing a clear Exposition of their Principles and Practice. Fourth Edition, much enlarged. With nearly 1,600 Wood- cuts. 2 vols. 8vo. 60s. Uwins. — Memoir of Thomas Uwins.R.A. By Mrs. Uwins. With Let- ters to his Brothers during Seven Years spent in Italy ; and Correspondence with the late Sir Thomas Lawrence, Sir C. L. Eastlake, A. E.Chalon, R.A., and other distinguished persons. 2 vols, post 8vo. Van der Hoeven's Handbook of Zoology. Translated from the Second Dutch Edition by the Rev. William Clabk, M.D., F.R.S., Professor ot Anatomy in the University of Cam- bridge; with additional Refei-ences by the Author. 2 vols. 8vo. with 24 Plates of Figures, price 60s. cloth ; or separately. Vol. I. Invertebrata, 30s., and Vol. II. Vertebrata, 30s. Vehse.—Memoirs of the Court, Aristocracy, and Diplomacy of Austria. By Dr. E. Vehse. Translated from the German by Fkanz Demmlee. 2 vols, post 8vo. 21s. Von Tempsky.—Mitla ; or, In- cidents and Personal Adventures on a Journey in Mexico, Guatemala, and Salvador in the Years 1853 to 1855 : With Observations on the Modes of Life in those Countries. By G. F. Vow Tempsky. With numerous Illustra- tions. 8vo. 18s.