6 NEW WORKS AND NEW EDITIONS Black's Practical Treatise on Brewing, based on Chemical and Eco- nomical Principles : With Formulae for Public Brewers, and Instructions for Private Families. 8vo. 10s. 6d. Blaine's Encyclopaedia of Rural Sports ; or, a complete Account, Histo- rical, Practical, and Descriptive, of Hunting, Shooting, Fishing, Racing. &c. New Edition, revised and corrected to the Present Time ; with above 600 Woodcut Illustrations, including 20 Subjects now added from Designs by- John Leech. Blair's Chronological and His- torical Tables, from the Creation to the Present Time: With Additions and Corrections from the most authentic Writers ; including the Computation of St. Paul, as connecting the Period from the Exode to the Temple. Under the revision of Sir Henry Ellis, K.H. Imperial 8vo. 31s. 6d. half-morocco. Boyd. — A Manual for Naval Cadets. Published with the sanction and approval of the Lords Commis- sioners of the Admiralty. By John" M'Neill Boyd, Captain, R.N. With Compass-Signals in Colours, and 236 Woodcuts. Fcp. 8vo. 10s. 6d. Bloomfield.—The Greek Testa. ment : with copious English Notes, Critical, Philological, and Explanatory. Especially adapted to the use of Theo- logical Students and Ministers. By the Rev. S. T. Bloomfield, D.D., F.S.A. Ninth Edition, revised. 2 vols. 8vo. • with Map, £2. 8s. Dr. Bloomfield's College & School Edition of the Greek Testament : With brief English Notes, chiefly Philological and Explanatory. Seventh Edition; with Map and Index. Fcp. 8vo. 7s. 6d. Dr. Bloomfield's College & School Lexicon to the Greek Testament. New Edition, revised. Fcp.8vo. price 10s. 6d. Bourne's Catechism of the Steam Engine in its various Applications to Mines, Mills, Steam Navigation, Rail- ways, and Agriculture : With Practical Instructions for the Manufacture and Management of Engines of every class. Fourth Edition, enlarged; with 89 Woodcuts. Fcp. 8vo. 6s. Bourne. — A Treatise on the Steam Engine, in its Application to Mines, Mills, Steam Navigation, and Railways. By the Artisan Club. Edited by John- Botjene, C.E. New Edition ; with 33 Steel Plate's, and 349 Wood Engravings. 4to. 27s. Bourne.— A Treatise on the Screw Propeller: With various Sug- gestions of Improvement. By John Boubne, C.E. New Edition, with 20 large Plates and numerous Wood Engravings. 4to. 38s. Brande's Dictionary of Science, Literature, and Art ; comprising the History, Description, and Scientific Principles of every Branch of Human Knowledge; with the Derivation and Definition of all the Terms in general use. Third Edition, revised and correct- ed; with numerous Woodcuts. 8vo.60s. Professor Brande's Lectures on Organic Chemistry, as applied to Manu- factures, including Dyeing, Bleaching, Calico Printing, Sugar Manufacture, the Preservation of Wood, Tanning, &c. Edited by J. Scoeeern, M.B. Fcp. Woodcuts, 7s. 6d. Brewer.—An Atlas of History and Geography, from the Commence- ment of the Christian Eia to the Pre- sent Time: Comprising a Series of Sixteen Coloured Maps, arranged in Chronological Order, with Illustrative Memoirs. By the Rev. J. S. Beewee, M.A. Second Edition, revised and cor- rected. Royal 8vo. 12s. 6d. half-bound. Brialmont. — The Life of the Duke of Wellington. From the French of Alexis Brialmojstt, Captain on the Staff of the Belgian Army : With Emen- dations and Additions. By the Rev. G. R. Gleig, M.A., Chaplain-General to the Forces and Prebendary of St. Paul's. With Maps, Plans, and Por- traits. Vols. I. and II. 8vo. price 30s. Vol. III. {completion) is in preparation. Dr. T. Bull's Hints to Mothers on the Management of their Health during the Period of Pregnancy and in the Lying-in Room: With an Exposure of Popular Errors in coimexion with those subjects, &c. ; and Hints upon Nursing. New Edition. Fcp. 8vo. 5s. Bull. — The Maternal Manage- ment of Children in Health and Dis- ease. By T. Bull, M.D., formerly Physician-Accoucheur to the Finsbury Midwifery Institution. New Edition. Fcp. 8vo. 5s.