223 PUDIC ARTERY AND NERVE. The Bulb of the Vagina (Fig. 109, 8) or bulbus vestibuli of Kobelt corresponds precisely to one half of the bulb of the male. It is a vascular bodj^ placed on the side of the orifice of the vagina, and enclosed in a sheath of fascia derived from the triangular liga- ment or deep perineal fascia. Each bulb is about an inch long, and is composed of a plexus of veins, which communicate with those of the opposite side beneath the cUtoris. The forepart of the plexus is sometimes known as the pm-s irderinediah's. The Superficial Layer of the Triang-ular Ligament resembles that of the male, and is a strong process of fibrous tissue stretch- ing across the pubic arch, to be attached to the rami of the os pubis and ischium on each side beneath the crura clitoridis. It is perforated by the urethra and is divided posteriorly by the vagina, with the coats of which it is firmly incorporated; it gives passage also to the terminal branches of the pudic arteries and nerves, as in the male, and to the large veins of the clitoris and bulbi vestibuli, which pass to the plexus around the base of the bladder. [The superficial layer of the triangular ligament is to be care- tuUy detached from the bone and removed, when the deep trans- versus pennsei and the terminal branches of the pudic arterv and nerve are to be dissected.] ■ The Deep Transversus Perinaei (Compressor Urethrre) has the same attachments as in the male, but consists largely of unstrined fibre. ^ Involuntary cii-cular fibres surround the whole length of the female urethra, and may correspond to a portion of the prostate in the male. The Glands of Bartholin (Fig. 109, 12) correspond to Cowper's glands in the male, but are more superficially placed. Each -land is of the size of a smaU bean, and is situated behind the bulb" Its minute duct opens on the mucous surface in front of the hymen about midway between the cHtoris and posterior commissure Pudic Artery and Nerve (Fig. 108). The tenninations of the pudic artery and nerve in the female correspond closely to those of the male but are much smaller. The artery lies unde; cover of the rXLl ti«.-t\the nerve, and gives ofP arteries to h bulb and crus clitondis, and the dorsal artery of the clitoris in t^: ^'/^'J:^' tenuinates orjan. ""^ " '"^'^ ''^ - that