494 CAVITY OF THE NOSE. tlie upper lip, and anastomoses with branches of the ophthalmic, facial and temporal arteries. . • , • i The infra-orbital vein communicates with the facial vem, and ends in the internal maxillary vein. The Cavity of the Nose. rin making a section of the nasal cavities, it wiU be found to be almost impossible to preserve the septiun and tlie turbinate bones of both sides uninjmU: the better plan therelore is to preserve the septum carefuHy at the expense of the tm-bmate bones ot one side and afterwards to remove it so as to obtain a good view ot the urbinate bones and meatus of the nose on the opposite side The saw being placed on one side of the septum and paraUel to it, t io Z carried through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone and the procefses of the maxillary and palate bones and Esoft palate having been spUt m the middle hne the skuU wrU bp divided into two portions, one of which can be used toi tne SamTimtion of the nose, and the other for the dissection of Meckel's ganglion, etc.] The Nasal Tossse are two long passages separated by the septum narium, and extending from the nostrils or anterior nares m front to open into the pharynx by the posterior nares behmd In the recent state they consist of a framework of bone and cartilage hned with mucous membrane. . , The Septum Narium (Fig. 240, i) is a vertical plate which, upon removal of the mucous membrane, will be found to be partly bony and partly cartilaginous. The bones entermg mto it. for- mation are the crest of the nasal bone, the nasal spme o the frontal bone, the large perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone, the vomer, a part of the rostrum of the sphenoid bone, and the crests of the maxillary and palate bones, upon which the vomer rests below. The curtilage of the septum is tiiangular m shape: it fits into the interval between the vertical plate of the ethmoid and the vomer, and extends forward to become connected with the lateral cartilages, and support that portion of the nose which lies beyond the nasal bones. The vomer presents an obhque groove for the naso-palatine nerve, which will be afterwards seen upon the opposite side of the bone. A careful examination of the mucous membrane of he septiun ,nay detect a ndnute apertm-e just abo^;e the position ol the c.nal of Stenson, leading into a blind tube which represent, the of JaeoUon, a stiuctiue present in its fully developed condition in many mammals.