600 THE BA.OK. backward. One muscle acting alone, draws the head backwards, lateralises it towards the corresponding shoulder, and rotates the face towards the same side. The splenius capitis was seen in the posterior triangle of the neck, above the levator anguli scapulas, but the splenius colli was hidden by this muscle. At the upper border of the S23lenius appear the nearly vertical fibres of the complexus, running to the interspace between the two curved lines of the occipital bone. The splenius is sappHed by the external branches of the lower cervical nerves. [The splenius must be reflected in order to show the complexus, which lies beneath it. In order to define the connections of the erector spinae, an interval is to be sought opposite the last rib, separating the muscular mass into two parts. The ouier segment is to be turned outwards and its attachment to the ribs and cervical transverse processes noted; it consists of the sacro-lumbaHs con- tinued upwards by the accessorius, and the cervicalis ascendeus. The inner segment when separated from a few muscular and ten- dinous bauds called the spinalis dorsi, j)assing between some of the thoracic and lumbar spines, will be foimd to consist of the longissimus dorsi prolonged upwards into the neck by the transver- salis colli and trachelo-mastoid. The aponeurosis covering the erector spinte is to be divided by an oblique incision, following the line of sejDaration between the muscles. In making this dissection the inner branches of the posterior divisions of the 'intercostal vessels and nerves will be found internal to the longissimus dorsi, and the external branches between the longissimus dorsi and the sacro-lumbaHs. The occij^ital artery will also be shown in the neck.] The Fourth Layer of Muscles (Fig. 2SG) consists of the SpinaHs dorsi, the Erector spinse with its subdivision^, and the Complexus. They are supplied bj'the external branches of the posterior div-isions of the spinal nerves, but the comi^lexus also receives twigs irom the internal branches. The Spinalis Dorsi (Fig. 286, 4) lies close to the spinous pro- cesses, arising from the lower two thoracic and upper two lumbar spinous processes, and is inserted into the spinous processes of tlie upper six thoracic vertebra?. It commonly interchanges slips with the longissimus dorsi, and is sometimes regarded as part of the erector spina?. The Erector Spinse (Fig. 286, i) is the great muscle filling up the hollow at the back of the sacrum and hmibar vcrtebrse. It arises from the posterior fifth of the uiner lip of the crest of the ilium and its posterior superior spine; from the spinous processes of the lumbar and two lower thoracic vertebraj; fi'om the upper four