DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 10 pectoralis major assists in the formation of the axillary fascia. On removing this fascia the pectoralis major is exposed. [The pectoralis major is to be put on the stretch by drawing the arm from the side and supporting it at a convenient height, its fibres are then to be cleaned from below on the right, and fi-om above on the left side. The strong axillary fascia is to be left untouched.] The Pectoralis Major (Fig. 1, 2) consists of a sternal and a clavicular portion, separated at their origins by a cellular interval. The sternal portion arises from nearly the whole length of one side of the manubrium and body of the sternum, the cartilages of all the true ribs except the seventh, and is connected below with the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle. The clavicular portion arises from the anterior surface of the inner or sternal half of the clavicle, and from the anterior siu'face of the capsule of the sterno- clavicular articulation; and is separated from the deltoid muscle by another celMar interval, containing the cephaHc vein and the humeral branch of the aoromio-thoracic artery. The muscle is uisprted into the anterior or outer edge of the bicipital groove of the humerus, by three superposed laminse, the superficial layer con- sisting of the clavicular fibres, the middle layer of the upper sternal fibres, and the deep layer of the lower sternal fibres and those fi-om the aponeurosis of the external oblique. The latter is continuous below with the middle layer, and its fibres cross each other m such a manner that those which are lowest at the origin are highest at the point of insertion, and vice vcrsci. It is more tendinous than the superficial layer, and sends a prolongation over the long head of the biceps to the capsule of the shoulder-joint; from the lower border of the tendon a slip is given off to the deep fascia of the The action of the pectoraHs major is to flex, adduct, and rotate inwards the humerus, crossing it over the chest, and by its sternnl fibres to draw forwards and inwards the whole scapular arch, it the arm were raised above the chest the muscle would depress it, «r it the han<l were fixed it would drag the trunk upwards, as m climb- iT,o.. Its lower fibres may also act in extraordiuary inspiration when the arm is fixed, as is seen in the case of asthmatic persons. It is snprdied by the external and internal anterior thoracic nerves. In very well-developed subjects, muscular slips are not "*equently found lying at the side of the sternum and superficial to the pectorall with which they may have some connection; but they are niore frequently continuous with the sterno-mastoid or rectus