THE KIDNEY. 289 right side; and, close to Poupart's ligament, the vas deferens or round ligdinent hooks around the epigastric artery, and descends into the pelvis to the inner side of the external iUac trunk. Like the aorta and common iliac arteries it is ensheathed by Bubiieritoneal connective tissue, and thi'ee compartments may be demonstrated in the sheath as 'well as in that of the femoral artery, with which it is in continuity :—an external compartment for the artery, a middle for the vein, and an internal, less well defined, for a chain of Ijinphatic glands and vessels. Branches.—The deep epigastric and the deep circumflex iliac arteries are usually given off just above Pouj^art's Hgament, but occasionally are found on a level with the ligament, or even springing from the common femoi'al below it. The Epigastric artery passes inwards and upwards immediately outside the peritoneum, and pierces the fascia transversalis to enter the rectus muscle at its posterior aspect, to which it has been already traced (p. 238). Its relation to the vas deferens and round ligament is mentioned above. The branches of the epigastiic are pubic to the back of the pubic bone, crcmusteric to the cord, and musculnr. An abnormal branch of large size is frequently fo\ind coming off fi'om the epigastric close to its origin, and descending into the pelvis; this is the obturator artery, which may run on the inner side of the neck of a femoral hernia. The epiijastric rein joins the external iliac vein. The Circumflex Iliac artery takes a course outwards along Poupart's ligament, and lies at first immediately outside the peritoneum. It soon, however, pierces the transversalis fascia and miiscle, and riins along the crest of the iliimi between the muscles, to anastomose with the ilio-lumbar branch of the internal iUac, with the last lumbar, and with the superficial cu'cumflex iliac arteries. It gives upwards a large branch, which is foiuid between the Internal Oblique and Transversalis, and which anastomoses with the lumbar and lower intercostal arteries. The rei)t has been seen to cross the external iliac aitery an inch above Poup;u't's Hgament, to open into the external iUnc vein. The Kidneys arc a pair of bean-shaped organs, each measuring about 4^ inches in length, 21, inches in In-eadth, and an inch and a fluartcr in thickness, and weighing about 4^ ounces. They Ho in the hypochondriac, epigiistric, lumbar and umbilical regions (see p. 249), and are placed behind the peritoneum in a kind of lymph space in the fat bearing subperitoneal tissue (Fig. 128), opposite the last thoracic and throe upper lumbar vertebrae, the right usually