89 RA 1)10-Ur.NAn ARTICULATIONS. The rotation of the radius iiroimd the ulna iu pronation and supination is associated during life with a Idnd of circumduction of the uhia, effected by movements of flexion, extension, abduc- tion, and adduction, which are almost imperceptible at the elbow- joint, but are easilj^ seen at the wrist. They cannot, however, be demonstrated by passive rotation of the radius in the dead subject. It must be recollected that the entire movement of hand rotation is equal to 280°, and that not more than 120° of this is effected at the radio-ulnar articulations. The rest is accomplished chiefly at the shoulder-joint (about 100°), the carjml joints, and, in exaggerated action, even by the movement of the scapular arch and spinal column. During full extension of the elbow only the anterior border of the upper sm-face of the radius rests against the capitellum of the humerus. The movements of flexion and extension of the elbow take place aroimd an axis passing through the lower end of the humerus from condyle to condyle, but with a slight inclination downwards at its inner extremity. As a result of this obliquitj^, the hand lies in a plane internal to that of the head of the humerus when the fore- arm is fully flexed upon the upper arm, and during complete extension the arm and fore-arm join at a very obtuse angle, the opening of which is directed outwards. The total range of flexion and extension is about 150°. Eadio-Ulnar Articulations. Superior (Fig. 40, 2).—This is a part of the elbow joint. Its only ligament is the Orbicular (Fig. 41, 3), a strong flat band of fibres encircling the head and neck of radius, and attached to the extremities of the lesser sigmoid cavity and slightly into the nock of the radius. It blends with the external lateral ligament of the elbow, and gives oiigin to fibres of the supinator brevis ; the joint cavity is continuous with that of the elbow. Inferior (Fig. 42, 3).—The bones are connected below by iiiitirior and poderior ligaments, short fibrous biinds passing bctwoen the borders of the siguujid cavity of the radius and the head of tho ulna internal to the articular surface; and by an itilcv-arliriilar fihro-rartihir/c which will bo seen when the joint is o]H>n (Fig. 43, 12). Ihe synovial moinbrane {wnnlmma siirri/hnniti) is very loose and contain.s a good deal of fluid. The IntKnmcoHs lu/ameii/. or membrane (Fig. 40, 4) is tho great