41 THE BACK Of THE ARM. middle subscapular uerve has been already seen in the axilla, and can still be traced to the latissimus dorsi; the short subscapular nerves (upper and lower) are now to be followed, the upper to the subscapularis muscle, the lower to the subscapularis and teres major. The Subscapular Artery (p. 17) is still to be seen running along the axillary border of the scapula, and its branches should be thoroughly followed out. The Infra-scapular Artery is derived fi-om the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery. It passes into the venter scapiilEe, beneath the subscapularis muscle, which must be divided to expose it, and anastomoses with the neighbom-ing vessels. The Posterior Scapular Artery is to be found between the serratus magnus and the rhomboidei, and its anastomoses upon the dorsal and ventral surfaces of the scapula should be defined. By removing the muscular fibres from both surfaces of the scapula a verj" abundant network of vessels will be seen, formed by anastomosing branches from the arteries wbich have been already traced to the scapula ; viz., the subscapular with its dorsal branch [axillary], the supra-scapular [thp'oid axis], and the posterior scapular [thyroid axis or subclavian]. The Back of the Arm. [The fore-arm and hand are to be doubled under the upper aim, which is to be placed on the table with the back upwards, and the scapula is to be drawn down with hooks so as to put the triceps on the stretch. When the skin has been removed from the back of the ai-m, two external cutaneous branches of the musculo-spiral nerve should be noticed.] Cutaneous Nerves.—The iqyper external cutaneous branch of the mmmlo-spiral (Fig. 7, 7) appears aboiit the middle of the outer side of the arm, and rans downwards and forwards along the cephalic vein to the upper part of the fore-arm ; the luwtr external, of larger size (Fig. 17, 6), appears close above the external condyle, and will be afterwards traced down the liack of the fore-arm to the wri.st; and the thii'd or interual cutaneous branch pierces the fascia near the tendon of the teres major, and supplies an ai'ea on the inner side of the arm behind that of the intercosto-humeral nerve (Fig. 7, 6). Branches from the internal cutaneouB and lesser internal cutaneona nerves will be found on the inner side of the limb, and filaments of