INTERIOR OF THE BRAIN. 652 the stratum dorsale above, the zona incerta in the middle, and the cnr])iis siihthiiJamiriim beneath. The Pineal Body (Fig. 307, lo) (couariiim) is a reddish gi'ey flattened conical body, lying between the anterior pair of the corpora qiiadrigemina (nates), and above the posterior commissure of the third ventricle. Its anterior part or base is connected with the margins of the optic thalami by two slender (uduriur 2>nluncles or hahence, and with the posterior commissure by two slender inferior peduncles. It receives a special investment fi-om the velum inter- positum. The triangular depression, between the anterior peduncle and the pulvinar, is called the trigmmm Itaheiinhe. A grej' mtcletis is found in the floor of this space. The Corpora Guadrigemina or Optic Lobes (Fig. 307, 12) are foiu* white prominences containing grey matter, i:)laced imme- diately behind the third ventricle. They have been named Nates and Testes, fi'om their fancied resemblance to those parts ; the superior being the nates and the inferior the testes. They are connected with the corpora geniculata by white bands or hrachia, the brachium fi-om the superior quadrigeminal body on each side passing to the external geniculate body and the optic ti-act, the brachimn from the inferior quadrigeminal body to the internal geniculate body. Two broad white bands, the superior jjeduncles of the cerebellum [processus a cereheUo ad testes), pass fi'om the cerebellum to the inferior quadrigeminal bodies (Fig. 308, 3), and are connected by a thin layer of white matter, the Valve of Vieussem (Fig. 307, 13, Kg. 310, 15), to which may be traced the fourth pair of nerves. A small band of white matter seen passing transversely inwards to the corpora quadrigemina on each side, beneath the superior peduncle of the cerebellum, is called the Fillet of Reil (Fig. 308, 2). It is a portion of a tract of ascending fibres passing from the nuclei of the opposite posterior columns of the medulla, to end in the corpora quadrigemina and base of the cerebrum. [Opportunity may now be taken to trace out the anterior com- missure of the third ventricle and the anterior pillar of the fornix, by carefully scraping away the corpus striatum of one side.] The Anterior ■pilla.r of the Fornix has been seen descending in front of the thu-d ventricle, and behind the anterior commissure, to reach the base of the brain, where it is twisted upon itself and forms the superficial white substance of the corpus albicans. At this point it is probably continuous with the bundle of Vicq d'Azyr, which ascends to become lost in the grey matter of the optic thalamus.