16 THE AXTLLA. opposite the middle of the clavicle, to the lower border of the inser- tion of the teres major. In its upper part it is placed deeply in the axilla, but its lower portion is comparatively superficial. The artery is divided into three parts, the first, ahovt ; the second, behind; and the third, helow the pectoraHs minor; but it should be remembered that the position of the muscle shifts to some extent with the movements of the scapular arch, and that its development varies considerably in different subjects. When the pectoralis minor arises fi'om the second rib, it may completely cover the upper portion of the artery. The first part, of small extent, runs fi-om the outer border of the first rib to the upper border of pectoralis minor. It has /// front the pectoralis major muscle, the costo-coracoid membrane and the acromio-thoracic artery, and is crossed by the cephalic vein and by the external anterior thoracic nerve; behind, it has the fii-st inter- costal space and second rib, with the first and second digitations of the serratvis magnus and the posterior thoracic nerve ; to its inner side are the axiUary vein, lymphatics, and the internal anterior thoracic nerve, and to the outer are the large cords of the brachial plexus. This part of the artery generally gives off two branches, the Superior Thoracic and Acromio-Thoracic. The svcond part (behind the pectoralis minor) has in front the pectoralis major and the pectoralis minor; behind is a cellular space with the inner and posterior cords of the brachial plexus; to its inner side are the vein and the lower part of the imier cord; and on the Older side are the coracoid process, the coraco-brachialis, and the outer cord of the plexus. The branches of this part of the artery are the Long Thoracic and the Alar Thoracic. The third part (from the lower border of the pectoralis minor to the lower border of the teres major) has in front the pectoraUs major, the inner head of the mecHan nerve, the large mternal cutaneous nerve, and the outer brachial vena comes crossing at a variable point to join the inner: below the lower border of the pectoralis major the artery is subcutaneous; behind, it hes upon the lower part of the subscapularis, the tendon ot the latissimus dorsi, and a small portion of the teres major muscle, with the musculo-spiral and the circumflex nerves; to its inner side the axillary vein (formed by the junction of the ba-sihc vein ^^ath the ven^e comites of the brachial artery), the inner head of the median nerve (for a short distance), the ulnar, and the lesser mternal cutlneous (Wrisberg) nerves; to the onter side i. the «n-aco- WMs muscle, with the outer head of the median at first, bul lower down the entire nerve, and also the extei-nal cutaneous nervt