PERITONEAL POUCHES. 257 between tile rectum and bladder, and the peritoneum is jn-olonged from the rectum to the posterior wall of the vagina, and then over the uterus to the bladder, forming the redo-vaginal and i'tero-vesical pouches, and the anteriw and posterioi' In/ameids of the uterus. In the child an arrangement maj' occasionally be found which is extremely rare in the adult—the posterior layer of the great omentum ascending directly to the pancreas, and then being again reflected to the colon to form its meso-colon. Some indication of this may be seen in the adult in the transverse meso-colon near its sjjlenic extremity. Peeitoneal PotrCHES; Aji examination of the interior of the greater sac of the perito- neum shows certain pouches and fossse, some of which are of surgical interest. The principal of these are as follows 1. Fossa phrenico^hepatica.—On the under sm-face of the dia- phi'agm, beginning at the left lobe of the liver and extending to the left, parallel to the coronary ligament of the liver. Its diameter is from a sixth of an inch to an inch and a half. 2. Fossa dt(ode7io-jejunalis.—Situated at the root of the mesen- tery, and is exposed by raising the great omentum with the colon, and drawing the intestines to the right. It runs from left to right, and is of variable size, generally large enough to admit a finger. ' The entrance is bounded on the right side by the termination of the duodenum, on the left side by a semilunar band of peritoneum containing the inferior mesenteric ariery above and the colica smistra below. It sometimes lodges a hernia. _ 3. Fossa wter-sigmoidm.—Jjies at the middle of the root of the sigmoid meso-colon on its left face, and passes upwards on the inner side of the psoas muscle. This fossa is occasionally the seat of a hernia. 3. Fossa suh-cimilis, behind and internal to the CEecum. 6. Fossa ileo-colica.—At the junction of the ileum and CEOcuIn, beneath a peritoneal fold (ileo-colic) reflected over the anterior ileo-colic arterjr, 7. Fossa »7to-c(M'«//s.—Between the lower border of the termi- nation of the ileum and the root of the vermiform appendix It is sometimes double. The ,^:t,:r,>a/. middle and wtermd VH/uiml fossa' and thb rcdo^ rofpnal pouch have already been described. TTT^lf''™''"""''' '"'"^ THE VISCERA T,. TnL WALL OF THE ABOOMEN may be studied on Fig. i;50.