88 THE ELBOW JOINT. borders of the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna. It gives origin to fibres of the supinator brevis and extensor cai-pi radialis brevior.^ The Synovial Membrane common to the elbow and superior radio-ubiar joints will be seen by removing the anterior Hgament, and wiU be found to be reflected upon the inner surface of the capsule, including the orbicular Ugament, and upon the bones as far as the margin of the articular cavity. WeU-marked plicae adiposEe are formed by an infolding of the synovial membrane and subsynovial fat opposite the joint furrows and in the positions of the humeral fossee. A very large one fiUs the olecranon fossa duimg flexion, and smaUer ones occupy the coronoid and radial fossae during extension. The articular surfaces of all the bones are encrusted with cartilage, but occasionaUy a groove across the bottom of the greater sigmoid cavity separates that covering the olecranon from that covering the coronoid process; tHs groove, which is seen also in the macerated bone, must not be mistaken for the remains of the epiphysial line. Eelations.—The elbow-joint has in front the brachiabs anticus and biceps, the inner border of the supinator lougus, with the musculo-spii-al nerve and the tei-mination of the superior pro- funda artery beneath it, the pronator teres, the brachial vessels, and the median nerve; Mvind, the triceps and anconeus muscles, io the inner side, the muscles arising from the internal condyle, and the ulnar nerve, with the inferior profunda artery, Ipng upon the internal lateral ligament after passing behind the internal condyle. Externally, the muscles arising from the external condyle and supra- condyloid ridge, and the supinator brevis, which is closely connected with the external lateral ligament. Movements.—The fore-arm is flexed by the biceps, bracliialis anticus, supinator longus, extensor carpi radialis longior, pronator radii teres, and (feebly) by the flexor carpi radiaHs, palmans longus and flexor digitorum sublimis. It is extended by the ti-iceps and anconeus, and slightly by the extensor carpi ulnaris extensor digitorum communis and extensor minimi digiti. matwn of the radius upon the ulna and hiunerus, and consequcntlj- a portion of the movements of pronation and supination of the hand, are pro- duced as follows,-iVo«««/o«, by the pronator quadratus, pronator teres and flexor carpi radialis, supination by the biceps supinator brevis, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis (ulnar head) and extensor secimdi internodii p.,Uicis. The supinator longus has no influence of importance upon pronation and supination, but probably acts slightly in bringing thcforc-arm into the position of semi-pronation when the elbow is flexed.