CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. 246 gasti'ic fold and the m'aclius, and the cxti-riKiI on the outer side of the epigastric fold. The term " HessfUxtrliH tn'ui)(/h-. " (</) has been applied to the triangular space bounded by the border of the rectus internally', the epigastric artery externally, and Poupart's ligament below, and it is through this that direct inguinal hernia forces its way. It is subdivided into two parts by the obliterated hypogastnc artery, which, like the epigastric artery, is often supported by a distinct fold of peritoneum. The foM of Douglas (t), or sharp lower margin of the posterior sheath of the rectus, will be readily perceived through the peritoneum. [By dividing the lower portion of the abdominal wall in the median line, it can be reflected on each side, and the abdominal contents will be exposed.] Abdominal Cavity.—The parts first seen on opening the abdo- men are the stomach and portions of the right and left lobes of the liver ; and the gaU-bladder if distended generally lies at the right costal margin where this is joined by the linea semilunaiis; but it must be remembered that the liver is higher in the recumbent than in the erect position, and that in the child the organ is larger and the right lobe extends nearly or quite to the median line in front. The great omentum passing down from the stomach con- ceals the rest of the intestines. Should, however, the omentum be turned up, as often happens, the mass of the smaU intestines will be visible, and immediately below the stomach the transverse colon. The ascending colon on the right and sigmoid flexure on the left side will be more or less visible according to the amount of then- Fig 124 -Superficial dissection of thorax and abdomen (from Maclise's Surgical Anatomy.) A Eiglat ventricle of Heart. R- trachea. B. P^nonary artery. S. Thyroid body *-R Pericardium T. Braclnal plexus. C. i^cl^^ding arch of Aorta. U. Internal Jugvdar vem (cut). *C. Transverse arch of Aorta. V- y"'^"^ D. Right auricular appendage. W. -bu-st riD. E. Ductus arteriosus with recurrent Y. laryngeal nerve. Z- Diaphragm. F. Superior Vena Cava. 1- , ^ G. Left Brachio-cephalic vein. 2. Gall-bladder. H. Left Common Carotid. 3. ^"'"V--^.-OAstric L Lett Subclavian vein. 4. Coe^.ac ax>sf' ^ K. Left Liternal Jugular (cut). ?'P"^r'' " Oa ^ L. Right Liternal Jugular. 5. Inferior Vena Ca\ a. M. Right Subclavian vein. 6. bpleen. N. Innominate artery. V. Large >ntest.ne O Left Subclavian artery. g"''n "TZ^f P. Right Subclavian artery. 7.7. Small intestines. Q. Right Common Carotid.