THE BACK OF THE THIGH. 142 semi-membi-aiiosus on the inner side. The gracilis and sartoriiis might also be regarded as inner hamstrings. The biceps and semi- tendinosus, which arise in common, are superficial to the semi- membranosus near the tuber ischii, and the semi-tendinosus maintains this relation to the semi-membranosus throughout. The short head of the biceps will be found on the outer side of the lower part of the femur. The Biceps (Fig. 62, 19) or outer hamstring arises by its long head from the lower and inner aspect of the tuber ischii, in common with the semi-tendinosus, and from the great sacro-sciatic liga- ment, with the fibres of which it is in direct continuity. It crosses the great sciatic nerve and, by diverging from the semi-membra- nosus in the lower fourth of the thigh, forms the outer boundary of the popliteal space. The short head (20), which is fleshy, arises from the outer lip of the linea aspera, nearly as high as the insertion of the gluteus maximus, and from its outer division to within two inches of the condyle, and from the external intermuscular septum. The two heads having united opposite the lower end of the femm-, the muscle is inserted into the bicipital tuberosity on the outer side of the head of the fibula, into the fascia of the leg, and by a slip which passes in front of the tibio-fibvilar joint into the adjacent portion of the external tibial tuberosity. The tendon splits to enclose the lower end of the long external lateral Ugament, from which it is separated by a bursa (Fig. 63, 2). The Semi-tendinosus (Fig. 62, 19) arises by fleshy fibres fi-om the tendon of the biceps, and in common with it from the lower and inner portion of the back of the tuber ischii. It forms one of the inner boundaries of the popliteal space, and ends m a long slender tendon, which Ues on the semi-membranosus posterior to the o-racilis, and passes to be inserted into the deep fascia of the leg and into the tibia below the inner tuberosity; it lies there beneath the tendon of the sartorius and below that of the gracilis, and sur- rounded by a bursa common to it and the two muscles named Its fibres are crossed by a tendinous intersection m the middle ot the thigh. x 1 +1 The Semi-membranosus (Fig. 62, 21), though one of tl internal hamstrings, is external to the biceps at its origin It a by a strong tendon from the outer and upper part of the tuber ischii, and passing beneath the origins of the biceps and semi- tendinosus, spreads into a broad tendon from which the muscular fibres arise to form a thick boUy that extends nearly as low as the knee. It is inserted by a short strong tendon into an impres- sion at the back of the inner surface of the internal tuberosity ot 10 ;•).- -