574 THE THORAX. [The right lung is to be drawn forward, and the pleura divided where it is reflected from the lung to the wall of the thorax, and the parts iu the posterior mediastinum are to be cleaned. The muscular oesophagus will be at once seen, and the right pneumo-gastric nerve is to be traced to it and to the back of the right bronchus. On disi^lacing the oesoijhagus, the side of the descending thoracic aorta will come into view, but it will be Ijetter seen in the dissection of the left side. The vena azygos major appears to the right of the aorta, and between the two will be found the slender and collapsed thoracic duct. The intercostal vessels will be seen crossing the back of the space, and near the diaphragm the splanchnic nerves from the sympathetic chain enter the mediastiniun, but the chain of ganglia lies behind the pleura.] The Posterior Mediastinum (Fig. 259) is the intei-plem-al space behind the pericardium. It is bomided behind by the thoracic vertebras below the 4th, in front by the pericardium, and on ecah sidr by the reflection of the pleura. Its contents are the thoracic aorta, the vena azygos major, the pneumo-gastric and splanchnic nerves, the a?sophagus, the thoracic duct, lymphatics and connective tissue. It communicates above with the neck through the superior mediasti- num, and below with the retro-peritoneal space in the abdomen through the aortic opening iu the diaphragm. The CEsophagus (Fig. 271, 29) is a muscular tube continuous with the pharynx. It begins opposite the lower border of the 6th cervical vertebra, and lies sHghtly to the left side of the median line in the neck, as it passes through the superior aperiure of the thorax. About the 5th thoracic vertebra it regains the middle line, and then follows the cuiwe of the spine down to the level of the 10th thoracic vertebra, at which point it bends forward and to the left to pass through the oesophageal opening in the diaphragm, tei-nunatmg in the stomach opposite the lower border of the same vertebra. In front of it, in the chest, lie the trachea, the right pulmonary artery, "the left common carotid artery, the left recurrent larj-ngeal and left vagus nerves, the pericardium, and some bronchial lymphatic glands. Belind are the thoracic vertebra, the longi coUi, the thoracic duct, the left azygos veins, the vena azygos major (sUghtly overlapped), the right intercostal arteries, the right vagus, and the aorta (below) To the right are the right pleura and Imig and some bronchial r^lands; to the h-ft the posterior part of the horizontal aoi-ta and the uppor part of the dorsal aorta, the left subclavian artery, the left va-nis, the left pleura and lung, and the thoracic duct (above). fts relations in the neck are given at p. 427. In the abdomen it Hes in a notch in the back of the left lobe of the liver, close to the lobus Spigolii, and is invested by peritoneum.