THE 'I'RTCEPS. 43 insertion of the teres minor, and from th(! outer side of the posterior aspect of the bone, as far down as the miisculo-sijiral groove; also slightly from the external inter muscular septum which intervenes between it and the deltoid. It forms a tendinous arch over the muscido-spiral nerve. The inner head (13) arisva fi'om the whole of the jiosterior aspect of the humerus below the insertion of the teres major and the musculo-spii'al groove, to within half an inch of the elbow-joint on the inner side, and extending to the back of the con- dyle on the outer side: fibres also arise from the external and internal intermuscular septa which intervene between it and muscles of the front of the arm. The whole of the fibres converge to a strong tendon, which is inserted into the posterior margin of the top of the olecranon jjrocess of the ulna, and into the deep fascia of the fore-arm by means of a strong prolongation, which lies over the anconeus muscle, and is fixed to the posteiior border of the ulna; while a fasciculus detached from its deep sm'face is attached to the back of the capsule of the elbow-joint, and is known as the suh-auconeus. A small bursa intervenes between the tendon and the forepart of the olecranon pi'ocess, which will be seen when the joint is opened. The triceps is the great extensor of the fore-arm upon the upper arm, and its action is that of a force applied to a lever of the first order. The long head also adducts and draws backwards the humerus. It is si/pplied by the musculo-spiral nerve. [The long head being hooked to the inner side, and the musculo- spiral nerve having been put on the stretch, the fibres of the outer head are to be divided as they blend with those of the inner head in order to follow the nerve, with the superior profunda artery, round the bone.] The Musoulo-spiral Nerve (Fig. 17, g)has been already shown (p. 32) to be a branch of the posterior cord of the brachial plexus, and has been seen to disappear between the internal and middle heads of the triceps; it can now be followed iu the oblique groove on the back of the humerus between the inner and outer heads of the muscle, until it reaches th(! interval between the supinator longus and brachialis anticus. It gives off numerous large branches to the triceps in its course, and afterwards supplies the suiiinator longus, extensor carpii radialis longior, brachialis anticus (in part), and the anconcius; and the branch to the last muscle with an accompanying artery should be at once traced through the fibres of the triceps at the back of the external (condyle. The branch to the inner head of the triceps is known as the nlnar collateral of Krause, because it descends in close relation to the ulnar nerve. The cutaneous branches have been described at p. 41.