POSTERIOR TRIANGLE OF NECK 382 a branch of the ansa hyi^oglossi, which supplies the posteiior belly. The origin and insertion of the muscle are found in other dissections. The Transverse Cervical Artery (Fig. 185, as) is generally found at the level of the tendon of the omo-hyoid, and the Vein a little above it, so that their relations to the subdivisions of the triangle are somewhat different. The artery, a branch of the thyroid axis [subclavian], passes transversely under the sterno-mastoid and over the scalene muscles, crosses the posterior triangle, and divides under the border of the trapezius into the superficial cervical and posterior scapular arteries. The superficial cervical goes to the trapezius, the anterior border of which it supplies, and terminates by anastomosing with superficial branches of the princeps cervicis of the occipital; the posterior scapular runs beneath the levator anguli scapulse muscle to the vertebral border of the scapula, where it is seen in the dissec- tion of the back. The posterior scapiilar artery, however, often arises as a separate trunk from the second or thii-d part of the subclavian artery, the superficial cervical then alone occupjdng the position of the transverse cervical. The transverse cervical vein lies above the level of the artery, and joins the external jugular. The Supra-scapular Artery and Vein (Fig. 185, 31) lie close behind the clavicle. The artery is nearly always a branch of the thyroid axis, but occasionally arises from the second or thu-d part of the subclavian. It runs in front of the thii-d stage of the subclavian artery, and passes behind the clavicle to reach the upper border of the scapula. The vein opens into the external jugular, just before it joins the subclavian vein. The Third portion of the Subclavian Artery (Fig. 185, 30) extends from the outer border of the anterior scalenus, obliquely downwards and outwards behind the clavicle, to the outer boi-der of the fii'st rib, where it becomes the axillary artery. It has w front the skm, platysma, superficial nerves, deep fascia, clavicle, subclavius muscle, and supra-scapular vessels; and is crossed by the smaU nerve to the subclavius, and by the external jiigular vem, which is joined at this point by the supra-scapular and transverse cervica veins. Behind are the scalenus medius, the pleura, and the lowest trunk of the brachial plexus. Above run the other trunks of tiie brachial plexus: and below, at some distance and in an anterior plane, is the subclavian vein. The subclavian groove on the first rib lies behind and below the artery owing to the downward slope ot the rib, and a bui-sa will often be found between the bone and the vessel. In a little more than half of the cases this portion gives