92 THE WRIST JOINT, Eelations.—It has in front the tendons of the flexor longus poUicis, flexor carpi radiahs, palmaris longus, flexor sublimis and profundus, and flexor carpi ulnaris; with the radial vessels, the median nerve, palmar cutaneous nerves, and the ulnar vessels ami nerve. To the outer side, the tendons of the extensor ossis meta- carpi and primi internodii poUicis, with the radial vessels crossmg ohHquely from the fi'ont. Behind, the tendons of the extensor carpi radiaHs longior and the brevier, extensor secundi internodii poUicis, extensor communis digitorum, extensor indicis, extensor minimi digiti, and extensor carpi ulnaris ; with the radial nerve, the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve, and the tei-mmal branch of the posterior interosseous nerve, as weU as some small The ligaments connecting together the carpal bones are very numerous and scarcely repay a special dissection. They may be classified as follows :— 1. Ligaments of the upper row : Dorsal, Palmar, and Interosseous, running between semi- lunar and bones on either side ; Capsular, between pisifonn and cuneiform ; Transverse, between scaphoid and cuneiform, passing across back of head of os magniun. 2. Ligaments of the lower row : Dorsal, Palmar, and Interosseous, connecting each bone with its neighbours. 3. Ligaments connecting the two rows with each other: Dorsal and Palmar. External Lateral between scaphoid and trapezium. Internal Lateral between cuneiform and uncifoi-m. The Medio-carpal Joint between the two rows of carpal bones is one of great importance, as the movements of flexion and exten- sion of the hand are shared almost equally between this and the radio-carpal articulations. _ , i. n MOVEMEKTS OP Haxd AT WEIST.-Tho hand IS Jlcrol at the radio-carpal and medio-carpal joints by the flexor carpi i-uiuihs, the flexor carpi ulnaris. and the superficial and deep flexors ot the fingers and thiunb. It is extended at the same articulations by Uie two radial carpal extensors, the extensor carpi ulnaris, the eonunon and sp.>cial extensors of the fingers, and the three special extensors of the thumb; the range of motion being greatest when the lingers are flexed. It is obduded at the radio-carpal joint only by tlio thumb extensors, the flexor carpi radiahs, and the extensor carpi radiaHs longior; and is uddaded hy the flexor and extensor carpi uhiaris The rotatory movements associated with pronation ana