THE SYMPATHETIC. 423 and twigs to the inferior constrictor, and supplies all the intrinsic muscles of the larjTix except the crico-thyroid. It communicates b}^ a small filament with the superior larpageal nerve. The Cardiac (17) branches of the pneumo-gasti-ic are superior, given off high in the upper part of the neck, and joining the sym- pathetic ; and inferior, arising a little above the upper ojjening of the thorax, through which they pass to join the cardiac plexuses. The PharyiHjeal branch and some small communicating branches arising at the upper part of the nerve are not yet visible. The Hypoglossal Nerve (Fig. 205, 9) (12th nerve) after com- municating with the vagus, the first and second cervical nerves, and superior cervical ganglion, appears below the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, hooking round the sterno-mastoid artery, and curving forward superficially to the great vessels. It afterwards passes beneath the stj'lo-hyoid and posterior belly of the digastricus close to the hyoid bone, and is then seen in the angle between the two bellies of the digastric muscle, lying upon the hyo-glossus below the lingual branch of the fifth; finally disappearing beneath the posterior border of the mylo-hyoid muscle to supply the muscles of the tongue (Eig. 206, 11). Its recui-rent meningeal branch comes off in the anterior condyloid foramen, and supplies the dura mater. Its descending Iranch (ramus descendens cervicis) arises opposite the occipital artery, and runs downward and forward either upon or within the carotid sheath, and forms a loop {ansa hypoglossi) with one or more branches fi-om the 2nd and 3rd nerves of the cervical plexus, the communicantes cervicis (Fig. 199, 7). The nerre to the thyro-liyoid muscle is a very delicate branch given off from the 12th nerve just before it passes beneath the digastric. This and the last, as weU as the branch to the genio-hyoid, are to be traced to the communication fi-om the 1st and 2nd cervical nerves. The Sympathetic (Figs. 205 & 206) in the neck lies behind the carotid sheath upon the prevertebral muscles. It is a slender greyish cord bearing thi-ee cervical ganglia, of which only one can now be seen. The middle cervical or thyroid ganglion (23 & 24), small and t)ften scarcely distinguishable, lies opposite the 6th cervical vertebra, and usually over the first loop of the inferior thyroid artery. From this ganglion branches of communication go to the fifth and sixth cervical nerves ; thyroid branches arc distributed upon the inferior thyroid artery ; the middle cardiac nerve (the deep or groat cardiac nerve) passes into the thorax, and some small twigs^ run to the