163 THE PLANTAR ARTERIES. inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, and by a fibrous expansion into the inner side of the long extensor tendon of the same toe. The Abductor Minimi Digiti (Fig. 80, 4) arises fi-om the outer and inner tuberosities of the os calcis in front of the flexor breyis digitorum; from the plantar fascia and intermuscular septum; and from the fascia of the outer border of the foot as far forward as the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. Its tendon is rnsfirted into the outer side of the base of the fii-st phalanx of the little toe.* The actions of the superficial muscles of the foot are partly indicated by their names, but it should be remarked that abduction and adduction are fi-om and to the median plane of the foot and not of the body. The abductors are also flexors of the toes with which they are connected, and the whole of the plantar muscles aid in mamtaining the longitudinal arch of the foot. The flexor brevis digitorum and abductor hallucis are suppUed by the niternal plantar nerve; the abductor minimi digiti by the external plantar nerve. [To bring the deeper parts into view, the best way will be to remove with the saw a thin slice of the os calcis, including the attachments of the superficial muscles, when, if the attachment of tfie abductor hallucis to the internal annular ligament be divided, they can be turned forwards, and the plantar nerves and vessels will be seen. I The Plantar Arteries (Pig. 81), internal and external, are the terminal branches of the posterior tibial, and enter the foot beneath the abductor hallucis and in close relation with the plantar nerves i-he internal plantar artery, which is the smaller of the two is accompanied by the large internal plantar nerve, the large external plantar artery going with the smaller external nerve. Both vessels are accompanied by vence comites. The Internal plantar artery (7) is usually of smaU size, and runs iorward m the fascial septum between the abductor hallucis and flexor brevLs digitorum to the great toe, where it anastomoses with the intemal and commimicating branches of the dorsal artery of the foot. If well injected it may sometimes be traced with the nerve to the third interosseous space, joining the digital branches to the three inner toes. The Ea:ternal plantar artery (4) runs obliquely outwards across the M 2