THE ORBIT. 392 have been divided into antmor and imsUriur, the latter piercing the sclerotic near the entrance of the optic nerve, the former usually derived from muscular branches perforating the sclerotic close to the margin of the cornea. Of the posterior ciliary, some, the short ciliary, break up at once to form the arterial plexus of the choroid; others, generally two in number, the long ciliary, run forward'between the choroid and sclerotic to join the anterior ciliary in forming the great arterial cucle of the iris. A branch enters the optic nerve to rim in it to the retina, and is caUed the arteria centralis retina; (3). e. The Ethmoidal arteries, anterior (9) and postenor (7), pass through the ethmoidal foramina in the inner wall of the orbit, the anterior accompanying the nasal nerve. They supply meningeal twigs, and branches to the nose, the anterior ending on the tace and anastomosing with the lateralis nasi. • •, f f The Palpehral arteries, two in number {14), leave the orbit at the inner side, to be distributed to the upper and lower eyelids. q The Frontal artery (13), one of the terminal branches, tui-ns round the margin of the orbit at its inner angle to accompany the supra-trochlear nerve on the forehead. It supplies the muscles and integument and anastomoses with the supra-orbital. h The Nasal artery (15), the other termmal branch, leaves the orbit at the inner side above the tendo oculi, and anastomoses on the side of the nose with the angular branch of the facial ""'The Optthalmic Veins (Fig. 189, 10) are formed by tributarie^s which coiTespond generally with the branches of the artei-y, and form two trunks, a snperior, communicating with tlie facial vem and running through the sphenoidal fissure between the heads of the external rectus to end in the cavernous sinus, and anor, which commimicates with the pterygoid plexus thi-ough the spheno- maxiUarv fissui'e, and also terminates by joining the cavernou. Sius The vena', vorticose^ which return the blood from the choroid are four in number. They do not run with the ciliary arteries, but pierce the sclerotic near the equator of the globe to 30m the ophthalmic veins. . - The Optic Nerve (Fig. 189, 13) (2nd) '^^ters by the optic fo a- men and passing through the centre of the orbit to the ejeball. ""ces the'back of the sderotic about ^th of an inch to the mner side of the axis of the eyeball to end in the retina. It has a com- plex sheath derived from the meninges of the brain. [The optic nerve is to be divided, and the globe turned forwards to bring into view the muscles beneath.]