TTIE FOURTH VENTRICLE. 657 Fig. 311. The Fourth Ventricle (Fig. 308, 6) is a serous cavity situated between the pons Varolii and medulla oblongata in front, and the cerebellum behind. It is lozenge-shaped, and presents anterior and posterior walls, superior and inferior lateral boundaries, siiperior, inferior, and lateral angles. It commimicates with the third ven- ti'icle by the aqueduct of Sylvius above, with the central canal of the cord by the ventricle of Aranfius below, and with the subarachnoid space, by three apertures in the pia mater of its pos- terior wall, one in the middle, the foramen of Magendie, and one in each lateral recess. The anterior nutU ov floor (Fig. 311) is vertical. It is formed by the pos- terior sm-face of the pons Varolii and meduUa oblongata, and presents for notice the following pai-ts :—(1) The median furrow (f.sc), extending from the aqueduct of Sylvius to the ventricle of Arantius. On each side of this are (2) the fasciculits teres (ft.), an eminence consisting of white fibres prolonged from the cord to the crus cerebri; (3) Strice. acoiisticw [a.st.), white bands of origiu of the auditory nerve crossing the fasciculus ti'ansversely; (4) The superior fovea (f.s.), a smaU longitudinal furrow external to the fasciculus and above the strise acoustical; (5) The inferi(yr fovea [f.i.), a fiu-row shaped like an inverted V, separating the lower part of the fasciculus internally fi-om (6) the ala cinerea (a.c.), a little grey Fig. 311.—Diagi-am Rhowing the position of the nerve nuclei near the floor of the fourth ventricle (after Thane). c.q. Position of the corpora quacM- gemina. f.s. Fovea superior. f.t. Fasciculus teres. a.st. Auditory strice. a.t. Auditory tubercle f.i. Fovea inferior. The Roman numbers indicate the nuclei of the corresponding nerves: V(?. Nucleus of the descending root of 5th. Ym. Motor nucleus of 5lh. Vs. Sensory nucleus of Sth. VIIIo. Outer auditory nucleus. VIII/. Inner auditory nucleus. CSC. Calamus scriptorius. (i.e. Area cerulea. r.b. Rcstiform body. /.(•. Funiculus cuneatus. f.fj. Funiculus gracilis. B. Tubercle of Rolando. n. V U