THE INFERIOR CAROTID TRIANGLE. 403 the pneumo-gastiic nerve being concealed bekind and between the vessels, and the sjonpathetic nerve lying still deeper beneath their sheath. The commencement of the external and internal carotids is seen at, or near, the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and both vessels are crossed superficially by the hj^joglossal nerve, a small twig of which to the thyro-hyoid muscle should be preserved ; the superior laryngeal nerve appears on the inner side of the carotid vessels, passing behmd the internal and external carotid arteries to enter the larjmx thi-ough the interval between the hyoid bone and the thjToid cartilage, between the middle and inferior constrictors of the pharynx. Lower down, a branch of this nerve, the external laryngeal, ending in the crico-thyroid, should be sought for. The superior thja-oid, lingual, and facial arteries are partly visible in the anterior portion of the space; and the occipital artery is seen tm-jiing backwards below the digasti-ic, with the hji^oglossal nerve curving roimd its sterno-mastoid branch. The Inferior Carotid Triangle is bounded in front by the median line from hyoid bone to sternum, heliind and above by the omo-hyoid, hehind and below by the sterno-mastoid. Its floor is fomied by the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, the thyroid body, the larynx, trachea, and oesophagus, the thyi-oid vessels, some small nerves, and lymphatics. [It will be advisable to examine the ligaments of the inner end oi the clavicle, before detaching it. The sternal origin of the sterno-mastoid must be cut, and any remains of the pectoraUs inaior must be removed, in order that the Hgaments between the clavicle, sternum, and first rib, and also between the two clavicle'; may be cleaned. ' It is supposed that the clavicle has been cut close to the attach- ment of the sterno-mastoid in the dissection of the posterior triauo-le r • 1 , "®nn' ^ ^"^^ case it shoidd now be divided. Ihc inner end of the bone being then drawn up the costo-claviciilar ligament is to be divided, and the knife iiassed into tlie sterno-clavicular articulation from below, and close to the clavicle. By this, one of the two sjoiovial membranes will be opened, and the other can be exposed by cutting from above close to the sternum, thus leavmg the inter-articular cartilage uninjured. The mter-articular fibro-cartilage is to be divided and the inner end j^' ^'^g"^- , . 22. Semi^inalis colli." lb. Vertebral artery. 23. Scaleni medius et posticus y(. «calenusanticU8andrcctu«capitis 24. Complexus 18 Sninii""' Corvicalis ascendens. IB. bpmal cord. 26. Splenius capitis et colli