579 THE THORACIC AORTA. [The left lung is now to be cli-awn forward, and the pleura removed in the same manner as on the right side. The oesophagus with branches from the left pneumo-gastiic will be seen near the diaphragm, and upon displacing it, the descending thoracic aorta wUl be brought into view, with the left splanchnic nerves and azygos veins.] The Left Pneumo-gastric Nerve (Fig. 272, 31) enters the thorax between the left carotid and subclavian arteries, and behind the left innominate vein. It descends between the horizontal arch and the left lung, giving off its recurrent lavijmjeal branch and the anterior 2^uIinoitari/ plexus, and passes behind the root of the left hmg and m front of the descending aorta, there giving off the pos- terior puhnonary plexus. It then reaches the front of the oesophagus, and joins in the formation of the plexus </uke ; finally passing thi'ough the oesophageal opening in the diaphragm. The recurrent lurynyeal branch runs outside the remains of the ductus arteriosus, and upwards on the right of the horizontal aorta, ascending to the neck in the sulcus between the trachea and oesophagus. It gives off cardiac nerves to the deep cardiac plexus. The Dorsal or Descending Thoracic Aorta (Pig. 273, 26) is the continuation of the arch of the aorta, and extends from the lower border of the fifth thoracic vertebra to the lower border of the twelfth thoracic vertebra, opposite which it passes thi-ough the aortic opening in the diaphragm to become the abdominal aorta. In its coui-se it Hes at first to the left, but afterwards in front of the bodies of the vertebrae, and crosses the left azygos veins. It is crossed by the root of the left lung and by the oesophagus; the latter at fii-st lying to the right side, but afterwards passing in front and then a Httle to the left side of the vessel, close to the diaphragm. The pericardium also touches it in front. The thoracic duct and the vena azygos major keep to its right side, and it is Fig. 274.—Veins of the trunk and ueok (from Cruveilhier). 1. Right iutenml jugular vein. 13. Vena cava superior, receiving the d. Right external jugular vein. 14. Left bronchus. 4. Left e.xternal jugular vein. 15. Vena azygos major. 5. Right innominate vein. 16. Vena azygos superior. 7 vein. 17. Quadratus lumborum. i- Right superior intercostal vom. 18. Vona azygos minor ». Left superior intercostal artery. 19. Vena cava inferior ' 10 T pT-'1 '''"'V • Abdominal aorta. 11 Rilh "''^"'""^^y vein. 21. Right common iliac artery. 12 O 'nammary vein. 22. Ascending lumbar vein tininr^f ^'<^'"' 23. Right common iliac vein, joining left superior azygos 24. Left common iliac artery. 26. Left common iliac vein. PP 2