448 THE PTERYGO-MAXILLARY REGION. pterygoid, with the internal maxillary artery Ijang either upon or beneath the lower head of the muscle. If superficial to the muscle the artery shoidd be cleaned and held aside with a hook.] The External Pterygoid Muscle (Fig. 218, i) arises by two heads, one from the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate and tuberosity of the maxilla ; the other from the under surface of the great wing of the sphenoid below the pterygoid ridge. Its fibres run backwards and outwards, converging to be inserted into the hollow on the front of the neck of the lower jaw, and into the capsular ligament and inter-articular fibro-cartilage of the joint. Temporo-Maxillary Articulation.—The joint surfaces are sui-rounded by a aipsuh which is thickened externally, internally and posteriorly to form the external lateral, short internal lateral, and posterior ligaments. It is connected to the circimiference of the inter-articular fibro-cartilage, and gives insertion to some of the fibres of the external pterygoid. The external lateral ligament (Fig. 219, 5) is a short thick band of fibres, broader above than below, and passes obliquely downwards and backwards from the lower border of the preglenoid tubercle to the neck of the jaw. The short iidcrnal lateral ligament (Henle) runs from the margin of the Glaserian fissure to the inner side of the neck of the jaw. The 2Wsterior ligament (Sappey) consists of elastic fibres which are attached above to the post-glenoid process, and below to the posterior border of the articular cartilage and to the posterior sm-face of the neck of the bone. It is stretched during depression of the jaw, when the condyle advances upon the eminentia articularis. By dividing the Hgaments, the inter-articular cartilage and the synovial membranes above and below it wiU be brought into view. The inter-articular fihro-cartilage (Fig. 220, 3) is adapted to the glenoid cavity and eminentia articularis above and the condyle of the lower jaw below, its upper sui-face being concavo-convex from before backwards, the lower surface concave. If the condyle is detached from the temporal bone and tui-ned forward with the external pterygoid muscle, the cartUage wiU be found to be oval m outline and thicker at the margins than in the centre, where iti. occasionally perforated (6). The Ion,, internal, lateral liyament(Fig. 221, 4), now fully exposed, does not 'form a part of the capsule; it is a membranous band, aSow above, where it is fixed to the spine of the sphenoid bone anrwTdening below to be attached to the lingula at the entrance of Z ilferior dental canal. Between the Hga-nt and the jaw ai. found the external pterygoid muscle, the internal maxillaiy Ncsse^ with their auricular, tympanic, meningeal, and mfenoi dentU