THE PHARYNX. 475 vertebrre, and is most conveniently divided into three portions, two oblique and one vertical. The inferior oblique portion (3) arisi's from the bodies of the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd thoracic vertebras, and passes obliquely upwards to be inserted into the anterior tubercles on the transverse processes of the oth and 6th cervical vertebrae. The superior ohlique portion (5) arises fi'om the anterior tubercles on the transverse processes of the 3rd, 4th, and oth cervical vertebrEe, and passes upwards and otitwards to be iuserted into the anterior tubercle of the atlas. The vertical portion (6) arises fi'om the bodies of the two or three lower cervical and three upper thoracic vertebrte, and receives sKps from the transverse processes of some of the lower cervical vertebrje. It IS in^eiied into the bodies of the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th cervical vertebrre. The longus colH is supplied by the anterior branches of the cervical nerves. All the prevertebral muscles flex the upper part of the vertebral column, the anterior recti also bending the head at the occipito- atlantal jomt; a muscle of one side acting alone draws the spine to that side, the anterior having also a sHght but similar action uiron the cramum. The scalene muscles, when the vertebrre are fixed- raise the ribs and act as muscles of inspiration. The rectus lateraUs bends the head to its own side. The anterior and posterior Intertransverse muscles may be seen between the transverse processes. The anterior pass between the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes; and the posterior ones wiU be m the dissection of the back separating the anterior and posterior divisions of the cervical nerves at their exit from the intervertebral foramina. The Vertebral Artery wiU be seen between the scalenus anticus and the longus colU muscles, and may be more conveniently traced through the foramina in the ti-ansverso processes now than at an eariier period [r. p. 417). The anterior divisions of the cervical nerves pass behind the vertebral vessels nnd in front of the posterior intertransverse muscles. DlSaECTION OF THE PhARYNX. Before dissecting the anterior half of the skull with the pharynx the dissector should examine tlie fauces and upper part of the pharynx from the mouth. The soft palate, witli the uvula in the inndian hne, will be readily recognised, and passing from the soft palate on each side will be seen the two pillars of the fauces with