THE LOCUS PERFORATUS ANTJCUS. 627 ^ The liocus Perforatus Posticus (Fig. 298, 12) is placed behind the corpora albicantia in the angle between the two crui-a cerebri. It is composed of grey matter, and is perforated by numerous small vessels going to the thalamus opticus fi'om the posterior cerebral artery. The several structm-es which have been enumerated in the median line, viz., lamina cinerea, optic chiasma, tuber cinereum, corpora albicantia, and locus perforatus posticus, are all included within the area of the circle of WiUis, and also form parts of the anterior wall and floor of the third ventricle of the brain (see vertical section Fig. 310). The Interpednnnilar spare is the lozenge-shaped interval between the optic commissure and tracts in front, and the crura cerebri and pons Varolii behind. It contains the tuber cinereum, the infimdi- bulum, the corpora albicantia, the posterior perforated spot, and the third pair of nerves. The Olfactory Peduncle (First nerve) (Fig. 298, 3) is of a prismatic shape, very soft, being destitute of neurilemma, and held m its place only by a reflection of the arachnoid. It has three roots, two white and one grey. The external root (wliite) passes in front of the anterior perforated space to the fissure of Sylvius, and may be traced to the corpus striatum; the internal root (white) goes to the inner side of the fi-ontal lobe; the middle root (gi-ej^) passes to the papilla of grey matter in the olfactory sulcus. The Olfactory Bulb (Fig. 298, 3) is a small lobe of grey matter formed upon the extremity of the olfactory peduncle, and fi-om it arise the branches of the olfactory nerve, which descend to the nose. It is oval in shape, and rests upon the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. The Optic or Second Nerve (Fig. 298, 7) pa.sses fi-om the optic commissure to the eye-ball, where it is lost in the retina It is round and firm, and is invested by a sheath composed of dura mater, arachnoid and pia mater. It has been shown that each optic nerve has fibres derived from the opposite as well as from the coiTesponding eye and side of the brain, and others connecting it with its follow. ^ Thf- Optic Tract (Fig. 298) is a flattened band connecting the optic commissure with the brain. It can be seen passing around the crus cerebri to disappear beneath the imcinate gyrus and will be afterwards traced to the corpora, fjenim/nta, to the optic 'thalamus and to the corpora ipiadru/cinina. ■ ' W ^l^^rTp ^f'^^""^^"^ (Fig. 298, 6) is situated close behind the olfactory nerve, and at the inner end of the fissm-o of ss 2