THE THORAX. 544 with, and care should be taken to divide the second rib in front of the attachment of the scalenus posticus. The lungs are to be drawn away from the heart, and the layer of pleura reflected on the pericardium is then to be carefully removed (the phrenic nerves Ipng between the two serous membranes on each side being- preserved), and the roots of the lungs cleaned \vithout injuring the pericardium. After observing the external surface of the pericardium, it may be opened by an oblique incision from above downwards and to the left, in order to study its interior.] The Pericardium (Fig. 259) is a fibro-serous membrane en- closing the heai-t. The Fibrous layer is of conical shape, attached by its base to the thoracic surface of the diaphragm, while its narrow upper ex tremity becomes lost upon the adventitia of the gi-eat vessels. It receives a band of fibrous tissue fi-om the deep cervical fascia in front, and is connected to the sternum and spine by fascial Hgamentous processes. Its outer surface gives attachment in the greater part of its extent to the pleui-as, which leave a mesial posterior mediastinal space uncovered behind, and a vei-y nan-ow anterior mediastinal space to the left of the middle line in fi-ont. The latter usually lies behind the lower third of the left side of the meso-stemum. The Serous layer resembles other serous metabranes in having parietal and visceral reflections. The parietal lamina covers the inner surface of the fibrous layer, and the cardiac area of the dia- phragm; the visceral layer invests the heart and the roots of all the great vessels, extending as a common tube for the aorta and pulmo- nary artery for a distance of about two inches fi-om theii- origin. It also surrounds the pulmonary veins and superior vena cava, but covers the inferior vena cava only on its anterior half, the posterior half of the vessel blending with the fibrous pericai-dium just after piercing the diaphragm. It forms a number of pouches between the great vessels. Two of these are specially noteworthy, the oblique sinus, between the inferior left pulmonary vein and the inferior vena cava; and the transverse sinus, a complete tunnel between the conjoined arterial trunks (aorta and pulmonic) in front, and the venous trunks behind and below. The fibrous layer and the parietal portion of the serous pericar- dium are supplied by branches from the aorta, the intercostals, the phi-enics, and the internal mammary arteries. The visceral peri- cardium is supplied by twigs of the coronary arteries. The Phrenic Nerves (Fig. 259, 4, 5) may be followed in the whole of their course, if the dissection of the neck is sufficiently advanced, and should be carefully preserved. Each nerve arises from the 4th and 5th cervical nerves, and fi-equently by a small branch from the 3rd; it crosses the scalenus anticus in the neck, and i