THE CAPSULAR LIGAMENT. 85 supra-spinatus, and the long head of the biceps. Rotation outwards is produced by the infra-spinatus and teres minor ; inwards by the subscapularis, teres major, latissimus dorsi, and pectoralis major muscles. The last two muscles are antagonistic in the fact that the pectoralis major draws the arm forward across the chest, after rotating it, whilst the latissimus dorsi draws it behind the back. The range of the movements of the humerus around the three axes —sagittal, frontal and ventral—is only from 90° to 100° for each. Abduction and flexion of the arm are hence effected only in part at the shoulder-joint, the rest of the movement taking place at the sterno and acromio-clavicular articulations. The Capsular Ligament (Fig. 38, 6) is seen to be loose, allow- ing partial dislocation of the humerus now that all the muscles are divided, and there is almost always an opening on its inner side above the subscapularis tendon, by which the bursa of the sub- scapularis communicates with the articular cavity. The capsule is attached above to the outer margin of the glenoid cavity of the scapula, and heloiu to the anatomical neck of the humerus, except on the inner side, where it is prolonged downwards as far as the sui-gical neck. It bridges across the bicipital groove, lea\dng- an aperture for the long tendon of the biceps (Fig. 38, 8). It is thickened in front by an accessory band of fibres, the Coraco-hiuneral lif/ament, attached above to the lower part of the posterior border of the coracoid process, and below to the greater tuberosity of the humerus. The GkHO-liumeral liijamcn.ts are accessory bands springing from the anterior border of the glenoid cavity, seen on opening the "Capsule from behind. The superior, narrow and rounded, is attached above to the U2)per part of the anterior margin of the glenoid .Cavity in front of the origin of the long head of the bicejis, and below to the upper part of the lesser tuberosity of the hunTerus. It is supjiQsed to rejiresent the ligamentiim teres of the lower extremity. The inferior gleno-humeral ligament, broad and strong, runs from the lower half of the anterior border of the glenoid cavity to the anterior and inner side of the neck of the humerus. A middle baud is sometimes described between tlie two foregoing, arising with the superior and attached below to the inner side of the lesser tuberosity. The tendon of the biceps is to be followed into the articuliition by luj'ing open the capsular ligament. It is invested by a tube of synovial membrane, and attached to the glenoid ligament and upper part of the glenoid cavity. Its synovial sheath can be demon- strated before the capsule is opened by making traction upon the