THE KNEE-JOINT. 1S4 and in many cases a little constriction or jiartial dissepiment is found just above the patella. The synovial membrane is then to be divided on each side, as near the condyles as possible, and the patella turned down, when the Hganicntum mucosum and the ligamenta alaria will be seen.] The liigamentum Mucosum (Fig. 91, 5) is a pyramidal reflection of synovial membrane attached by its apex to a depression in the notch between the condyles, immediately behind the articular sui-face. From this point it expands, enclosing a large quantity of fat which lies against the back of the lower angle of the patella, the ligamentum patellsB and the lateral patellar ligaments. The Ligamenta Alaria are merely two fringes of synovial membrane appended, one on each side, to the ligamentum mucosum, and running upwards as far as the lateral border of the patella. [The lioumentum mucosum is to be divided and the patella turned down completely, when the bursa of the ligamentum patella? can be opened and seen. The capsular and posterior ligaments are to be removed, but the lateral ligaments are to be preserved and the ol^icial ligaments dissected.] The Intra-articular Ligaments are the two crucial and the transverse ligaments. Within the joint also are two semilunar cartilages which are partly ligamentous. The Crucial Ligaments are two powerful bands extending from the upper inter-articular sui-face of the tibia to the two sides of the inter-condyloid notch of the femur, and invested by a prolongation of synovial membrane. _ The Anterior Crucial Ligament (Fig. 91, 2) is attached above to the inner and back part of the external condyle of the femiu', and passes obliquely downwards, forwards, and inwards across the joint, to be inserted into the triangular space on the top of the tibia in front of the spine, between the anterior atfaichments of the internal and external semilunar cartilages. It receives a slip from the external semilunar cartilage. . , , , The Posterior Crucial Ligament (Fig. 91, 3) is broader and stouter than the anterior. It is attached to the anterior and outer part of the internal condyle, and passes downwards, backwards, anil sHghtly inwards, to the top of the tibia between the articular facets and behind the spine, and to the popliteal notch. It receives two slips from the posterior extremity of the internal semilunar cartilage, and is closely connected with the anterior crucial ligament at the point of decussation. . ^ i 4-- The crucial ligaments check extension and resist dislo«ition ni all directions. The anterior ligament also limits the movement of