FRONT OF THE UPPER ARM. 24 The Front of the Upper Arm. [An incision is to be made down the front of the arm to a point three inches below the bend of the elbow, where it is to be joined by a transverse cut half round the fore-arm, and the skin is to be reflected on each side for a couple of inches, to allow of the dissection of the superficial nerves and veins. The intercosto-humeral nerve supplies the inner and posterior part of the ai-m in the upper half. The veins of the arm are very variable, and the best way of dis- sectino- them, therefore, will be to follow both basilic and cephalic veins "down to the elbow, and to trace out theii- tributaries. The internal cutaneous nerve will be found near the basilic vein, and internal to it the nerve of Wrisberg, the intercosto-humeral, and the ijiternal cutaneous of the musculo-spiral. With the median cephalic vein is the external cutaneous nerve, above and outside this are two external cutaneous branches of the musculo-spiral; and near the deltoid may be seen some twigs of the cii-cumflex nerve. The deep fascia is not to be removed.] The Internal Cixtaneous Nerve (Fig. 7, 8) is to be followed out from the inner cord of the plexus to the fore-ann. It lies at first in front or to the inner side of the axillary artery, and then, piercing the deep fascia about the middle of the ai-m, at or near the point at which the basilic vein enters, it runs in front of the inner condyle and, subdividing, sends branches both over and under the median basilic vein to the inner side of the fore-ann. A posterior branch winds above the inner condyle to the back of the fore-arm. „ ttt ■ -u The Lesser Internal Cutaneous Nerve (Nerve of Wrisberg; (Fig. 7, 2), after joining with the intercosto-humeral nerve, pierces the fascia 'at a variable point, and suppUes the lower thii-d of the inner side of the upper arm behind the internal cutaneous nerve. It is not always present. The Internal Cutaneous Branch of the Musculo-spiral Nerve (Fig. 7, 6) appears on the inner side of the upper arm. Fies. 8 and 9.-Superficial and deep dissection of the front of the fore-arm (from Maolise's Surgical Anatomy). A. Biceps. J- Ulnar iirterj'. a. Tendon of biceps. K- Fascia of fore-arm. !l. Bicipital fascia. L- Annular ligament n Basilic vein M. Flexor carpi radialis. g; Mai ariery. N. Flexor subliniis digitorum. D. Median nerve. O. Flexor longus pollicis. E. Median-basilic vein. P. Palniaris longus. F. Ulnar nerve. Q- flexor carp, uln.^ns. G. Cephalic vein. R. Pronator rad.i teres. H. Ul'iar artery. S. Supinator longus. I. Radial artery.