274 THE LARGE INTESTINE. The Large Intestine is a wide sacculated tube adapted for the retention and final digestion of feecal matter, and averages about six feet in length. It commences in the right iliac fossa and ter- minates at the anus, and is subdivided into three segments :—The C^cum or Caput csecum coli, the Colon, and the Eectum. The C'cEcum is a short but capacious cul-de-sac, averaging about 2^ inches in length, and lying below the point at which the ileum opens into the large intestine. It has a complete peritoneal cover- ing, and presents at its lower and back part a little appendage, the appendix vermiformis. It usually lies in the right iliac fossa, in contact heUnd with the psoas and iliacus and iliac fascia, the external cutaneous nerve, and the vermifoi-m appendage; anteriorly it reaches the abdominal waU, and might be exposed by an incision on a level with the anterior superior iliac spine, but it vai-ies greatly in position in different subjects and under different con- ditions, sometimes extending downwards and inwards along Poupart's ligament, towards or even beyond the median line, at others terminating two or three inches below the iliac crest. It may be overlapped partially or completely by coils of ileum if undistended. On its inner side are the small intestines and the junction with the ileum. The Appendix Vermiformis is a blind tiibular prolongation of the diameter of a goose-quill, averaging about foui- inches in length, but ranging from one to six inches; it most commonly runs upwai-ds and inwards, but may assume any direction. It is sm-- rounded by peritoneum and provided with a small mesentery. The Colon is subdivided into four parts, ascending, transverse, descending, and sigmoid flexure. Its entire length ranges from 3^ to 6i feet, and averages about 4^ feet (Treves). The CEBCum and colon are distinguished from the rest of the mtes- tines by the pecuHar sacculation caused by the shortness of the longi- tudinal fibres of the muscular coat and theii- arrangement m three bands or tanioi, and the colon presents in addition Uttle fatty appen- dages called appendices epiphica;, attached opposite one of the tjenife. The ascending colon is usually covered with peritoneum only in front and at the sides. It begins in the right iliac fossa above the level of the anterior superior iliac spine, and runs upwards, crossing the iliac crest a littie to the inner side of its mid-pomt, to reach the internal lameUa of the posterior tendon of the transversalis (over the quadratus lumborum). Continuing its course, it passes m front of the right kidney external to the second part of the duodenum, reaches the inn.^r surface of the right lobe of the liver, forming the hepatic flexure, and is succeeded by the transverse colon.