585 THE TRACHEA. contrary to that of the external intercostal fibres, i.e., they run forwards and upwards. The Subcostales or Infracostales consist of planes of muscular fibre passing from one rib to the second or third rib below, in the direction of the internal intercostal muscles. They are situated near the angles of the ribs, are supjilied by the intercostal nerves, and are muscles of expiration. The relation of the parts passing through the Superior Aperture of the Thorax can be now fuUy understood, and will be found in the accompanying table (p. 584) and the diagram taken fi-om nature (Fig. 277). The Upper Surface of the Diaphragm (Pig. 278) will also be thoroughly exposed. The structures in relation with it- have been already dissected, but these should again be carefuUy studied in connection with the muscle. [The lungs, which have been removed and laid aside, are to be dissected, and the structure of the trachea and lungs should be examined.] The Trachea (Pig. 279, i) extends from the lower border of the 6th cervical vertebra to thut of the 4th thoracic vertebra. It is about four inches and a half in length, convex in fi-ont but flattened posteriorly, and is composed of a series of incomplete cartilaginous rmgs, the extremities of which are connected behind by fibrous and muscular tissue. There arefi-om sixteen to twenty cartilages, each measm-ing about two Hues in depth, but decreasing in this dimension from above downwards : the last is pecviliar in being cut obliquely on each side, so as to be adapted to the commencement of the two bronchi. The cartilages are connected together by elastic fibrous tissue, and the first is similarly connected to the cricoid cartilage. On dissecting away the fibrous tissues at the back of the trachea, together with numerous mucous glands, transverse involuntary muscular fibres [tracheulis muscli') will be seen connecting the extremities of the cartilaginou-s rings. Within this is a longi- tudinal layer of elastic fibres, closely connected with the submucous tissue. The epithelium of the mucous membrane is columnar and cibated. On looking into the lower end of the trachea, a septum will bo seen between the two bronchi, but placed a little to the loft of the median line; this favours the passage of foreign bodies into the right bronchus, the orifice of which is larger than that of the loft. If the bronchi be traced into the lung by dissecting off the pul- monary tissue, it will be found that each maiu bronchus extends