BECTUS ABDOMINIS. 237 sheatli is wanting behind over the rest of the muscle, i.e., the aponeurosis does not split, but passes entirely in front, and there is nothing between the muscle and the peritoneum but the fascia ti'ansversalis and subperitoneal tissue. It shoiild be understood that the cUstinction of the aponeuroses of the obliqui and trans- versalis from each other is virtual ouly, and cannot be demonstrated by the dissector. The point where the sheath ceases to pass behind the rectus is marked by a sharp curved margin (fold of Douglas), in front of which the epigasti'ic vessels will be seen to pass, and enter the substance of the muscle. This will be afterwards seen from behind (Fig. 123, c). [In many subjects immediately above the pubes, in front of the rectus and enclosed in its sheath, will be found a little muscular slip, the pyramidalis. Both muscles are to be cleaned ui the direction of their fibres.] The Pyramidalis (Fig. Ill, 17) arises from the crest of the pubes close to the median line, and passes up for about two inches to be inserted into the linea alba. The Rectus Abdominis (Fig. Ill, 16) arises from the pubic crest and supra-pubic ligament, and by an interlacement fi'om ,the front of the pubic bones and interpubic joint. The inner fibres of origin are fleshy, the outer tendinous, but there is no division into two " heads." It expands into a broad muscle, and is inserted into the ensiform cartilage and into the anterior surface of the cartilages of the last three true ribs (oth, 6th, and 7th), and slightly into the 5th rib external to its cartilage. The linece transversm are tendinous intersections corresponding to abdominal ribs; one is placed nearly opposite the lunbilicus, a second at the level of the ensifoi-m cartilage, a third between these, and a fourth is occasionally found between the umbilicus and the pubes. They seldom extend through the whole of the muscular fibres, and are distinct only in front, where they adhere firmly to the sheath. The rectus is a powerful fl.ex<ir of the htmhar rertehrcv, inclining the thorax upon the pelvis or vice versa. It acts as ahdnmiual compressor mainly by increasing the resistance of the anterior abdominal wall during the action of the other muscles of the region,* and it assists expiration by dra wing down the sternum and sternal extremities of the ribs. * If the abdomen bo sunken the line of the rectus presents a forward con- cavity, and during contraction tlie muscle becomes more widely separated from the spine and will hence tend to reduce the pressure upon the" viscera