620 DISSECTION OF THE BKAIN. parallel to the superior cerebellar artery but separated from it by the third nerve, and is distributed to the under surface of the posterior part of the cerebrum, where it anastomoses with the middle cerebral artery. It is connected to the internal carotid artery by the posterior communicating artery, shortly after its oiigin. Its branches may be divided into cortical and medullary. The cortical branches supply the internal and inferior part of the temporo-occi- pital region of the cerebrum, the temporo-sphenoidal and occipital convolutions, the cimeate lobule, and the dentate convolution; and the medullary branches {postero-meclian, postero-JateraJ, and posterinr choroid) are distributed to the optic thalamus, thu-d venti-icle, velum interpositum, and choroid plexus. The largest of these is the 2Wsterior choroid, which passes through the transverse fissure. The poste7-o-7nedian branches are several fine twigs which pierce the posterior perforated sjDot. The Internal Carotid Artery (Fig. 294, lo) has been ti-aced to the anterior clinoid ^jrocess of the sphenoid bone, where it was divided in removing the brain. The artery reaches the base of the brain on the outer side of the optic commissure, and at once breaks up into tliree branches—the anterior and middle cerebral, the jDosterior communicating, and the anterior choroid arteries. 1. The Anterior Cerebral artery (13) runs forward in the longitu- dinal fissure, and, tm-ning round the genu of the coi-pus callosiun, is distributed to the anterior part of the cerebrum, reaching as far back in the longitudinal fissure as the parieto-occipital sulcus. The arteries of the two sides are united at the commencement of the fissure by a short transverse branch, the anterior communicating artery (14). At its origin the anterior cerebral artery sends a few medullary branches {antero-median and antero-lateral) through the lamina cinerea and anterior perforated spot to the oth ventricle and front of the corpus striatimi; and its terminal cortical branches are distributed to the frontal, para-central, and parieto-occipital convo- lutions, and to the corpus callosum. The Anterior rommunicatim/ Artery gives off some ante7-o-median branches which pass through the lamina cinerea, with associated twigs from the middle cerebral. 2. The Middle Cerebral artery (12), a larger branch than the la.st, rvms in the fissiu-e of Sylvius between the frontal and temporo- sphenoidal lobes, and divides into four or five large cortical branches, which lie between the convolutions of the Island of Reil, and are distribvited to the island and to the frontal, temporo-sphenoidal and parietal convolutions. Medullary branches are given off before the division to supply the caudate and lenticular nuclei of the corpus striatum and the internal capsule; and some small twigs