DEEP DISSECTION OF ABDOMEN. 286 the broad ligament of the uterus (Fig. 162, i). One small twig accompanies the round ligament to the ingiiinal canal, another runs along the Fallopian tube, and a third supplies part of the uterus, anastomosing with the uterine branch of the internal iliac. The spermatic veins form a plexus aroimd the arteries {pampini- form 2->lexus). They take a different course on the two sides, the left opening at a right angle into the left renal vein, and the right running obUquely into the vena cava. This arrangement is said to account in part for the more freqxient occui-rence of 'varicocele' on the left side, but Dr. J. H. Brinton, of Philadelphia, fm-nishes a better explanation by demonstrating the existence of a valve at the caval orifice of the right vein, while there is none at the entrance of that of the left side into the renal. The left vein, moreover, is liable to compression by accumulated ffeces in the sigmoid flexure, which lies in front of it. . i , i.^. The great length of the spermatic arteries is explained by the fact that the testicles were originally in the abdomen, opposite the point where the arteries arise, and that as they descended the vessels necessarily became elongated. The Inferior Mesenteric artery (Fig. 143, 12) arises opposite the third lumbar vertebra, a little to the left of the middle of the fi-ont of the aorta, and supplies the lower half of the large mtestine ((.. p. 263) by its left colic, sigmoid, and superior haemoiThoidal branches. Its vein opens into the splenic vein. The Middle Sacral {sacral aorta) (Fig. 143, 18) is a small branch arising at the bifurcation of the aorta, and passing down into the pelvis along the middle of the sacrum. It anastomoses with the lateral sacral branches of the internal iliac arteries. The corresponding vein opens into the left common iHac vein. The Lumbar arteries (Fig. 143, 14), usually fom- m number on each side, arise in a double row fi'om the back of the aorta, and pass transversely, close upon the vertebra., beneath the psoas and the gangUated cords of the sympathetic, and on the right . de benetth the vena cava. The upper arteries also pa^s under the crura of the diaphragm, where those bridge over the nariwor portions of the bodies of the vertebrre. Only small P-tion. 0 fhese arteries can be seen at present, but when followed out each will be found to divide into an anterior and a P^^^^^^^^^: The avterior branch runs between the abdominal muscles, to .upph them, and to anastomose with the lower intercostal epigastric and circumflex iliac arteries. The first anterior branch ^^^^f 7 P'^^Jf ^ in front of the quadratus lumborum, the others behind it. i^e postei-ior branch passes between the transverse processes, subdmdm.