430 THE FACE. Ou the margin of the orhit is the sujyerdliiim or eyebrow, a ridge of thickened skin covered -with hairs. The eyelids or pitlp<-hra; are two thin folds composed of a dense fibrous tissue (the so-caUed tarsal cartilage), and of muscle and fascia; covered externally by the skin, and lined internally by the conjunctiva palpebrarum continued from the sm-face of the eyeball. The pouits of junction of the two lids are called the inner and outer cantlii, and along the free borders of the lids will Pig. 209. be seen the riJia or eyelashes, which curve upwai'ds from the upper, and downwards from the lower lid. Before opening the lids they should be drawn forcibly oiit- ward towards the temple, in order to make tense and pro- minent the Httle tendo oridi or internal palpehral ligament, by which their inner extremities are attached to the nasal process of the superior maxilla. A smaller and less distinct external palpebral ligament passes from the outer extremities to the fi'ontal process of the malar bone, at the outer edge of the orbit. n .1, -c * The margins of the lids present the eyelashes and the onfices of the Meibomian glands, and are so bevelled that, when they are closed, a canal, triangular in section, is left between them and the globe of the eye, and serves to convey the tears to the mner canthus. The lids being separated, a small semHunar depression called the lacas laehrymalis will be seen at the inner canthus, and on the free margin of each lid close to this a Uttle emmence papdla lachnj- malis) perforated by a minute hole, the punctam lachrymak- (9). A Fig. 209.—Appendages of the eye (from Wilson) 3. Superior tarsal body. Lower border of the tarsal body, on whicli are seen the openings of the Meibomian ghxnds. Inferior tarsal body, along the upper border of this the open- ings of the Meibomian glands are likewise seen. 4. Lachrymal gland; its superior or orbital portion. 5. Inferior or palpebral portion. 6. Lachrymal ducts. 7. Plica semilunaris. 8. Caruncula lachrymalis. 9. Puncta lachrymalia of the lach- rymal canals. 10. Superior lachrymal canal. 11. Inferior lachrymal canal. 12. Lachrymal sac. , , . , 14 Dilatation of the nasal duct, where it opens into the inferior meatus of the nose. 15. Nasal duct.