512 THE TONGUE. Fig. 248. slender attachments to the surface of the tongue; they are of a dark red colour and are covered with secondary papilla;, which, like those of the other secondary papillas, are concealed by the superjacent squamous epithelimn. The papiUce conicce and fiUformes exist all over the tongue, but are most extensively developed at the tip. The conical papillje are covered with minute papillae, and the filiform are prolonged into thread-Kke processes, which in the carnivora are developed into spines. The orifices of mucous follicles may be foimd among the papillae on the dorsum of the tongue, and behind the papiJkv crrcumvallatcn; and along the margin of the tongue, especially opposite the molar teeth, are numerous compound racemose lingual glands, which lubricate the pes- | terior portion of the organ. Some small salivary glands [Ebner's (jlauds) are also found opening on to the dorsum along the line of the circumvallate papiUse. Beneath the mucous membrane is a fibrous layer or corium, which gives attachment to many of the muscular fibres. In the centre of the tongue and dividing it into two symmetrical halves is a fibrous raphe. The Under Surface of the Tongue may be seen by drawing up the extremity of the organ over the upper incisor teeth, when the jaw is depressed (Eig. 249). It presents in the middle line a prominent fold of mucous membrane, the frcenum, and on either side of this, near the tip, some minute orifices of the apical glaiids of Nulin; the ranine vein is visible on each side, a little nearer the Fig. 248.—The tongue with 1. The raphe, which sometimes bi- furcates on the dorsum of the tongue, as in the figure. 2, 2. Lobes of the tongue; the rounded eminences on this part, and near its tip, are the papillre fungifornies. The smaller impillw, among which the former are dispersed, are the papilloe conicte and fili- formes. its papillfB (from Wilson). 3. Tip of the tongue. 4, 4. Its sides. f), 5. The V-shaped row of papillffi circumvallatee. 6. Foramen caacum. 7. Mucous glands of the root of the tongue. 8, 8. Epiglottis. 9, 9. Froena epiglottidis. 10, 10. Greater coniua of the os hyoides.