582 THE THORAX. lie at first between the ^ileura and the posterior intercostal aponeu- rosis, then to enter the interval between the internal and external iutercostal muscles, and run in this relation as far as the mid- axillary line, where it gives off a lateral cutaneous Iratich; it after- wards dips into the fibres of the internal intercostal, and piercing these about the junction of the rib with its cartilage, it reaches the deep surface of the internal intercostal, again lying in contact with the pleui-a. Finally, after passing in front of the internal mammaiy vessels, it tiu-ns forward, pierces the internal intercostal muscle, the external intercostal aponeui'osis, and the pectoralis major, and ends by sup]3lying the skin of the front of the chest. It gives muscular branclies in its course to both intercostals, to the levatores costarum, seiTatus posticus superior, infracostals, and triangularis sterni. The lateral cutaneous branches of the 3rd, 4th, 5th and 6th nerves pierce the external intercostal muscles and the intei-vals between the digitations of the serratus magnus, and break up into anterior and posterior divisions, which are distributed to the skin over the lateral aspect of the thorax. The first nerve usually receives a communicating twig from the second (Cunningham), gives only a small branch to the first intercostal space, and has no lateral cutaneous branch; it then passes through the superior aperture of the thorax, across the neck of the fii-st rib, lying externally to the superior intercostal artery and first thoracic ganglion, and joining the eighth cervical nerve it helps to foinn the brachial plexus. The lateral branch of the secovd does not break up into anterior and posterior thoracic divisions, but passes to the arm, where it joins the lesser internal cutaneous nei-ve (see upper extremity). The intercostal nerves below the sixth follow an analogous com-se, but on escaping from the intercostal spaces, they run forwards between the internal obHque and transversalis muscles to enter the rectus abdominis, and, emerging fi-om this muscle near the nuddle^ line, they tenninate in the superjacent integiunent. Then-mmciilar branches supply the interco.stals, levatores costarum, sen-atus posti- cus inferior, obliqui, transversahs, and rectus. The lateral cutaueoM branches divide like those of the upper intercostals, and end m the skin of the abdomen over the interval between the rectus and erector spintB. It is fi-om these that the twigs to the external oblique are derived. The last thoracic m-rve lies below the last nb, and is distributed to the outer part of the buttock and the anterior abdominal wall. ^ . The Gangliated Cord of the Sympathetic (Fig. 271, 31/ placed over the heads of the ribs on each side of the thorax, just