THE OCCIPITAL LOBE. 637 part of the occipital lobe bj- the continuation of that boundary line to the pre-occipital notch, at the angle of junction between the cah'arial and basal surfaces. Its under surface is represented by portions of the gp'us uncinatus and external temporo-occipital convolutions (4th and oth temporal gyri) seen on the basal aspect of the hemisphere. Its outer surface is divided by two fissures, the superior or jMralhl, and the inferior, into three convolutions, superior, middle and inferior. The parallel fissure is parallel to the posterior branch of the Sylvian fissure, and ends in the angular convolution; the inferior fissure, parallel to the last, ends in the post-parietal gyrus. The superior and middle or first and second mnrohitions become continuous with the supra-marginal, angular and post-parietal gyri; the inferior or third convolution passes above the pre-occipital notch to the occipital lobe by means of a lateral annectant gyrus, and is continuous inferiorly with the external temporo-occipital convolution of the basal surface. The upper sui-face of this lobe is concealed within the fissure of Sylvius and closely related to the Island of Eeil. It presents two or thi-ee transverse temporal gyii, the largest and most anterior of which hes behind the posterior limiting sulcus of the insula. The Occipital Lobe lies behind the parietal and temporo- sphenoidal lobes. Its outer surface has been arbitrarily divided mto superior, middle and inferior convolutions by superior and inferior occipital fi.ssures, but these are almost impossible to recognise on most brains. The parieto-occipital sulcus has been seen to pass into the occipital lobe : it usually joins a transverse furrow, the anterior occipjital sulcus, and below and in front of the latter is aix oblique lateral occiptitcd sulcus. These divide the outer surface of the lobe into an anterior gyrus, between the anterior sulcus and the uptm-ned end of the lateral sulcus- and a posterior gyrus behind the uptui-ned end of the lateral sulcus (Schafer). The occipital annectant gyri are four in number. The first annectant gyrus unites the superior occipital convolution with the supra-parietal lobiole; the second, the middle occipital with the angular convolution. The third, the middle occipital with the lower part of the post-parietal convolution; and the fourth, the lower occipital with the lower temporo-sphenoidal. The name of opercuhi has been' applied to those parts of the interior frontal, ascending frontal, asconcUng parietal and superior temporo-spheiioidal convolutions, which form a kind of oner culum or lid over the fissure of Sylvius and conceal the Island