40 PARTS ABOUT THE SOAPULA. external border of the spine, and anastomoses with the dorsalis scapnlfB and posterior scapular arteries. Before crossing the liga- ment it sends a sapra-acromial branch through the attachment of the trapezius, and a suhsccqndar twig to the venter of the scapula. The Supra-scapular Nerve (Fig. 16, i) (from the anteiior branches of the oth and 6th cervical nerves) gives a branch to the shoulder-joint and passes through the supra-scap^ilar notch and beneath the ligament, to be distributed to the supra- and infra- spinatus muscles. • i * ^i. The Omo-hyoid Muscle arises horn about half an mch of the superior border of the scapula, immediately behind the supra- scmnilar notch, and from the ti-ansverse or posterior Ugament oyer it. Its relations and insertion are seen in the dissection of the neck. TThe limb is to be tui-ued over and the humerus rotated outwards to put the fibres of the subscapularis on the stretch; they should then be cleaned, care being taken of the subscapular nerves enter- in fthe muscle. The axillary vessels and nerves should be tied to the coiaS process, so as to'bring them as nearly as may be mto their proper positions.] The Subscapularis Muscle (Fig. 10, lo) is covered by a thin fascia, and has been already seen to form part of the posterior wall of the axQla. It arises fi-om the whole of the venter scapulje, except the part to which the serratus magnus is attached and the portion nearest the neck of the bone, and has seveml tenchnous septa between its fibres, which are attached to the ridges on the sm-face of the bone and bear some resemblance to those of the deltoid It is inserted into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus and he bone below it for an inch, and into the capsular hgament of the shoulder- joint, a large bursa intervening between the muscle aiid the neck of the scapula, which almost always communicates with the ca^nty of the joint over the upper border of the tendon. The subscapulari. is an iiternal rotator and adductor of the humerus, and is supphed by the short subscapular nerves. . ^ An important action of the supra- and infi-a-spinati, teres mmoi and subscapiUaris muscles is their combination to keep t^^^ ^ead of the humerus in its proper relation to the glenoid ^^^^ty and thus prevent dislocation. In the post-mortem relaxed condition of the Lrts, the head of the hiuiierus can bo drawn away from the glenoid cavity to the full extent of the loose capsular hgament The Subscapular Nerves (Fig. 6) ai-e branches of t^e P- c.rd of the brachial plexus, and are throe in niunber. The long or