420 THE SIDE OF THK NECK. origin of the vertebral. It divides immediately into three branches, (a) inferior thyroid, {h) transversalis coUi, and (c) supra-scapular. a The Ivferior Thyroid artery (2) runs first upwards and inwards across the vei-tebral artery and behind the carotid sheath and sjto- pathetic trunk. It curves inwards and downwards opposite the transverse process of the 6th cervical vei-tebra, then descends as far as the lower border of the thyroid body, and after passmg inwards behind the recurrent laryngeal nerve it tui-ns upwaixls, formmg a second cui-ve, and breaks up into branches which supply the thj-roid body and anastomose with the superior thyi-oid artery (Fig. 208). Besides moplmgeal, tracheal, and a small inferior laryngeal hvB.nch it usuaUy gives ofi close to its orig^ the ascending cervical, which runs upwards in front of the anterior tubercles on the transverse processes of the vertebra between the attachments of the scalenus anticus and rectus capitis anticus major, supplying the prevertebral muscles and anastomosing with branches of the vertebral artery The middle cervical gangUon usuaUy rests upon its fii-st curve. The waUs of this artery are said to be very thm and l^^^f-J'^bl^- The Inferior Thyroid veins pass down m front of the trachea, after forming a plexus below the isthmus of the thp-oid body. Th y o "n into the innominate veins; the right often crossing obbLely over the innominate artery to end m the left mnommate, or less fi-equently, in the right innominate. , ^ • ?; Thr?Vcr«s.me Cervical artery runs transversely outward in front of the scalenus anticus and phrenic nerve, and has been seen ptteTo? triangle of the neck, to divide into supei-ficia arise from the third part of the subclavian). The Tu,ns>e,.e - - altogether wantuig, as J^,:^ sc5l- o/the transve^e cervical it.eK„ t fhird or sometimes the second, part of the subciaA lan. supra and infra-spinous fossse (p. 39). ihe hu]na } opens into the external jugular. » rVi'o- '^Oo 27)