421 THE SirBCLAVIAN VEIN. both sides of the body. It is rehited in /runt to the platysma, the cervical fascia, the clavicuhir origin of the sterno-mastoid, and the scalenus anticus; and behind to the apex of the pleura, the scalenus medius, and the ascending part of the fii-st thoracic nerve. Aboiv it are the cords of the brachial plexus, and below is a small portion of the inner border of the first rib. The Subclavian vein is below the level of the artery at this point, and separated from it by the scalenus anticus. The only branch of the second part of the sub- clavian artery is the superior- 'intercostal artery on the right side, the left artery usually arising on the inner side of the anterior scalenus. The Superior Intercostal Artery (Fig. 203, 7) springs from the posterior part of the superior border of the subclavian about a thii-d of an inch external to the origin of the vertebral. It runs upwards for a short distance and after dividing into two branches, the first intercostal and the deep cervical, descends into the thorax in front of the neck of the first rib, giving branches to the first inter- costal space, and anastomosing with the upper intercostal artery from the aorta in the second space. The intercostal branch, besides supplyhig the first and second intercostal spaces, gives off posterior spinal and mmculur branches after the maimer of the aortic inter- costals. The deep cervical branch passes upwards and backwards between the neck of fii-st rib and the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, to be distributed to the muscles of the nuchal region, and to anastomose with the princeps cervicis of the occipital and muscular branches of the vertebral between the com- plexus and semispinalis colli. The Superior Intercostal Vein opens into the innominate vein on the left side, after crossing the arch of the aorta and communicating with the left upper azygos vein; on the right side it ends in the vena azygos major. The Third Part of the Subclavian Artery has been dissected m the posterior triangle of the neck (p. 3S2). The Subclavian Vein is the continuation of the axillai^ vein and has been seen to lie anterior to but below the level of its artery' It passes over the groove on the first rib in front of the scalenus anticns; and runs in front of the apex of the pleura and a little below the first part of the artery, and joins the internal jugular vein o form the innominate. The thoracic duct opens into the left subc avian vein close to its junction with the internal juo-ular rigit Sid::'"' """^^^'™"' "'^^^^^^^^ i-"-tionrte Tributary Erternal .hujular vein terminates in the sub clavian on the outer side of the scalenus anticus.