630 THE BASE OF THE BRAIN. a round tMck process of white fibres, passing obliquely outwards aud backwards to the cerebellum, and forming the middle cerebeUur peduncle or pi'ocessus a cerebello ad jxmtem. Its longitudinal fibres, divided into two parts by a deep bundle of transverse fibres, pass from the medulla through the crura to the cerebral hemispheres. Emerging from the side of the pons is seen the fifth nerve. The Fifth Nerve (Fig. 298, 13) (trifacial, trigeminal) is the largest of the cranial nerves, and consists of two portions, motor and sensory, of which the motor is the anterior and smaller. The nerves arises from the side of the pons Varolii, a few fibres of the pons intervening between the two roots; but its deep origin will be traced to the floor of the fourth ventricle. The Sixth Nerve (Fig. 298, 15) (abducens oculi) arises from the anterior pyramid of the medulla oblongata close to the posterior border of the pons, and slightly from the pons itself. It may be traced deeply to a nucleus in the floor of the foui-th ventricle. The Medulla Oblongata (Fig. 298) is the upper part of the spinal cord, and extends from the lower border of the foramen magnum to the lower border of the pons. It is about an inch in length, larger above than below, somewhat flattened from before backwards, and runs almostverticaUydownwards, with a slight inch- nation backwards, resting upon the basilar groove of the occipital bone ; but when the brain is removed the medulla often assumes an almost horizontal direction, and errors of nomenclatrrre have arisen from this change of position. It contains all the elements of the spinal cord, continued through it to the cerebrum and cerebellum, and has, in addition, a special ganglionic structui-e, the olivary body, and a number of grey nuclei for the origin of nerves. The anterior aspect of the medulla is all that can be seeu at thi.< stage of the dissection. It is divided into two halves by the (interior 'median fissure. This fissure is continuous below with the anterior median fissm-e of the cord; it terminates above in a small depression called the foramen caciim, and is partially obliterated below by the decussation of the crossed pyramidal tracts. On either side of the fissure is the rounded anterior pyramid, continuous with the anterior column and the opposite lateral column of the cord. Its fibres pass through the pons Varolii, between the superficial and deep transverse fibres, to form the crusta of th.' crus. Tho Olire or Olivari/ hody (22) is an ovoid projection, on tli.^ outer side of the anterior pyramid and immediately below the pon^. It is separated fi-om the anterior pyramid by the hypoglossal siUcn^