THE FACE, 444 also sends nasal branches to tbe wing of tbe nose and palprhral twigs to the lower eyelid ; (2) as the malar brunch of the teinporo- malar nerve (14), appearing through the malar bone after piercing the outer wall of the orbit; and (3) as the temporal branch 0/ the temporo-malar nerve (10) piercing the temporal fascia immediately above the zygoma {v. p. 361). Branches 2 and 3 supply the soft parts over the malar bone and anterior part of the temporal region. The Third or Inferior Maxillary Division appears (1) as the 7nental nerve (32) at the mental foramen, and is to be ti-aced to the chin and lower lip ; (2) as the buccal nerve (26) upon the sui-face of the buccinator muscle, where it will be found supplying the skin and mucous membrane of the buccal region and some filaments to the muscles, commmiicating with the facial nerve; and (3) as the auriculo-temporal nerve (3), passing beneath the parotid gland and running upwards over the zygoma immediately in front of the ear, to supply the mid-temporal region. These are all pui-ely sensory nerves. They joia freely with the facial nerve, and supply sensation to the muscles; to part of the mucous membrane of the buccal cavity; and to the whole of the skin of the face, except that covering the parotid gland, which is supplied by the great auricular nerve of the cerVical plexus. [The anatomy of the eyelids and of the nasal cartilages can be examined on either side of the face, by removing the superjacent tissues.] The Eyelids (Fig. 209).—These have been partially described on page 430, but may now be fui-ther investigated. On removing the thin palpebral fibres of the orbicularis fi-om the lids, th.emperwr and inferior palpebral ligaments will be seen extending from the margin of the orbit. They are continuous with the periosteum of the skull at the orbital margin, and are attached to the convex edge of the tarsal cartilage in each lid. The tarsal bodies or cart>laf,es consist of dense connective tissue, and according to later observers contain no cartilage. The upper is larger than the lower, and is semilunar in shape. They are attached to the margin of the orbit by the corresponding palpebral ligaments above and below; ex- ternally by the exterml tarsal ligament, and internally by the internal tarsal ligament or tendo ac.uli. The fibres of the orbicularis must be cut away from the tendo oculi, and the attachment of the latter to the nasal process of the superior maxilla, unmediately in front of the groove for the lachrymal sac, will then be seen. Beneath the palpebral ligament in the upper lid will be found tue expansion of the tendon of the levator palpebrte superioris, attachea to the convex margin of the superior tarsal body. Both lids are hnecl