394 THE ORBIT. dh'ision (12) is now seen running below the optic nerve to give small branches to the internal and inferior recti, and a long branch which runs on the inferior rectus to the inferior oblique muscle, and supplies the short root to the lenticular ganglion. The nerve to the inferior oblique is the only long muscular nerve in the orbit. [To expose the obliquus inferior, it will be necessary to di-aw the eyeball to the upper and outer angle of the orbit, and to remove the conjunctiva at the lower and inner part.] The ObUquus Inferior (Fig. 193, g) muscle Hes obliquely in the orbit beneath the rectus inferior. It arises from the floor of the orbit just outside the lachrymal groove, and passing below the inferior rectus, then between the external rectus and sclerotic, is inserted into the globe a little behind the equator, above the level of the rectus extermis, and close to the insertion of the obhquus superior Like the other muscles, it receives an investment ti;om the capsule of Tenon. It rotates the upper end of the vertical mea-idian of the globe outwards (antagonising the superior obhque), and aids in abduction and elevation of the cornea. Summary of the Actions of the Ocular Muscles.-The cornea is raised by the superior rectus and inferior oblique depressed by the inferior rectus and superior oblique, abducted by the externa rectus, and adducted by the internal rectus. The upper end of the vekical meridian of the eye is rotated outwards by the inferior oblique and inferior rectus, and inwards by the supenor obhque and superior rectus. The oblique upward and ^o-nward mo^- ments of the cornea are effected by the same muscles a. the duect movements, aided by the external and internal recti: thus, the TeTs cHrected upwards and outwards by the combined action o he superior and External recti and the ^^f^^'^^ and inwards by the superior and internal recti and the inferior """Se Capsule of Tenon maybe demonstrated upon Ae subject without any serious difficulty, and should be ^^''^f^^^'^-f The capsule proper invests and is co-extensive with the scleioti . It is attached in front to the margin of the cornea i-'^^^'^Hl the ' subconjunctival tissue ' of ophthalmic surgeons) and behrnd to the sheath of the optic nerve. Its inner surface is and separated by a kind of lymph space from the -^-f outer surface is connected with the adipose tissue of the orbit b> bands of connective tissue. , It is pierced by the vessels, nerves, and muscles of the c>e, and