429 THE FACE. as the levator (jlatxhdce tliyroidecf,. The lateral lobes are about two inches in length, somewhat conical in form, with their apices upwards, and lie by the sides of the trachea from the level of the . second thoracic vertebra to the lower part of the ala of the thjToid cartilage: they extend farther above than below the isthmus. Each lobe is in relation anteriorly with the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, omo-hyoid, and sterno-mastoid muscles, the anterior jugular vein, and the integiunent and fasciae; posteriorly with the lougus colli, and the common carotid (slightly), inferior thyroid, and vertebral arteries; internally with the lower part of the larjiix and pharjTix, the ti-achea and oesophagus, and the recurrent laryngeal nerve; externally with the carotid sheath. Its base aiDproaches the dome of the plem-a, and its (qwx lies upon the inferior constrictor by the side of the cricoid and thyi'oid cartilages under cover of the sterno- thyroid. The whole organ is invested by a capsule, which is connected above with a suspensory ligament rmining fi-om the isthmus to the body of the hyoid bone, and at the sides with lateral lifjaments, which are attached to the extremities of the fii-st and second tracheal rings, and sometimes to the lower part of the thyroid cartilage. The recurrent laryngeal nerves run upon the latter. It is abundantly supplied with blood by the superior and inferior thyroid arteries of each side; and occasionally by an additional branch, the thyroidea ima, which may come from the innominate, the right common carotid, the aorta, or more rarelv, fi-om the right internal mammary or right subclavian. The arteries freely anasto- mose in the substance of the body, and retimi their- blood by three veins on each side, viz., the superior and middle thyroid, which join the internal jugular vein, and the inferior thvroid, which may be traced down the fi-ont of the trachea to the innominate vein. * Its nerve supi% is derived from the middle cervical ganglion. The thyroid body is composed of numerous closed vesicles con- tammg a yellow fluid. Supplementary thyi-oids are not infrequently found in the neighboiu'hood. The Face. The face is a region in which it will be convenient to make different dissections on the two sides, i.e., of the muscles and vessels on one, and of the nerves on the other; and the dissectors are therefore advised to adopt this method of proceeding. Before commencing the dissection, the student should obsei-vethe external anatomy of the eye and its appendages, so that these may be seen m as natural a condition as possible (Eig. 209).