527 THE ODONTOID LIGAMENTS. atlas and axia are to be cut through on each side and taken away, and any remains of the spinal cord dissected oif with the dura- mater, when the occipito-axial ligament will be exposed.] The Oecipito-Axial Ligament (Fig. 255, 5) (apparatus liga- mentosus colli) is continuous with the posterior common ligament. It is attached below to the back of the body of the axis, and superiorly to the basilar groove of the occipital bone, above the anterior margin of the foramen magnum. [The occipito-axial ligament is to be divided and turned up and down, when the cruciform ligament of the atlas and axis will be brought into view, and immediately above the ti'ausverse portion will be seen the two oljlique odontoid ligaments.] The Cruciform Ligament (Fig. 256) consists of a strong trans- verse ligament and two small vertical sKps. The Transverse Liga- ment (2) is attached to a tubercle on the inner sm-face of each lateral mass, and thus foi-ms with the anterior arch of the atlas a ring in which the odontoid process of the axis is fimily held. The vertical slips of the cruciform ligament pass fi'om the transverse ligament to the basilar process of the occipital bone and the body of the axis respectively, and by detaching the upper one the odontoid ligaments will be fully seen. The Odontoid or Check Ligaments (Fig. 256, 5) are two strong bands of fibres, which pass from the sides of the head of the odontoid process to the margin of the foramen magniun on each side, and thus check the rotation of the cranium and atlas upon the odontoid process. Between these is a weak central odontoid liga- ment {ligammtam saspensoriiim), passing vertically between the margin of the foramen magnum and the top of the odontoid process. On cutting all the ligaments of the articulation except the trans- verse ligament of the atlas, the odontoid process will be found to be still firmly held in position, owing to the fact that the transverse hgament grasps the contracted neck of the odontoid process. There are two synovial membranes in connection with the odontoid process, one in fi'ont, between it and the posterior siu'face of the atlas ; the other behind, between it and the transverse ligament.