FRONT OF THE THIGH. 110 the piiLic angle, crest and spine, and over the pectineiis U) the ilio-pectineul line. The fascia covers the whole of the liiiib, sending septal processes between the muscles and to the b(jny ridges fi-om which they arise. In the middle and lower portion of the thigh the fascia lata sends inwards two strong intermuscular septa, an external dividing the vastus externus from the hamstrings, and an internal between the vastus internus and the adductors, both giving attachment extensively to muscular fibres (Fig. 51). The portion of the fascia lata on the outer side of the thigh is of remarkable strength; it receives above the insertions of the tensor vaginae femoris and the upper half of the gluteus maximus (both of which it encloses before reaching its attachment to the os innominatum), and runs down- wards to be attached to the outer border of the pateUa below the vastus externus, to the ligamentum pateUse and to the outer ttiberosity of the tibia. It is souaetimes called the ilio-tihial hand. The hamstrings are bound down by a layer of fascia within the fascia lata, and in addition a third and still deeper investment can be demonstrated as a sheath for each of the muscles (semi-membrano- sus, semi-tendinosus and biceps) (Fig. 51). Cutaneous nerves (Eig. 52).—The lUo-inguinal nerve, which emerges from the external abdominal ring, in its coui-se to the scrotiun or labium gives one or two small branches to the thigh. The Crural hrauch of the Genitu-cruraJ nerve pierces the fascia half an inch below Poupart's ligament and just outside the femoral artery, and joins the middle cutaneous nerve. It is very seldom satisfactorily seen unless traced from the lumbar plexus. The External cutaneous nerve (3) is to be foimd amongst some fat in a fold of fascia lata close to the anterior superior spiiie of the iHum, and pierces the fascia at a variable point, to be distributed by an anterior and a posterior branch to the outer side of the thigh and part of the buttock. The 3mdle cutaneous nerve (5) (fi-om the anterior crural), pierces the fascia in the upper third of the thigh, usually in two places, and will be afterwards traced as far as the knee. This nerve, or its outer branch, usually pierces the sartorius, which muscle it generally sup])lies. The Internal cutaneous and Lon;] Saphenous nerves are not seen at present. Scarpa's TurAXOLK. [The fascia is to be removed from the hollow below rou])art's li..!;,mont, and from the front of the thigh as far as the skin has been reflected, and the muscles, vessels, and nerves thus exposed