THE SPINAL CORD. 609 spiuie; and is insvrtnl into the spinous processes of all the vertebras except the atlas. Its fibres extend, lateralise, and rotate the cervical and thoracic vertebrfe; but only extend and lateralise in the lumbar region. The Riitatores Spince consist of deep fibres beneath the multifidus in the thoracic region ; thej^ pass from the root of each transverse process to the lamina of the vertebra above. There apjjears to be no advantage in regarding them as distinct from the multifidus. The Lemtori'S Costamm are fan-shaped muscles one to each rib, each passing between the extremity of the transverse process of the vertebra above and the upper border of the rib below, externally to the tubercle. They are muscles of inspiration. ^ The Spinal Coixb and Membranes. [To open the spinal canal, the remains of the muscles of the back should be cleared away as far as possible, when some part of the plexus of florsi-spiiiul veins may be seen Upon the vertebrte. A block then being placed beneath the thorax So as to make the thoracic region prominent, a cut is to be made with the saw oil each side of the middle line, so as to divide the lamina? of the vertebrfe as far out as possible. Two or three of the arches being now removed with the chisel, the point of a spine-chisel or rachet is to be introduced into the canal, and the instiaunent carefully hammered through the arches of the vertebree for the whole length of the .^pine, except the upper two cervical vertebl'se. The opera= tion being repeated on the opposite side, the arches call be removed with the bone-forceps, and the canal will be thoroughly opened. On the inner surface of the arches wiU be seen the ligameuta suh'- flam, which are desciibed with the other vertebral ligaments (p. 593).] Upon opening the Spinal Canal solne loose tissue and fat win be seen, together With a plexus of veins. The Spinal "Veins correspond to the intra-craliial sinuses, and consist of vessels which suiTound the theca Vertebralis, occupying' a space between the dura mater and periosteum of the spinal canal and communicating through the intervertebral foramina with the vertebral veins in the neck, the intercostal in the back, the ^lumbar, ilio-lumbar and sacral in the loins and sacral region. They may be divided into two intercommunicating sets, anterior and posterior, the posterlnr mainly longitudinal in direction, the anterior consisting of two longitudinal trunks joined together opposite the middle of the body of each vertebra by a transverse l)ranch, which receives the vmu banin viricbra. They receive the mnliill'i-spimi/ R R