NERVES OF THE SCALP. 359 connected with the deep surface of the skin by fibrous processes, which i)ass between the fat lobules of the panniculus adiposus. The scalp so constituted is connected with the pericranium by a loose connective tissue, with large intercommunicating spaces. In the frniital and occipital regitias the epicranial aponeurosis is partially replaced by the muscular fibres of the occipito-frontalis ; and in the temporal region the aponeurosis gives attachment to the anterior and superior amicular muscles. The Muscles of the Pinna (Fig. 178) are the AUollens aurem (5) (superior), the Attraliena aurem (i) (anterior), and the Retrahens aurem (9) (posterior). The names sufficiently indicate their positions, and they are all inserted into the pinna, the anterior arisiiuj ivova. the anterior part of the aponeurosis of the occipito- fi-ontalis, and being inserted into the helix ; the superior also from the middle part of the same aponeurosis, and inserted into the fossa of the antihelix ; and the posterior, which consists of two or three stronger bundles of fibres, arising from the mastoid process and passmg to the back of the concha. 1, muscular fibres of the occipito-frontalis are to be cleaned both on the forehead and on the occiput, care being taken not to damage the mtervenmg aponeurosis, or the nerves which ijierce the muscle at several pomts and communicate in its substance.] The Occipito-frontalis (Pig. 178).—The anterim- helly (2) has no bony attachment, but blends at its origin with the fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum, pyi-amidaHs nasi, and corrugator supercOii. Thepo«fe»'/r/,- helly arises from the outer half or two-thirds of the superior curved Hue of the occipital bone, and very slightly fi-om the mastoid process of the temporal bone, and is separated fi-om its fellow by a triangular interspace which is occupied by a prolonga- tion backwards of the epicranial aponeurosis. Both bellies are inserted into the central tendon. The muscle wrinkles the forehead transversely, elevates the eyebrows, and sHghtly aids in raising the upper Hd: in some persons it may also be made to move the entire scalp backwards and forwards by the alternating contractions of its two beUies; and m association with the auricular muscles it probably aids the circulation of Ijanph in the spaces of the connective tissue nervT^^"^ epicranial aponeurosis. It is supplied by the facial Cutaneous Vessels and Nerves (Figs. 178, 179)._In front of the ear will be foiuid branches of the thi-ee divisions of the oth ot the ophthalmic and temporal vessels. Behind the ear are, the