581 THE INTERCOSTAL NERVES. Fig. 275. into ii }7i>iscular branch to the miiscles of the back, and a small spiudl branch to suppljr the spinal cord and the body and arch of each vertebra (Fig. 259). The intercostal arteries lie at first against the external intercostal muscles, and are covered only by the pleurte. A vein and nerve are in relation with each artery, the vein being highest and the nerve lowest in most of the spaces, but the artery lies below the nerve in the three or four upper spaces (Fig. 275). The artery then disappears beneath the internal intercostal, and gives off its collateral branch, which follows the upper border of the lower rib of the .space, and, like the terminal branch, anastomoses wath the intercostal branches of the internal mammary. The Intercostal Veins (Fig. 274), with the exception of those from the iipper two or three spaces on the left side, receive spmal and miiscular tributaries, and open into the azygos veins on each side. The vena azygos major of the right »side has been already seen. ; • The Vena Azygos Minor (Fig. 274, i8), commencing in the left lumbar veins or ui the renal vein, juerces the left cms of the diaphragm and receives the lower intercostal veins of the left side ; it has been seen to pass behind the aorta and open into the vena azygos major. The upper intercostal veins of the left side form the superior intercostal and left upper azygos trunks, the terminatioi^ of which has been described (page 421). The Intercostal Nerves (Fig. 272), the anterior branches of the thoracic nerves, are eleven in number on each side, and arc dis- tributed to the fi'ont and sides of the chest and abdomen, supplyino- muscular and cutaneous branches. Each of the nerves of the 2nd Ard, 4fh, oth am/ 6th interspaces, it carefidly traced, will be seen to Fig. 275.--Sectioii of an intercostal space. The collateral intercostal vessels at the upper border of the rib are omitted in the cut (W. A.) o' D^'?' 1 , ^- Suhpleural tissue. S Nprvr ™'"- 10. Parietal pleura. o. INerve. to \t- i i A ,. , ■ , , , , . Visceral pleura. 4. l?>.\ternal intercostal fascui. 14. Lung o. KxtenuU intercostal muscle. lo' Artery b. Internal intercostal fascia. 18. Internal intercostal muscle.