498 CAVITY OF THE NOSE. The Mucous Membrane lining the nasal fossae is termed the pituitary or Schnerderian membrane, and is thickest over the tiirbi- nate bones, particularly the lowest, and on the septum ; but is thin on the floor, and in the sinuses connected with the nose. Over the lower and hinder part of the middle and infeiior turbinate bones the veins of the mucous membrane are much dilated, and very thin-walled. The upper part of the mucous membrane both on the outer and inner walls of the nasal fossa has been named the Olfactory Region, fi'om the fact that the branches of the olfactory or first nerve are distributed to it. It comprises the sui-face corresponding to the superior turbinate bone and the upper half of the middle turbinate bone, and the opposed portion of the septum. It is impossible to distinguish this region from the rest by the naked eye except imme- diately after death, but the mucous membrane is of a yellow colour- in the recent state. Its epithehum is of the columnar variety, and has peculiar spindle-shaped cells connected with the terminations of the olfactory nerve. The remainder of the nasal lining has columnar ciliated cells, except in the neighbourhood of the nostiil, where they are squamous and laminated like those of the skin. The Olfactory Nerve (Fig. 240, a) is the special nerve of smeU, and its branches, which are derived from the olfactory bulb, reach the nasal cavity by piercing the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and are disti-ibuted to the olfactory region, i.e., upon the superior and the upper half of the middle tiu-binate bones, and the upper thii'd of the septum. The nerves of common sensation to the nose are derived fi'om Meckel's ganglion, and the internal nasal branch of the first division of the fifth. They will be afterwards dissected. rWith a strong pair of scissors the tiu-bmate bones may be readily cut, so as to expose the several openings into the thi-ee meatnis. The student should observe the small size of the openmgs oi the antrum, the infundibulum, and the ductus ad nasum.] The Nasal Duct communicates between the lachi-j-mal sac and the inferior meatus of the nose, and is directed downwai-ds and sHghtly backwards, and may incline slightly either mwai-ds or outwards according to the lesser or greater breadth of the nasal nassa-e It grooves the superior maxillary, lachrymal, and inferior tiubinate bones, and consists of a fibrous tube, lined with mucous membrane having a ciliated epithelium. Its nasal opening is seen '""TYitnuml branch of the fifth nerve (ophthalmic division) (Fig. 240, d) may be foimd in a groove on the imder siu-face ot tlie