THE VENA CAVA SUPERIOR. 567 branches of the siipei-ficial cardiac nerves; and on the rifiht to the superior vena cava and right amicle. Its branches are the two coronary arteries, which have already- been ti'aced(p. 552). The horizontal aorta (transverse aorta, transverse portion of the arch of the aorta) commences behind the left half of the sternum, occasionally in the middle line, and thence runs backwards, inclin- ing slightly to the left to terminate on the left side of the inter- vertebral disc between the 4th and oth thoracic vertebrje. It describes a doable curve in its course, with one concavity down- wards corresj^onding to the root of the left lung, and another to the light corresponding to the trachea. It wiU be seen that the coiu-se of this portion of the great arterial trunk from the front to the back of the thorax is almost directly antero-posterior, hence its principal relations, usually described aa anterior and posterior, are rather left and right. On the left side are the left lung and pleiu-a, the left vagus and phi-enic nerves, and the origin of the left recm-rent laryngeal nerve. On the rhjht side, the right lung and pleura, the trachea, the oeso- phagus, the thoracic duct, the left recurrent laryngeal nerve, the deep cardiac plexus, and the left side of the disc between the 4th and 5th thoracic vertebrte. Ahove are its thi-ee gi'eat branches, innominate, left carotid and left subclavian, arising in the order named from before backwards and from right to left. Beloiu are the left bronchus, the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery, the ductus arteriosus, the recurrent laryngeal nerve, the superficial cardiac plexus, and some lymphatic glands. The hranches have been named : in the majority of cases, all lie to the left of the median line at theii- origin, the innominate crossing to the right side a little above its commencement; but in some cases the root of the latter vessel is cut by the mesial sagittal plane. The name desceiidiiiy 2)ortion of arch of aorta has been given to the part of the vessel that lies by the left side of the 5th thoracic vertebra (in the older text-books it was said to rest against the 4th or even the 3rd vertebra). On the left side and behind it is invested by the left pleiuu; in front are the vagus nerve and the root of the left lung; and on the right side it is related to the vertebral column, the oesophagus, and the thoracic dnct. The Vena Cava Superior (Fig. 260, lo) is formed by the junction of the right and left brachio-cephalic or innominate veins, on the right of the innominate artery. It receives the vena azygos major just above the root of the right liuig, and then, piercing the pericardiiun, enters the upper part of the right auricle.