THE SACHAL PLEXUS. 831 nerves, with the lumbo-sacral cord derived from the fourth and fifth lumbar nerves, which is seen descending into the pelvis. The several nerves, as they leave the sacral foramina, receive brandies fi-om the gaugliated cord of the sympathetic on theii' inner side, and form two nerve trunks, the upper and larger one fonned hy the lumbo-sacral cord, the first, second, and part of the thii'd sacral nerves being the Great Sciatic Nerve; the lower and smaUer one receiving the remaining part of the thii-d sacral nerve, and that portion of the fourth sacral which takes part in the plexus, to form by their union the Internal Pudic Nerve. Both these nerves pass out of the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen. Branches within the Pelvis.—1. Two branches are given to the pyri/vrmis, horn the second and third sacral nerves. 2. The nerve to the nhiurntor internus (26) arises from the fifth hunbar and first and second sacral nerves, and, Ijdng on the anterior surface of the plexus, passes with the pudic nerve through the sacro-sciatic foramina to the inner sui-face of the muscle, supplj^ing in its course the gemellus superior. 3. The nerve to the qaadratus from the upper part of the plexus passes out beneath the great sciatic nerve close behind the hip-joint, and supphes the articulation and muscular twigs which enter the deep sniiaces of the quadratus and the gemellus inferior. 4. At the upper margin of the great sacro-sciatic foramen wiU be seen the superior ghdml "err. (15), derived from the lumbo-sacral cord and first sacral nerve ; it passes out above the pyriformis with the gluteal artery, supplying the glutei medius and minimus and the ten.sor fasci£e femoris; but unlike the vessel, does not give any superficial branch to the gluteus maximus. 5. The inferior ,jh,teal. nerve to the gluteus maximus arises from the himbo-sacral cord and first, second, and third sacral nerves. 6. The small sciatic neiwe arises from the second and third sacral nerves, is often connected with the inferior gluteal nerve, and leaves the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen. 7. The perforatiny mtuneous nerve arises from the third and iourth sacral nerves, and leaves the pelvis by piercing the great sacro-sciaticligament. " W iTZ™ F'^""*'- ^8. Internal pudS-vo 29. Do.-Bal nerve of penis fo p ^7'"" '"^'"or-'lioida! nerve. 30. Visceral branc-h's (cut) ^ ten'"I'^^-fl-^"^! P^"""^*^! ^Ith^lirK^L"^'-^''- l-in,.al 33. Snnill Kciatic nerve ai\ ti"''^^'' - 34. Coccygeus nuiscio ' ''"I' i«>rves to bull, an.l