THE STOMACH. 267 The Splenic Artery (Fig. 134, 20) can now be seen in the whole of its course to the spleen, and breaking np into fom- or five Urmrnal branches, which enter the hilum on the concave surface of that organ. It runs behind the posterior layer of the lesser sac of peritoneum, across the left kidjiey and above the pancreas, and on approaching the spleen it enters the lieno-renal Ligament with, but above, the tail of the pancreas. As it passes along the upper border of the pancreas it gives off small branches to it {pancreaticce parvw), and a larger one {pancreuHm mcu/iia) which runs along the whole length of the gland from left to right, with the duct. It also gives branches {vasa hreviu) (14) to the great end of the stomach, and one of larger size {yastro-cpiploica sinistra) (18), which runs along the great ciu'vature between the layers of the gi-eater omentum, to anastomose with the gastro-epiploica dextra of the hepatic, suppling branches to both sm-faces of the stomach and to the omentum. Upon the hepatic and splenic arteries are corresponding plexuses of the spupathetic. The Splenic Vein (Fig. 140, 2) is placed below its artery, and hes behind the upper border of the pancreas. It receives tributaries corresponding to the branches of the artery, and usually also the inferior mesenteric vein, but the latter may enter the superior mesenteric vein. It is joined by the .superior mesenteric vein behind the upper border of the head of the pancreas, the two forming the vena portte. [The pancreas and duodenum should now be thoroughly defined, and the bile duct and the pancreatic duct traced to their entrance into the mtestme. If desired, the stomach may be removed by tymg and cutting it near the pylorus, and at the oesophagus.] The Stomach is a somewhat pear-shaped viscus, with the greater extremity upwards and on the left, the smaller end at a lower level and on the right side of the median line. It receives at its larger or cardiac end the termination of the oBsophagus, and ends atlts smaller or pyloric extremity in the duodenum. The expansion seen on the left side of the oesophageal opening is called the ,jr,'„t cul ,1,- sac, and a small fusiform dilatation near the pylorus is called the antrum pylori. It is covered by the pcrit()neun"i of the o-reater s-ic in front, and by that of the lesser sac behind; and these layers unite above and below at two lines, the lesser and ,,reat,'r curves running between the ccsophagoal and pyloric extrtnuitics The lesser curve gives attachment to the lesser omentum, and is in contact with an anastomotic loop .between the coronary and pyloric vessels; the gi-cater curve is connected with the greater omentum