THE FIFTH NERVE. 443 goose-foot. The temporo-facial division receives communicatiiig branches from the aiuiciilo-temporal nerve (5th) in front of the pinna, and the cervico-facial division receives one or two branches from the great auricular nerve of the cervical plexus. Erom each division of the facial nerve thi-ee sets of branches are derived, whose direction is indicated by their names. Tempore- ( Temporal (4). Cervico- f Buccal (24). facial J Malar (12). facial - Supra-maxillary (30). division ( Infra-orbital {16). division [ Infra-maxillary (34). These branches all ramify upon the face, to supply the facial muscles and communicate with the several divisions of the oth nerve, excepting the iufi-a-maxillary, which runs below the jaw to the neck and communicates with the superficial cervical nerve (31). The branches are to be traced to all the "muscles of expression," and also to the bu(!cinator, a muscle of mastication as well as of expression. The distribution is somewhat irregidar, but commonly the maJar ends in the orbicularis palpebrarum, the temporal supplies all the muscles above the palpebral fissure, including the upper part of the orbicularis, as well as the anterior and superior auricular; the hi fro-orbital, all the muscles between the palpebral and labial fissures, including the lower part of the orbicularis palpebrariim and upper part of the orbicularis oris. The huccal nerve supplies the buccinator and ends in the orbicularis oris, the infra-maxiilary is distiibuted to the muscles of the lower lip, and the supra-maxillary to the platysma. All the facial muscles receive sensory branches from the divisions of the 5th nerve. The three divisions of the 5tli Nerve appear upon the face (Fig. 215). The First or Ophthalmic Division appears (1) as the sitpra- trorhlear nerve (6) at the inner angle of the orbit; (2) at and internal to the supra-orbital notch as the mipra-orhital nerre (8), which has been traced to the forehead ; (3) as the lachrymal verve, below the external angular process ; (4) as the infra-trochlear nerve, emerging below the pulley of the superior oblique; and (5) as the nnaal verve (18), which will now be found emerging from between the nasal bone and lateral cartilage, on the side of the nose. These supply the structui'es of the vertex, anterior temporal region, forehead, upper eyelid, and part of the nose. The Second or Superior Maxillary Division appears (1) the infru-o'ihital nerve (20) at the infra-orbital foramen, betw, the levator labii superioris and the levator anguli oris, and is to be traced to the upper lip, which it suppHes with numerous large kiUul branches, fonuing a plexus with the facial nerve • it as eon is