557 CAVITIES OF THE HEART. group of chorclEe tendineas will be found attached to the adjacent borders of two larger cusps and to the small intervening cus]^, and each large cusp hence receives its chordte tendinefie from two sets of musculi papillares. The left cusp of the valve is the largest and is in contact with the anterior wall, the right cusp lies against the right wall, and the posterior is ojiposed to the back jDart of the septvun ventriculoriim. The left or infundiiular flap shuts oil the infundibulum from the general cavity of the ventricle, but does not form a part of the iafimdibulum. The aui-icular sui-face of the tricuspid valve is extremely- smooth, for the purpose of facilitatiug the flow of blood into the ventricles. The tricuspid valve acts dui-ing contraction of the ventricle (systole), and prevents the regm-gitation of blood into the auricle; but even in health there is said to be a slight reflux, which has been termed the ' safety-valve action.' The infundibular division of the tricuspid valve serves to prevent the blood from flowing into the pulmonary artery until the ventricle is fully distended, and able to contract forcibly on its contents. IThe pulmonary artery is attached to a fibrous ring, which inter- venes between it and the muscular substance of the heart, and the lining membrane of the artery is continuous with that of the ventricle. The semilunar valves (m) of the pulmonary artery are thi'ee re- duplications of the hning membrane, sti-engthened by fibrous tissue which is collected principally at the attached border of each valve. The attached border is semicii-cular, and is fixed to the wall of the artery; the free border is subdivided into two sHghtly concave portions by a little fibro-cartilaginous body, called the corjnis Araniii. On each side of the corpus Arantiiis a crescentic portion, the Imiula, which is more transparent than the rest of the valve owiiig to the absence of the fibrous elenients. Two of the valves are anterior (right and left) and one posterior, and the arterial wall is dilated opposite each valve to fonn the ainus of Valsalva. The semilunar valves act during dilatation of the ventricle (diastole), and prevent the regurgitation of the blood from the pulmonar}^ artery. The blood, which is venous or dark-coloured, is carried by the pulmonary artery to its bifmration, and then by the right and loft pidmonary arteries to the lungs, whore it is aerated; and is brought back to the heart by the four pulmonary veins as arterial or red blood. The pulmonary veins open into the left auricle.