(57 THE POSTEHIOR ANNULAR LIGAMENT. V 2 the radial artery at the wrist very commonly vary, but should be five in uumbor. 1. The Posterior carpal (17) is a small branch which runs trans- versely across the carpal bones beneath the tendons, to join the posterior carpal branch of the ulnar and form an arch, which is joined above by the terminal branches of the interosseous arteries. Prom this arise two dorsal interosseous arteries, which run on the thud and foui-th dorsal interosseous muscles, receive the corre- sponding perforating arteries, and bifurcate at the web of the lingers to form the dorsal digital arteries. They .anastomose at the web and on the fingers with the digital branches of the superficial palmar arch. 2. The Metacarpal (20) is the fh'st dorsal interosseous artery, and closely resembles the others. It runs on the second dorsal interosseous muscle. 3. The Dorsalis indicis (22) is a similar branch, which runs along the radial side of the metacarpal bone of the index finger. This is fi'equently replaced by a large artery which runs along the meta- carpal bone and divides into branches to the fore-finger and thuinb, being in fact the radialis indicis, a branch of the radial in the palm, arising earlier than usual. 4 and 5. The Dor sales pjollicis (24) are two small arteries which are distributed on the metacarpal bone of the thumb; one is often wanting. The Posterior carpal hraiich of the Ulnar artery (Kg. 27, 17) will be found appearing beneath the extensor carpi uluaris, and having completed the arch formed by the posterior carpal of the radial, it ends in a branch to the ulnar side of the fifth metacarpal bone. The Posterior Annular Lig-ament (Fig. 27) is a thickened portion of the deep fascia of the fore-arm and hand: it is attached to the ridges on the radius externally and posteriorly, and to the cuneiform and jHsiform bones internally. It has six subdivisions, which should be carefully examined and compared with the gi'ooves on the bones. The first division corvosi)onds to the groove on the outer side of the lower end of the radius, and transmits the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and extensor piimi internodii pollicis ; the spcond division corresponds to the outermost groove on the back of the bono, and transmits the tendons of the long and short radial extensors of the wrist; the third division corresponds to the nari'ow deep oblique groove on the back of the radius, and transmits the tendon of the extensor secuiidi internodii pollicis ; the foiirt/i division, corresponding to the innermost broad groove