DEEP DISSECTION OF ABDOMEN. 288 rigM common iliac. They receive tlie lateral sacral and ilio- Itimbar veins, and the middle saci-al vein enters the left common iliac. Tlie Vena Cava Inferior (Fig. 143, 3) lies ensheathed in subperitoneal tissue to the right of the aorta. It is in close relation to it below, but is separated from it by an angular interval above, and there lies in a more anterior plane. It is fonned by the junction of the two common iliac veins on the right of the fifth lumbar vertebra, and keeps to the right of the vertebral column as high as the liver; where it passes somewhat forward, entering a deep groove (occasionally converted into a canal by a bridge of hepatic substance) between the lobus Spigelii and the right lobe proper, and receives the hepatic veins; finally it reaches the quadi'ilateral opening in the diaphragm. In front of it are the peritoneum (with the foramen of Winslow), the duodenum, the pancreas, the liver, the portal vein, and the right spermatic artery. Behind lie the vertebral column, the right crus of the diaphragm, a portion of the right supra-renal capsule, the right capsular, phrenic, renal, supra-renal, and lumbar arteries, and the sympathetic chain of ganglia, besides occasionally the bridge of hepatic siibstance '{2->onticulus) mentioned above. To the right, and in close contiguity, lie the right kidney and ureter and the greater part of the supra- ■ renal capsule; to the Uft, the aorta, the thoracic duct, the com- mencement of the vena a^^ygos major, and the solar plexus and ri-ht semilunar ganglion. It receives the lumbar, right spermatic, renal, right supra-renal, and right phi'enic veins, and as it passes through the liver the larger hepatic veins open into it: thus it returns the whole of the blood of the abdomen and lower extremities to the heart. •, . xi. • <- The External Iliac Artery (Fig. 145, I) reaches from the pomt of bifurcation of the common iliac to Poupart's Hgament, where it becomes the femoral, its direction corresponding with a line di-awn from the umbilicus to a point midway between the s^miphysis pubis and the anterior superior iHac spine. It passes along the biim ot the true pelvis and upon the psoas muscle, invested by a process ot subperitoneal tissue which includes both it. and the vein, and must be removed in order to expose them. The crural branch of he oenito-crural nerve lies close to the outer side of the artery, and tlie o-cnital branch of the same nerve, as well as the spei-matic vessels and deep circumflex iUac vein cross in front of it near PouP^^; ^ Ucament. Occasionally the ureter crosses the upper part ot tlie artery. The vein Ues to the inner side of the artery in the whole of its course upon the left side, but is beneath its upper part on the