605 THE GREAT OCCIPITAL NERVE. and atlanto-axial ligaments. It contains the vei-tebral artery with a small vein, the suboccipital nerve, and branches of these. The Vertebral Artery (Fig. 287, 5) ascends thi'ough the fora- mina in the ti'ansverse processes of the six upjjer cervical vertebra?, and, having perforated the transverse process of the atlas, is seen in the suboccipital triangle, rimning horizontally inwards in the groove behiad the superior articular process of that bone, and piercing the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament to ascend into the skull through the foramen magnum. It gives small muscular and spiral branches in the intervals between the transverse processes, and its hoiizontal portion usually gives off a branch to supply the muscles in the suboccipital region and anastomose with the occijiital artery. The Muscular branches of the vertebral artery will be found between the semispinalis and complexus, suppljang the adjacent muscles, and anastomosing with the princeps cervicis of the occipital and the profunda ceiwicis of the superior intercostal. The Spinal branches behave like those of the intercostal and lumbar arteries, each giving off anterior and posterior branches {rami canalis) to the osseo-ligamentous spinal canal, and a medullary branch [ramus sjnnalis), which is conducted to the spinal cord by the nerve-root and anastomoses with the anterior and jjosterior spinal arteries. The Vertebral vein begins by one or two small tributaries in the neighbourhood of the transverse process of the atlas, and gains size in its passage through the vertebrarterial canal by receiving spinal and muscular tributaries. It escapes from the foramen in the ti-ansverse process of the sixth vertebi se, and ends in the subclavian vein. An accessory vertebral vein usually occupies the foramen in the transverse process of the seventh vertebra. The posterior division of the Suboccipital Nerve (Fig. 287, 7) (1st cervical) emerges between the occiput and atlas, and generally beneath the vertebral artery. It is of small size, and supplies branches to the recti and obliqui muscles, one to the comiDlexus, and a communicating branch to the great occipital. The Great Occipital Nerve (Fig. 287, 9) is the infernal branch of the posterior division of the second cervical nerve, and leaves the vertebral canal between the atlas and axis. It winds below the infei ior oblique, giving a branch to the complexus, and commu- nicating with the suboccipital nerve ; it then turns upward to pierce the complexus and trapezius muscles, and supply the skin of the occipital region as far as the lambdoid suture. The crternal branch of the posterior division of the second nerve supplies the splenius, complexus, and trachelo-mastoid muscles.