249 THE PHiRITONEUM. TABLE OF ABDOMINAL CONTENTS. Bight Hypochon- driac Begion. Part of right lobe of liver, part of gall bladder and hepatic flexure of colon, right supra - renal capsule, and part of right kidney. Bight Lumbar Begion. Ascending colon with Ciecum in some cases, small intes- tine, part of right kidney and some- times part of right lobe of liver. Bight Inguinal Begion. Cfficum coli, with vermiform appendix and part of ileum in most cases. In- guinal canal. Epigastric Begion. Stomach (with both orifices), left lobe and a part of right lobe of liver, part of gall bladder, 1st and part of 2nd parts of duodenum, ab- dominal aorta,vena cava,semi-lunar ganglia, receptaculmn chyli, vena azygos, pancreas, upper and inner part of spleen, parts of kidneys, and both supra-renal capsules. Umbilical Begion. Great omentum, transverse colon, 2nd (lower part) and 3rd portion of duodenum, part of right kidney and sometimes part of left, ureters, small intestine, bifurcation of aorta, for- mation of vena cava. Hypogastric Begion. Small intestines, uterus, upper part of bladder in distension and in young children, and the pregnant uterus. These lie above the oblique plane of the inlet of the true pelvis. Below it are the bladder, small in- testine, part of sigmoid flexure, rectum, and in the female, the uterus, vagina, and ovaries. Left Hypochon- driac Begion. Stomach (cardiac end), spleen and taii of pancreas, splenic flexure of colon, left supra-renal capsule, part of left kidney, and a part of the left lobe of the liver. Left Lumbar Begion. Descending colon, small intestine, part of sigmoid flexure, sometimes part of left Iddney. Left Inguinal Begion. Part of sigmoid flexure and small in- testines. Inguinal canal. at nrP««I^?Tf ^''•f, K "'^'^f^si'y "eludes organs who..e positions cannot be seen at pieaent but will be subsequently studied. opened the cavity of the peritoneum, which was previously a shut sac, and that in the normal condition the serous suvfaces are everywhere in contact, the cavity hence being vii-tual rather than actual. The best way to learn the peritoneum is to trace the reflexions on the longitudinal plane of the bodj-, and afterwards transversely. Beginning at the umbilicus, the membrane of the greater sac wiU be seen to line the posterior surface of the anterior abdominal reflttod I ' ^^i'-Pl^^'^^"^ ; from this it is aver of tb" "^^'f T^"'" ^'"^^^ ^PPer mjera of the falciform ligament-peritoneal folds whicli fix the the shari. anterior margin of the liver, and covers the whole under