THK INTERNAL ILTAC ARTERY. 325 to the upper part of the bladder. A middle vesical branch is sometimes derived froui one of these, aud from another or from the iuferior vesical is derived the artery of the vas deferens, which accompanies the duct to the testicle and anastomoses with the spermatic artery. In the female this vessel is represented by the funicular artery to the roimd ligament. 2. The Inferior vesical and 3, Middle hcemurrhoi.dal {i6) arteries generally come oS together, and are distributed to the posterior surface of the bladder, the prostate, the vesiculaj seminales, and the adjacent portion of the rectum. The middle htemorrhoidal artery anastomoses with the superior haemorrhoidal branch of the inferior mesenteric above, and with the inferior heemorrhoidal branch of the pudic artery below. The arteries of the bladder anastomose freely with one another, and with those on the opposite side. 4. The Uterine (8) and Vayinal arteries sujjply those organs, the uterine passing in the base of the broad ligament as far as the cervix, and then running up close to the side of the body of the uterus and giving branches to its anterior and pos- terior surfaces. It anastomoses at the superior angle of the uterus with the ovarian and funicular arteries, and inferiorly with the vaginal. 0. The Obturator (g) artery passes directly forwards, below the level of the nerve and above that of the vein, to the obturator foramen, through which it disappears with the nerve, after giving oif a small pubic branch to the back of the bone, and an iliac branch to the iliacus internus and ilium. The pubic branch anastomoses with a pubic branch of the deep epigastric, and with the corresponding branch of the opposite side. The distribution of the obtm-ator artery outside the pelvis has been already seen on the right side, but may now be followed out on the left side. When the obturator arises from the epigastric artery, there is generally a small branch running in the proper i)osition with the obturator nerve. 6. The Pudic {i^) and 7, the Wcm^/c (14) arteries can onlv be seen tor a short distance within the pelvis, as they lie on the pyrifornii-^ and sacral plexus before passing through the lower part of the gi'eatcr sacro-sciatic foramen below that muscle. The pudic is generally smaller than the sciatic, and a little in front of it but the the Penn^mim and ra« H opportunity may bfe taken to tiace the sciatic artery through the great sacro-sciatic foramen to