451 THE PTEUYGO-MAXILLARY LIGAMENT. the 23alate and superior maxilla is superficial to the fibres of the external pterygoid (Fig. ■^23). The Buccinator (Pig. 223, 14) has been partly seen in the dissection of the face. It arises from the alveolar border of the superior maxilla opposite the two posterior molar teeth; from a corresponding portion of the inferior ;naxilla ; and between the jaws from the anterior border of the pterj^go-maxillary ligament, which separates its fibres from those of the superior constrictor. Its inner siu'face is lined with mucous membrane, and externally it is related to the maxdla and to the sucking pad of cheek fat. It is inserM into the lips and angle of the mouth, joining the orbicularis oris, and probably becomes continuous with the opposite muscle in the middle line of both lips. Its upper and lower alveolar fibres will be seen to pass to the upper and lower lip respectively, while the mtei-mediate fibres from the pterygo-maxillary ligament decussate, the superior passing to the lower lip, the inferior to the upper.* The fibres are perforated by the duct of the parotid gland opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. The principal action of the buccinator is to keep the food between the teeth diu-ing mastication. It also expels air from the mouth (and hence the name "trumpeter"), as in using the blowpipe; and the muscle acting with its fellow aids in the expression of the face, by cU-awing out- wards the corners of the mouth and pressing the lips tightly too-ether and against the teeth. " The Pterygo-Maxillary Ligament (Fig. 224) is a somewhat mdistmct fibrous line, resembling a tendinous intersection or raphe rather than a ligament, and extending between the hamular process of the internal pterygoid plate and the lower jaw, close to the last molar tooth. By its anterior border it gives attachment to the buc- cinator, and by its posterior boi-der to the superior constrictor of the pharynx; its inner sui'face, covered by mucous membrane, may thus be regarded as a boiuidary line between the cavities of the mouth and the phaiynx. The muscles of mastication are aU supplkd by the motor portion of the third division of the 5th nerve, except the buccinator, which although receiving a branch from this nerve, derives its motion from the facial nerve (7th), as is shown by the fact that in facial paralyses the buccinator fails in its action, and food collects between the teeth and the cheek. The nerve to the internal pterv-oid IS G G 2