THE THORAX. 568 Great Vessels of the Eoot of the Neck. The tkree great branches of the second part of the arch of the , | aorta are the Innominate, the Left Carotid, and the Left Subclavian arteries. The Innominate Artery (Fig. 269, 23) begins usually on the left of the middle line of the body, but sometimes centrally, behind the manubrimn sterni and opposite the 4th thoracic vertebra. It jjasses obliquely ujDwards and to the right, dividing into the right common carotid and right subclavian ai-teries behind the upper border of the right sterno-clavicular joint, and opposite the interval between the two heads of the sterno-mastoid. It is about an inch and a half in length, and lies in the greater part of its extent sxrr- rouaided by the connective tissue of the superior mediastinum. In front of it are the maniibrium, the right sfcerno-clavicular joint, the remains of the thjTiius gland, and the origins of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thja-oid muscles ; and it is crossed nearly at right angles bj^ the left innominate vein and obliquely by the right inferior thyi'oid vein. Behind it, near its origin, are the ti-achea and the root of the left common carotid artery, afterwards the prolongation of the right pleura into the neck. To the rujht side are the right plem-a and lung, the right innominate vein and right phrenic nerve; to the left side, the inferior thja-oid veins and, at its bifm-ca- tion, the trachea. The origin of the left common carotid lies somewhat to the left as well as behind. The innominate artery ordinarily gives off no branch, but occa- sionally a small vessel, the thyrouha ima, arises fi-om it or fi'om the aorta close to it, and rims up the fi'ont of the trachea to the thyi-oid body. The Left Common Carotid Artery (Fig. 269, 16) leaves the arch on the left of the middle Une, and runs upwards and to the left side, at a level anterior to that of the left subclavian artery. Above the left sterno-clavicvdar articulation its relations coiTespond to those of the right carotid artery (p. 408). Thetlioradc, portion has in front the manubriimi, with the remains of the thymus gland, the origins of the left sterno-hyoid and sterno- thyroid muscles, the root of the innominate artery and the com- mencement of the left innominate vein. Behind it He the root of the subclavian artery, the trachea, and at a higher point the left border of the oesophagus and the thoracic duct; to its right arc the innominate artery, the inferior thyi'oid vein, the trachea and the left recurrent laryngeal nerve; to its Jcft side, the left pneumo- gastric nerve with its cardiac branches, and the left plem-a and lung.