THE MESIAL SURFACE OF THE BRAIN. 638 The Mesial Surface oe the Bhain. For pui-poses of description it will be convenient to classify the appearances presented on the mesial aspect of the brain into (I.) those structures which cross the middle plane and are divided in a sagittal section through the longitudinal fissure, and (11.) those which lie close to the Irae of section but are not divided. I. The sti-uctui-es cut through are as follows (Fig. 310) :— (1) The Corpus callosum, with its rostrum and genu in front, its spleniiun behind, and its body in the middle (p. 641). (2) The Fornix, connected behind and above with the corpus callosum, and arching downwards and forwards to form the corpora albicantia at the base. (3) The Septum Incidmn, including between its layers the Fifth ventricle, and connecting the under surface of the body of the corpus callosum with the upper surface of the rostrum and fornix. (4) The Velum interpnsitum, a fold of pia mater entering the brain at the transverse fissure of Bichat, below the coiims caUosiun (splenium) and fornix. (5) The basal structures forming the anterior wall and floor of the third ventricle, viz., the lamina cinerea, the ojMc cMasma, the tuher cinerenm, the infundihulum and the pituitari/ bodi/, the commissm-al fibres between the two corpora albicantia and adjacent parts of the anterior piUars of the fomLx, the posterior perforated spot, and the junction of the crura cerebri. . (6) The commissural sti-uctures crossing the third ventncle, viz . the anterior and posterior white commissui-es and the mnldle grey commissure. . (7) The corpora quadrigemina and pineal body, overlyuig the mesial aqueduct of Sylvius. (H) The pons Varolii, cerebeUum, and medulla oblongata, with the fourth ventricle, and the valve of Vieussens connecting the superior cerebellar peduncles. II The undivided bilateral stmctures seen on the mesial sm-iace consist of the convolutions and sulci in front of. beldnd and above he corpus callosum; and the optic thaUinii. forming the atei^ walls of the third ventricle. Below the third ventricle he the temporo-occipital convolutions, which belong to the basa surface and are best exposed after removal of the pons, cerebellum, and medulla by section of the crura cerebri (Fig. 301) The principal fissures of the mesial surface are three m number: (1) the calloso-mar.jinal, C2) the internal par,eto-ocapttal.