505 INNER ■ WALL OF TYMPANUM. The handle of the malleus runs vertically downwards on the inner side of the fibrous laj^er between this and the tympanic mucous layer, and is attached by its extremity to the umbo or centre of the membrane, while the lesser process of the malleus forms a projec- tion at the upper end of the membrane. The external face of the membrane is always concave, and when examined by reflected light shows two bright points, one above, cii-cular, con-esponding to the point of the processus brevis, the other triangular, extending downwards and forwards with its apex at the umbo. The membrane consists of an outer cuticular layer continuous with the cutaneous lining of the external auditory meatus; a middle fibrous layer, the memhruna propria, composed of radiating and circular fibres; and an inner mucous layer, continuous with • the mucous membrane of the tympanum and Hned with squamous non-ciliated epithelium. It is reflected over the handle and lesser process of the malleus and over the chorda tjTiipani. The mem- brane of Shrapnell consists of the cuticular and mucous layers only. The inner wall {Fig. 244) corresponds to the labyrinth and a small portion of the carotid canal. It presents many points for notice:— j 1. The promontonj (ii), an eminence formed by the first turn of the cochlea and grooved by the branches of Jacobson's nerve; its summit approaches within a line or two of the tympanic membrane. 2. The fenestra ovalis (6), an oval aperture with a long horizontal axis placed immediately above the promontory. It is occupied by the base of the stapes and opens into the vestibule. 3. The fenestra rotunda (ig), a somewhat triangular aperture looking backwards and outwards and lying at the back of the pro- montory. It is closed by a membrane {memhrana secundaria) and communicates with the scala tympani of the cochlea. 4 The posterior pi/ramid (8), situated behind the fenestra ovalis, and united to the promontory by a narrow bridge of bone. It is hollow, perforated at its extremity, and transmits the stapedius muscle. 5. The anterior pyramid (3), projecting from the junction of the anterior and inner walls in front of the fenestra ovalis and above the Eustachian tube. It transmits the tensor tympani muscle. 6. A rid(je corresponding to the aquedudus Fullopii (i). This rmis upwards behind the promontory, and then curves forwards immediately above the foramen ovale, where it is less distinct and may not be distinguishable. 7. A rid,,e. corresponding to the external semicircular canal.