MUSCLES OF THE PERTN/EUM. 211 It varies a good deal in size and distribution, but generally runs inwards beneath the fascia of OoUes to the scrotum and joins the external superficial perinreal nerve. [The supei-ficial vessels and nerves are to be tm-ned aside, and the muscles dissected out. The accelerator urinse is in the median line, the erector penis parallel to the ramus of the pubes, and the transversus perinsei crosses between them posteriorly; the muscles thus boiuiding a triangular space in which a part of the triangular ligament is seen.] Superficial Muscles of the Perinaeum. The muscles in the superficial perinseal interspace are invested, each by a fascia proper to itself. The Bulbo-cavernosus (Fig. 99, 8) [ejaculator semim's or accele- rator urince) is a single muscle, composed of two symmetrical halves united in the middle line by a delicate fibrous raphe. The fibres arise from the central point of the perinteum and from the fibrous raphe superficial to the bulb, and are inserted as follows:—the posterior fibres, which are nearly transverse in their dii-ection, overlie the bulb and are lost upon the superficial layer of the triangular ligament; the middle fibres encircle the coi-pus spon- giosum and meet those of the opposite side in a median raphe under cover of the corpora cavernosa; and the anterior fibres (inconstant) pass obliquely outwards and forwards, enclosing the entire circumference of the root of the penis and the dorsal vessels {compressor vence dorsalis). The IscMo-cavernosus (Fig. 99, lo) {erector penis), a paired muscle, covers the crus penis. It arises fi-om the anterior and inner surface of the tuberosity of the ischium, from the ramus of the ischium and also from the fibrous origin of the crus; and ends in an aponem-osis which is inserted into the sides of the crus penis, sometimes sending a slip over the dorsal vessels. The Transversus Perinaei (Fig. 99, 14), also a paired muscle, is veiy variable in its character. It arises from the inner side of the ramus of the ischium, and running forwards and inwards meets its fellow muscle of the opposite side in the central point of the perina3um, where it often blends with the fibres of the accelerator urinEG and sphincter ani. The action of the bulho-care.rnosiis is to expel the contents of the urethra by its sudden and spasmodic contraction. It is not put in action during the greater part of the act of micturition ; but when the ftow of mine has ceased, it serves to eject the small remaining portion; or it may be used to arrest the flow of urine suddenly^ when its action gives rise to considerable pain. Its action diu-ing V 2