259 PERITONEAL POUCHES. The posterior iJeritoneal attachment may be divided into an upper portion connected with the liver, stomach and .spleen, and a lower belonging to the large and smaU intestine. The uppa; commencing with the reflection of the falciform ligament upon the diaphragm, extends backwards somewhat obliquely to join the large ■ area connected with the posterior surface of the right lobe of the liver and the right and left lateral ligaments. From the lower border of the hepatic area runs the posterior attachment of that double layer of peritoneiun (gastro-phi-enic Ugament) which foi-ms the septum between the greater and lesser sacs of peri- toneum on the left side (Figs. 127, 128), and encloses the ceso- phagus, the tail of the pancreas, and the splenic vessels; this passes from the pomt at which the vena cava receives the obUterated ductus venosus, obHqueiy to the left across the diaphi-agm to the front of the left kidney, when it joins the attachment of the splenic flexure ot the colon. The hwer line of attachment commences with the root of the mesentery on the left side of the 2nd bimbar vertebra, at the termination of the 3rd stage of the duodenum. From this point it runs obhquely downwards across the spine into the right iKac fossa where It meets the lowest attachment of the ascending colon and of the httle appendicular fold. Theascendmg colic area runs upwards over the iliac crest, the anterior lamella of the transversalis tendon, and the front of the right kidney; it is succeeded by the attach- ment of the ti-ansverse meso-colon, which extends ti-ausversely across the renal vessels and the pancreas, transmitting between its layers he termination of the first stage of the duodenum above and on the tt r .1' Ti '""^ °^ ^^"^^ "^'i^U- or a httle to the left; and receiving at its left extremity the lower end of he septal fold before referred to. At this point it becom over the kidney and transversahs tendon into the left iliac fossa. 20. Descending colon. 21. Superior mesenteric artery. 22. Left kidney. 23. Termination of duodenum. 24. Mesentery. 25. Descending duodenum, w. Colica sinistra. 27. Riglit kidney. 28. Sigmoidea. 29. Colica dextra. 30. Superior liBemorrlioidal artery. 01. Right colic area. 32. Common iliac artery. 33. Vasa intestini tenuis". 34. Iliac fossa. 35. Left connnon iliac artery. 00. Internal iliac artery 37. Pelvis. on' ^J'^'-emal iliac artery. 39. External iliac artery. 40. Deep epigastric artery. 41. Meso-rectum. 43. Rectal area. 45. Bladder.