519 THE VOCAL CORDS. probably of .service iu modulating the sound, but tbe closure of the epiglottis in deglutition is mainlj'- effected by the conjoint action of the reti'actors of the tongue and the elevators of the larynx. [A side view of the interior of the larjmx is now to be obtained by cutting away the crico-arytsenoideus lateralis, with the vocal cords and mucous membrane of the same side, but the cricoid cartilage is to be left entire.] Fig. 252. On a Side-view (Fig. 252) of the interior of the larynx will be seen the horizontal projections of the mucous membrane, caused by the superior and inferior vocal cords. Between the two cords is a depres.sion called the ven- tricle (7) of the larynx, and from the fi'ont of this a jjrobe can be carried into a pouch, the sacculus laryngis, which jjrojects upward between the upper cord and the thyroid cartilage. The mucous membrane is continued from the ventricle into the sac, and is there provided with numerous mucous glands, which provide a secretion for the lubrication of the ti'ue vocal cords. [The mucous membrane is to be cHssected fi-om the vocal cords, and theii- attachments are to be clearly shown.] The "Vocal Cords or Thyro-arytaenoid Ligaments (Fig. 252) are foui- in number, two on each side of the lai-ynx. The superior ligament or false cord (5) has an arched direction, and is much more slender than the inferior ligament. It is attached in front to the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage, and behind ^'ig. 252.—Vertical section of larynx showing its ligaments (from Sappey). 1. Body of hyoid bone. 2. Epiglottis. 3. Front of tliyro-hyoid membrane. 4. Great coniu of hyoid. 5. False vocal cord. 0. Tliyro-hyoid ligament. 7. Ventricle of larynx. 8. Thyro-hyoid membrane. 9. True vocal cord. 10. Arytreno-epiglottideau fold cartilage of Wrisberg. 11. Thyroid cartilage. 12. Superior cornu of thyroid. 13. Crico-thyroid membrane. 14. Arytainoideus muscle. 15. Trachea. 16. Arytienoid cartilage. 18. Cricoid cartilage. and