LIGAMENTS OF CLAVICLE AND SCAPULA. 83 ligament below. These structures are dissected witli the head and neck (see Anterior Triangle). The Acromio-Clavicular Articulation (Eig. 38) is an arthrodial joint, with an inter-articular fibro-cartilage, usually imperfect, but occasionally complete and dividing the synovial cavity into two parts. The joint fissure runs straight from before backwards, and the articular sui'faces of the bones are so bevelled as to favour upward displacement of the clavicle upon the acromion. The Superior acromio-davicular ligament (i) is a quadi'ilateral band of short strong fibres, more or less connected with the fibres of the trapezius and deltoid. It is in reality continuous with the inferior acromio-davrcular ligament, which is similar in shape, but placed below the joint, the two forming a capsule. The Coraco-Clavicular Ligament (Fig. 38, 2, 3) is really but one ligament twisted upon itself so as to present two surfaces, to which the names Conoid and Trapezoid have been given. The two parts are separated by the insertion of the subclavius and by a bursa. The Conoid ligament (3) is the posterior portion, and resembles a cone with the base upwards. It is attached to the posterior and inner part of the base of the coracoid process heloiv, and to the tubercle on the under surface of the clavicle and part of the adjacent bone above. The Trapezoid ligament (2) might be more suitably called rhom- boid from its shape. It is a quadrilateral band of fibres attached to the line on the posterior part of the upper surface of the coracoid process heloiu, and to the line leading to the tubercle on the under surface of the clavicle above. It is anterior and external to the conoid ligament. The Coraco-Acromial Ligament (Fig. 38, 4) is a triangular band attached to the outer side of the coracoid process, and by its smaller end to the tip of the acromion process, and often presents a cleft through which passes a vessel and occasionally a slip of the pectoralis minor. It arches above the shoulder-joint and prevents dislocation upwards. It is loosely stretched between its two attach- ments in order that it may adapt itself to the curve of the head of the humerus, for which it forms, together with the acromion, a supplementary socket. _ The Transverse Ligament (Fig. 38, 5) is a short band convert- ing the supra-scapular notch into a foramen, and giving origin to part of the omo-hyoid muscle. It is often divided into two'^parts by the supra-scapular vein. The supra-scapular artery goes over the ligament, but the nerve beneath it.