THE FRONT OP THE LEO. 174 of the anterior surface of the fibula, internally to the extensor longus digitorum ; and from the adjacent part of th>'interosseous membrane. Its tendon passes beneath the annular ligament and, crossing the anterior tibial vessels and nerve and the insertion of the innermost tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum, is ivseried into the base of the terminal phalanx of the great toe. This muscle is an extensor of the great toe, and a dorsal flexor of the ankle. The Extensor Brevis Digitorum (Fig. 85, ii) is the only muscle of the dorsum of the foot. It arises from the upper surface of tbe greater process of the os calcis; from the interosseous cal- caneo-asti-agaluid ligament; and fi'om the lower border of the anterior annular ligament. It ends in fom- tendons, the tha-ee outer passing obliquely across the foot to be ixstrted into the second, third, and fourth toes, joining the general expansion of the extensor tendons; the innermgst slip passing to a separate attach- ment into tbe base of the proximal phalanx of the great toe, after crossing over the dorsal artery of the foot. The innermost portion of the muscle is a short extensor of the great toe, acting with tbe long extensor upon the proximal phalanx, and assisting slightly in adduction at the metatarso-phalangeal joint. The remaining segment extends the second, third, and fourth toes, supplementing the long extensor more essentially when this muscle is relaxed during dorsal flexion. The five muscles last described are all supplied by the anterior tibial nerve. . , i, The Anterior Tibial Artery (Fig. 76, L) is a branch of the popliteal, and reaches the front of the leg by piercing the inter- osseous membrane between the two heads of the tibialis posticus, and below the popliteus. Its direction is from a pomt midway between the inner tuberosity of the tibia and the head of the fibula to the centre of the instep. It lies at first upon the interosseous membrane between the tibiaUs anticus and extensor longus digi- torum, and then between the tibialis anticus and extensor propnus haUucis ; in the lower part of the leg it winds on to the tibia and becomes superficial above the ankle-joint. It passes beneath the annular ligament, and is crossed by the extensor longus hallucis near the level of the joint. Its continuation upon the foot is known under the name of dorsalis pedis. It is accompanied by two vence comites; the antenor tibial nervr runs to its outer side as far as about the middle third of the leg. then lies in front of it, but again gets to its outer side in the lower thii'd. A small lymphatic gland is sonietmies found close to the artery about the middle of the leg.