THE SIDE OF THE NECK. 406 veallj- derived from tlao coinmiiniciitiii^' branch j,'iveii to the hypo- glossal by the first and second cervical nerves, and are not of intra-cranial origin. [The fascia is now to be removed from the snpe:-ficial muscles of the triangle, but the carotid sheath should be left untouched for the present.] The Sterno-hyoid (Fig. 198, 14) is the most superficial muscle ; it is separated from its feUow of the opposite side by only a small ceUular interval above, but diverges from it below. It arises from the back of the first piece of the sternum, the posterior sterno- clavicular ligament, and the inner extremity of the clavicle; and is ■inserted into the body of the hyoid bone. It is a depressor of the hyoid bone, fixing it during the action of the supra-hyoid muscles. It may act feebly as a muscle of inspiration, by raising the sternum when the hyoid bone is fixed from above. t The Sterno-tliyroid (Fig. 198, 15) is deeper and broader than the preceding muscle, by which it is partly covered. It arises fi-om the back of the sternum below the sterno-hyoid, and fi-om the first or sometimes the second costal cartilage ; and is inserted into the oblique line on the .side of the thyroid cartilage^ It very generally has a transverse tendinous intersection m its fibres, it is separated from its fellow above by a considerable interval, but comes into close contiguity with it below. It is a depressor of the thyroid cartilage, and a feeble elevator of the sternum when the cartilage is drawn upwards and fixed. The Thyro-hyoid (Fig. 198, 16) is a dii-ect continuation of the last muscle. It arises from the obHque hne of the thyi'oid cartilage, and passing beneath the omo-hyoid is ivserted into the lower border of the bodv and greater cornu of the hyoid bone. It is an elevator of the thyroid cartilage acting from above, and a depressor of the hyoid bone acting from below, when the thyroid cartilage is drawn downwards and fixed. The Omo-liyoid (Fig. 198, 17) can now be seen m its who e length, crossing the neck beneath the sterno-mastoid, and consist- ing of two bellies united by a small tendon, which has been seen to be held down to the clavicle and first rib by a process of the deep cervical fascia. It arises from the upper margin of the scapula close to the notch, and from the transverse ligament which conveit^ the supra-scapular notch into a foramen : and ,s vrserted uito the body of the hyoid bone externally to the sterno-hyoid. and superficially to the thyro-hyoid muscle.