140 THE POPLITEAL SPACE. space, but becomes visible close to its tendon near the head of tbi' fibula. It gives a communicating branch {ranms comrnnnicuns peronei vel fibular is) down the back of the leg to form with the com- municans tibialis the external saphenous nerve, and two or three articular branches. Of these, two, sometimes arising together, accompany the two external articular branches of the popliteal artery; the other (the recuiTcnt articular) winds to the front of the joint with the recurrent branch of the anterior tibial arteiy. An external cutaneous nerve to the outer side of the leg arises either from the external popliteal itself, or more frequently from the communicans fibularis. The sciatic nerve may be found at the upper angle of the space when its bifurcation is unusually low. The Popliteal Artery (Fig. 63, 8) is the continuation of the femoral artery, and extends from the opening in the adductor magnus to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, where it divides into anterior and posterior tibials. It lies near the bottom of the popliteal space, separated from the back of the femur by a layer of fat about a quarter of an inch in thickness; but it is in dii-ect contact with the posterior ligament of the knee, and the . popliteus muscle and fascia. It has a direction fi'om the inner side of the femur to the middle of the leg. Its vein is fii-st to its outer side, then crosses it superficially and lies slightly to its inner side below, whilst the internal popliteal nerve is still more super- ficial, and also crosses the arterjr from without inwards. The commencement of the popliteal artery is under cover of the semi- membranosus, the middle of the vessel is in the hoUow of the ham, uncovered by muscles, and its lower part is beneath the gasti-ocne- mius and plantaris muscles. A branch of the obtiu-ator nerve may be found on the upper part of the arteiy, and ti-aced to the back of the knee joint. ■ The Branclies (Figs. 63 and 64) of the popUteal artery are-^ superior and inferior muscular to the hamstrings and muscles of the calf, and articular to the knee-joint. 1. The Superior muscular branches arise from the u]iper part «'t the artery, and are cKstributed to the adjacent hamstring nuisclos. anastomosing with the perforating and terminal branches of the profunda. 2. The Articular branches are five in niunber, viz., two supenor. two inferior, and one azygos. The superior arteries, internal and external, arise just above the condyles of the femur, and wind horizontally inwards and outward.'? to the front of the knee-joint to supply it; and to anastomose with one another, with the anastomotica magna, and the descending