THE LARYNX. 518 moves upon the thjToid, or rki' vvrsd, around a transverse axis passing through the two crico-thyroid joints, while the aiytasnoids are capable of rotation round a nearly vertical axis, and of gliding movements from side to side and from before backwards. The Orico-thyroidei rotate the cricoid cartilage upwards (or the thyroid cartilage downwards and forwards) and thus tighten the vocal cords by increasing the distance of the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage from the vocal processes of the arytsenoid cartilages. The Tliyrit-aryUmwidei being parallel to, and attached to the same points as, the vocal cords, must necessarily by their contraction relax the cords. The fibres which are inserted into the vocal cords may have the power of dividing them into separately vibrating segments, and so produce a note considerably above the normal register, as in the falsetto. The Cr'icii-arytmwidei postjfi swing the arytfenoid cartilages out- wards, and thus separate the vocal processes and dilate the glottis. This can be easily shown by making traction upon the two muscles simultaneously with the points of a pair- of forceps. The Cricu-arytainoidn laterahs are antagonists to the postici, and approximate the vocal cords, thus narrowing or closing the glottis. The Aryta'Hoideus draws the arytfenoid cartilages together, and thus, according to one view, constricts the glottis; but it may be doubted whether the more superficial fibres, which are inserted farthest out, would not tend to swing the cai-tilages upon theu- axes in such a manner as to widen the glottis. The most superficial fibres, which reinforce the aryttono-epiglottidei, aid the action of those muscles. The thyro-arytcEno-epigloltklei and the aryta-iioideus together approximate the sides of the upper aperture of the larj-nx and depress the epiglottis. . ^ The functions of the laryngeal muscles are hence partly respu-a- tery, partly vocal. In respiration, the glottis is widened by the crico-arytcenoidei postici, and narrowed by the cnco- arytcBnoidei laterales and thyro-aryttenoidei. In mcahsatwn, the preliminary approximation of thb cords necessary for the production of sound having been effected by the two m .sclos .lust named, the cords may bo made tense by the crico-thyroidoi, or lylaxed. as m the production of low notes, by the thyro-arytamoids; and tlie vibrating cords can probably bo segmented by the conti-action o the inneimost fibres of the latter muscles and the note thus elevated above the usual register. The action of the aryta^noideus is uncertain. The alteration of the position of the epiglottis is