ADDUCTOR OBLIQUUS HALLUCIS. 1G7 Ivimbricales of the foot are less important tlian those in the hand, and their function is usually Limited to slight flexion and tibial adduction of the proximal phalanges. The accessorius and the three outer lumbricales are supplied by the external plantar nerve ; and the inner lumbrical by the internal plantar. The tendon of the Flexor Longus Hallucis (Fig. 82, ii), after lying in the groove behind the astragalus and below the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis, runs forward to the great toe, under cover of the plantar vessels and nerves, and is crossed su23er- ficiaUy by the tendon of the flexor digitorum, to which it gives a slip of reinforcement. It then lies between the two heads of the flexor brevis hallucis, and the two sesamoid bones with their con- necting ligament form a deep channel for it; finally it runs in the sheath formed by the ligameutum vaginale luitil its insertion into the base of the terminal phalanx of the great toe. The action of the muscle is to flex the great toe, to assist in the plantar flexion of the ankle, and to maintain the longitudinal arch of the foot. [The long tendons and the accessorius muscle are to be cut about the middle of the foot and tiirned down, when the muscles of the third layer are to be cleaned. In doing this the external plantar vessels and nerve will be more fully, but not yet completely, exposed.] The Third Layer of Muscles consists of the flexor brevis hal- lucis, adductor obliquus hallucis, flexor brevis minimi digiti, and adductor transversus hallucis. The Flexor Brevis Hallucis (Fig. 83, 7) (irises by a narrow tendinous origin from the inner side of the cuboid, and from the prolongation of the tendon of the tibialis posticus to the external and middle cuneiform bones. Its fibres form two heads, which diverge from each other near the head of the metatarsal bone, to be inserted into opposite sides of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe with the ab.luctor and adductors respectively. Each head has developed in its tendon a largo sesamoid bone, which enters into the formation of the metatarso-phalangeal joint. Tlio tendon of the long flexor lies between the two heads of this muscle. The sesamoid bones in the tendon form the anterior resting point or pier of the inner s'do of tlio plantar arch. The Adductor Obliquus Hallucis (Fig. S3, 11) arises from the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones, and from the long plantar ligament where it bridges over the peroneus longus t«ndon. It is inserted into the outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the great too, with the outer head of the ihxov brevis.