521 CARTILAGES OF THE LARYNX. The Th.yro-hyoid Membrane (Pig. 251, 5) connects the upper border of the th3a'oid cartilage with the hyoid bone. It is chiefly composed of yellow elastic tissue, and may be divided into a central portion, and two roimded lateral portions, the Thyro-hyoid liga- ments, passing fi'om the gi-eat cornu of the hyoid bone to the superior cornu of the thyi-oid cartilage, and often containing a nodule of cartilage (cartilage triticea). The central portion is attached above to the posterior siu'face of the upper border of the hyoid bone, a bursa intervening between the membrane and the bone. This allows of the drawing up of the thyroid cartilage behind the hyoid bone. The lateral portion of the membrane is perforated by the superior laryngeal nerve and artery. Its deep sm-face is in contact with the hyo-epiglottidean Kgament. The Crico-thyroid Membrane or Ligament (Pig. 252, 13) is also cliiefly composed of elastic tissue, and passes between the borders of the cricoid and thyroid cartilages mesially for about a third of an inch, but laterally is prolonged backwards to the arytasnoid cartilages, and is continuous by the upper borders of these lateral partious with the true vocal cords. The Crico-tracheal Ligament is between the lower border of the cricoid cartilage and the upper ring of the trachea, and IS a simple membrane like that between the several rings of the trachea. Capsular Ligaments enclosing synovial membranes surround the articulations between the cricoid and the inferior cornua of the thyroid cartilage; and between the cricoid and the bases of the two arytcpjioid cartilages. The Thyro-epiglottidean Ligament connects the lower extremity of the epiglottis with the back of the thyi-oid cartila-e, a little below the notch in its upper border. ° The Hyo-epiglottidean Ligament is a fan-shaped band of yellow elastic tissue, passing behind the thja-o-hyoid membrane iroin the attached extremity of the epiglottis to the upper border of ■ the hyoid bone. Cartilages ov the Larynx. [The large cartilages of the larynx, viz., the thja-oid, cricoid two aiyt^noid, and the cartilage of the epiglottis, are readily recognized bu two pairs of minute cartilages, the cornicula laryngi.s and the cuneiform cartilages, are to be lookedfor in the arytamo-epigbtt de'n folds of mucous membrane.] •-l^oioraaean J)l ^^rf^ Cartilage (l.i'ig. 250, g) (e.pei. .?s„., like a shield) .s the largest cartilage of the larynx, and consists of two