THE BACK OF THE THIGH. l-il branch of the external circumflex and the other arteries about the joint. The external passes beneath the tendon of the biceps, the internal beneath those of the adductor maguus and inner ham- strings. The inferior articular arteries arise on the popliteus. The inttrmd (the lower of the two) runs obliquely downwards and inwards below the inner tuberosity of the tibia, following the upper border of the popliteus and passing beneath the long portion of the internal lateral ligament; the external passes horizontaUy outwards altogether above the head of the fibula, between the external lateral ligament and the semilunar fibro-cartilage, to the fi'ont of the joint. The azyips arises about the middle of the artery, and pierces the posterior ligament with the obtui-ator nerve to supply the synovial membrane and crucial Kgaments, and to join the other branches. 3. The/?i/e?-/o?-mHsaj?«r branches (sm-al) are distributed to the muscles of the calf. ^The Popliteal Vein (Kg. 64, 3) is formed by the junction of the anterior and posterior tibial veins at the lower border of the popHteus. The vein is superficial to the artery, and Ues slightly to its mner side at the lower part of the space, but crosses to the outer side above. It receives tributaries coiTesponding to the branches of the artery and, at a variable point, the external saphenvus vein which hes on the back of the leg between the heads of the gastrocne- mius, _ opens mto it. Like the supei-ficial femoral vein, it is sometimes represented by two venae comites, one of which is much arger than the other. The popliteal vein is remarkable for the thichiess of Its waUs, and for its close adhesion to the subjacent Pom- or five smaU lymphatic cjlands are placed close to the artery Ihey receive the superficial lymphatics accompanying the external saphenous vein from the back of the leg and heel, and deep lym- phatics accompanying the venae comites of the anterior and tibial ai-tenes from the bones, muscles, &c. The efferent vessels end in the deep femoral glands. The Back of the Thigh. [The skin left on the back of the thigh is to be removed and some .small branches of the small .sciatic nerve may be fZul in the idttr^Jf STh^cf th"r^ ''r^' soen^on reZ'ng £ viJ^'ff T'''''^ ^^'^^^ 62) are three in number, vu!., the biceps on the outer side, and the semi-tendinosus and