433 MUSCLES OF THE FACE. of the scalp. Various small intrinsic muscles pass from one point to another of the cartilage of the pinna, but these can be sufBciently seen in Eigs. 210 and 211, and wiU not repay the trouble of dissection. [The cheeks are now to be distended with cotton wool and the lips carefully sewn together. A little piece of wool may also be inti-oduced beneath the eyelids with advantage. An incision is to be made fi-om the temple in fi-ont of the ear, along the jaw to the chin (the scalp having been already dissected), and the skin is to be carefully reflected towards the median line. A cut around the orbit and mouth wiU avoid interference with the eyelids and lips. The position of the various muscles may be ascertained from the two following figiu-es ; they, as well as the vessels, are to be care- fully preserved, but the small nerves are to be cut away, together with aU the loose fat. The parotid gland in fi'ont of the ear is to be preserved, and its duct traced across the face below the malar bone.] Muscles of the Face oe Muscles of Expression. The Orbicularis Palpebrarum (Fig. 213, 4) is a broad muscle surrounding the orbit. It arises from the internal palpebral liga- ment (('. p. 430), from the nasal process of the superior maxilla above and below the Hgament, and fi-om the internal angular process of the fi-ontal bone. Its fibres surround the orbit and are attached to the skin; and those passing over the Uds (the palpebral fibres or palpehra/is muscle), are in part attached to the external tarsal ligament externally. A few fibres constituting the aiian/ bundle of Eiolan He on the inner side of the bulbs of the lashes. On the outer side of the orbit, the muscular fibres adhere to the frontal process of the malar bone and to the adjacent temporal fascia in such a manner as to represent an external attachment. Accessory fibres join the orbicularis fi-om the occipito-frontalis, and two sHps (m. malaris) are given off, one on each side, from the lower border of the muscle to the integument of the cheek. The orbicularis palpebrarum is the muscle which closes "the eye- lids, and is therefore the direct antagonist of the levator palpebral its orbital fibres wimkle the skin around the lids. The upper half of the muscle is capable of acting independently of the lower In'lf its power of compressing the globe is serviceable in violent wcopin-." or in other conditions in which the ocidar vessels arc distended with blood. The Corrugator Supercilii wiU be seen by removing the portion of the orbicularis covering the brow. It anS from he mner part of the superciliary ridge, and running upwards and P F