552 THE THORAX. mediastinal structures, and (4) to the diaphragm. The anterior mediastinal area lies on the left side of the median line, and comprises only a small portion of the anterior aspect of the right ventricle. The rujht j^ulmonro area consists of a small part of the right ventricle, the right auricle with its appendage, and hehind these the right side of the left auricle. The left pulmonic area includes a portion of the left border of the right ventricle, the superior external aspect of the left ventricle, the left side of the left auricle, with its appendage, the anterior inter-ventrioular furrow, and part of the auriculo-ventricular fui'row. The diaphragmatic area consists of portions of the right and left ventricles, with the posterior inter-ventricular septum; and a portion of the right auricle, with the inferior caval orifice. The posterior mediastinal area consists of the posterior part of the base of the heart, with the pulmonic veins. The weight of the healthy heart averages 11 oz. in the male and 9 oz. in the female. The anterior aspect of the heart is convex, and is foiTued almost entirely by the right ventricle and auricular appendage; but a small portion of the right auricle is seen at the right side, and a part of the left ventricle at the apex and the left border, while the iiTegular border of the left auricular appendage appears to the left of the pulmonary artery. The postero-inferior sm-face of the heart, which rests for the most jDart upon the diaphi-agm, is flattened, and is formed by part of the right aui'icle, and by the left auricle and ventricle, which last forms the apex of the heart. Each sui-face of the heart is grooved, by the divisions between the aui-icles and ventricles. The atiterior inter-ventricular groove is near the left border of the heart, whilst the piosierior inter-ventricular groove lies a little to the right, their positions indicating the oblique direction of the septum. In these grooves will be seen the descending branches of the coronary vessels. The Corollary Arteries (right and left) are the first branches of the aorta, and supply the substance of the heart. They are to bo found on either side of the pulmonary artery, with a plexus {coronary) of nerves accompanying each. The left coronary artery arises fi'om the left posterior sinus of Valsalva, and passes behind the pulmonary artery and to its left side, there breaking up into two branches, (1) nuriciilo-ventriciilar. which runs in the auriculo-ventricular groove on the posterior aspect of the heart to anastomose with the corresponding branch of