425 THE CERVICAL PLEXUS. inferior cervical ganglion, wkich loop roimd the first jjart of the subclavian artery, and form the Ansa VieusseuH (Fig. 207). The Spinal-Accessory Nerve (Fig. 205, 5) (11th nerve) after passing generally superficial to, sometimes beneath the internal jugular vein, appears below the digastric muscle and crosses over or just below the extremity of the transverse process of the atlas. It pierces the deep surface of the sterno-mastoid muscle, giving branches to it, and then crosses the posterior triangle, running upon the levator anguli scapulce to reach the trapezius, which it sujiplies. In the_ sterno-mastoid it communicates with the nerve from the cervical plexus to that muscle, and in the posterior triangle and trapezius it is joined by branches fi-om the third and fourth cervical nerves. The Cervical Plexus (Kg. 199) is formed by the anterior branches of the four upper cervical nerves, but the loop from the 1st nerve to the 2nd is of very small size, and cannot be well seen in this stage of the dissection. The 2nd, ;jrd, and 4th nerves appear between the rectus capitis anticus major and the middle scalenus, lying beneath the sterno-mastoid. Each of these nerves communi- cates with the one above and below it, and gives off superficial and deep cervical branches. The superficial branches of the cervical plexus have been already dissected in the posterior triangle, and can now be traced to their sources,—the great auricular, small occipital, and superficial cervical branches to the 2nd and 3rd nerves, and the descending branches to the 3rd and 4th nerves. 4. Glosso-pharyngeal nerve. 5. Lingual nei-ve. 6. Spinal-accessory nerve. 7. Middle constrictor of pharynx. 8. Liternal jugular vein (cut). 9. Su2ierior laryngeal nerve. 10. Ganglion of trunk of pneumo- gastric nerve. 11. Hypoglossal nerve on hyo-glossus. 12. Ditto communicating with spinal- accessory and first cervical nerve. 13. External laryngeal nerve. 14. Second cervical nerve looping with first. 15. Pharyngeal ple.Kus on inferior consti-ictor. If). Superior cervical ganglion of sympathetic. 17. Superior cardiac nerve of pneu- niogastric. IH. Third cervical nerve. 49. Thyroid body. 20. Fourth cervical nerve. 21,21. Left recurrent laryngeal nerve. 22. Spiual-accessory communicating with cervical nerves. 23. Trachea. 24. Middle cervical ganglion of sym- pathetic, 25. Inferior cardiac nerve of pueumo- gastric. 26. Phrenic nerve (cut). 27. Left carotid artery. 28. Brachial plexus. 29. Phrenic nerve (cut). 30. Inferior cervical ganglion of sym- pathetic. 31. Pulmonary plexus of pncumo- gastric. CO 2. Thoracic aorta. 33. (Esopliagcal plexus. 34. Vena azygos sui)erior. 35. Vena azygos minor. 36. Gangliated cord of sympathetic.