THE PHARYNX, 484 of the mouth. The fibres curve backwards, leaving an interval above, between the muscle and the base of the skull, in which tho fibrous aponeurosis of the pharynx is visible ; and are wsc.vied into the median raphe and pharyngeal spine, being overlapped at tho lower part by the middle constrictor and sometimes also by the inferior consti-ictor. The stylo-pharyngeus muscle is related to it laterally, and passes between its lower fibres and the upper portion of the middle constrictor. The levator palati muscle and the Eustachian tube cross obliquely inwards above the upper curved border, and the palatine branch of the ascending pharyngeal artery follows the same course. The three constrictors are sapjMed by the pharyngeal plexus of nerves, and the inferior by the external and recuiTent larj^ngeal nerves in addition. Their chief action is to contract above the portion of swallowed fluid or food in such a way as to force it in the direction of the stomach, and this they are able to accomplish even against gi-avrta- tion. The palatal fibres of the superior constrictor have also the important function of shutting off the communication between the nasal and buccal portions of the pharynx during deglutition, and are aided in this by the contraction of the palato-phai-j-ngei, which bring together the posterior pillars of the fauces. The superior, akaost vertical, fibres of the inferior constrictor help to raise the larynx and lower part of the pharynx. The Stylo-Pharyngeus Muscle (Fig. 234, 7) has akeady been seen at its origin, and can now be followed to its insertion by dividing some of the fibres of the middle constrictor. It arises horn the root of the styloid process of the temporal bone, and passes downwards by the side of the superior constrictor, then beneath the upper border of the middle constrictor, and expands between the two muscles to be inserted into the median raphe and muscular wall of the lower part of the pharynx, and into the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage. Slender fasciculi may also be traced in some subjects to the upper border of the thyroid cartilage and side of the epiglottis. It is supplied by the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, which winds around it to reach the back of the tongue. Its arfioN is to elevate the lar.>^lx and pharynx; .so assisting m deglutition, or in the production of high notes during vocalisation. The Fibrous aponeurosis of flic I'harfinx is very thin at the lower part, where it lies between the muscular fibres and the mucous membrane, but above the upper border of the superior constrictor it is much stronger, and is expanded from »u\e to side, covenng m the Eustachian tubes and the levatores palati muscles. At the base I