610 THE SPINAL CORD. veins which surround the cord between the piti mater and arach- noid, and they are continuous above at the foramen magnum with the occipital sinuses. The Dura Mater of the Cord is a fibro-serous jnembrane like and continuous with that of the brain, but diifers from it (1) in not serving as a periosteum to the Fig. 289. bones in which it lies, (2) in the absence of venous sinuses between its laminte, and (3) in not sending prolongations into the fissures of the nerve centre. It is connected to the pia mater by fine filaments of connective tissue, and by lateral tooth-Hke processes (ligumeida dmticidatu), which are attached to the sides of the cord opposite the interval between the anterior and posterior roots of each nerve (Fig. 289, 7). The dura mater is continuous above with that of the bram at the foramen magnum, and terminates below in a cul de sac about the middle of the sacrum, but is continued to the coccyx as a fibrous cord. By removing the ti-ausverse processes of two or thi-ee of the thoracic vertebras, tubes of dura mater may be traced upon each of the nerve roots to the intervertebral foramina. They are attached by connective tissue to the margins of the foramina, and eventually become lost upon the perineurium. [By opening one of the tubes of dura mater, the position of the ganglion iipon the posterior root in the intervertebral foraiuen will be seen. The cord is next to be removed by carrymg the knife along the outside of the dura mater so as to divide the nerves as tar out as possible; those which have been thoroughly exposed by the dissection being severed beyond the ganglion. The cord attachni- the dura mater to the coccyx is to be divided, and the sacral ner\ cut as long as possible, and lastly the dura mater divided trans- versely at the level of the axis. The cord when removed is to laid out on a table with the posterior surface uppermost and the opportunity may be taken of examining the anterior spinal veins m the vertebral canal.] Pi<r 289.—Transverse section of the spinn.1 cord and its meinbi-anes (from " Hirschfeld and Leveille). 1, 2. Dura nialer, fibrous and serous 5. Subarachnoid space. hiveK (j- Anterior root of nerve. 3 Arachnnifi 7. Ligamer.tuni denticubvtuni. i. Subdural space. 8. GangUon on posterior root of nerve,