THE TRAPEZIUS. 595 commence ; and the sacral nerves give usually two small branches through the tendinous expansion near the spine. The First Layer of Muscles (Fig. 285) consists of the Tra- pezius and Latissimus Dorsi. The trapezius partially overlaps the latissimus, but between them and the base of the scapula is a small triangular interval, in which the lower fibres of the rhom- boidcus major can be seen, and, below that muscle, the posterior sm'faces of two or three ribs and their intercostal muscles. The Trapezius (Fig. 285, i) of one side is triangular, but the . two muscles together resemble a trapezium. It arises from the external occipital protuberance and inner thii-d of the superior curved line of the occipital bone; fi'om the ligamentum nuchte and the seventh cervical spinous process ; and from the spinous processes of all the thoracic vertebrae and the supraspinous ligaments. The fibres converge to be inserted into the outer third of the posterior border of the clavicle, and into the inner border of the acromion process and the upper border of the spine of the scapula, as far as the tubercle at the outer angle of the basal triangle. This bony eminence receives the insertion of a tendon, which glides over the basal ti'iangle (and is separated from it by a bm-sa) and receives the lower two-thirds of the thoracic fibres of the muscle. The fibres thus have difPerent directions, and the action of the muscle upon the scapula varies according to the portion brought into use. The action of the entii-e muscle is to di-aw the scapula towards the spine, and thus the two trapezii throw back the shoulders. The upper fibres, acting alone, elevate the shoulder girdle, the lower fibres depress and retract it. When the scapulae are fixed by other muscles, the two trapezii extend the head and neck, or one muscle acting by itself woidd di-aw the head and spine to the same side. It should be noticed that a large oval tendinous aponem-osis {speculum rhomboideum), divided into two symmetrical halves by the spine, separates the bellies of the two muscles opposite the last cervical and three or foiu- upper thoracic vertebrEe—a substitution of tendon for muscle that probably has reference to the com- paratively smaH range of movement of the scapula backwards at this point. The trapezius has been seen to be supplied by the spinal-accessory nerve and branches of the 3rd and 4th cervical nerves. It is doubt- ful whether it receives branches from the posterior divisions of the nerves which pierce it. The Ufinmentnin NucJm is a band of white fibrous tissue, which extends from the prominent spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra to the external occipital protuberance and crest, and is QQ 2