264 THE CCELTAC AXIS. with the middle and inferior hEsmorrhoidal (6), tributaries of the internal iliac and internal pudic veins, thus forming communica- tions between the two great venous systems. The inferior mesenteric vein passes upwards beneath the pancreas to join the splenic or superior mesenteric vein, and so into the vena portse. Branches of the inferior mesenteric plexus of the sympathetic may be traced upon the vessels from the aortic plexus. It may be noticed that the mesenteric veins have no valves and consequently never present dilatations. Tpie OrELiAC Axis. [The intestines are now to be replaced, and the liver fastened up to the ribs, either with hooks or, better, by a few stitches; the stomach being then drawn down, the lesser omentum is to be carefully removed.] Between the layers of the lesser omentum near its free border will be formd thi-ee importa,nt structiu'es, in the following relation to one another (Fig. 137). To the right and most in front is the bile-duct (7), to the left is the hepatic artery (5), and behind and between the two the large vena portsB (9). Behind the lesser omentum in the middle line will be found the short trunk of the Coeliac Axis, which springs from the fi'ont of the aorta opposite the disc between the last thoracic and first lumbar vertebrte, and runs above the neck of the pancreas to break up into its three branches, viz., the gastric (coronaria ventriculi),the hepatic, and the splenic arteries. The branches are to be cleaned as tar as exposed, but the coeliac axis itself should be left for the present, for fear of injuring the sympathetic plexuses sm-rounding it. The Gastric or Coronary Artery (Fig. 134, 12), the smallest of the three branches, runs at first upwards and to the left in n duplicatui-e of peritoneum, caUed the left pancreatico-gastric fold : it then passes along the lesser curvatiu'e of the stomach from left to right between the layers of the lesser omentum, giving branches to both surfaces of that organ and to the oesophagus. It anastomoses at the pylorus with the pyloric branch of the hepatic artery, and by means of its first or oesophageal branch with the esophageal branches of the thoracic aorta. It gives o£E branches to supply both surfaces of the stomach, notably one large branch running on the anterior surface of the fundus of the stomach. Branches of the spnpathetic (gastric plexus) may be traced upon it. Its accompanying vein opens into (ho vena porta?. The opportunity may be taken to notice the distribution ot