BEND OF 'J'HE ELBOW. 34 the skin has teen alvearly reflected, the tendons of the biceps and biachialis are to be thoroughly cleaned, and the fibres of the supinator brevis in the floor of the space carefully dissected. The teraiination of the brachial artery and the median nerve are to be cleaned in the middle line ; and at the outer side are to be defined the bifurcation of the musculo-spii-al nerve and an anastomosis between the superior profunda and the radial recui-rent arteries, and at the inner side an anastomosis between the anterior branch ot the Ficr. 15. anastomotic and the anterior ulnar reciu'rent, with some twigs fi-om the inferior profunda.] The Ante - cubital fossa (Kg. 15) is boimded above by an imaginary line di-awn across the arm above the condyles, and hehiw the apex is fonned by the meeting of the pronator teres and supinator longus, two inches below the joint. The er- termd boundary is the supinator longus, the internal the pronator teres ; whilst the floor is foi-med by the lower part of the brachi- aiis anticus, and external to this may be seen the oblique fibres of the supinator brevis, when the supinator longus is drawn aside. The relations of the superficial veins and nerves have been already examined (p ^b) and the contents of the space are now seen to be the median nerve, the brachial artery, and the tendon of the biceps which lie m that order from within outwards. The median nei-ve (2) nms abnost verticaUy thi^ough the space, and .Hsappears between the heads of the pronatoi teres -. the brachial artery (4) usually bifxircates into nidia and ulnar upon the insertion of the brachiaHs anticus, the radial resting against the tendon of the biceps and the supmator brevis. Fig. 15.-Tlie bend ot the elbow (from University College Museum) 1. Bicejis. 2. Metliiin nerve. 3. Musculo-spival nerve. 4. Brachial artery and veins. 5. Anastomosis of superior profunda with radial recun-ent. (1. Brachialis anticus. 7. 8upinator longus (turned bacKj. 8. Pronator teres.