THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. 281 fi-om the abdominal aorta, on the under surface, and the muscnlo- p/imiic and iviiits neni phrenici from the internal mammary, anastomose with some of the intercostal arteries. The branches of the internal mammary will be seen when the upper surface of the diaphragm is dissected with the Thorax. [The vessels and muscles of the abdominal cavitv aro now to be cleaned. Aroimd the aorta and its branches will be found the sym- pathetic nerve givmg off plexuses to the several vessels. The greater part of this may be removed, but the great splanchnic nerves should be traced from the points where they pierce the crura of the dia- phragm to their terminations in the semilunar ganglia These ganglia are large masses of a pinkish colour, situated on each side ot the aorta close to the diaphragm ; the right lies beneath the vena cava and it will therefore be necessary to turn down this vessel for a short distance m order to expose it; they closely resemble lymphatic glands m appearance, and are connected by numerous nerves sur- roimding the coeliac axis and constituting the solar plexus. The gaughated cord of the sympathetic on each side of the vertebras is to be preserved The vena cava inferior (a piece of which it will be remembered has been removed with the liver) is to be cleaned, and care must be taken not to cut off the right spermatic vein on its anterior surface. The vein may be secured in its proper position with a pin If necessary The kidneys and supra-renal capsules are snprn.n'il-r /°i^^ the vessels going to each defined; and the spermatic vessels should be ti-aced out.] Sympathetic Nerve.-On each side of the aorta" and close to the crura of the diaphragm will be seen a pinkish body of a some- what crescentic form, called the semilunar ganglion (Fi<.- 137 12) and into it may be traced the great splanchnic nerve from the thoracic ganglia. The HoUiv phxas is formed by fibres crossing from one semilunar gaiighon to the other, around the ccehac axis and superior mesen- teric artery and between the supra-renal capsules, and receives a toanch from the right pneumogastric. Its continuation, the uurtk P^^xn, will have been more or less seen in cleaning the aorta, and so a^so the secondary plexuses derived from it and distributed upon the severa branches, viz., the phrenic, gastric, hepatic, splenica superior mesenteric supra-renal, renal, spermatic, and i„f..ri„r mesciitoric plexuses. In addition to the great splanchnic nerve, the lesser splanchnic nerve may, in a favourable subject, be traced into the plexus, and the third or renal splanchnic nerve into tl" thJl'^ Aorta (Fig. M3) is tlie direct continuation of he thoracic aorta, and roaches from the lower border ,,f 1 to the fourth lumbar vertebra, where it dSsil thot^o