3<S PARTS ABOUT THE SCAPULA. to iu the dissection of the axilla (pp. 17, 18), can now be seen/ro-m hehrnd, when the quadrilateral or oiiter space wiU be found to be bounded by the teres major below, the teres minor above, the hiunerus externally, and the long head of the triceps internally; the triangular or inner space, by the teres major below, the teres minor above, and the long head of the triceps externally. (A triangular interval between the teres major and the long and external heads of the triceps must not be mistaken for this latter space.) The posterior circumflex vessels and cii-cumflex nerve pass through the quadrilateral space; the dorsahs scapulae vessels enter the triangular space to reach the uifi-a-spinous fossa; and the large musculo-spiral nerve, with the brachial artery in front of it, wiU be seen between the long and outer heads of the triceps. The Supra-spinatus Muscle (Fig. 16, 3) occupies the supra- spinal fossa, arisiuf/ from the inner two-thii-ds of the fossa itself, from the upper sui'face of the spiiie, and from the fascia covering the muscle. The tendon passes beneath the acromion to be inserted into the uppermost facet on the great tuberosity of the humerus, and slightly iiato the capsular ligament of the shoidder-joint. In order to follow the tendon thoroughly, the acromial end of the spine of the scapula is to be divided with the saw, when a part of the subacromial bm-sa, before mentioned, will be found between it and the muscle. The Infra-spinatus Muscle (Fig. 16, 5) arises from the inner two-thirds of the infra-spinal fossa (the part near the neck of the scapula being fi'ee from muscular attachments in all the scapular fossEB), from the fascia covering the muscle, and fi'om the inter- muscular septa between it and the teres muscles. It is inserfe'l into the middle facet on the great tuberosity of the humerus and into the capsule of the shoulder-joint, being blended there with the supra- spinatus and teres minor. It is occasionally separated from the capsule by a biu'sa. The supra- and infra-spinatus muscles are supplied by the supra-scapular nerve. The Teres Minor Muscle (Fig. 16, 9) is closely connected with the infi-a-spinatus. It arises from an impression on the axiUary border of the infra-spinal fossa of the scapula reaching from the glenoid fossa to the impression for the teres major, from the fascia covering the muscle, and from the intei-muscular sepfci between it and the infra-spinatus and teres major muscles ; and is ,merted mU> the lowest facet on the great tuberosity of the humerus and for nearly an inch below it, and also into the capsular Ugament of the shoulder. It is sui^died by a special branch of the cu'cumflex