THK SOLE OF THE FOOT. 160 nerves of the solo of the foot closely resemble those of the palm of the hand in their distribution, the interuid plantar corresponding to the median, and the external plantar to the ulnar nerve. The Second Layer of Muscles includes the tendons of the Eexor lono-us digitorum and Hexor longus haUucis, with the accessorius" and the lumbricales, all of which should now be cleaned. , The tendon of the Flexor Longus Digitorum (Ing. bi, loj runs upon the inner surface of the sustentaculum tali to the inner side of the vessels and nerves, and crosses beneath these and super- ficial to the tendon of the flexor longus haUucis to reach the centre of the foot, where the fibres of the accessorius are attached to its deep surface; a small slip from the flexor longus hallucis tendon ioining it at a somewhat higher level. It then divides into foui- tendons, which give origin to the lumbricales muscles and pass beneath the digital nerves to the four small toes, where they enter the digital sheaths, lying beneath the tendons of the short flexor Each deep tendon then passes through the slit in the superficial tendon as in the hand, and is inserted into the base of the thii'd or terminal phalanx. c „ The Accessorius (Pig. 82, 8) arises fi-om the under surface of the OS calcis by two heads, between which is seen the long plantar ligament. The inner head, which is fleshy and the larger of the two, is attached to the concave hue separating the mfenor from the internal surf ace of the calcaneum; the outer head which is ten- dinous, is attached to the bone in f lont of the outer tuberosity and to the long plantar ligament. The muscle is inserted into the deep surface and outer border of the flexor longus digitorum, ^f ^^^'^^ slips to the tendons connected with the second, third, and fouith '°The Lumbricales (Fig. 82, i6) are four small muscles, which are so named from their fancied resemblance to earth-woinis They arise fi-om the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum, the most :;ernal from one, and the rest ^wo tendons each and the inner sides of the four small toes to reach tl^-r doi.al a.pe te. where they are inserted into the corresponding sides of the ba.e.. o L proximal phalanges, seldom joining the extensor tendons a. m *^Thrrt/o. of the accessorius is essentially to supplement the lono- flexor and to flex the toes when the flexor longus is relaxed by the elevation of the heel in plantar flexion, ^^-^f^^'^^ bring the Hue of traction of the flexor tendons mto the centre oHhe foot is probably of very trifling service. The degenerate