248 CAVITV OF THE ABDOMEN. end out from beneath, the ribs, the spleen will be found attached to it, and is sometimes bound firmly to the diaphragm by old inflam- matory adhesions. Tracing the stomach to the right side it will be found to reach almost to the gall-bladder, terminating in the duodenum, the line of demai'cation being marked by a thickened band of annular fibres, the pjdoric sphincter. In front of the stomach are the diaphragm, the abdominal wall, and the liver; behind it will afterwards be seen the pancreas, the crura of the diaphragm, the aorta and vena cava, and the left kidney and capsule. The duodenum can be followed for a short distance only at present. By drawing up the great omentum, the transverse colon will be exposed crossing the umbilical region, and continuous on the right side with the hepatic flexure (right hji^ochondi-iac region) and ascending colon, and on the left with the splenic flexui-e (left hjT-iochondriac region) and descending colon, which should be traced out. Occiipying chiefly the hyi^ogastric, but extending into all the middle and lower regions, are the coils of the smcill intestiiit, two-fifths of whicb constitute the jejunum, and the remainder the ileum; the latter may be found to end in the large intestine in the rigbt iliac fossa, where the commencement of the colon [caput ccecum coK, or ccecum) will be recognised by its little appendage, the appendix vermiformis. In the left iliac fossa will be seen the tortuous portion of the large intestine, called the sigmoid flexure, which may be ti-aced into the pelvis to its termination in the rectum. The inguinal canals He in the ingiunal regions. It will be well for the student to notice the distinctive appear- ances of the several parts of the intestinal canal, and particularly the differences between the large and small intestines. The con- dition of the intestines varies so much according to the mode of death, that mere size is no criterion, the smaU intestines being occasionally distended to a much greater size than the large ; but attention to the following points will prevent all possibility of error. The cyUnder of the small intestine is uniform throughout, and the surface is perfectly smooth, while the large intestine is pouched or sUghtly constricted at short intervals thi'oughout, excepting the rectum, and is marked by thi-ee distinct bands of longituduial mus- cular fibres, and small sessile or pedunculated excrescences of fat (appendices epiploicce) will be found attached along the Ime of one of these bands. In the healthy condition the large intestine is about as large again as the small intestine. The Peritoneum (Fig. 125).—The serous membrane lining the abdomino-pelvic cavity and covering the viscera is now to be itudicd, and the student must bear in mind that he has already s