221 THE LEVATOE ANI. The Superficial Muscles (Figs. 108 and 109) of tlie female periiifeum closely resemble those of the male, with the exception that the two portions of the central muscle, corresponding to the bulbo-cavernosus, are separated by the vulva. On each side there- fore of the vulva will be found the half of the biilbo-cavernosus; lying on the ramus of the os pubis, the erector clitoridis; and, passing from the tuber ischii to the central point of the perinseum, the transversus perinsei. The Bulbo-C avernosus (sphincter vaginfe) (Fig. 109, 5) arises on each side fi'om the elastic jDerinEBal body between the anus and vagina, a few of its supei-ficial fibres being prolonged into the sphincter ani; it also arises from the reflection of the deep layer of superficial fascia (ischio-perinseal ligament of Savage) for nearly an inch, and decussates with the inner fibres of the transversus perintei. The fibres of the muscle overlie the bulbi vestibuli and glands of Bartholin, and are divisible into three sets, corresponding with those of the bulbo-cavernosus of the male. The anterior fibres pass forward on each side of the vulva to meet those of the opposite muscle upon the cHtoris, and to be partially inserted into the sheath of the clitoris; the middle fibres pass beneath the cHtoris and over the great veins upon the urethra [pars inierme- dialis), which are analogous to the corpus spongiosiim of the male, and meet those of the opposite side; the posterior fibres pass on to the triangular ligament (Savage). The Erector Clitoridis (Fig. 109, 3) resembles the erector penis in the male, and though actually smaller in size, bears a much larger proportion to its organ than that muscle. It arises from the front of the tuber ischii, and is inserted on the sides of the cms clitoridis. The Transversus Perinaei (Fig. 109, 7) (irises from the inner side of the I'amus of the ischium, and meets its fellow muscle of the opposite side in the central perinasal body, where it is blended with the fibres of the bulbo-cavernosus and sphincter ani, and the deep part of the sphincter vaginie. The Levator Ani (Fig. 109, 11) is divided by Savage into three parts: 1. The pubo-coccyf/ens, now seen in part, its fibres havin"- the same direction as the sphincter ani. It arises from the back of the pubes, and its fibres cross the rectum between the superficial and deep sphincters, and are inserted into the side of the last two bones of the coccyx. 2. The oUimito-aicci/gens, which arises from the line of division of the pelvic fascia, into obturator and recto- vesical layers {white line), and is also inserted into the side of the last two bones of the coccyx. 3. The ischio-roccygeus, correspondin"