399 THR DEEP CERVICAL FASCIA. and into the outer half of the superior curved line of the occipital bone {stenio-oca'pitalis). The superficial lamina of the clavicular head (cleido-mastoid) forms a muscular belly, which passes to the mastoid process beneath the insertion of the sternal head ; and the deep lamina {dtido-occipitnUs) runs to the superior curved line of the occipital bone underneath the hinder portion of the sternal head. Along the posterior bonier of and beneath the muscle wiU be seen several small lymphatic glands. Its nerve supply is derived from the spinal accessory and fi-om the anterior division of the 2nd cervical nerve. The action of the sterno-cleido-mastoid is (1) to flex the neck at all the cervical articulations below the second; (2) to lateralise the head towards the shoulder of the same side, moving all the cervical joints except the second; and (3) to rotate the face towards the opposite shoulder, partly thi-ough the atlanto-axial joint, and partly at the other cervical articulations. Thus, during complete contrac- tion, the face would be made to look upwards and to the opposite side while the neck is inclined forwards. If both muscles act together from below they would dii-ectly flex the neck at the cervical articulations below the second, but they would tend to extend the head at the occipito-atlantal joint. If the head and neck be fixed the muscle raises the sternum and so aids in inspiration. The superficial layer of the Deep Cervical Fascia, which has been described as extending from the trapezius across the posterior triangle, and then as forming a sheath for the sterno-mastoid Qj. 379), IS now seen to cover in the parts included in the anterior triangle, and to extend to the median line closing in the carotid and submaxillary triangles (p. 401). Above, it adheres to the body of the hyoid bone and, after ensheathing the submaxillary gland is attached to the lower border of the inferior maxilla ; from the au-le of the jaw a strong slip extends to the styloid process of the tem- poral bone (stylo-maxillary ligament), separating the parotid from the submaxillary gland, and between the jaw and the mastoid pro- cess It extends over the parotid gland to the zygomatic arch, forming the parotid fascia. Below, it is fixed to the upper border of the 1.5. Inferior labial. 16. Transversalis colli. 17. Common trunk of lingual and facial (lingual not Heen). 18. Supra-scapular(should be larger). 19. Anterior jugular communicatine. 20. Subclavian. 21. Superior thyroid. 22. 23. 2.5. 27. 29. lil. 33. Cephalic. Ajiterior jugular. Middle thyroid. Vertebral. Inferior tliyroid. Superior intercostal. Internal nniinnuiry.