THE HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE. 471 The Pneumo-gastric, Vagus, or Tenth. Cranial Nerve (Fig. 229, 4) leaves the skull at the foramen jugiilare, in front and to the inner side of the jugular vein, and in the same dural sheath as the sinnal-accessorj' nerve. It follows the ruternal and common carotid arteries, lying between and behind them and the jugular vein, and in a separate compartment of the carotid aheath. Within the jugular foramen it forms an enlargement called the jugular f/am/lion, or ganglion of the root, from which arises an auricular hrancli (Arnold's nerve); and a little lower but close to the skull it is joined by the accessory portion of the spinal-accessory nerve, and expands to foi-m the large ganglion of the trunk, from which the two following branches can now be traced. The nerve com- municates with the hypoglossal, the spinal-accessory, the glosso- pharyngeal, the loop between the first two cervical nerves, and the uj^per gangHon of the sympathetic (see p. 478). The pharijngml branch (Fig. 206, 3) leaves the upper part of the ganglion of the trunk, and appears to be a continuation of the communicating fibres of the spinal-accessory nerve; it then passes m front of the internal carotid artery to the pharynx, where it joius the pharyngeal plexus (p. 480). The superior laryngeal nerve (Fig. 206, 9) arises near the same point and takes an oblique course, behmd and to the inner side of the internal carotid, beneath the lingual artery and upon the middle constrictor, to the thyro-hyoid membrane. The external laryngeal nerve is a branch of the superior laryngeal. It arises about half an inch below the origin of the latter, and runs downwards and inwards along the upper border of the superior con- strictor to supply the crico-thyroid and inferior constrictor muscles. The cranial branches of the pneumo-gastric will be subsequently described (p. 478). The Spinal-Accessory or Eleventh. Cranial Nerve (Fi"'. 229, 10) leaves the jugular foramen in the dural sheath of the pneumo- gastiic nerve. It gives <;mmunieating branches, at or near the base of the skull, to thetiunk and both ganglia of the vagus, the branch to the lower ganglion of the vagus forming the pharyngeal and supenor laryngeal branches of the latter. The principal or spinal part passes over or under the internal jugular vein, crosses the transverse process of the atlas, pierces and suqipUes the sterno- mastoid muscle, ending in the trapezius after communicating freely with the second, third, and fourth cervical nerves in the two muscles and m the posterior triangle (p. 382). The Hypoglossal or Twelfth Cranial Nerve (Fio- o-^c) emerging at the anterior condyloid foramen, comes forward between