553 GREAT VESSELS OF THE HEART. the right coronary artery; and (2) anterior intcr-ventricular, which runs in the anterior inter-ventriculai" groove to the apex of the heart. The artery supplies branches to both ventricles, the left aiu'icle, the pulmonary artery, the aorta, and the septum. The right coronary artery springs fi'om the anterior sinus of Valsalva, coixrses from left to right in the am-iculo-ventricular groove, and opposite the posterior inter-ventricular fui-row divides into aiiriculo-veniricidar and posterior inter-ventricular branches, the latter running in the groove to the apex to anastomose with the anterior inter-ventricular of the left artery. It supplies branches to both venti'icles, the right auricle, the aorta, and the pulmonary artery. The Veins of the heart do not correspond precisely to the arteries. The yreat cardiac vein runs up the anterior inter-ventricular groove with the descending branch of the left coronary artery, but leaves it to pass along the horizontal amiculo-ventricular groove to the back of the heart, where it becomes considerably enlarged, and terminates by foi-ming the coronary sinus, between the left auricle and ventricle. It receives the posterior cardiac veins from the back of the heart, the middle cardiac vein which foUows the inter- ventricular groove behind, the right coronary vein which enters it near the tei-mination, and small branches from the aiu'icles, including the oblique vein of Marshall, which runs downwards and inwards over the back of the left auricle, and probably represents the remains of the fcetal left superior vena cava. Pinally it opens by means of the coronary sinus into the back of the right am-icle. Some small anterior cardiac veins, and other small veins called the vente minimce cordis, pass directly into the right auricle. The superficial cardiac jilexus of the sympathetic is situated between the arch of the aorta and the bif lu-cation of the pulmonary artery, and gives branches to the fi-ont and back of the heart. To it may be traced the left superior cardiac nerve of the sympathetic, the inferior cervical cardiac of the left vagus, the cardiac branch from the recuixent laryngeal, and branches from the deep cardiac plexus. The deep cardiac plexus lies behind the aorta, and is formed by all the cardiac nerves of the right side, and the middle and mferior cardiac of the left sjTnpathetic and the superior cardiac of the left vagus. The Great Vessels of the Heart (Pig. 269) have the following positions. The vena cava superior lies to the right, the pulmonary artery to the left, and between them is the arch of the aorta. The inferior vena cava can bo seen piercing the diaphragm at the back of