THE ABDOMINAL WALL. 224 The dorsal artery of the clitoris (i) reaches the dorsum of the organ with the corresponding nerve. The Dorsal Vein of the clitoris is of large size, and passes back- wards to open into the great veins around the neck of the bladder. The Pndic Nerve (9) gives off muscular branches (12), and ends in the dorsal nerve of the clitoris (10), which bears a much larger proportion to that organ than the corresponding nerve of the penis. The Deej:) Layer of the Triangular Ligament differs from that in the male only in being pierced by the vagina. [The flaps of skin should be carefully fastened together with stitches before the body is moved from its position.] Dissection of the Abdominal "Wall. The dissection of the Perineum having been completed, the student should proceed to examine the abdominal wall, the condition of which will vary considerably in different subjects. In a fat subject the waU of the abdomen will be smooth and uniform, but in a thin muscular subject the prominences of the muscles will be readily recognised. In all bodies the lunbiHcus will be seen m the median line about midway between the pubes and the eusiform cartilage of the sternum, and nearly in a Hue with the highest point of the ihac crest. The median line above the vunbiUcus will be found to be sHghtly depressed, corresponchng, as will be afterwards seen, to the linea alba. On each side of the median line, and parallel to it, is the promi- nence caused by the rectus abdominis muscle, bounded externally by the linea semilunaris, and occasionaUy the markings m that muscle known as the linew transversa: cai^ be seen through the skhi. Immediately above the pubes and close to the median Ime is occa- sionally seen the prominence of the pyi-aniidalis muscle on each side The pubic crest and spine will be recognised with the huger, andl'onparfs li<,ame,d, attached to the latter, will be followed a ong the fold of the groin to the anterior superior spinous process ot the iUrnn On the sides of the lower part of the thorax, the mter- digitations of the obliquus extcrnus with the serratus magnus may be seen through the skin, in a well-developed sub|ect, and a lateral subcostal fossefte indicates the upper end of the linea semiluxiaris. Below, the iliac crest will be found curving backwards and up- wards from the anterior superior spine, and a tubercular prominence is felt a little in front of its midpoint between its two extremities ' The condition of the abd.uninal rings and inguinal canal shoulrt be carefully examined before the skin is removed. If the spermatic