501 THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. The middle or external paluUne nerve (i6) is very small, and descends to the soft palate and tonsil. The posterior or small palatine nerve (17), really a branch of the facial nerve passing thi-ough the ganglion, descends through a small canal behind the great nerve, and is distributed to the soft palate and uvula. 3. The internal branches pass thi-ough the spheno-palatine fora- men to the nose, and are the suiJBrior nasal and the naso-palatine nerves. The superior nasal branches (4) supply the mucous membrane of the ui)per and middle turbinate bodies and of the superior meatus. The nasu-palatrne nerve (8) passes throiigh the spheno-palatine foramen and crosses the roof of the nasal fossa to the septum, along which it passes thi-ough a groove in the vomer to the anterior palatine canal. In the canal the left nerve lies in front of the naso- palatine arteries, and the right behind them, and both descend thi-ough the foramina of Scai-pa to the front of the hard palate to unite with the great palatine nerve (Fig. 240, e). 4. The piosterior branches are the Vidian and the pterygo-palatine nerves. The Vidian nerve (3) runs through the Vidian canal in the pterygoid process, and divides into the great superficial petrosal and the great deep petrosal branches. The (p-eat superficial petrosal branch (7) pierces the cartilage which fills up the foramen lacerum medium basis cranii, and runs . m a groove on the surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone to the hiatus FaUopii, thi-ough which it passes to join the facial nerve. It commimicates also with the glosso-pharyngeal thi-ough Jacobson's nerve. The ,jreat deep petrosal branch (9) joins the carotid plexus upon the internal carotid artery. The ptenj.jo-palatine or pharyngeal nerve (11) is verv small. It pass^es through the pterygo-palatine canal to the mucous membrane ot the upper part of the pharynx, and sends filaments through the cartilage filling the foramen lacerum medium. The Internal Maxillary Artery gives off five branches in the spheno-maxillary fossa: descending palatine. Vidian, ptery-o- palatine, spheno-palatine, and infra-orbital, the last of which has been already examined. All of these are accompanied by branches ot iUeckel s ganghon. ^reat mhir'"'"'' '^"^''^r^::'^ """''^ accompanies the »reat palatine nerve through the posterior palatine canal It ^ives blanches which descend through the smaUer palatine canals to Z