624 THE BASE OF THE BEAIN. and internal groups by a fissui-e, wMch breaks up into three or more branches, and is called the triradiaic aidrus. The ol/adorij sulcus lodges the olfactory peduncle and bulb. The Fissure of Sylvius appears on the base of the brain as a deep sulcus of curved form, between the supra-orbital convolutions and the upper surface of the tempore-sphenoidal lobe. Its opening [VuUeada Syhni) Hes on the Fig, 297. OPERC APS outer side of the anterior per- forated space and root of the olfactory nerve. From this poiiit it runs outwards to reach the lateral aspect of the hemisphere, where it ^VLll be traced fui-ther. The convolutions behind the fissm-e of Sylvius are called/e/;i- poro-dcd'pHal, and represent the under surface of the temporo- spbenoidal and occipital lobes. The posterior half of these con- volutions is concealed by the cerebellmn. The temporo-occipital region is divided by a lissm-e, the cul- luteral sulcus, into internal and external temporo-occipital con- volutions, the foi-mer of which is better known as the unci»ate ;,!,r., on account of the hook-Hke ciu-vattu-e of its anterior extremity, or as the Mppocarapal gyrus from its connexion with the hippocampus ™The Uncinate or Hippocampal gyrus is closely related to the cru. cerebri and the fourth nerve. The fissure which separates it from the crus will afterwards be traced into the ti-ansverse and dentate fissures. It is divided posteriorly into two limbs by the mtrusion of a fissure, the calamne : the upper limb becoimng continuous with the formca,te convolution around the splenium of the corpus cal- losum, while the lower limb is continued back beneath the calcanne Fig. 297.-OrbitalBm-face of the Frontal lobe and Island of ^^^^^^^^ ^ The tip of the tempoi-o-sphenoidal lobe is removed. TR. s. Triradiate sulcus. ANT. oivii. Anterior orbital gyrus. INT. ouu. Internal ,, n POST. OKH. Posterior „ ,% ol'EKC. Operculum. 01). Oltactor,- bulb occupymg the olfactory sulcus. Ai'S. Anterior perforated spot. INS. KElL. Island of Keil with Us thiue limiting sulci.