THE MALE OEGANS. 383 The Eectum and ExTEiiNAL Ohgans of Generation in THE Male. [The bladder with the iirethi-a and the rectim having been removed as directed, should be laid on the table with the rectum uppermost, and that viscus should be filled with cotton-wool and cleaned, and its muscular fibres exposed.] « The Rectum (Fig. 161, i6). The arrangement of the peritoneum upon the rectum has been already described (p. 275), and the longitudinal muscular fibres will be now seen to differ from those of the rest of the large intestine, in being spread all around it instead of being collected in thi-ee bands ; thej^ are, however, thickened in front and behind, the anterior fibres (m. praredalis) being formed by the fusion of the omental and free ttenife of the colon. The internal or circular muscular fibres become thickened near the anus to form the internal sphincter muscle, as will be seen when the bowel is opened. The numerous arteries are derived from three sources—the superior hasmorrhoidal artery, from the mferior mesenteric, which bifurcates on reaching the'rectum, its two branches running to within three inches of the anus ; the middle hemorrhoidal from the internal iUac ; and the inferior hsemorrhoidal from the internal pudic. The veins terminate above m the portal system and below in the internal iliac veins. The intestine being opened along its unattached border, the mucous membrane wiU be seen to be smooth, except near the anus where it is thrown into longitudinal folds by the sphincter. Here also it fi-equently happens that heemorrhoids exist. Three or four transverse ridges of mucous membrane (valves or folds of Houston) will be found from three to six inches above the anus. These are effaceable by distension, except one plication, the fold of Kohhcuisch which IS permanent and involves the circular muscular fibres as well as the mucous membrane. This is of considerable sur-ical importance, as it projects as a kind of ledge from the right side of the gut, about three inches above the anus, and might be perforated by the careless introduction of a bougie or rectal tube. The mucous membrane above the anus f.or half or three quarters ot an inch has the characters of skin, and is separated from the true mucous structure by a more or less well defined line (Vvr i^o which indicates the position of the septum tliat origiually\.xisto( be wec.i the blind extremity of the f.x^tal gut and the anal dimple i the integument Immediately above the septum the re,.tal w presents a number of little pouches [lacnna- Liln.^rcs^-^^^ sharp foreign bodies may lodge (i). ^