THE RIGHT PNEUM0-GA8TRIC. 577 receiving directly or indirectly all tlie right intercostal veins, except the first. About the level of the seventh thoracic vertebra it receives the renu azijgos minor (i8), passing from the left side behind the aorta, and very generally a vertebra or two higher receives the Jeft itppcr azijgos vein (i6). It then arches forward over the right bronchns, and after receiving the right superior intercostal vein and the right hmnchiiil vein, opens into the superior vena cava just out- side the pericardium. The left superior intercostal vein opens into the left innominate vein. The veins of the intercostal spaces of the right side hence all terminate in one trunk, while those of the left side usually end in three different trunks; all, however, but those of the first and second spaces on the left side, eventually conimiuii- eating with the vena azj'gos major. The two ajiygos veins of the left side sometimes join to form a single trank, and occasionally some of the intercostal veins may pass immediately across to the great azygos vein. The azygos veins contain some imperfect valves, and form an important communication between the superior and inferior vense cava?. The great azygos vein represents the right carduial vein of the fcctus. The Bight Pneumo-gastric Nerve (Pig. 271, 6) has been seen to enter the thorax between the subclavian ai-tery and right innominate vein (p. 422). It may now be ti-aced backward to the right side of the trachea, towards the bifurcation, giving off the anterior pulmonary plexus, then passing bdiind the root of the lung to break up into the posterior prulmonary plexus, which receives communicating branches fi'om the four upper thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic. From this position it runs by the side of the CBsophagus, then behind it, dividing into branches, which unite with branches of the left pneumo-gasti-ic to form the plexus gulm around the tube. Finally the nerve passes, with the esophagus, through the opening in the diaphi-agm and is distributed to the back of the stomach. Cardiac branches arise from the trunk of the nerve in the thorax, and join the deep cardiac plexus. 18. Left phrenic nerve. 28, Left pul.nonary vein. I J. Kig It pulmonary vein. 29. Vena azygos major. „, i^'r'J pulmonary artery. 30. Left lung. 21. Right lung 31. Vena cava inferior. it bronchus. 32. Coeliac axis. OA T ^ I'lilnionary vein. 33. Eeceptaculum ehyli. ^- Lett pulmonary vein. 34. Superior mesenteric artery, t- ±;"-"^'"-'huni. 35. Vena cava inferior. ^- Uescendmg thoracic aorta. 37. Left renal vein. ■i'. Ul/sophagus. n. r V