43S THE FACE. skin over it, and penetrates into its substance. The structure of tlie parotid is that of a compoimd racemose gland, like other salivary glands. It receives arteries from the temporal arterj' and external carotid, and its special nervous supply from the amiculo-temporal and sym- pathetic, as well as from the facial, glosso-pharyngeal, and gi-eat amic^ilar nerves; of these the most important is the glosso- pharyngeal, which either gives o& (by means of its tympanic branch) the small superficial petrosal nerve, or sends a branch of communication to that nerve, if it comes off from the facial nerve. The small superficial petrosal nerve passes forwards to join the otic ganglion, which communicates with the auriculo-temporal, and from the latter are given off branches to regulate the secretion of the gland. The gland is covered by a fascia, the parotideo-mnsseteric, which joins in front of the masseter with the hmco-pharymjeal aponeurosis, an investment of the superior constrictor and buccinator. [The remains of the ]5latsvma are to be removed to show the facial artery and vein in front of the masseter, and the arteij is to be followed out to the inner angle of the eye, with as little mjiu-y to the muscles as possible.] The Facial Artery (Fig. 214) [external carotid], the cervical portion of which has been already dissected (p. 412), appears on the face immediately in front of the masseter muscle, where it lies on the lower jaw anterior to the facial vein, and is crossed by the platysma. It then becomes very tortuous, and passes upwai-ds and inwards beneath the zygomaticus major to the side of the nose, lyino- upon the buccinator, levator anguli oris, and the levator labu superioris muscles in its course. At the side of the nose it is crossed by the outer portion of the levator labii superioiis nlreque nasi, and reaches the angle of the orbit to anastomose with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery. This is therefore one o the points of communication between the external and internal carotid vessels. The branches of the facial anastomose at various points with those of the internal maxillary and the temporal. Branches.—Ah the artery crosses the jaw it gives— 1. Masseteric branches, anastomosing with branches fi-om tuo external carotid and internal maxillary. 2 The Inferior Labial (13) branch, wliich runs midway between the chin and the mouth, passing transversely beneath the depressor anguli oris. It anastomoses with the submental and mfenor coronary, and with its feUow of the opposite side.