MENINGEAL ARTERIES. 375 may be foimd on the inner side of the arteiy close to the anterior clinoid process; from it pass twigs of communication to the 3rd, 4th, ophthalmic division of the 5th cranial nerves and the lenticular ganglion. By displacing the Gasserian ganglion will be seen a Uttle groove m the upper smiace of the petrous bone, conducting a small nerve and artery to the hiatus Pallopii, thi-ough which they disappear. They are the cjrmier suptrficia/pdrosal nerve and artery; the nerve the continuation of the Vidian, going to join the facial, and the artery a branch of the middle meningeal. Two other nerves may be found entering the temporal bone, on the outer side of the hiatus i^allopu; one, the small superficial petrosal, is the communication between the Tympanic plexus of the Glosso-Phaiyngeal Nerve and the otic gangHon; the other, the eHernal superficial petrosal, also passing to the facial nerve, is derived from the sympathetic on the nuddJe meningeal artery. Meningeal Arteries.-The Anterior Meningeal Arteries from- the ethmoidal arteries, if injected, wiU be seen to enter the cranium thi'ough the ethmoidal foramina. The Middle Meningeal Artery can be seen entering at the foramen spmosum It ramifies on the outside of the dura mater, and divides mto two branches, an anterior, which grooves deeply the tip of the great wing of the sphenoid and the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, and a posterior crossing the squamous portion of the temporal bone to reach the parietal bone near the middle of its lower border. It supplies nearly the whole of the dmu mater and cranial bones, and gives smaU twigs to the facial and fifth nerves to the orbit and to the temporal fossa. It is accompanied by vem. '■^o,n<tes, and by a plexus of sympathetic nerves derived from the superior cervical ganglion. The middle meningeal pfe j gives for^ to the intumescentia gangHo lormisof the facial nerve (e.7jierwa^^;rfro«,/). ^ ^ The «vm« Meningeal Artery is a branch of the internal maxilki-^^ or middle meningeal, and enters the skull thi-ough the f^^-aiS The Meningeal Branch of the Ascending Phurynaeal artew r^o i Wl perforating the foramen lacerum medii^ ' ^ "'"^ The P,^t.ri.r Me,nngeal Arteries are small branches of the occipital and vertebral, which enter by the foramen jugularc and Wmt magnum respectively. ^ loiamen The Meningeal Nerves are derived from enrb nf +t,„ +i t • •