59 EXTENSOll CARPI RADIALIS BUEVIOR. Fig. 24. special branch of the musculo-spii-al nerve. It is a powerful flexor of the fore-ai-m, and may also bring the radius into a position midwaj' between pronation and supination. The Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior (Fig. 24, 5, Fig. 25, 3) arises from the lower third of the external supra-condylar ridge and from the external intermuscular septum; its tendon passes beneath the extensors of the metacarpal bone and first phalanx of the thimib, and through the second division of the annular ligament, and having then been crossed by the tendon of the third extensor of the thumb, is inserted into the base of the 2nd metacarpal bone. The muscle aids the supinator longus in flexion of the fore-arm, and is an extensor and abductor of the hand at the radio-carpal and intercarjial joints. The Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevier (Fig. 24, 6), which is partly covered by the long extensor, cm'scs from the outer condyle of the humerus; from the external lateral hgament; from the fascia of the fore-arm, and from the intennuscular septiun between it and the extensor communis digitorum. Its tendon passes, with that of the long extensor, beneath the two extensors of the thumb and through the second division of the annular ligament; and lastly beneath the third extensor of the thumb, to be inserted into the styloid process on the base of the Pig. 24.—Superficial muscles of the back of tlie fore-arm (from Wilson). 1. Biceps. 2. Braohialis anticus. 3. Lower jiart of the triceps, inserted into the olecranon. 4. Supinator longus. 5. Extensor carpi radialis loni,'ior. 6. E.xtensor carpi radialis brevior. 7. Tendons of insertion of these two uuiscles. 8. Extensor comniunis digitorum. 9. Extensor minimi digiti. 10. Extensor carpi idnaris. 11. An coneus. 12. Flexor carpi ulnaris. 13. Extensor ossis metacarpi and ex- tensor primi internodii pollicis lying togetlier. 14. Extensor secundi internodii pol- licis. I.'). Posterior annuhir ligament. The tendons of theconnnon extensor are seen on the back of tlie hand, and the mode of inser- tion on tlie dorsum of tlie flmters.