299 THE SMALL INTESTINE. into the duodenum. The circular fibres, which are next in order, enclose the entire viscus, and are collected together at the small end to iovm the pylorus. The oblique fibres, continuous with the circular fibres of the oesophagus, may be exposed by everting the viscus and dissecting away the mucous membrane; they are distributed principally over the great end of the stomach, and are so arranged around the cardiac orifice as to form a " button-hole " sphincter, one set of fibres crossing the right side of the opening to spread out on either sui'face towards the left extremity of the viscus, the other in like manner crossing the left border of the opening to reach the more central portion of the greater cm've. The arroJnr or sub-mucous coat consists of areolar tissue, in which ramify the blood-vessels and a rich lymphatic plexus, and between this and the mucous coat is a thin layer of involuntary muscle, the ■muscularis mucosae. On laying o'pen the stomach along its lesser cmwature, the mucous memhritne will be seen to be arranged in longitudinal folds or ridges called rugce, which disappear when the viscus is distended, and are more evident in the child than in the adult. By inverting the pyloric end, the pyloric sphincter will be seen as a prominent ring of strong circular fibres, surrounding the intestiiie beneath the mucous membrane, and acting as a sphincter muscle. The mucous membrane is thick and soft, and of a pink colour' when recent; it is thickest near the pylorus and thinnest at the greater end, where perforation from jDOst-mortem digestion usually takes place. The surface of the membrane is divided into a series of shallow alveoli, more or less hexagonal in form (stomach cells), at the bottom of which open the tubes which secrete the gastric juice and mucus. ' Solitary glands' or lymphoid follicles are scattered over the surface of the gastric mucous membrane. The Small Intestine is described on page 269. It maj' be regarded as a tortuous and greatly elongated conical cylinder, the smaller end of which opens into the ctecum. It has four coats, viz. peritoneal, muscular (longitudinal and circuLir), areolar, and mucous. The jieritoneal coat completely surrounds the first part of the duodenum, except at the attachment of the lesser omentum, where the vessels enter; while the second and third portions a.re only covered on their anterior surfaces, and even this investment is incomplete where the second part of the tube is crossed by the attachment of the transverse meso-colon, and the third portion by the .superior mesenteric vessels. The peritoneal covering of the jejunum and ileum is wanting only at the point of attachment of the mesentery, where the musculariH of about a fifth or a sixth of