571 THE TRACHEA. in the vena azygos major). In some cases both inferior thyi-oid veins pass to the left innominate. [The ascendino; portion of the arch of the aorta and the two vente cavfe are to be divided, and the remains of the heart removed with the pulmonary vessels, which are to be cut close to the lungs. The arch of the aorta is to be held to one side by hooks, and the bifurcation of the ti-achea with the deep cardiac plexus dissected oiit.] The Deep Cardiac Plexus (Fig. 271) is situated behind and to the left of the horizontal aorta, and in front of the trachea close to its bifm-cation. The rnjM half of the plexus receives all the cardiac nerves of that side, viz., three cardiac nerves from the tkree cervical ganglia of the sj-nipathetic, the cardiac branches of the pneumo- gastric, and the cardiac branch of its recurrent laryngeal nerve. The branches of this half of the plexus are distributed to the right side of the heart and the right lung, and many of them have been necessarily destroyed. The left half (Pig. 272) of the plexus receives all the cardiac nerves of the left side, with the exception of the superior cardiac branch of the sympathetic and the inferior cardiac branch of the pneumo-gastric, which have been already traced to the superficial cardiac plexus {p. 553). Its branches are distributed to the left side of the heart and the left lung, and communicate with the superficial cardial plexus. The Trachea (Fig. 269, i8) in the thorax has -in front of it the sternum, the remains of the thymus gland, the inferior thyroid vems, the deep cardiac nerves, the anterior i)ortion of the horizontal aorta, the lower part of the innominate and left common carotid arteries, and the left innominate vein. BeJnnd it lies the ODsophao-us. On the riijht side are the right plem-a and Imig, the right vagus, and a Ij^phatic gland. On the left, the tracheal cm-ve ofVe 7. Sterno-mastoid (out). B. Facial artery. 9. Hypoglossal nerve with oommuni- oation from 2nd cervical nerve. 10. Lower end of ditto. 11. Superior cervical ganglion of sympathetic. 12. Digastric. 13. Third cervical nerve. 14. Superior laryngeal nerve. 15. Internal carotid. 16. Thyro-hyoideus. 17. External carotid. 18. Common carotid. 19. Fourth cervical nerve. 20. Inferior constrictor of pharynx. 21. Phrenic nerve on scalenus aiiticus. 22. Crico-thyroideus. 23. Middle cervical ganglion 24. Trachea. 25. Thyroid axis. 26. Recurrent laryngeal nerve. 27. Subclavian artery. 28. Innominate artery. 29. ffisophagus. \ 30. Vena cava superior (cut). 31. Gangliated cord of sympathetic. 32. Posterior pulmonary plexus. 33. Phrenic nerve (cut)! 35. Oesophageal plexus. 37. Vena azygos major. 39. Tho racic duct. 41. Thoracic aorta. 43. Great splanchnic nerve.