THE POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. 155 over the deltoid ligament (above the sustentacixlmn tali), it is attached to the tuberositji- of the scaphoid bone and gives slips to all the other bones of the tarsus, except the astragalus, and to the three middle metatarsal bones. The Flexor Longus Hallucis (Fig. 72, 30) is a well-marked bipenniform muscle, arising from the jjosterior surface of the fibula below the origin of the soleus to within an inch of the ankle; and also fi'om the intermuscular septa between it and the peronei muscles externally and the tibialis posticus internally, and from the lower part of the interosseous membrane. The muscle ends, at the level of the ankle-joint, in a tendon which lies on the back of the tibia to the outer side of the posterior tibial vessels and nerve; and, passing thi'ough a separate division of the annular ligament, winds to the sole of the foot thi-ough a gi-oove on the posterior smiace of the astragalixs and beneath the sustentaculum tali to reach the imgual phalanx of the great toe, where it is inserted. Its tendon gives a slip to that of the flexor longus digitorum in the sole. The flexor longus hallucis and flexor digitori,im are direct flexors of the toes and plantar flexors of the foot. The tibialis posticus is also a plantar flexor and an adductor of the foot, thefii-st movement taking place at the ankle-joint, the second at the articulation formed by the astragalus with the calcaneum and scaphoid (talo-calcaneo- scaphoid joint), and helps the other tendons to maintain the longitu- dinal arch of the foot, giving powerful support to the keystone (head of the astragalus). The flexor longus haUucis, by means of its accessory sHp to the flexor cUgitorum, aids in the flexion of the toes. The three muscles are supplied by the posterior tibial nerve. The Posterior Tibial Artery (Fig. 72, 11) is the direct con- tmuation of the po])liteal artery, and begins at the point of bifui'ca- tion of that vessel, which is usually the lower border of the popliteus muscle. In the upper part of its coui'se the posterior tibial artery lies between the superficial and deep muscles of the back of the leg, but below the oiigin of the soleus it is only boimd down by a pro- longation of the intermuscular layer of fascia, and lies by the side of the tendo Achillis. It rests (in the position for dissection) upon the tibialis posticus for two-thirds of its length, then upon the flexor digitonun, and at the ankle upon the tibia between the tendons of the flexor digitorum and flexor longus hallucis. The vesse afterwards passes thi'ough a special canal in the internal annular bgament to the interval between the inner malleolus and the heel, where it divides into internal and external plantar arteries, ihe postenor tibial ueiwe is in a close relation to the artery throughout, lying first to it^ inner sidp and then crogsjng