9 THE MAMMA. triciispicL and usually extends from the side of the sternum to the margm of the anterior wall of the axilla, reaching from the third to the sixth rib in the vertical drrection. Two of the cusps or out- Ipng processes run towards the axiUa (one above, the other below), and "the third extends towards the edge of the sternum, often reaching or overlapping it. From its pectoral surface minute lobules may penetrate the deep fascia, and even become embedded in the fibres of the muscle. Immediately below the centre of its anterior surface, and usually between the fourth and fifth ribs, is the mamilki or nipple, around which is the areola of discoloured skin, the tint of which becomes darker in pregnancy. The nipple is pierced by numerous small lactiferous ducts. Its skin is thin and delicate, and contains a quantity of unstriped muscle which is prolonged into the areola. The skin of the areola presents a number of little prominences due to the presence of miniature sebaceous glands (glands of Montgomery) in the subcutaneous areolar tissue. The gland consists of about twenty distinct lobes ensheathed by the segments of a tough capsule of cellular tissue. Each lobe is abundantly supplied with blood-vessels, and has a separate lar.tiferons dud, which converges towards the nipple, and beneath the areola becomes dilated into a lacteal sinus or ampulla. The arteries of the breast are derived from the thoracic and external mammary branches of the axillary artery, from the in- tercostal arteries, and from the internal mammary branch of the subclavian, which runs behind the costal cartilages about half an inch fi-om the border of the sternum. Cutaneous Nerves and Vessels.—In the superficial fascia on the front of the chest are the anterior cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves and of the internal mammary artery. They appear at regular intervals in the intercostal spaces on each side of the sternum as they pierce the pectoral muscle, and are of small size. The terminations of the descending branches of the superficial cerncdl plexus mny also he found beneath, or piercing, the platysma, and crossing the clavicle in the positions iniplied by thciir nanics, viz., sternal, clavicular, and acromial. Some twigs reach as low as the foui'th rib. These cutaneous vessels and nerves being turned aside, the deeji or pectoral fascia is exposed ; this is attached superiorly to the clavicle, internally to the front of the sternum, inferiorlj' is continuous with the fascia c(ivoring the abdominal muscles, exter- nally joins the fascia of the deltoid, and at the lower border of the