599 THE SPLENIUS. the scapular muscles. The tendinous origin of the latissimus is then to be removed, and the serrati postici superior and inferior are to be defined.] The Third Layer of Muscles (Fig. 285) consists of the Serrati postici superior and inferior, and the Splenius capitis et colli. The Serratus Posticus Superior arises from the lower part of the ligamentum nuchre, the spinous processes of the seventh cervical and upper two thoracic vertebrae, and the corresponding supraspinous ligament; and it passes downwards to be inserted into the siiperior borders of the second, thir-d, foiQ'th, and fifth ribs, externally to their angles. The Serratus Posticus Inferior (Fig. 285, i6) arises from the spinous processes of the last two thoracic and uj)per two lumbar vertebrte and the interspinous ligaments, being blended at its origin with the latissimus dorsi and erector spinte; it passes uj^wards to be inserted into the lower borders of the last four ribs, externally to then- angles. The seiTatus posticus superior raises the ribs, and is therefore a muscle of inspiration ; the serratus inferior has a contrary action. The serratus posticus superior is supjjlied by the 2nd and 3rd intercostal nerves, and the serratus posticus inferior by the 10th and 11th intercostal. [The seiTati are to be divided and tiu'ned aside, and the splenius capitis and splenius colli are to be cleaned, when the posterior portion of the fascia covering the deeper muscles, and united more or less with the origins of the latissimus dorsi and serratus posticus inferior, as well as with the subjacent muscles, will be seen. The name of certehral aponeurosis has been given to the continuation of this structure beneath the serratus posticus superior and the splenius, and over the deep muscles; this is to be defined, and afterwards miist be removed.] The Splenius (Fig. 285) is single at its oriijin, but is divided into two parts at its insertion. It arises from the lower half of the ligamentum nuchse, and from the spinous processes of the seventh cervical and upper six thoracic vertebrtT3. The ■ij)/e>iiiis capitis (13), or upper portion, passes upwards and inwards to be inserted into the mastoid process, and into the outer third of the superior cruwed line of the occipital bone, immediately beneath the storuo-mastoid muscle. The splenius colli (14), or lower portion, is inserted into the poste- rior tubercles on the transverse processes of the upper three or four cervical vertobrce, beneath the levator anguli scapuhe. The splenii of both sides acting together ckaw the head alid neck