94 THH WRIST JOINT. Fig. 44. by its apex to a depression close to the root of the styloid process of the ulna. It is in relation below with the cuneiform and a portion of the semilunar bones. The Inferior Metacarpal Ligaments.—The distal ends ot th.- foui- inner metacarpal bones are joined together by palmar and dorsal transverse ligaments. The palmar transverse Hgament is of great strength and blends with the metacarpo-phalangeal bga- ments The dorsal transverse Ugament is much weaker, and is separated from the former by a space which transmits the tendons of the interossei. The Metacarpus and Phalanges are connected mainly by two lateral ligaments, but anterior and posterior ligaments are sometimes recognised. The Anterior ligament is represented by strong fibro-cartilaginous glenoid plates passing fi-om the anterior border of the base of the phalanx, to be loosely attached to the metacarpal bone just above the head, and closely connected with the pabnar transverse metacarpal ligament and lateral Ugaments ; it assists m forming the sheath of the tendons. The Posterior ligament consists merely of a few dehcate tibres strengthening the sjmovial membrane beneath the expansion of the extensor tendons. ^. -u i i The Lateral ligaments are sti-ong bands which are attached above to the sides of the heads of the metacarpal bones, and, spreading out in a fan-like manner, pass obHquely to the anterior and lateral margins of the phalanges, decussating with each other in fi-ont ot the joint and blending with the glenoid plate. The strength of the radial Hgament is greater than that of the ulnar, and is reinforced by the lumbricalis. ■. f Each joint is provided with a synovial membrane which forms a circular fold (plica adiposa) between the two bones at the level ot the articular fissure. The articulation is cnarthrocbal. and its movements are flexion, extension, abduction, adduction, and Fig. 44.- -Lower end of radius and ulna with triangular fibro-cartilage (from Wilson). 1. BadiuB. 2. Ulna. 3 Inter-articular fibro-cartilagc. 4. Articular surface of radius. 5. Membrana sacciforrais.