THE DEEP PALMAR AKCH. 79 '2. lladialis iudicis, arising near or with, the last, ruus on the palmar aspect of the abductor indicis to the forefinger, of which it supplies the radial side, receiving a branch of communication from the superficial palmar arch, and anastomosing at the tip of the finger with the digital artery derived from the superficial arch. 3. Small recurrtnt branches to the carpus, anastomosing with branches of the anterior carpal arch beneath the flexor tendons and annular ligament. 4. Three perforutimj arteries to the dorsum, jjassing between the heads of the three inner dorsal interosseous muscles to join the dorsal digital arteries. 5. Three interosseous arteries, which run on the three palmar interosseous muscles to the roots of the fingers, and then anastomose with the digital branches of the sujjerficial arch at their points of bifm'cation. They suj)plj' the interossei. The tendon of the Flexor carpi radiulis can now be easily traced thi-ough the groove in the trapezium to its insertion into the base of the second and third metacarpal bones. The Palmar Transverse Metacarpal Ligament passes in fi-ont of the heads of the metacarpal bones, and is closety connected with the sheaths of the flexor tendons and the glenoid plates of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations. The lumbricales and the digital vessels and nerves pass in front of it to reach the fingers. It must be divided to follow out the interossei, which pass beneath it. The Dorsal Transverse Metacarpal Ligament is a compara- tively delicate band of fibres joining the heads of the metacarpal bones posterioilj^. The tendons of the interossei of each space run through a kind of sheath formed bj' the two transverse ligaments and the metacarpal bones which they connect. The Interosseous Muscles are seven in number, three palmar and four dorsal. Two of the palmar interossei are readily seen, but the adductor transversus pollicis must be entirolj' detached from the middle metacarpal bone in order to expose the remaining one. The Three palmar interossei (Fig. 35) are muscles placed in the three metacarpal spaces between thc! fingers, and are numbered 1st, 2nd, and 3rd from the radial side. They are arranged as ((f/ductors of the fingers to an imaginary line prolonged through th(^ middle metacarpal bono, as follows :—The 1st palmar interosseoTis muscle arhcH from the ulnar sid(! of the 2nd metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the ulnar side of the base of the corresponding first phalanx; the 2nd arises from the radial side of the 4th