DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 618 The Arachnoid is a connective tissue membrane moi'e or less closel}' related to the subjacent pia mater, but differing fi-om it in passing fi-om one convolution to another without dipping into the sulci. It is prolonged into the great longitudinal fissure between the hemispheres of the cerebi'uni, nearly as far as the corjms callo- sum, and may be traced over the base of the cerebrum to the cere- bellum and medvilla oblongata, ensheathing the various cranial nerves, and becoming continuous with the arachnoid of the spinal cord at the foramen magnum. The arachnoid presents minute villous processes, some of which tend to undergo hj^pertrophy and to cause absorption of the super- jacent dura mater and bone ; they are then known as Pacrhioniun bodies. It is separated from the dura mater by the subdural space, and from the pia mater by the subarachnoid space, but is connected with both membranes by delicate fibrous trabeculse. The Subarachnoid Space is occupied by a considerable quantity of cerebro-spinal fluid, and communicates with the cerebral ven- tricles and the subarachnoid space of the cord. It is largest at the base of the brain, in fi-ont of and behind the pons Varolii, and serves as a kind of water cushion to the nerve centres. The Anterior Subarachnoid Space, (diamond-shaped space) is im- mediately in front of the pons Varolii, and is f oi-med by the stretching of the arachnoid from one temporo-sphenoidal lobe of the cerebrum to the other, as far forward as the optic commissiu-e. The Posterior Subarachnoid Space wiU be found behind the pons and beneath the cerebeUum. This is continuous with the subarachnoid space of the spinal cord, and communicates with the interior of the brain by means of a centi'al aperture in the pia mater fonning the roof of the fourth ventricle, the foramen of MagencUe, and two lateral apertui-es, one at each lateral recess of the same ventricle. The Pia Mater is a vascular membrane closely mvesting the surface of the brain, passing into the sulci between the convolu- tions, and is continued into the interior thi-ough the transverse fissiu-e in the form of a triangular fold caUed the velum uder- positum, which will be subsequently examined. It becomes more tough and fibrous as it approaches the spmal cord, and whilo investing the latter its vascularity ahnost entii-ely disappears. [The arachnoid is to be removed from the arteries f the base^of the brain and these arc to be cleaned and their branches followed. ^VSl no^ be possible to show the lo^V^jt^idma fissiu-e betwm^ two frontal lobes of the cerebrum more clearly than before, and al.o the fissCe of Sylvius between the frontal and temporo-sphenoid.al lobes of each side.]