THE OBLIQUUS INFERIOR. inator; (5) Princeps Ccrvia's, which runs downwards between the complexiis and semispinalis colli, sui^plying both and anastomosing- with the posterior branches of the vertebral and the deep cervical branch of the superior intercostal. It gives off a small supi-rficial cervical twig which runs superficially to the complexus, supplying the trapezius and anastomosing with the superficial cervical branch of the ti-ansversalis colli; (6) Huhncciiyital, anastomosing with muscular branches of the vertebral in the suboccipital triangle ; and (7) Terminal to tie occijDital portion of the scalp, anastomosing with the temporal, and giving a small parietal twig thi-ough the parietal foramen. The Occipital vein usiially passes deeply beneath the complexus to terminate in deep cervical vein. Before leaving the scalp it communicates with the lateral sinus thi-ough the mastoid foramen. [The complexus is to be divided transversely, at the point where the great occipital nerve pierces it, so as to preserve the nerve iminjured, and the muscle should be dissected up from the con- densed celhilar tissue beneath it and turned outward. The small muscles, with the vessels and nerves, of the suboccijiital region are then to be dissected out, together with the semispinaHs muscle, which fills the vertebral groove in the cervical and thoracic regions. AH vessels and nerves are to be carefully preserved.] Fiftli Layer of Muscles (Fig. 287) consists of the two Posterior Eecti, the two ObUqui, and the Semispinalis muscles. The recti and obliqui are supplied by the suboccipital nerves, and the inferior obhque also by a twig from the postei-ior division of the thii-d cervical. The semispinalis is supplied by the internal branches of the posterior divisions of the spinal nerves. The Rectus Capitis Posticus Major (Fig. 287, 8) arises fi-om the spinous process of the axis, and passes obliquely upward and outward beneath the cranial attachment of the superior oblique, to be inserted into the outer part of the inferior curved line of the occipital bone, and into a small portion of the space below it. The Rectus Capitis Posticus Minor (Fig. 287, 6) is placed close to the median line, and is slightly overlapped by the preceding muscle. It arises from the posterior tubercle of the atlas, and is inserted by fleshy fibres into the space below the inferior ciu'ved line on the occipital bone, close to the median line and to its fellow muscle of the opjiosite side. The Obliquus Inferior (Fig. 287, i8) arises from the spinous process of the axis, and is inserted into the posterior part of the extremity of the transverse pro(;ess of the atlas. The groat occipital nerve turns upwards around its lower border.