152 THE BACK OF THE LEO. By dividing the fibres of tlie soleu? vei-tically and with care, a tendinous expansion on the deep surface of the muscle will be brought into view, which stretches across the deep muscles and the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. This deep tendon is an important guide in the operation of tying the posterior tibial artery, and must be divided to reach it. ■The muscles of the calf are plantar flexors* of the foot, i.e., point the toes, the gastrocnemius and plantaris, in addition, flexing the leg upon the thigh; or, when taking their fixed point below they may act upon the thigh. They are supplied by the internal popliteal nerve, a separate branch passiiig to each head of the gastrocnemius, and the soleus receives an additional branch from the posterior tibial nerve. [The plantaris is to be divided and the soleus cut near its attach- ments to the tibia and fibula, when those muscles and the gastroc- nemius are to be turned down, and the bursa between the tendon and the os calcis noticed. The posterior tibial vessels and nerve, partially covered by the deep layer of fascia, will now be exposed, and beneath them the deep muscles of the leg, with the popliteus covered by its fascia above.] The Popliteus (Fig. 71, L) is covered by a strong fascia which is mainly derived from the tendon of the semi-membranosus,- and upon which rest the lower parts of the popliteal vessels and nerve. This must be removed to expose the oblique fibres of the muscle, and an incision must be made through the capsule of the knee * The terms flexion and extension as applied to the ankle are applied in opposite senses by different anatomists, and it is hence desirable to avoid their use altogether. '' Dorsal flexion " and " plantar flexion " are self-explanatory. Fig. 70.—Superficial dissection of the back of the leg (from Maclise's Surgical Anatomy). A. Tendon of gracilis. B. Fascia lata of thigh. C. Semi-membranosus. D. Semi-tendinosus. E. Gastrocnemius. F. Popliteal artery. G. Popliteal vein. H. Internal Popliteal nerve. I. External Popliteal nerve, J. Biceps. K. Posterior Tibial nerve. L. External Saphenous vein. Fig. 71.—Deep dissection of the back of the leg (Muclise). K. Plantaris. M. Anterior Tibial artery, Popliteup, M. Fascia of leg. N. Internal Saphenous nerve O. Posterior Tibial artery. P. Soleus. Q. Flexor longus digitorum. R. Fle.xor longns pollicis. S. Peroneus longus. T. Peroneus brevis. U. Internal annular ligament. V. Tendo Achillis. W. Tibialis posticus. N. Peroneal artery.