127 THE BUTTOCK. The obturator externiis is an external rotator and adductor of the thigh, and is supplied by the obturator nerve. The obturator artery is best seen after the removal of the thigh from the pelvis, in the dissection of which its description is included. The Bctttock. [The body being tiu'ned on its face, the buttocks are to be raised by blocks beneath the pelvis until the thigh can be well flexed with the knee on the table, or, if preferred, the legs may be allowed to hang over the end of the table.] The dissector should recognise the crest of the ilium, which will boimd his dissection superiorly, also the sacrum and coccyx, and the tuberosity of the ischiimi. The latter can be felt through the gluteus maximus in the extended position of the limb, or immediately beneath the integmnent when the hip-joint is flexed. The relations of the trochanter to the several parts of the pelvis in the different positions of the limb are of gi-eat practical importance in the diagnosis of fractures and dislocations, and should be carefully examined. The "fold of the buttock" varies according to the amount of fat and the muscular development of the subject. It should be noticed that it does not coincide in dii-ection with the oblique lower border of the gluteus maximus, but when the limb is extended runs almost horizontally outwards, crossing the muscle near its middle. The prominences of the inner and outer hamstrings and the hollow of the ham will be seen during flexion, and it should be noted how readily the space can be explored in this position owing to the relaxation of the fascia. [An incision is to be made along the crest of the ilium and down the middle of the sacrum to the tip of the coccyx, when, if the perinajum and thigh have been dissected, it wiU only be necessary to make another cut across the upper part of the back of the thigh, following the fold of the buttock obliquely downwards and outwards,' to aUow the large flap of skin to be reflected outwards.] The amount of fat beneath the skin of the buttock varies con- siderably, and if there is a large quantity it is not advisable to spend time in looking for cutaneous nerves. The Cutaneous Nerves are descending and ascending. The desrmding branches will be found passing over the middle of the crest of the ilium, and are the iliac branches of the last dorsal and ilio-hypogastric neiwes, the former being in front of the latter. The posterior divisions of the upper three lumbar nerves pierce the ongm of the erector spineo and supply cutaneous branches over