270 THE DUODENUM. It is subdivided into three portions, the duodenum, the jejunum, and the' ileum. The Duodenum (Fig. 137, ii) is from eight to ten inches long (twelve iinger-breadths), and makes a pecuLiar bend upon itself before it passes beneath the superior mesenteric vessels and joins the jejunum. It lies in the epigastric and the umbilical regions. The first or ascending iMirtiou, about an inch in length, runs backwards and to the right in contact with the lobus quadi-atus and the adjacent part of the right lobe proper of the liver, there lying m close proximity to the neck of the gall-bladder, and resting against a special impression in front of the lobus caudatus, internal to and between the renal and colic impressions (Fig. 153). It is covered both in front and behind by a prolongation from the lesser omen- tum, and is therefore movable with the stomach. Behind it are the vena portiB, the common bile duct, the gastro-duodenal artery, and a portion of the head of the pancreas. The second or descending portion, three inches long, is partially covered in front by the greater sac of the peritoneum and crossed by the right extremity of the root of the transverse meso-colon. It is bound down to the suiiace of the right kidney and supra-renal body, overlapping also the renal vessels, and descends for about three or four inches behind the transverse colon, reaching nearly as far as the iHac crest and to a level with the lower part of the body of the thii-d lumbar vertebra. It lies in contact with the outer side of the head of the pancreas, the pancreatico-duodenal vessels inter- vening, and the biliary and pancreatic ducts pierce it near the middle of its inner surface. The third or transverse portion, four or five inches m length, is fixed to the abdominal wall below the line of attachment of the meso-colou, and is covered in front by the peritoneum of the greater sac, except where it is crossed anteriorly by the superior mesenteric vessels. It runs obHquely upwards and to the right across the front of the aorta, vena cava, and thoracic duct, from the level of the third to that of the second lumbar vertebra, at the left side of which the gut receives a complete covering of pentoneiun and becomes the jejunum. Immediately above it are the head and the body of the pancreas, with the inferior pancrcatico-duodena and superior mesenteric vessels, the latter afterwards becommg anterior *%he fourth or te.rvirnal 2'ortion of the duodenum ascends vertically for about an inch on the left side of the vertebral column ; it is covered by peritoneum in front and laterally, and refavmed in position by a bundle of muscular fibres descending from the left