THE FRONT OF THE THIGH. 116 leg in the position assumed by the tailor; whence the name (tailor- muscle). It is supplied by the middle cutaneous branch of the anterior crui'al nerve, and pierced by the middle and internal cutaneous nerves and by the patellar branch of the long saphenous. The Sub-Sartorial Plexus is situated beneath the sartorius, and on the roof of Hiuiter's canal. It is a plexifoim intercom- munication between the internal saphenous, the internal cutaneous, and the superficial division of the obturator nerve. The auadriceps Extensor is the fleshy mass on the front of the thigh, consisting of the rectus femoris superficiaUy, with the crui-eus beneath it, and the vastus externus and intemus on either .side. The Bectus Femoris (Fig. 53, 6) has no attachment to the femur, but stretches over it from the pelvis to the pateUa. It arises by two tendons, one from the anterior inferior spuie of the iliiun, the other from a rough impression above the acetabulum. The outer or reflected tendon may be easily exposed by separatmg the tensor vagince femoris and rectus, and clearing away the fat and connective tissue from the deep interspace with the handle ot the scalpel. The two heads unite to form a bipennifoi-m muscle, which is tendinous on its upper sm-face above and on its under sm-face at the" lower part, and passes to be attached to the upper border and anterior surface of the pateUa in conjunction with the other extensor muscles, the strong fibres which pass m front of the pateUa forming the superficial portion of the Hgamentum patelte and reaching the tubercle of the tibia, the ti-ue insertion of the quadri- ceps. The crureus joins the back of the tendon above the pateUa, and the vasti are attached to its borders. It will be noticed that the straight head is in the axial hue of the muscle during extension of the thigh, the reflected head during right angle flexion. _ . Beneath the rectus wiU be seen the External arcumflex branch of the profunda artery (Fig. 54, ii). This arises fi-om the outer side of the vessel near its origin, and runs transversely between the branches of the anterior crural nerve, upon the vastus externum and beneath the sartorius and rectus femoris, to the outer side ot the thigh, where it divides into ascending, transverse, and rtescenU- inc. nets of branches. The ascendiny branches pass be.ieath he tensor fasciae to anaston.ose with the gluteal and the deep circumflex iliac arteries, and give twigs to the hip joint; the supply the vastus externus, and, turning round the limb, . na.to- mJse with the perforating branches of the pro unda and assi.t rforining the crucial anastomosis; whilst the descn.dv,y branch