THE WRIST JOIXT. 93 supination are effected by those of the pronators and supinators which are attached to the hand. The Superior Metacarpal Ligaments (Fig. 42, i6).—The 2nd, 3rd, and 4th metacarpal bones are connected with the lower row of the carpus by dorsal, jialmar and interosseous ligaments, and hj two ligaments rutming from the pisiform and annular process of the unciform (piso and hamo-metacarpal) to the oth metacarpal bone. The same metacarpal bones are joined together by transverse dorsal, palmar, and interosseous ligaments. The first metacariDal bone has a separate capsular ligament connecting it with the trapezium, this joint allowing double angular movement with slight rotation. The joint between the fifth metacarpal bone and the unciform permits similar angular movements, but much more limited in range. The remaining carpo-metacarpal joints are capable only of a slight gliding or arthrodial movement. [The sjmovial membranes of the wrist are to be opened by the following incisions on the dorsal aspect of the hand: one between the lower ends of the radius and ulna (care being taken not to divide the fibro-cartilage), and three transverse incisions carried between the lower end of the radius and the carjDus, the two rows of carpal bones, and the carpus and metacarpus respectively. The articulations of the pisiform bone and of the first metacarpal bone are also to be opened.] The Synovial Cavities of the Wrist (Kg. 43) are five in number. (1) between the radius and the imder sm-face of the triangular fibro-cartilage above, and the thi-ee outer bones of the first row of the carpus below; (2) between the first and second rows of carpal bones, passing between the several bones as well, also between the second and third metacarpal bones and the opposed carjial bones. It is sometimes sub- divided into two by an interosseous ligament at the articulation between the scaphoid and trapezoid; (3) between the cuneiform and pisiform bones; (4) between the trapezium and the meta- carpal bone of the thumb; (5) between the unciform a)id two inner metacarpal bones, occasionally continuous with tlic 27id. The synovial cavity between the lower ends of the radius and ulna lies above the wrist, and hence ^should not be included in the (jnunioration. The Triangular Fibro-cartilage (Fig. 44, 3) is best seen after removing the carpus altogether. It is a powerful hgamontous structure, occiiKionally perforate, and is attached by its base to the margin of the radius, bntwoen the ulnar and carpal stirfaccs, and