31 BRANCHES OF THE BRACHIAL ARTERY. 3. The Strpcrior profuiula, which comes off from the inner side of the artery just below the teres major, and immediately joining the miisculo-spii-al nerve, accompanies it between the outer and inner heads of the triceps and, under cover of the long head, round the humerus to end by a small anterior terminaJ branch between the brachialis anticus and supinator longus in front of the elbow, where it anastomoses with the radial recm*rent artery. It gives off a posterior medullary branch to the humerus and muscular branches, pi-incipally to the triceps ; also the posterior terminal or desr.cndinjj articular, larger than the anterior terminal artery, running behind the external intermuscular septum to the anconeus and back of the elbow, to anastomose with the posterior interosseous recurrent and anastomotic. 4. The Inferior prof unda, ^hich arises at a variable distance below the preceding or in common with it, and passes with the ulnar nerve through the internal intennuscular septum. It runs with the nerve to the groove between the inner condyle and the olecranon, and there joins the posterior branch of the anastomotic and the posterior ulnar recurrent artery. 5. The Anastomotic, which arises an inch and a half above the elbow and runs directly inwards, sending an anterior descending branch along the edge of the pronator radii teres to join the anterior ulnar recurrent; and then, piercing the internal inter-muscular septvim, gives off a posterior descending branch behind the internal condyle to anastomose with the inferior profunda and posterior ulnar recurrent arteries, and a large transverse branch to join the descending articular branch of the superior profiinda and the posterior interosseoiis reciu'rent behind the outer condyle. Irregularities of the Brachial Arterg.—The point of bifui-cation is occasionally much higher than the bend of the elbow, the abnormal branch being usually the radial, sometimes the ulnar, and more rarely the interosseous. Sometimes a vas aherrans leaves the brachial or axillary and, passing in front of the median nerve, joins either the radial or the ulnar, usually the former: or the bracbiiil may consist of two trunks, which unite before the final subdivision into radial and ulnar. If any of these arrangements bo present, two largo vessels will be met with side by side in some part of I he ann. The brachial artery is sometimes found passing with the median nerve through a fibrous canal beneath a process of bone above the inner condyle, the supracondylar process, to reach its nonnal position at the elbow. It is occasionally covered by a fleshy slip connected with the coraco-brachialis, biceps, brachialis anticus, or pronator teres; and other loss common peculiarities are sometiuies