268 MESENTERIC VESSELS. 111 addition, there may be found ramifjong iipon tlie arteries the branches of the superior mesenteric plexus of nerves, derived from the solar plexus of the sympathetic ; and interspersed are the lymphatic glands which receive the lacteals from the intestines. _ [The whole of the small intestines are to be tm-ned over to the right side, and the remainder of the meso-colon, as weU as the peritoneum intervening between the descending colon and the spine, is to be removed to expose the inferior mesenteric vessels.] The Inferior Mesenteric Artery (Pig. 132, 9) will be seen to arise from the abdominal aorta about an inch and a half above the bifurcation, and to take a course downwards and sHghtly to the left. It gives off the hft colic. (10) to the descending coloii; the sujimid (12) (three or fom-) to the sigmoid flexiu'e; and lastly, the siqn-rior lutinorrhoidal artery (13), which descends into the pelvis to supply the rectum. These arteries anastomose fi-eely with one another, foiining loops, and moreover, the left colic "inosculates with the midcUo • colic of the superior mesenteric, the superior htemorrhoidal with the middle hasmorrhoidal of the internal iliac artery, and the uiferior hsemorrhoidal of the internal pudic artery. The superior hasmoiThoidal artery, at first single, bifm-cates on reaching the rectum, and its branches 11m one on each side of the gut. The Inferior Mesenteric Vein (Fig. 140, 4) will be seen to have tributaries coiTesponding to the branches of the artery. The lowest of these is the superior hsemorrhoidal, which anastomoses 133.—Deep dissection of thorax and abdomen (from Maclise's Surgical Anatomy). A. Thyroid body. B. Tracliea. First rib. Clavicle. Pectoralis major. Coracoid process. Arch of Aorta. Right bronchus. Left bronchus. CEsophagus. Vena azygos nuijor. Thoracic duct. Seventh rib. T)ia])hragm. Cardiacs orifice of Stomach. Tiivor, showing patent orifices of liepiitic veins. Q. Coeliac axis. R. Inferior Vena Cava. S. Gall-bladder. C D E F G H. *H I K L, M N O P T. Pyloric end of Stomach. *T. Duodenum. U. Spleen. V. Pancreas. W. Sigmoid flexure of Colon. X. Caput cnecum coli. Y. The mesentery. Z. Small intestines. Innominate artery. Right Subclavian artery. Right Common Carotid. Left Subclavian artery. Left Common Carotid. Left Axillary artery. Pectoralis minor. 9. Subscapidaris. 10. Biceps. 11. Iiiitissinius dovsi. 12. Inferior mesenteric artery. 13. Left kidney.