515 THE CRICO-ARYT^NOIDEUS POSTICUS. through it will be seen the Glottis or Mmu Glottulis, I.e., the space between the two inferior or ti-ue vocal cords in front and the two arytsenoid cartilages behind. The glottis varies, according to the movements of the arytenoid cartilages, from a mere chink to a wide triangular aperture with the apex forwards. Above the ti'ue vocal cords lie the less distinct false cords, and thi-ough the glottis may be seen the interior of the trachea., [The larjaix is to be fastened upon a table by driving a nail or pin thi-ough the tongue and putting the trachea on the sti-etch with hooks, the an tenor surface being exposed; the extrinsic muscles of the larynx, the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, thyro-hyoid, and inferior constrictor of the pharynx, are then to be carefully removed without lujiumg the crico-thyroid muscle or the external laryno-eal nerve, which are now to be cleaned.] ° Intrinsic Muscles of the Larynx. The Crico-thyroid Muscle (Fig. 205, 22) arises from an oval sm-face on the side of the anterior aspect of the cricoid cartilage, and radiates to be inserted into the posterior part of the lower border and inner surface of the ala, and into the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage—some fibres joining those of the inferior constric- tor. It IS supplied by the external laryngeal branch of the superior laryngeal nerve (Fig. 251, 18). [The preparation is to be turned over and the mucous membrane IS to be diss^ected off the back of the larynx, the remnant of the a^sophagus being removed. The crico-arj-trenoidei postici muscles on tJie back of the cricoid cartilage are readily dissected ; but in order to clean the CTOss-fabres of the arj-tsenoideus it wiU be necessary to over-distend the larynx so as to stretch the muscle; and this may be most readily done by the finger of an assistant.] ^ The Arytasnoideus (Fig. 250, 4) is an example of a sino-le muscle in the median line; its fibres crossing one another bemg equally cUstributed on each side. It occupies the concave posterior surfaces of the two arytfen.;id cartilages, the fibres passinc from one to the other. The superficial fibres cross obliquely from the apex of one cartilage to the base of the other, and rire rcrsa so as to toi-rn an X, some turning around the outer border of the cartilage to loin the arytrono-opiglottideus or depressor of the op.glotti.s; whilst the deeper fibres pass transversely between he two cartilages, and constitute the avytiPnoidens" proper The uiTtrenoideus is suj,j,Jlnl by the recurrent laryngeal nerve " ihe Crico-Arytaenoideus Posticus (Fig. 2^0, 10) ari<^e, from fh. corresponding half of the posterior snrfLe'of th; 2^^!;;"^: LL 2