277 DEEP DISSIiCTrON OF ABDOMEN. common bile duct or ductus communis chnledochas, which is about thi-ee inches in length. The bile duct at first lies between the layers of the lesser omentum to the right of the hepatic artery and 2)ortal vein, then passes behind the first portion of the duodenum to join the pancreatic duct, and open into the second portion of the duodenum. The Vena Portae (Fig. 140, 3) is formed to the right of the median line by the junction of the splenic and superior mesenteric veins, behind the upper border of the jjancreas about an inch and a half from its right extremity, and immediately in front of the vena cava. It is four inches long, and ascends between the layers of the lesser omentum to the transverse fissure of the liver, between, but jjosterior to, the bile duct and the hepatic artery. It receives the small gastric pyloric and cystic veins, and like its tributaries has no valves. The Spleen [Fig. 137, 4) is a somewhat flattened organ of oval outHne and pm'ple coloiu-, occupying the back of the left hypochon- chium. Its long axis is obHque and corresponds to that of the 10th rib. It is attached to the greater end of the stomach by the gastro- splenic omentum, and to the diaphragm by the lieno-phrenic liga- ment. Its parietal surface is in contact with the diaphi'agm. Its vincmd sm-face is divided by a ridge into two parts, the posterior of which is applied to the outer border of the left kidney and supra- renal capsule; while the anterior and larger lies in contact with the stomach, the tail of the pancreas, and the splenic flexure of the colon, and presents a Jiiiuin pierced by the splenic vessels. Its iiidcriov horilcr is usually notched, the posterior entire, but this is not invariable. Its upper extmnity apjjroaches the spinal column and touches the left supra-renal capsule, its lower extremity reaches the posterior axillary line and is supported by the costo-colic fold of peritoneum. Its weight averages six ounces, but varies greatly. It IS completely invested by the greater sac of peritoneum, except at the hUum, where the serous membrane is reHeoted upon the i^plenic vessels, and where a small portion of the lesser sac may separate the two layers of the greater sac and come into contact with the inner suiiace of the organ (Fig. 128). Deep Dissection of the /\j3uomen. FThe stomach diiodenum, pancreas, and spleen should now bo hp ■ '^^^y^y/ lading the oesophagus, bilo duct, and vessels, and the liver .should then bo carefullv romovul in order to see t arrangement of tlie coronary ligament. The n,und and falcifom