434 THE FACE. Fig. 212. outwards is inserted into the orbicularis about the centre of the eye- brow, some fibres reaching the deep surface of the integument. It draws the eyebrow downwards and inwards, and produces vertical wrinkles (as in fa-owning) in the middle of the brow. The Pyramidalis Nasi (Fig. 212, i) is a small slip of muscle Ij-ing along the nasal bone, continuous with the occipito-frontalis above, and joining the tendon of the compressor naris below. Taking its fixed point from below, it di-aws down the integu- ment over the root of the nose, pro- ducing central transverse wrinkles. Acting from above it probably aids the action of the compressor naris upon the nostril. The Levator Labii Superioris Alseque Nasi (Fig. 213, 8) arises from the upper part of the nasal pro- cess of the superior maxilla close to the margin of the orbit; it widens as it descends, and divides into two slips, which are inserted into the deep sui-- face of the upper part of the curved integumental furrow bounding the ala of the nose, and into the upper lip, where it is attached to the skin and blends with the orbicularis and levator labii superioris. The action of the muscle is expressed by its name. The Compressor Naris (Fig. 212, 3) is to be traced beneath the preceding muscle to its origin from the canine fossa of the superior maxiUa. The muscle is triangular in shape, and passes forwards, spreading in a fan-Hke manner to join the pyramidalis above and Fig. 212.—Muscles of tlio nose (from Wilson, after Arnold). Pyramidalis nasi. Upper part of the levator labii superioris alteque nasi, turned aside. Compressor naris. A.n anomalous slip. Levator proprius alna nasi anterior. Levator proprius aliB nasi pos- terior. Tart of the depressor alte nasi. 8. Upper segment of the orbicularis oris. 9. Naso-labialis. 10, 10. Fasciculi acccssorn of tlie orbicularis. 11. A small muscle tennedbyAmoW compressor narium nunor ; it extends between the end of the nose and the alar cartilage, its existence is doubtful.