54 THE FRONT OF THE FORE-ARM. up in front of the elbow joint to join tlie anterior branclies of the anastomotic and inferior profunda. 2. The Posterior ulnar recurrent (12), larger than the antenor, is to be followed beneath the flexor sublimis and flexor carpi ulnaris to the back of the internal condyle, where, after passing between the heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris, it runs in the groove occupied by the ulnar nerve, and anastomoses with the inferior profunda and anastomotic arteries. 3. The Interosseous arten/ (18) is a short trunk arising about one inch from the commencement of the artery. It is dh-ected back- wards to the interosseous space, where it subcUvides into antenor and posterior interosseous branches. The posterior interosseous passes between the radius and ulna m the interval between the obUque and interosseous Ugaments to 3oin the posterior interosseous nerve at the back of the fore-arm, where it wiU be dissected. .1 j. j. x- The anterior interosseous (20) is to be followed down the fi'ont oi the interosseous membrane, where it will be found lying with the anterior interosseous branch of the median nerve between the flexor lono'us pollicis and flexor profundus digitorum, until it reaches the upper border of the pronator quadi-atus ; here it gives off a small branch which runs beneath the pronator quadi-atus to join tke anterior carpal rete, while the larger posterior branch pierces the interosseous membrane, and passes down beneath the extensor ■ tendons to ioiii the posterior carpal rete. It gives off nimierou.« „.lar benches; a median branch to accompany the median W nerve (sometimes of large size), and two nntr,ent arteries to the radius and ulna, which are directed toivards the 0 bow. 4 ihe aM.'l,r carpal artery rims beneath the flexor tendon, near the lower border of the pronator quadratus, to ^^PP I ^h^ front of the carpus. It anastomoses with the anterior carpal fion the radial twigs from the anterior interosseous, and recurrent Wches of the" deep palmar arch. The posteri.- carpal arUr, passes to the back of the wrist, and will be seen later ^ The Median Nerve (Fig. 22,6) after passmg be ween the pronator teres, and between the radial and flexir sublimis digitonun, crosses the ulnar -•^-•-V ^ ^ , .f the flexor sublimis and flexor profundus muscles Iseai the v^is it is placed superficially between the tendon of the flexoi caipi Idillis and the radial side of the flexor subhims. and passes Iwmo'ith the annular ligament into the hand. front «I the fo»-«im ox«i,t the flexor cai-p. utaans and half the