206 THE PERINiEUM. The Tendinous Centre of the Perineeum is the name applied to a spot in front of the auus, corresponding to the point of meeting of the sphincter ani with the bulbo-cavernosi and transversi perimei muscles. The Internal Sphincter cannot he seen at present. It is merely a thickened band of the unstriped circular fibres of the rectum, and differs therefore in structure from the external sphincter, which is a voluntaiy muscle. It lies above the latter. [The edge of the gluteus maximus is now to be defined, since it forms the boundary of the dissection; it will be found extendmg obliquely upwards and outwards (in this position) fi'om the tip of the coccyx. The fat filling the interspace between the anus and the edge of the muscle (iscHo-rectal fossa) is to be carefuUy removed piecemeal, care being taken to preserve the inferior haemorrhoidal vessels and nerve, which run transversely towards the bowel, and also a Httle branch of the foui'th sacral nerve near the posterior pai-t of the space, as weU as the small sciatic nerve and vessels which escape imder cover of the muscle. Other branches of the pudic vessels and nerve maybe seen runmng forwards towards the scrotum, and should be avoided.] The Ischio-reotal Fossa (Fig. 99) is the space on each side of the rectum, bounded superficiaUy by the gluteus maximus, ischial tuberosity, and great sacro-sciatic ligament behind; by the jimction of the fascia of Colles with the triangular ligament in fi-ont, and by the sphincter ani internally. Its deep boundaries are, on the i>n,a- side the levator ani and coccygeus, and on the outer side the obturator internus Ijdng on the internal sui^face of the wall of the pelvis. Both these muscles are covered by processes derived from the pelvic fascia; that covering the obtiu-ator internus being caUed the obtarato,- fascia, and that upon the levator ani being the anal fasaa {see diagram of pelvic fascia). When the finger is pushed into this space, it is arrested by the junction of these two fasci^ above, m front, and behind. Superiorly it extends to a depth of from two to three inches, while anteriorly it may be traced forward nearly as far as the symphysis, above the ledge of tissues constituting the perineeum proper; and posteriorly it nms for some distance over the sacro-sciatic ligaments to the coccyx. The fossa then is pyi-amidal in frontal section, anvil-shaped in sagittal section. The space is fiUed with loose granular fat, which is traversed by the inferior hemorrhoidal vessels and nerve. On the outer side, and lying above the inner border of the ischial tuberosity and the falciform process of the gi-eat sacro-sciatic hgament, are found the pudic vessels and nerve giving off hsemorrhoidal and peruiseal