643 THE FORNIX. corporis striati) is often found beneath it, and one or two small tributaries of the choroid plexus usually cross its upper suii'ace. The Thalamus Opticus (Fig. 302, 7) is here seen as a white body, overlapped by the fornix and choroid plexus. At its anterior end is a prominence, called the anterior tubercle, corresponding to a grey nucleus; posteriorly it forms the anterior and superior boimdary of the descending horn, and is surrounded by the lateral portion of the gi-eat ti-ansverse fissui-e. It will be fm-ther exposed in a later dissection. The Choroid Plexus (Fig. 302, 8) is a vascular fi-inge lying upon the surface of the thalamus, and continued into the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. It will subsequently be seen as the fiinged edge of a process of pia mater (velum interpositum), which enters at the transverse fissui'e and Ues beneath the fornix. By di-awing gently upon the choroid plexus of one side, it may be shown to be connected with that of the opposite side through the foramen of Monro (5) (p. 650). [To see the fornix thoroughly, the remnant of the coi-pus callosum m the middle line should be cut thi'ough transversely about its centre, and the posterior part is to be carefully dissected away fi'om the subjacent fornix.] The Fornix (Fig. 302, 10) is a thin white body, of triangular shape, placed in the middle line beneath the corpus callosum. It is narrow in fi-ont, and there divides into two anterior crura ov jjillars, which pass to the base of the brain and become twisted on themselves to foi-m the corpora aJhicantia (p. 626). Posteriorly it is incorporated with the splenium of the corpus callosum, and gives off on each side a posterior pillar, which passes into the descending horn, fusing . with the hippocampus major and ttenia hippocampi. The angle of divergence between these posterior piUars is occupied by the trans- verse fibres of the coii^us callosum, which give rise to the appear- ance called the lyra of the forn ix. Its superior surface is connected in the middle line with the septum lucidum, and forms on each side a part of the floor of the lateral ventricle : its inferior surface is separated from the thiixl ventricle and optic thalami by the velum interpositum; and its lateral borders are in contact with the choroid plexuses. The fissure on each side, between its anterior pillar and the anterior extremity of the optic thalamus, is converted by the lining membrane of the ventricle {epeadijiiM) into a serous canal, the foramen of Monro, which opens below into the third ventricle. The choroid plexus does not pass through this canal but outside it. TT 2