540 THE THORAX. pleura called the lii/amcidum latum pnJiaonin, connecting the lower lobe with the side of the pericardium and diaphragm. The pleura is reflected upon the upper surface of the diaiihragin below (dia- phragmatic laj'er), and prolonged in a conical form above the fii-st rib, where it may be felt behind the subclavian artery (cer- vical layer or dome). The visceral layer of the pleura is that which covers the lung ; the parietal layer includes the costal layer as well as that part which covers the diaphragm and the sides of the pericardium, and enters into the formation of the mediastina and dome. The right pleura is shorter but wider than the left, because the diaphragm rises higher on the right side owing to the presence of the liver, and the heart has a dii-ection to the left. The position of the anterior and inferior reflections of the pleurie should be carefully studied. The anterior reflection of the right pleura passes a little beyond the mid-line of the sternum, that of the left pleura extends to the mid-line down to the fourth costal cartilage, but from that point it diverges more or less towards the left. In about eleven subjects out of twelve it does not pass outside the left sternal border, and consequently leaves only a very narrow mediastinal space, while the whole of the pericardium opposed to the left costal cartilages and intercostal spaces is sepa- rated from these parietal structures by the pleura. The inferior reflection extends in a slightly ascending course from the neck of the 12th rib around the thorax to the sternal end of the 7th costal cartilage, crossing the 11th, 10th, 9th, and Sth ribs in succession. The Mediastinum is the space between the j^leura?. For con- venience of description it is divided into two parts, superior and inferior, the latter being subdivided into three segments, anterior, middle and posterior. The Superior Mediastinum is bounded in front by the manubrium sterni, the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thjToid muscles; behind by the bodies of the upper four thoracic vertebrre and the longus colli; above by the oblique plane of the upper aperture of the thorax; and below by a nearly horizontal plane dra^TO through the lower surface of the body of the fourth thoracic vertebra and the junction of the manubrium with the body of the sternum. It contains the trachea ; the oesophagus ; the thoracic duct; the arch of the aorta and its three great branches; the innominate veuis, with theu- tributaries ; part of tlio superior vena cava; the phrenic, pneumo- gastric, left recurrent laryngeal, and cardiac nerves ; lymphatic glands; the remains of the thymus; and a large quantity of connective tissue investing these structures.