THE LARYNX. 514 aloug the dorsal sm-face of the tongue immediately beneath the mucous membrane. The Liv(jHulis Trausversiis constitutes the chief bulk of the tongue, and is placed beneath the Kngualis superior. Its fibres are attached to the median septum and pass outwards to the mucous membrane. The Lingualis Verticalis or Obliquns consists of fibres most numerous near the lateral iDorders of the tongue, passing from the upper to the lower free surface. The LvmjiMlis Inferior is to be seen on the under suiiace of the tongue, after removal of the hyo-glossus, lj4ug between this muscle and the genio-glossus. It is larger than the lingualis superior, and extends along the under surface of the tongue, givmg ascendmg fibres which pass between those of the ti-ansverse muscle, and being closely connected with the stylo-glossus muscle. GJamU of Nairn or Blandin.-^j removing the mucous mem- brane on the under sui-face of the tongue near the tip, a couple of oval glands may be seen. They are similar in sti'uctui-e to the sub- lingual glands, although distinct from them, and are sometimes united in fi-ont, forming a single mass of an arched form. The Nerves (Pig. 225) of the tongue have been already exammed. but may now be followed out minutely. They are the Hypoylossal „e)'fe (I'^h) to the muscular structm-e of the tongue; the Li>.;,ii„l verve (5th) to the fimgiform and filiform papiUie on the dorsum and apex of the tongue; the Glosso-pharijmjml un-re (9th) to the oii-cumvallate papillifi at the base of the tongue, to the surface behind them, and to the side of the tongue nearly as far forward> as the tip. The Larynx. The Larynx or organ of voice is closely connected with the hyoid bone and tongue. On tracing the mucous membrane fi'oin the dorsum of the tongue, it wiU be found to fonn three little./™.-« between the base of that organ and the prominent cartilage of the epiglottis; these are the glosso-epigUMidm,, Jolds (Iig.-1!>. 9 . After being reflected o^•er the epiglottis, the mucous membranr runs to the arytasnoid cartilages and forms the two uriiUvuo-epigloiU- deau folds, which bound the superior apertm-e of the larynx; and is then carried to the interior of the larynx and over its posterior surface into the esophagus. . The Superior Aperture of the Larynx (Fig. 2oO) is bounded in front by the epiglottis, behind by the arj-tionoid cartilag:es. and on each side bv the arytfeno-epiglottidcaii tolds. On looking