THE LARYNX. 520 to the projection on the upper part of tlie front of the arytsenoid cartilage. The inferior liyanwiit or true cord (9), composed of yellow elastic fibrous tissue and horizontal in direction, is attached in front to the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage below the superior ligament, and behind to the prominent processus vocalis above the anterior angle of the base of the arytenoid cartilage, and is continuous laterally and below with the free upper edge of the crico-thyroid membrane. The glottis or rima c/lottidis is the apertm-e bounded laterally by the true vocal cords in front, and the inter-arytsenoid space behind. The Arteries of the larynx are derived fi-om the superior and inferior thyi'oid arteries. The superior Jarijvgeal artery, from the superior thyi-oid, enters the larynx through the thja-o-hyoid membrane, occasionally thi-ough a foramen in the thyroid cartilage, and divides into ascending and descending branches, which supply the muscles and mucous membrane, and anastomose above with the dorsalis linguse. The inferior laryngeal artery, from the inferior thyi-oid, reaches the back of the cricoid cartUage, and anastomoses with the superior artery above, and with the tracheal branches of the same vessel below. It completes the supply of the laryngeal structures. The Nerves (Pig. 206) of the larynx are the superior and the recurrent laryngeal branches of the pneumo-gastric. The superior laryngeal nerve (9) has been seen to give a branch (external laryngeal) to the crico-thyi'oid and inferior constrictor muscles, and then to pierce the thyi-o-hyoid membrane with the superior laryngeal artery. It suppUes the mucous membrane of the larynx and back of the tongue, and gives a communicating bvanoh to the inferior laryngeal nerve. The recurrent laryngeal nerve (21) is the motor nerve ot the larynx, and has been seen to take a different coui'se on the two sides winding around the subclavian artery on the right, and aroimd the aorta on the left side, but in the larynx the nerves are symmetrical. Each nerve, running up the side of the trachea, passes beneath the border of the inferior consti-ictor of the pharynx and within the ala of the thyroid cartilage, to end in branches to the muscles of the larynx. _ It supplies all the muscles of the larynx except the crico-thyi'oid. rin order to see the ligaments which bind the several parts of th larynx together, it will be necessary to remove cautiously all tU miisciilar fibres and mucous membrane.]