305 THE LIVER. reflected upon itself to form the rigid lateral ligament, which is much shorter than the left, and then will be followed to the under surface of the right lobe of the liver, to form the under layer of the coronary ligament. A more or less triangular interval, is thus left between the two layers of the coronary ligament, where the liver is attached to the diaphragm by cellular tissue and is in relation with the right suprarenal capsule. The upper surface of the liver is dome-shaped, and moulded to the under surface of the diaphragm and to a small portion of the anterior abdominal wall at the subcostal angle, and may be regarded as having superior anterior and right lateral faces. It is slightly depressed at its summit, where it is separated by the diaphragm from the heart (impressio cardica). The under surface (Fig. 153) presents three fissures and four lohes for examination. ^ Fissures.—The longitudinal fissure divides the imder surface into right and left lobes, and is directed obliquely fi-om a point two or three inches to the right of the sagittal plane in front, to end about an inch to the left of the plane behind. It is occupied anteriorly by the obliterated umbilical vein, and behind the transverse fissure by the cord-like relic of the ductus venosus, which lies between the two layers of the upper attached border of the septal fold of peritoneum, continuous with the left extremity of the lesser omen- tum (see p. 255). In the foetus at term the longitudinal fissure is nearly mesial and sagittal, but as growth proceeds its anterior extremity shifts graduaUy towards the right. The transverse or portal fissure, which is also obliquely directed, lies at right angles to the longitudinal; the small omentum is attached to its borders, and it gives passage to the hepatic ducts, hepatic artery, portal vein', lymphatics, and nerves, and to a connective tissue sheath for these structures derived from the capsule of Glisson. Parallel to the longitudinal fissiire but more to the right is the fossa or fissure for Wf^fyft/Z-ZVar/rfer, ashallow depression usuaUyuncoveredbyperitoneum and m direct contact with the opposed wall of the gall-bladder. Lolm.—The whole of the liver substance on the right of the longitudmal fissure is strictly the right lobe (Fig. 153), but certain parts of it have received special names, viz., the lobus quadratus the lobus Spigelii and the lobus caudatus; the surface to the rieht of these being called the 'right lobe proper.' The right lobe has three shallow depressions on its under surface, one anterior, where the ascending colon touches the liver (13), one posterior, corres- ponding to the anterior surface of the right kidney (12), over which It lies m the erect posture, and between and to the left of these neS,r X