THE THORACIC DUCT. 575 It is supplied by the inferior thyroid arterj', the tiorta and the gastric artery. Its veins join the inferior thja'oids, the vena azygos and the gastric. Its nerves come from the oesophageal jalexus of the vagi and from the first thoracic ganglion. The oesophagus is fi-om nine to ten inches in length, and consists of an outer connective tissue coat, beneath which are two layers of ■muscular fibres, the outer longitudinal and the inner circular, both of the sti'iped variety in the upper part, but unstriped in the lower part of the tube. The muscular coat is lined by a layer of sub- mucous tissue with a muscularis niucosfe, and a simjile mucous membrane with papillae and stratified epithelium, which is thrown into longitudinal folds when the oesophagus is not distended with food. The glands in the mucous membrane are of the compound racemose variety. The long meshes of nerve-fibres upon the oesoijhagus are derived from the two pneumo-gasbrics, and form the jile.rus (julw. The Thoracic Duct (Fig. 273, 15) is a delicate tube about eighteen inches long, embedded in loose tissue between the aorta and the vena azygos major. By cutting away the remains of the diaphragm carefuUy, if the abdomen has been dissected, it may be traced from the receptarulum cliyli (33) opposite the second lumbar vertebra, and wiU be found to pass behind the right renal artery, and thi-ough the aortic opening to the right side of the aorta. In the thorax it continues to the right of the aorta, Ijdng between it and the vena azygos major and superficial to the intercostal arteries, as high as about the fourth thoracic vertebra; then crossing obliquely to the left of the spine above the arch of the aorta, it mns alon'o- the left side of the cesojAagus through the superior aperture of the thorax. In the neck the duct usually terminates in the left sub- clavian vein, close to its jmiction with the left internal jugular (6) [vide p. 422); but occasionally rises higher in the neck, and opens mto the jugular at the junction of the vein with some irregular tnbutaiy. It has valves at various points, and near its entrance into the vein maybe found a pair, which prevent the reflux of blood into the duct. The thoracic duct receives the whole of the lymphatics of the body except those of the right pleura and lung, the right side of the heart, the right side of the head and neck and the right upper extremity, all of which are drained by the riglit lymphatic trunk. Between the ribs close to the vertebrso may be found sou^c inter- costal lymphatic (/lands, the efferent vessels of which open into the duct. CEsophageal and bronchial glands may also bo seen in con- nection with the tubes of the same name.