608 THE BACK. per Ml inserted into the spinous processes of the lower two cervical and upper four thoracic vertebrae. Both segments are supplied by the posterior divisions of the cervical nerves. Spinal Nerves (Fig. 288).—The Posterior Divisions of all the spinal nerves (with the excojition of the first cervical, and foiu-th and fifth sacral, and the coccygeal) subdivide into internal and external branches, which sujiply all the muscles of the back, and give the following cutaneous branches : — The Internal branch of the 2nd and sometimes that of the 3rd cervical nerves supply the skin of the occiput, and those of the lower five cervical and upper six thoracic nerves become cutaneous near the spinous processes. The External branches of the lower six thoracic and of the upper three lumbar nerves become cutaneous at an oblique Ime corre-| sponding to the margin of the aponeui-osis of the latissimus dorsi. The External branches of the upper sacral nerves become cu' neous near the uiedian line. The fourth and fifth sacral nerves are very small and join with the coccygeal nerve. The Coccy(jeal nerve emerges fi-om the lower end of the vertebral canal and is distributed over the coccyx. The Posterior Divisions of the Intercostal and Lumbar Arteries divide like the nerves into spinal and muscular branches, and the latter into internal and external branches, which accompany the nerves to the muscles of the back. The Spinal branches supply the spinal canal by anterior and posterior rami canalis; and the spinal cord and its membranes by the medullary twigs or rami sjnnu/es. The latter reach the cord by accompanjang the nerve-roots, and hence follow a coui-se which becomes longer and more vei-tical as the organ approaches the lower end of the column. The Sixth Layer of Muscles (Fig. 286) consists of the Inter- spinales, Intertransversales, Multifidus Spinse, Levatores Costai-um, and, in the thoracic region, the Eotatores Spinre. These are all supplied by the internal branches of the posterior division of the spinal nerves. The position of the Interspinales and Interti-ansversales is siifiB- ciently indicated by then- names. They are double m the cervical and lumbar I'egions, but are ill-marked in the thoracic region. The Multifidus Spinse (i6) fills up the vertebral groove bciieatli the erector spinre. It arises from the articular processes of the four lower cervical, the mammillary processes of the lumbar, and from the transverse processes of the thoracic vertebrae; from the posterior surface of the saci-um and the tendon of the erector