61 THE ANCONEUS. attached to the posterior border of the ulna, the fibres covering, but not being attached to, the iuiier part of the posterior surface of the bone. The tendon passes through the sixth division of the annular ligament, and in a groove behind the styloid process of the ulna, to be inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger (oth metacarpal bone). It is an extensor and adductor of the hand, a feeble extensor of the fore-arm, and extends the carpo-metacarpal joint of the little finger. It should be noted that all the flexors and extensors of the carpus are inserted, directly or indii-ectly, into the metncarpiis, and act upon the radio-carpal, intercarpal, and carpo-metacarpal articula- tions. The extensors of the fingers act most powerfully on the proximal phalanges, the two other phalanges being principally extended by the lumbricales and interossei; the radial extensors are also abductors, and the ulnar extensor is an adductor of the radio- carpal articulation, and the extensor carpi radialis longior assists the sujiinator longus as a flexor of the fore-ami, the rest being feeble extensors of the elbow. The extensor carpi radiaKs longior is supplied by the musculo-spiral nerve; all the others by the posterior interosseous nerve, a branch of the muscixlo-spiral. The Anconeus (Fig. 24, ii, Fig. 25, 4) is a small triangular muscle on the back of the elbow, which is apparently continuous with the tiiceps, but is separated from it by a narrow cellular interval. It is covered by an expansion from the tendon of the triceps, which must be removed to expose it. It arises fi-om the back of the external condyle of the humerus bj- a separate origin, and spreads out to its fleshy insertion into the triangular surface \vpon the outer side of the olecranon and posterior sm-face of the ulna above the superior oblique line. It is an extensor of the fore- arm, and is supplied by a branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, which pierces its iipper margin and is accompanied by a branch of the superior profunda artery. Its deep siu'face is in relation with the posterior interosseoiis recuri'ent vessels and with the capsule of the elbow and superior radio-ulnar joints (hence, when there is synovial effusion, the muscle appears unduly prominent). j^The long extensors must be divided about the middle and turned aside ill order to see the deep muscles thoroughly, but the supinator longus should be left uncut. The supinator brovis will require careful dissection beneath the origins of the other muscles, and the ann must be fully ]ironated in order to stretch the fibres whilst being cleaned. The posterior interosseous nerve piercing the muscle is to be carefully preserved, and its branches ti-aced to the extensors.] •