45 DEEP FASCIA OF FORE-ARM. fascia, and can be defined without injmy to the nerves. The Anterior Ulnar Vein (lo) is regular in its course, and will be found to commence in one or two small branches about the inner side of the wi-ist; then running along the inner side of the fore-arm, it joins the posterior ulnar vein near the elbow, and assists in forming the basilic vein. The Posterior Ulnar Vei)! (8) arises from the inner side of the dorsal plexus over the 3rd, 4th, and 5th metacarpal bones. The Median Vein (9) commences ia front of the wrist near the root of the thumb, coursing obliquely to the centre of the limb near the bend of the elbow, where it is joined by the profunda vein and divides into median basilic and median cephalic branches (p. 25). The Radial Vein. (7) commences at the back of the hand from the outer side of the dorsal plexus, and appears on the radial side of the fore-arm about its middle. It has been seen to unite with the median cephalic to form the cephalic vein (p. 25). Besides these named veias there are numerous smaller branches which assist, and occasionally take the place of, the larger ones. The Cutaneous Nerves (Fig. 18) are now to be followed out. The Internal cutaneous nerve (4) can be traced to the whole of the inner side of the fore-arm, the branches winding round to the back of the limb. It sometimes forms a junction with the following— The palmar cutaneous branch of the Ulnar nerve (12) may be found piercing the fascia about a hand's breadth above the wi'ist, close to the radial edge of the flexor carpi ulnaris tendon, and traced to the ulnar side of the palm. The External cutaneous (musculo-cutaneous) nerve (5) is distri- buted to the radial side of the fore-arm by two branches:—the anterior, accompanying the radial vein, is distributed on the anterior aspect and ends on the ball of the thumb ; the 2>osierior reaches the back of the fore-arm, and, after joining the radial nerve, ends at the level of the wrist. The pa/mwr cutaneous branch of the Median nerve (14) pierces the fascia in the centre of the fore-arm about two inches above the wrist, and passes to the palm of the hand, communicating with the palmar cutaneous branch of the ulnar. The Deep fascia is now to be cleaned, !uid will be found to bo continuous with the deep fascia of the arm above, and with the annular ligament below. It gives off intermuscular septa, which are attached deeply to ridges upon the radius and ulna, give origin to muscular fibres, and form sheaths for the muscles and tendons.