75 ^[USOLES OF THE T.TTTLE FINGER. fingers, and, passing in front of the jialmar transverse ligament of the metacarpus, are inserted into the expansions of the extensor tendons on the back (jf the first phalanges. The lumbricales act with the interossei as flexors of the first phalanges and extensors of the second and third phalanges. The first and second are supplied by branches of the median nerve ; the thii'd and foiu'th receive twigs from the deep branch of the ulnar nerve, which will be seen in the deeper dissection. The Tendon of the Flexor Longus Pollicis (Fig. 33, g) is on the same level as the tendons of the flexor profirndus, and can be ti'aced between the sesamoid bones and the two heads of the flexor brevis pollicis to the base of the teinninal phalanx of the thumb. Its vaginal ligament is much less strongly developed than those of the fingers. [The tendons of the flexor profundus are to be divided (but not the flexor longus polKcis) and tui-ned down with the lumbricales; the muscles of the little finger and thumb are to be carefully dissected.] Muscles of the Little Finger. The Abductor Minimi Digiti (Fig. 33, lo) is the most super- ficial and the innei-most of these. It arises from the pisifonn bone and slightly from the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and is inserted into the ulnar .side of the base of the first phalanx, giving a .small fibrous expansion to the ulnar side of the extensor tendon, opposite to the similar expansion derived from the third palmar interosseous. The Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti (Fig. 33, 8) is often closely connected with the abductor; but the deep branches of the ulnar artery and nerve which pass between the two will serve as guides to the point of sejiaration. It arises from the unciform process of the unciform bone and from the annular ligament, and is inserted with the abductor into the base of the first phalanx. Actions.—The abductor and flexor brevis are flexors and abduc- tors of the first phabinx, and the former by its slip to the extensor tendon aids iji the extension of the second and third phalanges; both muscles act secondarily as flexors of the metacarpal bone. The Opponens (flexor ossis ractacarpi) Minimi Digiti is the deepest of the set, and arises from the unciform process close to the preceding muscle and from the annular ligament. It spreads into a triangular shape, and is ivse.rted into the inner margin of the shaft of the fifth metacarpal bone, thus resembling the opponens pollicis