182 THE KNEE-JOINT. tuberosity on tbe outer side of tbe head of the fibula, between the divisions of the biceps tendon and above the peroneus lonj^us origin. The tendon of the popliteus and the external inferior ai-ticular arbery pass beneath it. The short ligamad is placed behind the long, and reaches from the condyle to the styloid process of the fibula, blending with the outer part of the posterior ligament above; and is connected by means of a curved band (ligamentum popliteum arcuatum), which passes from the middle of its inner border to the posterior ligament, and to the tendon of the popliteus. Above this lies the popliteal aperture in the capsule. The Internal Lateral Ligament (Figs. 89, 6 ; 90, i) is a strong baud closely connected with the internal patellar ligament and internal semilunar cartilage. It is attached to the most prominent part of the ijmer tuberosity of the femur above, and is m more or less direct continuity with'the tendon of the adductor magnus at the adductor tubercle. It expands as it descends, and may be divided into two portions, anterior and posterior, the posterior attached to the inner tixberosity of the tibia, and covering in the tendon o'f the semi-membranosus; while the anterior segment, also fixed to the tuberosity, is continued on to the upper part of the inner surface of the shaft of the tibia, leaving an interval through which pass the inferior internal articular vessels of the knee. . The posterior and lateral ligaments aid the crucial ligaments in limiting extension. The lateral Ugaments in addition check the movement of supination (external rotation) of the leg which is per- mitted during flexion of the knee. The capsule of the joint is deficient where the tendon of the popliteus passes downwards over the articular borders of the femm' and tibia and the mtervenmg external semilunar cartilage, and here a pouch of synovial mem- brane is prolonged around the tendon. An occasional opeumg beneath the inner head of the gastrocnemius has already been referred to. There is no 'capsular Hgament' distinct from the ■structure,s described, unless the name be conferred upon the irregular bands which strengthen the synovial membrane at the antero-lateral parts of the joint. [The tendon of the rectus is to be divided and drawn down m order to see the extent of the synovial membrane above the patella, since it usually reaches for a couple of inches above the articular surface of tlio' femur and gives attachment to tho Snhmn-ms. a small muschi arising from the lower part of the anteru.r ^^r ace ot the femur. In some cases this extension beneath tlie quadaicep.. forms a distinct bursa separated from the knee-jomt by a septum,