629 THE PONS VAROLII. the supra-orbital and temporo-sphenoidal convolutions, and is occupied by the middle cerebral artery. It corresponds to the margin of the lesser wing of the sphenoid bone when the brain is in sitn, and on the outer aspect of the brain divides into two branches, which will be subsequently ti-aced. The Island of Reil, Insula, or Central Lobe (Fig. 297), is a ■ group of five convolutions {(jyri operti) radiating fi-om a point a little external to the anterior perforated spot, and bounded by unterior, posterior and external limitimj sulci. It is exposed by opening up widely the basal portion of the fissure of Sylvius, and its two posterior gyri are then seen to be continuous internally with the temporo-occipital convolutions. In frontal section (Fig. 306) the insula wiU be seen to be closely related to the corpus striatum, and its siUci lodge the main branches of the middle cerebral artery, from which the lenticulo-striate vessels arise. The Crura Cerebri (Fig. 298, 14) (peduncles of the cerebrum) are two large white bodies, which appear at the anterior border of the pons Varolii and diverge to enter the under siu-face of the cerebrum. They are mainly fonned by the columns of the medulla and spinal cord transmitted thi-ough the pons VaroHi. Each crus IS suiToimded and overlapped externally by the gyrus uncinatus, and crossed by the optic tract and fourth nerve, and is closely related to the free border of the tentorium cerebelli. Its inferior aspect is coarsely stiiated by fibres from the anterior pyramid of the medulla oblongata, and is known as the crusta, while the deeper fibres, called the tegmentum, enclose a pigmented gi-oup of ganglionic ceUs, the locus niyer. The crui-a with the corpora quadrigemina constitute the mid-hvuin. The Third Nerve (Fig. 298, g) (motor oculi) appears with its fellow between the crvu'a cerebri in front of the pons Varolii. The fibi-es are connected with the grey substance of the crus (locus niger), and may be traced to the anterior wall of the aqueduct of Sylvius. _ The Fourth Nerve (Fig. 298, ii) (trochlearis vel patheticus) IS the smallest of the cranial nerves, and winds round the outer side of the crus cerebri. It wiU be afterwards traced to the valve of Vieussens and to the anterior wall of the aqueduct of Sylvius below the third. The Pons Varolii or Tuber Annulare (Fig. 298, 16, and Fig. 312) is the large white body immediately behind the crura and in front of the medulla oblongata. It is more <n- less convex from side to side, but is slightly grooved along the midcUe Hue by the basilar artery. Its transverse fibres are prolonged on each side as