THE THOHAX. 538 both bones. It should be noted that both external and internal intercostals are attached to the outer border of the first rib. The intercostal muscles, both external and internal, are muscles of inspiration. [The knife is to be carried through the cartilages of all the true libs except the first, as near the bones as possible, and then along the intercostal space between the 5th and 6th ribs to the lower part of the sterniim. The sternum having been sawn across between the 1st and 2nd ribs, and between the 5th and 6th ribs, the inter- vening part is to be removed with the triangularis stenii and the internal mammary vessels, which are necessarily divided in two places, the plem-£e being cut near the median line so as to preserve the anterior mediastinum.] The Triangularis Sterni Muscle (Fig. 259, 3) lies at the back of the sternum, but when it has been damaged by the incision made for injecting the subject, another specimen should be examined on a fresh sterniun fi'om the post-mortem room. It arises from the inner surface of the ensiform cartilage and lower part of the meso-sternum, and from the cartilages of the last two or three ti-ue ribs ; and is inserted into the cartilages of the 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th and 6th ribs. Its digitations, which appear to be continuous with those of the trausversalis, pass behind the internal mammary vessels. It acts as a muscle of expii-ation by depressing the ribs, and is supplied by the intercostal nerves. [The internal mammary arteries may now be dissected by remo vmg the triangularis sterni.] The Internal Mammary Artery (Fig. 259, 2) passes down- wards behind the cartUages of the ribs, about half an inch froin the margin of the sternum supei-ficiaUy to the triangularis sterni, as far as the 7th costal cartilage, where it divides into its terminal branches the superior epigastric aud the musculo-phrenic. a. The superior epigastric hranch, after passuig between the sternal and costal origins of the diaphragm, enters the fibres of the rectus abdominis muscle, and anastomoses with the deep epigastric brunch of the external iliac. b. The musculo-phrenic branch runs outwards between the lower rib cartilages and the diaphragm, and after perforating the latter opposite the 8th or 9th cartilage, supplies it, anastomosing with tho lower intercostal arteries, and with the phi-enic branches of the abdominal aorta. The other branches of the internal mammary are (c) comes m rrt phrevici, a small branch accomiianying the phi-emc nerve ; W mediastinal and (<•) pericardiac branches, from which small twigs