314 THE PELVIS. from the phrenic, renal, and lumbar arteries; and its nerves are derived from the solar plexus. The form and relations have been described on p. 292. The Pelvis. The subject being replaced on its back, the dissectors should proceed with the examination of the pelvis, unless they were unable to finish the aorta, lumbar plexus, and iliac arteries before the body was turned, in which case they must revert to the dissection of them at once {v. p. 277). In any case the dissectors are strongly advised to read through the dissection of the deep parts of the abdomen again, before proceeding any further. They should, moreover, observe that the pelvic cavity bends backwards at an angle of about 110" with that of the abdomen ; that the plane of its inlet looks forwards rather than upwards, forming an angle of 150° to 155" with a vertical line striking the promontoiy of the sacrum ; and that the symphysis and sacrum are more nearly horizontal than vertical. From this strong inclination of the pelvis it follows that most of the viscera in its cavity lie above a horizontal plane at the level of the top of the symphysis, and are hence more or less accessible to palpation through the abdominal wall. [The pelvis with two lumbar vertebrae is to be separated from the trunk with the saw, when, by placing it on a table with the sacrum towards himself, the dissector will be able to get a better view ot the contents than has yet been possible. The cavity of the pelvis should be carefuUy sponged out, and the dissector should let a stream of water run through the rectum, after which the bladder should be emptied of any urine it may contain by pressui-e with the hand, and should be moderately distended with au'.] The Peritoneum (Fig. 158) should be examined first, and wiU be found in the Male to pass over the rectum, binding the upper part to the front of the sacrum {meso-redum) ; from the rectum to Fig. 158.—Side view of male pelvis (from Maolise's Surgical Anatomy). A. Sacrum. M. Spermatic cord. B. External iliac artery. N. Crus pems. n. Its artery. C. Upper end of rectum. 0. Urethra. o. Bulb. D. Eamus of pubes. I*- Sphincter am. E. Spine of ischium (cut oft). Q. Coccyx. , G. Bladder covered by peritoneum. R. Sacro-sciatic ligament. G*.Bladder uncovered by perito- S. Internal iliac artery. neuin. T- Sacral nerves. H. Cut edge of peritoneum. U. Pyrifoi-mis. I. Vas defeieus! W. Pudic artery and ne^^■e K. Ureter. X. Triangular ligament (cut;. L. Vesicula seminalia.