213 DEEP PERIN/EAL FASOIA. the isckio-jnibic rami for nearlj"^ an inch. The crus is to be drawn forward, a branch of artery going- to it being carefully preserved; the suiierlicial lajj^er of the triangular ligament will then be exposed. It may be well to leave the crus penis undisturbed on the right side.] The posterior part of the Corpus Spongiosum XJrethxae will be seen to be a dark, vascular body, which expands to form the bulb, immediately in front of the triangular ligament. The Bulb (Fig. 102, 6) is slightly expanded fi-om side to side, and consists of two halves united by a delicate septum of fibrous tissue. It is closely connected above with the triangular liga- ment, with which its delicate fibrous covering is continuous, and is embraced by the two halves of the bulbo-cavernosus muscle. The Superficial Layer of tlie Triangular Ligament or Deep Perinasal Fascia (Fig. 102, 8) is a strong proces.s of fibrous tissue stretching across the pubic arch, being attached to the rami of the OS pubis and ischium on each side, behind the crura penis. It is almost horizontal in the erect posture. The apex of the ligament is separated from the sub-pubic liga- ment by an apertm-e for the dorsal vein of the penis; and the base, which has the form of an inverted V with the angle at the tendinous centre of the perincBum, is continuous with the fascia of CoUes where this tm-ns around the superficial transversi periuEei. and also vnth. the base of the deep layer of the triangular Hgament. It IS perforated about an inch below the symphysis by the mem- branous m'ethra; above this point, close to "the pubic rami, by the dorsal arteries and nerves of the penis and the arteries to the coipora cavernosa; and slightly behind and external to the ui-ethra Pig. Pig. A. B. C. D. E. F. G. H. Pigs. 103 and 104.—The male perinseum (from Maclise's Surgical Anatomy). 103. —Tlie accelerator urmse removed to show the bulb of the urethra and the triangular ligament partially removed to show Cowner's glands. ^ 104. —The levator ani removed and the rectum turned down, to show the prostate and neck of bladder. I. Gluteus niaximus. Urethra. Bulb. Prostate. Crus penis with erector. Triangular ligament (cut to show Cowper's glands). Anus. Tuber ischii. Coccyx. K. Levator am. L. Pudic artery. M. Membranous urethra. N. Vesicula seniinalis. O. Sacro-sciatic ligament. P. Base of bladder. Q. Vas deferens.