427 THE THYROID BODY. branches fi'orti the 2nd and 3rd nerves. They join the descendens cervicis branch of the hypoglossal to form the ansa hj^Doglossi. 4. The Phreiiir iitrrc (ii) arising from the 4th nerve (or from the 3rd and 4th) receives a branch of communication fi-om the oth, and runs downwards upon the scalenus anticus, getting to its inner border at the lower part of the neck. It then crosses in front of the first stage of the subclavian artery and the root of the internal mammary artery, and behind the innominate vein, to enter the thorax. It communicates here with the sympathetic, and also, frequentlj', with the nerve to the subclavius fi'om the brachial plexus, and wiU subsequently be traced to the diaphi'agm in the dissection of the thorax. The Trachea is now sufficiently exposed for the examination of its relations in the neck, but its stmctm'e must be studied later. It is about 4A inches in length and extends from a lower border of the sixth cervical vertebra to the lower border of the fourth thoracic vertebra, where it bifui'cates into the bronchi. It is longer dm'ing the act of deglutition, and dming the production of high notes in vocalisation, owing to the wider separation of its component rings by the elevation of the larynx, and it is also stretched to some extent when the cervical vertebrte are extended. In frokt of it in the neck lie the isthmus and pyramidal lobe of the thyroid body, the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, the cervical fascia, the upper part of the remains of the thymus, the ' infeiior thyi-oid veins, and the thyroidea ima artery when this vessel exists. Laterally it is in close relation with the lateral lobes of the thyroid body, and the recurrent larjmgeal nerves run in a groove on each side between it and the oesophagus. Posteriorly it IS attached by connective tissue to the anterior wall of the oesophagus. It is invested by a connective tissue sheath. The CEsophagus also commences at the lower border of the 6th cervical vertebra below the lower border of the inferior constrictor, and passes into the chest after a very short course. In the neck it has f ront the trachea (jjrojecting somewhat beyond it on the left side), thyroid body, the left recuiTent laryngeal nerve, and the left common carotid artery. Behind are the vertebrre and the longi colli, and on the left side is, in addition, the thoracic duct. The recun-ent laryngeal nerve runs in a groove between it and the trachea. The Thyroid Body is a solid ductless organ embracing the front and sides of the trachea. It is composed of two lateral lobes con- nected by an isthmus. The isihmm is half or three-quarters of an nich 111 depth, and lies opposite the first thoracic vertebra, iu front of