335 THE PROSTATE. spoi/f/i„siim in-dkro' (21), situated between them ventrallv. The latter is prolonged in front to form the y/rnw j'^'i'is (20), while behind it terminates in the dilated part called the hnlh {18), which IS covered by the bulbo-cavernosus muscle and should be cleaned. Behind the bulb is the slender membranons portion (15) of the urethra, and the jvostate (13), the posterior surface of which is now exposed with the resicnkn seminahs (10), vcsa dcferentm, and base of the bladder. On each side of the membranou.s portion of the urethi-a may be found, by careful dissection, a little yellow body of the size of a pea, Cuwjxr's yland (Fig. 168, 11), the duct of which opens into the bulbous portion of the urethi^a. By turning the preparation over, the dorsal aspect of the penis will be brought mto view, and the dorsal vessels and nerves will be seen. The dorsal vein may now be traced to its junction with the plexus of veins around the prostate and neck of the bladder. The Prostate (Pig. 167, 14) is shaped Hke a chestnut, having the small end or apex downwards and the base at the ' neck' of the bladder. Its weight in the adult is about six drachms, the same as that of the testicle; its length from base to apex is in health from lA to U iach, from before backwards it measm-es about an inch, and the greatest transverse diameter is about 1| inch but these measurements nndergo gi'eat variation in old persons,' the subjects of 'enlarged prostate.' The prostate presents two indistinct lateral lobes, the division between which is marked by a slight groove on the posterior surface, and an occasional projec- tion m the floor of the lU'ethra is described by some authors ks a third or middle lobe, but is the result of morbid changes in that portion of the body which lies above the prostatic fissure and in Iront of the ejaculatory ducts. The lu-osiutic fssur,' (12) is a little cielt m the centi-e of the posterior aspect, or base, which transmits t^e common ejaculatory ducts and sinus pocularis. The sfruct„re ol the prostate is partly glandular and partlv musciUar. A ])ower- tul sphincter of unstriped muscle is formed above the orifices of the ejaculat<jry ducts, and serves to prevent rertux of the semen into the bladder during congress ; and a quantity of muscular fibre in tront of this point, partly striped (near the apex) and partly unstriped, serves to expel the prostatic .secretion into the urethra iina au m ejacidating the mixed seminal and prostatic fluids The glandular structui-e is situated mainly in the posterior and lateral portions of the bo.ly, below the openings of the ejaculat,n-y ducts and con«i.stsof branched folbclcs, which secrete a kind of^nucu ' ZtZ T"'!""' '^''"-^tions. The relations of th^ prostate have been given on ]). ;J21.