THE PERITONEUM. 251 omentum or eprphoii. Eetuming upon itself it forms the posterior lixyei' of the great omentum, and is continued upwards until it meets with the transverse colon, the posterior smiace of which it covers. From the colon it is prolonged to the spine, forming the under layer of the transt'erse meso-colon. It is now carried down over the mesenteric vessels to the small intestine and back to the spine, foi-ming the two layers of the mesentery; thence passing over the posterior abdominal wall into the pelvis, it invests the upper part of the rectum {meso-redum) and in the male passes from that tube to the bladder, forming the redo-vesical pouch; while in the female it is reflected from the rectum on to the upper part of the vagina, as the deep recto-vaginal pouch {cul-de-sac of Douglas), then over the uterus and between the uterus and bladder, fomiing the utero-vesical pouch. Lastly, it is carried over the bladder to the lower part of the anterior abdominal wall and so to the umbilicus. It should be noticed that when the peritoneum approaches the mtestine its two laminre diverge, leaving a triangular interval (on section), with its base at the intestinal wall and its apex towards the root of the mesenteric fold. This interval is occupied by fat (continuous with the subperitoneal tissue), and by the vessels and nerves supplying the gut. As a result of this arrangement, about a fom-th or a fifth of the circumference of the intestinal wall has no serous coat (Fig. 138). In the female the cavity of the greater sac communicates with the genital passages by means of the open mouths of the two Fallopian tubes. The greater sac of the peritoneum has now been traced, but there is another pouch called the lesser sac behind it, and con- tinuous with it through a tube named the /ora^nen of Wwshnr ihis foramen will be found by passing the finger behind the right free border of the gastro-hepatic omentum, immediately below the lobus caudatus of the liver. To expose the cavity of the lesser sac, a longitudinal incision should be carefully made in the middle hne through the two layers of the lesser omentum the pylonc end of the stomach, and the double anterior layer of the great omentum. If the edges of this incision be now widely opened he interior of the sac will fee visible. It will be noticed that it forms above a deep but narrow pouch, embracing the lobus Spigelii and expands transversely below, where it lies behind the stomach and be ween he layers of the great omentum. Tracing it in the longi- tudinal direction from the transverse fissure of the liver the membrane of the lesser sac will be found to form the posterior