631 THE CRANIAL NERVES. or anterior lateral furrow, and the emerging filaments of the twelfth nerve; and from the funiculus of Eolando by a posterior lateral furrow pierced by fibres of the ninth, tenth and eleventh nerves. On section it will be found to contain a plicated capsiile of grey matter, open above, and giving origin by its inner sui'face to a bundle of fibres that join those sm'rounding the capsule, and derived from the lateral column of the cord. Some white fibres of deep origin, the superficial arciform fibres, are seen arching below and over the olivary body. The Funiculus of Rolando is continuous superficially with the lateral column of the spinal cord, but corresponds to a mass of grey matter [suhstantia gdatinosa of Rolando) continuous with the head of the posterior horn of grey matter of the cord. At the lower part of the medulla it is broad, and lies between the anterior pyramid and the restiform body, but at the upper part it is narrowed and pushed aside by the projection of the olivary body between it and the anterior pyramid. It may be traced as a slight prominence outside the olive, and a few longitudinal fibres may sometimes be seen in front of this body. The funiculus gracilis and fimiculus cmieatus of the medulla, continued upwards from the posterior median and postero-lateral columns of the cord, will be seen later. The Seventli and Eighth Nerves (Fig. 298) (Facial and Auditory), are closelj- connected at their origins, the facial being anterior and the auditory posterior; and running between the two is a minute nerve called the jiars intermedia, which is connected with the glosso-pharyngeal nucleus. The Facial (17) is rounder and smaller than the auditory; it arises from the lateral tract of the medulla oblongata, between the olive and restiform body, and slightly from the pons Varolii. The deep origin can be traced to the floor of the foiirth ventricle. The Auditory (ig) is flattened and very soft, owing to the absence of neurilemma. It Lies in close contact with the last, and arises partly fi'om two nuclei in the lower part of the floor of the foui'th ventricle, partly from a nucleus in the restifonn body, and derives a few fibres from the striae acousticas. The Ninth, Tenth and Eleventh Nerves (Glosso-pharjTigeal, Pneumo-gastric, and Spinal-accessory) (Fig. 29cS) lie close together in that order from above downwards, and spring from the side of the medulla between the olivary body and funiculus of Rolando. The aiosso-pliari/iKjeal nerve (21) is the smallest of the thi'ee nerves, and arises by five or six roots below the eighth nerve. The rneumo-gaatric or Vayua nerve (23) arises below the