THE PTERYGO-MAXILLARY REGION. 446 detacliing the eyelids, so as to turn them over the nose and expose their internal sm-faces. Bj^ removing the conjunctiva over the inner canthus, the little slip of muscular fibre will be seen arising from the ridge on the lachrjonal bone, and passing behind the lachrjonal sac, to be inserted into the tarsal bodies and canaliculi. It is thus apparent that the lachrymal sac occupies a position between the internal palpebral ligament and palpebral fibres of the orbicularis in fi-ont, and the tensor tarsi behind. Cartilages of the Nose (Figs. 216 and 217).—Only the superior lateral cartilages and the cartilages bounding the nosti-ils can now be seen, but the cartilage of the septum will be examined later, in the dissection of the nasal fossse. The sujjerior lateral mrtiJaije is triangular, its posterior border being in contact with the opposed border of the nasal bone and nasal process of the maxilla, and its anterior border intimately imited with the anterior edge of the cartilage of the septum. The inferior lateral mrtikuje is an elongated plate, so bent upon itself that while the angle between the two parts forms one half of the point of the nose, the two parts themselves surround the anterior part of the nostril, the inner Hmb uniting with the septum. It has no attachment to bone, but is embedded in the dense cellular tissue of the ala nasi. There are frequently two or three little additional nodules of fibro-cartilage, sesamoid cartilages, which prolong the outer part of this cartilage backwards along the upper part of the alar fuiTow, but the greater part of the wing is composed of fibrous tissue. The inferior cartilages of the two sides are in contact at the tip of the nose, and are attached to the superior lateral cartilages by fibrous tissue. AU the nasal cartilages except the sesamoid nodules are of the hyaline variety. The Pterygo-Maxillary Eegion and Zygomatic Fossa. [The head being laid on one side, the facial nerve and parotid duct are to be divided and turned forward, and the remains, if any, of the parotid gland are to be cleaned'out from between the ear and the jaw, the auriculo-temporal nerve being carefully preserved. The surface of the masseter muscle is then to be cleaned.] The Masseter (Fig. 213, 15) is the most superficial muscle of mastication, and is divisible into a superficial and a deep portion, a small part of the latter being seen behind the fibres of the former. The superficial and more tendinous part arises from the anterior two-thirds of the lower border of the zygomatic arch, formed by the maxillary, malar, and temporal bones; it passes downwards and