113 ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE. The largest branch, (5) the profunda avtevj, arises from one to two inches or more below Poupart's ligament and is now seen lying first to the outer side of, and then behind, the femoral artery and vem, and resting iii^on the iliacus and pectineus. Should, however, the external circumflex arise fi-om the common femoral instead of fi-om the profunda, the commencement of the latter vessel lies behind or even to the inner side of the superficial femoral. The profunda is the great artery to the muscles of the thigh, and will be afterwards dissected. The Femoral Vein at the lower part of Scarpa's triangle lies behind and sometimes a little to the outer side of the artery. It then crosses obliquely beHnd it, and after being joined by the profunda vem, reaches the inner side of the common femoral artery at the upper part of the space; and there it receives the saphenous vein, which has previously been joined by the veins con-esponding to the small branches of the artery (superficial epigastric, circmnflex iliac and external pudic). At the apex of the triangle it is very closely connected with the artery. The Anterior Crural Nerve (Pig. 57, 5) is derived from the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th nerves of the lumbar plexus, and enters Scarpa's triangle beneath Poupart's Kgament, resting upon the adjacent borders of the psoas and iliacus muscles. It breaks up into super- facial and deep divisions, which are separated by the external cir- cumflex vessels, the sirj.er/idal giving off the midcUe and internal cutaneous nerves and supplying the sartorius and the pectineiis; the deep supplymg muscular branches to the rectus femoris, crureus, vastus mternus and vastus exteriius, and the long or internal saphenous nerve, which becomes cutaneous at the inner side of the knee. The nerve to the pectineus passes beneath the femoral sheath to reach the muscle. of ?hp^w^ being extended, the line of incision on the inner side tWn ^,,3 be pro onged to three inches below the knee, and extPnr ,11 '''^^' ''^'^ superficial fascia to the same «xteut, dli the cutaneous nerves being carefully left at their points of emergence from the fascia lata and traced to tfieir terminat"on8 ] The Jlursc, in front of the patella may be three i.i number, (1) a V^L^'T"'"' P-*i-^l-ly prone to inflammation in pe ons whose occupation involves much kneeling; (2) a bur.,, Sn^'aSl f r ^"^f '"^'"^^ ''^'"^ inconstant, beneath the fa ul f 'm' "'f''' ^^"^ The cavities of ana 2 occasionally intercommunicate. H.