229 THE OBLIQUUS EXTERNUS. be found piercing it about two inches above the pubes—the /i i/pogaatn'c hrancJi of the ih'o-hi/pogastric from the 1st lumbar; and another may be seen issuing from the external abdominal ring upon the spermatic cord—the ilio-ingidnul (ii), also from the 1st lumbar (Pig. 112). The former is distributed to the skin above the pubes, the latter to that of the scrotum and penis or labium, according to the sex, and to the inner side of the upper part of the thigh. Lower Attachment of Obliquus Externus (Fig. 111).— (1) To the anterior half of the outer lip of the crest of the ilium ; Poupart's ligament succeedmg this attachment is merely the thickened lower border of the aponeurosis of the external oblique, reaching from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the spine of the OS pubis, and receiving the attachmeiit of the falciform process of Bm'ns fi'om the fascia lata of the thigh. (2) The pubic spine and crest of the same side, and the inner portion of the ilio- pectineal line. A triangular band of strong fibres runs from the inner extremity of Poupart's ligament to the innermost part of the ilio-pectineal line of the same side, immediately internal to the femoral sheath. This is known as Grimbernat's ligament, and will be met within the dissection of femoral hernia. From Gimbernat's ligament a process is reflected upwards and inwards to the lower part of the linea alba, and is called the triangular fascia. (3) To the whole length of the median line from the ensiform cartilage to the sjTnphysis pubis, blending with the aponeurosis of the internal oblique. The posterior free border of the muscle between the ribs and ilium is usually separated fi-om the anterior free border of the latissimus dorsi by a triangular interval, the " triauf/le of Petit," the base of which is formed by the iliac crest, and the floor by the obliquus internus. Immediately above and external to the pubic spine, the spermatic cord (or the round ligament of the uterus in the female) will be seen to emerge from an opening in the tendon, the external 12. External oblique. 13. Its aponeurosis. The median line to tlie right of this number id the linea alba ; the curved line to its left, the linea semilunaris; the transverse lines above and below the number, the linejB transversse. 14. Poupart's ligament. 15. External abdominal ring. 16. Bectus muscle of the right side brought into view by the re- moval of the anterior segment of its sheath. * Posterior seg- ment of its sheath, with the divided edge of the anterior segment. 17. Pyraniidalis muscle. 18. Internal oblique. 19. Conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis. 20. The lower curved border of the internal oblique muscle.