588 THE THORAX. plates, and at leugtli disappear when the hrmichia are reduced to hnlf a line in diameter. The muscular fibres, which were limited to the back of the large bronchi, surround the smaller tubes, and extend a little further than the cartilages. The fibrous and elastic coats may be followed even into the smallest ramifications of the air-tubes, which thus become eventually membranous. The minute hroudria terminate in intercellular passages, and opening out of these are air- cells, or alveoli, the septa between which are formed hj reduplications of the lining membrane. The aii'-cells avera.ge about ifeth of an inch in diameter, and are lined with squamous epitheliiim. The air-cells and intercellular passages collected around the extremity of each minute bronchial tube form a lohide or infundi- hulum, and these aggregated together constitute the substance of the lung, but the air-cells of one lobule have no connectiim with those of another. The pulmonary artery subdivides like the bronchus it accom- panies, and gives a branch to each lobule. It ends in a plexus of capillaries distributed beneath the mucous membrane of the aii-- cells and their septa, and on the.walls of the intercellular passages, anastomosing with the terminal branches of the bronchial arteries, but not with the capillaries of the adjacent lobules. The pulmonary veins convey the arterialised blood fi-om the lobules, and correspond to the branches of the arteries. They have no valves, and the veins of different lobules anastomose freely. The hronchial arteries, arising on the right side from the 1st aortic intercostal artery, on the left from the thoracic aorta, may be traced upon the bronchial tubes for some distance. They supply the substance of the lung, and theii- blood is retm-ned partly by the bronchial veins and partly by the pulmonary veins. The bronchial veins of the right side open into the vena azygos major, and on the left into the superior intercostal vein. The nerves of the lungs are the anterior and posterior pulmonary plexuses, which are derived from the pneumo-gastrics, reinforced by filaments from the fo\ir upper thoracic sympathetic ganglia. They can be traced upon the bronchial tubes for some distance, and are said to have minute ganglia developed upon them. The lymphatics of the lung are connected with the hronchial ylaials found about the bifurcation of the trachea. Those of the right lung pass to the right lymphatic trunk, those of tho loft to the thoracic d)ict. AJITICULATION OF TJIK RlliS WlTll TUK VEia'El)ll.E. The ligaments of the ribs jnay be divided into two sets, (1) those connecting the ribs with the bodies of the vertebi-se (costo-vertebml),