239 INGUINAL HERNIA. frausvi'i-sa/is {Fig. US, /), and between this and the peritoneum is the subperitoneal tissue. Both of these layers are prolonged upon the cord and testicle as an infundibulifoi-m sheath, and the internal orifice of the funnel, when artificially defined with the knife, is called the internal abdominal ring. The prolongation of fascia transversalis itself is called the in/undihuliform or internal spermatic fascia (Fig. 118, /). The Internal Abdominal Ring (Fig. 119), an artificial opening in the fascia tranversalis, is placed midway between the spine of the pubes and the anterior superior iliac spine, and about half an inch above Poupart's ligament, immediately outside the deep epigastric vessels. The fascia is distinctly thickened at the lower and outer parts of the ring. The Inguinal Canal (Figs. 118, 119) is an interspace about an inch and a half in length, transmitting the cord and extending from the internal to the external abdominal ring. In front it is bounded by 1, (in its whole length) the tendon of the external oblique ; 2, (in its outer third) the lowest part of the muscular fibres of the internal oblique. Behind are—beginning nearest the internal ring—1, the fascia tranversalis (for the whole length of the canal) ;• 2, the conjoined tendon (in its inner third), and the triangular fascia (if it exists); 3, the deep epigastric vessels (immediately to the inner side of the internal abdominal nng). Below is the line of junction between Poupart's ligament and the lower border of the fascia transversalis. Above is the arched border of the transversalis muscle, and sometimes a stronger band of fibres in the fascia transversalis running over the vascular sheath (Pig. 123). Inguinal Hernia is of two kinds, oblique and direct. The oblique passes through the internal abdominal ring, along the inguinal canal and out of the external ring. The direct hernia breaks thi-ough or pushes before it the posterior waU of the mgiunal canal at its inner part, iil a triangular space caUed HesselbarlCs iriavij/e, bounded by the deep epigastric artery externally, the rectus internaUy, and Poupart's ligament below'; and emerges at the external ring, thus taking a more direct course than the oblique variety. The com-iugs of each hernia will be best seen by tracing them from within outwards : thus the oblique hernia would push before It (1) parietal peritonomrt^^Sj^ the sac ; (2) subperit,.neal lascia; (3) m comingjR^puijliJ^^ ring, the infun.libuli- tom fascia; (4) i"/^astM|!^W;4 the internal oblique, the cremaster muscle, th&l^^iclHre united by cellula^ tissue