DEEP DISSECTION OF ABDOMEN. 296 the external iliac artery, and is lost in the skin over Scarpa's triangle. The External (hitaneoas nerve. (15) appears at the outer border of the psoas just below the level of the crista ilii. It crosses the iliacus obliquely to the anterior superior spinous process, close to which it passes'under Poupart's ligament to supply the outer side of the thigh nearly as low as the knee. (This sometimes comes from the anterior cruxal nerve, and is then nearly transverse in its direction.) The Anterior Crural (23) is a large nerve close to the outer border of the psoas at its lower part, and lies between that muscle and the iliacus, giving branches to the latter and usually also to the femoral artery. It passes under Poupart's ligament into the thigh. The Obturator nerve (25) vviU be better dissected with the pelvis, but may be seen passing below the brim of the true pelvis upon the upper fibres of the obturator internus above the obturator vessels, to disappear through the upper part of the thyroid foramen. A small Areesoory Obturator nerve is occasionally found arising with the obturator nerve. It passes over the body of the os pubis joining the obturator nerve on the inner side of the tliigh, and supplying twigs to the pectineus aud the hip-joint. [The psoas should be carefully removed piecemeal on one side in order to dissect the hunbar nerves to then- origins, and to trace out plexus completely. The gangliated cord of the sympathetic can now be fuUy seen, and should be cleaned.] The Lumbar plexus wiU now be seen to be formed by the anterior divisions of the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and part of the -Ith lumbar nerves with a branch fi-om the 12th thoracic; the remainder of the-ith joiningwith the oth to form the "lumbo-sacralcord. The several nervous trunks are united by connecting branches, and from them the nerves are given off, thus:-from the last thoracic and st lumbar the ilio-hypogastric and the ilio-ingumal nerves; from the 1st and 2nd lumbar the genito-crural nerve; from the 2nd and 3rd the external cutaneous nerve; from the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th the anterior crural nerve; from the anterior fibres of the same trunks (2nd, 3rd and 4th) the obturator nerve. The origins may be tabulated as follows :— 12 and 1 . . . Ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal. 12.. Genito-crural J 2 3. External cv 2 3 4 Anterior cri 2 8 4 Obturator, Lumbar nerves \ 2 3. External cutaneous ' 2 3 4 Anterior crural.