CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. 244 The Penis should now be examined, and it should be noticed that the skin assumes somewhat the aspect of mucous membrane at the margin of the fore-skia or prepuce, and that it retains this appearance as it covers the (jlans penis: the true mucous membrane, however, terminates at the distal part of the urethra, before reachiag the external orifice or meatus. Below the orifice of the urethra will be found the fold called the franum preputii, and around the base of the glans penis is a cii-cular ridge, the corona ghindis, upon which open a number of sebaceous glands, the (jlamlidm odoriferce, that secrete the smegma 'preputii. An mcision is to be carried along the upper surface of the penis, when there will be found in the middle line the single dorsal vein, with the dorsal artery and nerve on each side of it, the nerve being most external. The artery and nerve are the terminations of the pudic artery and nerve, and the vein passes between the sub-pubic liga- ment and the two triangular Ugaments to open into the prostatic plexu.s. The structure of the penis will be described hereafter. The Suspensory Liyameut of the penis is a strong triangular band of fibrous tissue, attached to the front of the symphysis pubis, and divides into two layers to give passage to the dorsal vessels and nerves, and embrace the adjacent part of the penis. The anylr of the penis lies immediately beyond the suspensoiy ligament. [The abdominal wall having been finished on both sides, the dissectors should cut thi-ough the remains of the abdomina muscles in two or three places until the peritoneum is exposed, bu* without Siuring the latter, in order to study the appearance of the mem- bilne which forms the sac of a hernia. They should then open the abdomen and dissect the viscera.] Cavity of the Abdomen. TThe abdomen is to be opened by a transveree incision at the level of the umbilicus, and another cut is to be earned from the umbilicus to the sternum, a little to the left of the median Ime.] By holding up the lower portion of the abdominal waU before dividing it in the median line, and viewing it from behind, the dissectors will perceive through the peritoneum five cords taking a course towards the umbilicus (Fig. 123). The centi^l cord is ihe obliterated lu-achus those on each side of it are the obliterah^. hypogastric arteries (r), and the most external correspond to the two deep epigastric arteries (i). The peritoneimi is -ised mto distinct folds by the obliterated hypogastric arteries, and in tiie