THK RADIAL ARTKHY. 49 is inserted by a flattened tendon (upon which, the muscular fibres extend nearly to the wrist) into the pisiform bone, whence it is prolonged by ligamentous bands to the unciform process and base of the fifth metacarpal bone. The ulnar nerve enters the fore-arm between the two origins of this muscle; the dorsal cutaneous branch of the ulnar winds beneath it in the lower third of the fore-arm; and the ulnar vessels and nerve lie beneath the muscle in the middle third of the fore-arm, and to the radial side of its tendon in the lower third. It is the only muscle inserted directly into one of the carpal bones, and is a flexor of the carpus and of the carjjo-metacarpal joint of the little finger, an adductor of the hand, and fixes the pisiform bone and annular ligament dm-ing the actions of the muscles of the little finger. It is supplied by the ulnar nerve. The Radial Artery (Fig. 19, g), the smaller of the divisions of the brachial artery, extends in the fore-arm fi-om the bifurcation at the bend of the elbow to the front of the styloid process of the radius. It is superficial in the whole of this course, except where it is more or less overlapped by the sui^inator longus muscle. It lies between the supinator longus and the pronator teres above, and, in the lower half of the fore-arm, between the tendons of the supinator longus and flexor carpi radialis, which latter tendon is here generally taken as the guide to the vessel. To its o«fe?- side is the radial nerve, which in the upper thii'd of the arm is at some Httle distance, in the middle third sometimes touches the artery, and in the lower third quits the vessel altogether to -pasa beneath the supinator longus. Beneath the radial artery are (1) the tendon of the biceps (if the bifurcation takes place in the ordinary position); (2) the supinator brevis; (3) the insertion of the jDi'onator teres; (4) the radial origin of the flexor sublimis; (5) the flexor longus pollicis; (6) the pronator quadratus; and (7) the end of the radius. It has two venje comites and gives off the following branches:— Branches.—1. The radial recurrent (Fig. 21, g) runs outwards beneath the supinator longus and gives ascending and descending branches, the former anastomosing with the termination of the superior profunda branch of the brachial artery. 2. Mimcidur brunches are given off at various points to the adjacent muscles. ■i. The superficial volar (21) arises near the root of the thumb and is of variable size. It runs forward, and generally beneath some of the fibres of the abductor pollicis, to complete the superficial palmar arch formed by the ulnar artery.