545 THE ROOTS Of THE LUNGS. reaches the front of the first stage of the subclavian artery, com- municating with a branch from the inferior cervical ganglion and sometimes with the nerve to the subclavius. Passing behind the subclavian vein and in front of the root of internal mammary artery, it enters the thorax. The left nerve then runs between the horizontal arch of the aorta and the left lung in front of the pueumo- gastric nerve, while the right nerve lies to the outer side of the right imiominate vein and the superior cava. Both nerves pass in front of the roots of the lungs, and between the pleura? and 23eri- cardium, give filaments to both membranes, and finally pierce and supply the diaphi-agm; the right also giving branches to the capsule of the liver, the left communicating with the solar plexus. The left nerve is longer than the right, partly because of the deflection of its coiu'se by the projection of the heart to the left, partly on accoimt of the lower level of the diaphragm on this side. Accom= panying each nerve may be seen a small comes nerviphrenici artery ftom the internal mammary. [The pericardium is to be dissected from the roots of the lungs and entirely removed from the great vessels, except a emaU piece which should be left to mark the point at wHch it was attached to the aorta. In domg this care must be taken of the left phi-enic and left imemno-gastric nerves, as weU as of some smaU cardiac nerves and the left superior mtercostal vein, aU of which cross the arch 01 the aorta.] The Roots of the Lungs (Figs. 259 and 260) are each formed by a pulmonary artery, two puhnonary veins, and a bronchus with smaU bronchial vessels, the anterior and posterior puhnonary plexuses of the pneumo-gastric and sjonpathetic nerves, and some lymphatics, all bound together by connective tissue continuous with the mediastinal and subpleural tissue, and invested by a fold of pleura. The order of the three principal structui-es from before backwards is the same on both sides of the body, viz., veins, artery and bronchus ; from above downwards on the right side the order 18 the reverse, viz., bronchus, artery, veins; but on the left side it is artery, bronchus, veins. The reason of this difference is, that a large eparterial branch is given off from the right bronchus to the upper obe of the lung, while the branch to the corresponcUng lobe "1 the left lung is hyparterial (.see p. oT-'i). J\ieriykt root is related in front to the superior vena cava and the phrenic nerve; hehind to the vena azygos major and the vao-us nerve; and the vena azygos major curves over it «io.eto teiWifp m the superior cava. The left root has m front the phi-enic norvo; hehind, the descendin<^