REMOVAL OF THE BRAIN. 365 orbit in fi-ont. and half an inch above the occipital protuberance behind, ajid passing through the temporal muscle between those points. _ The outer plate of the skuU is to be sawn through special care being taken at the anterior and posterior extremities of the temporal ridge, and at the occiput. With the chisel the remaining thickness of the skull can then be readily divided without iniuring the brain, and the calvaria may be removed.] Upon Removing the Skull-cap will be seen the rough outer sm-face of the diu-a mater, and it should be noticed that it formed the mternal periosteum of the calvaria, now left bare. The inner sm-face of the Skull-cap presents a longitudinal groove nearly in the median line, con-esponding to the superior longitudinal sinus, and joming the grooves for the lateral sinus, usually a little to the nght of the middle line and opposite the external occipital protuber- ance. On each side of the longitudinal groove may frequently be seen depressions of variable size, con-esponding to the Pacchionian bodies. The grooves for the middle meningeal vessels will be seen chiefly on the inner siu'face of the parietal and temporal bones The Dura mater is cream-coloured, but often has a bluish appear- ance when Its translucency aUows the veins of the surface of the brain to be partially seen. On each side of the middle line are usuaUy found the Pacchionian bodies, hj-pertrophied viUi of the arachnoid, projecting thi-ough the diu'a mater and indenting the skull. Eamifying upon the dura mater is the large middle menin- . <jeal artery [mternal maxiUary], and in a weU-injected body the antermr menimjeal [ethmoidal] and posterior menimjeal /ascendin- pharpigeal) may sometimes be seen. The meningeal arteries are the pi-mcipal nutrient vessels of the bones as weU as of the membranes. The Middle Meningeal Veins (venae comites) accompany the artery and terminate m the internal maxillary, and the other meningeal veins end m the sinuses of the dura mater. The Sinuses are the intracranial canals in, which tei-minate the vems of the brain, orbit, and diploe. They differ fi-om the ordinary veins, (1) in the rigid natm-e of their walls, which consist of a layer ot the dura mater lined with venous endothelium, and remain ^ entwhen divided; (2) in having no valves; and (3) in that their tributaries join them in a direction contrary to that of the current ot blood withm them. The Superior Longitudinal Sinus (Fig. 180, i) should bo Bkun ?ro'^ Z"' '''''m " ''^''^^ ^l^''^ ^"ters the Bkull fiom the nose through the foramen caecum, and, runniuo. alone the whole length of the upper border of the falx ce ebri, i^ends in