PARTS ABOUT THE SCAPULA. 35 and the uhiai' lying upon the brachialis till it disappears beneath the pronator teres. The twisting of the biceps tendon has already been referred to. By slightly displacing the supinator longus outwards, the mus- culo-spiral nerve(3) will be seen lying between it and the brachialis anticus, and dividing into radial and posterior interosseous nerves; but this nerve is not, strictlj^ speaking, in the triangle. The radial nerve may be ti-aced for a short distance upon the supinator brevis, whilst the posterior interosseous to the inner side of the radial can be seen entering the fibres of the muscle. It is supposed that by the time the dissection of the bend of the elbow is finished the subject will be turned, in which case the student of the aim should dissect the first two layers of the muscles of the back (see Dissectiox of the Back), proceeding afterwards with the following dissections. If necessary, however, the dissec- tion of the front of the fore-arm may be proceeded with first. Since in some dissecting-rooms the dissector of the arm has no part in the back, the following dii-ections are given for the removal of the limb:— [The two superficial layers of the muscles of the back comprise the trapezius, latissimus dorsi, rhomboidei, and levator anguli scapula?. These having been divided, the supra-scapular artery and nerve and omo-hyoid muscle are to be traced to the upper border of the scapula, and the posterior scapular artery followed beneath the rhomboids. If the clavicle has been already divided in the dissection of the neck, the scapula can now be drawn away from the ribs and will be seen to be attached solely by the serratus magnus, between which and the ribs is a quantity of loose large- meshed areolar tissue, which allows the bone to glide smoothly upon the thorax. The serratus magnus having been divided, and the clavicle cut at its middle if still entire, the axillary vessels and nerves are to be severed after being tied together, and the entire limb removed from the trunk.] Parts about the Scapula. [The limb having been placed on the table, it is advisable to identify again the several insertions of muscles on the scapula, cutting each muscle about an inch from its attachment.] The insertion of the trapezius extends along the upper border of the spine of the scapula, the inner border of the acromion, and the outer third of the posterior border and upper surface of the clavicle. The omo-hyoid arises from the upper margin of the «capula close to the notch and from the transverse ligament. The I) 2