626 THE BASE OF THE BRAIN. the tuber cinereum. It is almost vertical in direction, and foims part of the anterior wall of the third ventricle. It is pierced by small anterior 'perforating twigs from the anterior cerebral and anterior communicating arteries. The Optic Commissure or Chiasma (Pig. 29S, 7) is the point of communication between the two optic nerves. The fibres are said to have the following arrangement:—The outermost fibres of the tract pass to the optic nerve of the same side ; the middle fibres mostly decussate with those of the opposite side, forming a figure of X, and pass to the optic nerve of the opposite side; the most posterior fibres are reflected back to the brain along the opposite optic tract behind the cross arrangement; and a few optic nerve fibres pass in the fi-ont part of the commissure fi-om one eye to the other. The Tuber Cinereum (Fig. 298, 8) is a rounded gi-ey lamina, forming part of the floor of the thii-d ventricle. It is placed imme- diately behind the optic chiasma, and is continuous with the lamma cinerea over the dorsal aspect of the commissure. Projecting from it is the Infundibulum, a hoUow, funnel shaped process, attached by its narrow extremity to the pituitary body below, and communicatmg by its cavity with the third ventricle above. The Pituitary hudy is usually torn off in the removal of the brain and left m the Sella Turcica. In the foetus it is hoUow ; in the adult it will be seen (il left attached to the bram) to be soHd and to consist of two lobes of a reddish colour: an anterior larger,and oblong in shape; a posteiior lobe small and rounded. These are of different morphological sigmfi- cance; the anterior lobe being developed from the epiblast of the upper end of the primitive buccal cavity ; while the posterior lobe originates, with the infundibulum, as a hollow process fi-om the anterior cerebral vesicle, but in the higher vertebrates degenerates into a solid mass of connective tissue with scattered cells and pigmented corpuscles. , , ^ i. 1 The relation of the infundibulum and pituitary body to the tuber •cinereum wiU be better understood by refening to the vertical section of the brain (Fig. 310, 20). The Corpora Albicantia or Mammillaria (Fig. 29b, 10) are two white bodies resembling small peas, which are placed between the two crm-a cerebri and immediately behind the tuber cinereuni They are formed by the anterior crura of the fornix which, as wU be afterwards seen, descend to the base of the bram and there twist upon themselves, the points of reflection appearing at the siu ace on each side of the middle line. Upon section grey matter will be found in the interior of each mammiUaiy body.