566 THE THORAX. and necessarily passing beneatli the arcli of the aorta, and the left crossing the descending aorta. The position of each of the arteries in the root of the lung has been already seen, the right being below, and the left above, the bronchi passing to the upjoer lobes of thi' corresponding lungs. Connecting the left jiulmonary artery with the descending portion of the arch of the aorta, immediately beyond the origin of the sub- clavian artery, is a fibrous cord, the Jujamentuin urteriosum, which is the relic of the obliterated ductus arteriosus of the foetus. External to this winds the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. The Pulmonary Veins are fom- in number, two to each limg. Their positions in the roots of the limgs have been seen, and they have been traced to the left auricle of the heart. The right veins are the longer and pass beneath the arch of the aorta, the left veins crossing the descending aorta. Occasionally the two veins of either side unite to form a single trunk before opening into the auricle. The Arcli of the Aorta (Fig. 269, 26).—The aorta arises from the left ventricle, and at first takes a coiu'se upwards and to the right side, then backwards and slightly to the left, over the root of the left lung and around the left side of the trachea. For con- venience of description the arch is divided into three poi-tions-- ascending, horizontal, and descending. The ascending or ventral aorta arises usually behind the left half of the sternum at the level of the* third costal cartilage, passes upwards, forwards, and somewhat to the right, a portion of its breadth crossing the middle line ; finally, curving again to tire left, it becomes continuous with the horizontal portion at the level of the upper border of the second costal cartilage. Tliis is perhaps the typical arrangement, but the examination of different subjects will show many variations, the most common of which is the encroach- ment of the origin of the aorta upon the middle line, the mesial sagittal plane cutting the left or even the anterior sinus of Valsalva. The portion of the vessel which projects towards the right, sometimes caWedthe (jreatsinus 0/the aorta, almost invariably lies in the right half of the body (Fig. 270, 7). The ascending aorta, with the pulmonary artery, is almost entirely enclosed in the serous pericardium. It is related in front to the root of the pulmonary artery, the right aimcular appendage, the edges of both pleurae and lungs, the lower portion of the thymus, and more superficially tlie left half of the sternum; behind to the left am-iclo, the right deep cardiac nerves, and the root of the right lung; on the left to the trunk of the pulmonaiy artery and