41.S THE SIDE OF THE NECK. intervertebral foramina and are distributed to the walls of the canal, the nerve roots, the si^inal cord, and the meninges; and muscular branches supplj'ing the retro-spinal muscles, and anastomos- ing with the princeps and profunda cervicis arteries beneath the complexus. The Vertebral vein, much smaller than the arteiy, commences in small branches about the foramen magnum and atlas. It takes the same course as the artery, receiving corresponding branches, and also the ascending cervical and deep cervical veins, and, after emerg- ing from the foramen in the sixth vertebra, is joined by a small tributary which runs through the foramen in the seventh vertebra, and crosses the subclavian artery to open into the innominate vein. It sometimes escapes through the foramen in the transverse process of one of the other cervical vertebras. 2. The Internal Mammary Artery (Pig. 2Q3, 13) arises from the lower part of the anterior sm'f ace of the subclavian ai-tery, on the distal side of the vertebral below the origin of the thyroid axis, and at once descends behind the clavicle into the thorax. It is crossed superficially, and from without inwards, by the phrenic nerve close to its origin. The artery passes behind the costal cartilages of the true ribs, giving oii a romes nervi phrenici, anterior intercostal, mediastinal, pericardiac, and perforating branches, and finally divides opposite the seventh cartilage into two terminal branches— superior epigastric and musculo-phrenic. These will be fm-ther seen in the dissection of the thorax. The artery is accompanied by venoi comites, which unite above and join the innomiaate vein. 3. The Thyroid Axis (Fig. 203, 6) is a short thick trimk arising from the upper part of the anterior surface of the subclavian, close to the inner border of the scalenus anticus and external to the Fis 205.—Distribution of the ninth, tenth and eleventh nerves of the right side (from Hirschfeld and LeveiUe). 1. Posterior auricular artery. 14. Superior hxryngeal nerve. 2. Temporal artery. 15- I>jternal carotid. 3. Occipital artery. 16- Thyro-hyoideus 4. Glosso-pharyngeal nerve. 17. External carotid. 5. 5. Spinal-accessory nerve. 18. Common carotid. fi fi Pnpumn gastric nerve 19- Fourth cervical nerve. 7' SterrZsfoTd (cu?) 20. Interior constrictor of pharynx. H IS'nrterv 21. Phrenic nerve on scalenus anticus. I HypogS^^ 22. Crico-thyroideus^ citfon from 2nd cervical nerve. 23. Middle cervical ganglion. 10. Lower end of ditto. ^ Sf'"' 11 Superior cervical ganglion of 25. Thyroid axis. H^;^ pathetic 20. Recurrent laryngeal nerve. 12. Digastl-icus. 27. Subclavian artery. 13. Third cervical nerve. 28. lunoniinate artery.