THE SPINAL COEn. 611 The anterior surface of tke spinal cord, when removed from the body, may be distinguished fi'om the posterior by the following characters:— 1. By a bright shining cord {linea sjjleudeiis) running opposite the anterior median fissure. 2. By the presence of a single spinal artery, instead of two as on the posterior smi'ace. '6. By the smaller and non-ganglionic anterior nerve roots. 4. By the absence of the narrow median columns of Goll, seen on either side of the posterior siu-face in the uj^per part of the cord. The Arachnoid (Fig. 289, 2) is a delicate transparent membrane of connective tissue, separated fi'om the inner surface of the dm-a mater by the suhdurul space, and fi'om the pia mater by the suh- unichtioid sjma: It is pierced by the nerve roots and by the liga- menta denticulata. It was fonnerly described as consisting of a parietal and a visceral layer. The parietal layer, Hnrng the inner surface of the dm-a mater, is now regarded as the epithelium of that membrane; the arachnoid proper loosely invests the spinal cord, and gives sheaths to the several nerves. The space between the two layers of the arachnoid, or rather between the dura mater and the arachnoid, was formerly called the sac 0/the uraclmuid, but is now usually described as the subdural space. The Subarachnoid Space (Fig. 289, 5) lies between the visceral layer of the arachnoid and the pia mater of the spinal cord, and is of considerable extent; it can be shown by lifting up the arachnoid with forceps, or by inserting a blow-pipe and forcing air beneath the membrane. This space is filled with fluid and crossed by fine tiabeculee and membranous expansions of deHcate connective tissue. It communicates with the serous spaces of the brain by three openings, one in the posterior serous wall of the foiu-th ventricle (foramen of Magendie), and one in each lateral recess of the same space; and by this means the cerebral fluid may escape into the spmal canal when the intracranial pressm-e is increased. [The cord is to be tui-ned over so as to expose its anterior surface, and an incision is to be made through the dura mater to expose the arachnoid and subarachnoid space, as was done behind. The pia mater is then to be examined both on the front and back of the cord.] The Pia Mater encloses the spinal cord, giving prolongations upon the roots of the nerves. It is continuous with the pia mater of the brain, but is less vascular. It sends processes into the antenor and posterior median fissui-es of the cord, and at the termination of the spinal cord is prolonged upon the /Uum term iiuUe. RU 2