104 FEMORAL HERNIA. the saphenous opening, and pierces the sheath of the vessels to open into the common femoral vein. The Superficial lymphatic glands will also be found between the layers of superficial fascia, and are arranged in two rows, one extending obliquely along the groin, and receiving the lymphatics ol tbe penis, scrotum, perineeum, anal region, nates, and abdommal wall below the umbilicus; and another running down veiticaUy below the groin and draining the superficial lymphatics of the limb. A few Deeper lymphatic glands wiU be afterwards met with sui-- rounding tbe femoral vessels. These di-ain the deep structures of the lower extremity. Tbe Superficial Nerves are tbe terminations of the itio-nigumal, crnraJ branch of the yenito-crural, and external cutaneous, bom the lumbar plexus ; and tbe middle and internal cutaneous branches of the anterior crural. Their distribution wiU be given later. The Deep layer of superficial fascia is more membranous than the superficial layer, and will be best seen by raising it from the deep fascia beneath, beginning about four inches below the gi-om and reflecting it on to Poupart's ligament. This layer of superficial fascia will be found to be bound down to the fascia lata below Poupart's ligament, and around the margin of the opening tbrough wbich the saphenous vein disappears, caUed the Saphenous opening. Unlike the superficial layer it does not pass over Poupart's hga- ment, and therefore has some influence in dii'ecting a large femoral hernia along the groin. It receives the name of Cribriform fascia at the part where it crosses the saphenous opening, because it is perfor- ated by numerous small apertm-es for the passage of vessels and lymph.;tics. Great care must be taken not to destroy the ■ saphenous opening in removing the deep layer of the superficial fascia. . i i • The Deev fascia of-the thigh (fascia lata) is now exposed, and i>, to be cleaned as far as is necessary for the study of the part, concerned in femoral hernia, the several nerves piercing it being left tor sub- sequent examination. Femoral Heenia. TThc saphenous vein is seen to disappear through an opening in the fasci lati about an inch and a half below Poi.]jart s ligtiment. This is th; Tphenous opening, which is obscured by the attachment of fnoitioi of the snporfi(ual fascia, called from the numerous per- ioLto t ^crLfonn. li the cribriform fa.cia have been