278 DEEP DISSECTION OF ABDOMEN. ligaments shoxild tirst be cut and the liver pulled down; by carrjing the knife along the attachment to the diaphragm, the ujiper layer of the coronary ligament will then be divided, as well as the right and left lateral ligaments, which are formed from it. The vena cava and a part of the liver uncovered by peritoneum will now be exposed, the latter being attached to the diaphragm by areolar tissue; and when this is carefully divided, the right suprarenal capsule and the top of the right kidney will be brought into view. The vena cava must be cut through at the upper and again at the lower margin of the posterior surface of the liver, when it wiU only be necessary to divide the under layer of the coronary ligament (derived chiefly from the lesser sac of the peritoneum) to remove the organ. The viscera should all be placed in a covered pan, for examination during the time that the subject is turned. The diaphragm is to be cleaned by stripping off the peritoneum, as far as possible in the direction of the muscular fibres; and at the same time the inner surface of the flap of abdominal muscles still attached should be cleaned, in order to follow out the fibres of the transversalis. Oare must be taken toavoid puncturing thediaphragm, and to preserve the branches of artery and nerve ramifj^ing on its surface. The crura or muscular slips on each side of the aorta must be cleaned, and two tendinous arches over the psoas and quadratus lumborum muscles defined, for which pui-pose it will be well to detach one kidney and tiu-n it over to the opposite side temporarily.] The Diaphrag-m (Fig. 141) is an arched muscle, concave towards the abdomen ; this concavity is exaggerated after death, owing to the fact that expiration is the last act of life. It rises to the level of the fifth costal cartilage at its junction with the sternum on the right side, and to that of the sLxth on the left-. It arises from the back of the ensiform cartilage; from the innei- surfaces of the cartilages of the six lower ribs, where it interdigitates with the transversal! s abdominis ; from the internal and external arcuate ligaments, which cross the psoas and quadratus lumborum muscles respectively; and by its crura from the lumbar vertebrse and intervertebral discs. The liyamentum arcuatum externum (5) is a fibrous arch extending from the transverse process of the first (occasionally the second) lumbar vertebra to the tip of the last rib. It crosses the upper part of the quadratus lumborum; giving attachment above to the muscular fibres of the diaphragm, and below to the antenor lamella of the posterior tendon of the transversalis and to the fascia tiuus- versalis. The liijmneiifinii arriiutum internum (6) is a similar arch running from the side of the bodv of the first lumbar vertebra over the psoas, to become attached to the tip of the first or occasionally the