THE GREAT SCIATIC NERVE. J 48 the tibia and into a horizontal groove in front of this, beneath the internal lateral ligament of the knee. It gives off two expansions, one running upwards and outwards to the femur above the outer condyle, formmg the oblique fasciculus of the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, and the other to cover the popliteus muscle (Fig. 72, 9). Its tendon is separated from the inner head of the gastrocnemius and from the knee-joint by a bursa, which frequently commimicates with the articulation; and a second bursa will be found between it and the internal lateral ligament. Action.—The hamstring muscles flex the leg upon the thigh, and extend the thigh upon the pelvis, as in walking or running, and when the knee is flexed the inner hamstrings, with the popliteus gracilis and sartorius, rotate the leg inwards (pronation), and the biceps rotates it outwards (supination). When the knee is extended and the leg is the fixed point, they extend the trunk and aid in maintaining the erect posture of the body. They also assist the glutei m regulating the flexion of the trunk, by controUing the force of gravitation. If the thigh be flexed while the knee is extended the hamstrings and gi-eat sciatic nerve become very tense and when great force is used these structures may be rup- tui-ed. Hence the knees must always be flexed when the subject is placed m the lithotomy position for dissection of the pei-inteum. Ihe hamstrings are supjdied by the great sciatic nerve. The Great Sciatic Nerve (Fig. 62, i5), see page 136, is con- tmued from the buttock and, after leaving the quadratus femoris lies on the posterior surface of the adductor magnus, to which it gives a branch, and passes beneath the long head of the biceps supplymg this and the semi-membranosus and semi-tendinosus At a variable pomt, but generally about the middle of the thi-h' the nerve divides into the internal and external popHteal trunks.'w'hich have been already traced. Beneath the sciatic nerve will be seen the posterior surface of the adductor magnus, and piercing the muscle, at various points close to Its insertion, are the terminations of the perforating artmes fi-om the profunda and the terminal branch of the artery itself which arc now seen to supply the hamstring muscles (.. p. 123) The terminal branch of the internal circu^nflex ari ry, between the ^^:tZr^ adductor magnus, can now also'be ml fu^^; The PoPLiTEua muscle is described on page lo" i .1 aissected, but the joint itself should not bo opened.