THE QUADRICEPS EXTENSOR. 117 passes into the vastus externus with the nerve to that muscle and ends at the knee-joint, where it anastomoses with the superior external articular branch of the popliteal and the anastomotica magna. The Vastus Externus (Pig. 53, 7) is the largest of the three muscles in front of the femiu-. It arises from the anterior border of the great trochanter as far as the base of the superior tubercle of the neck, from the lower border of the trochanter, the outer part of the gluteal ridge, the upper half of the outer border of the linea aspera, and extensive^ from the external intermuscular septum. Its fibres end in a broad aponeiu'osis, which is inserted into the tendon of the rectus and the upper third of the outer border of the patella, aiding in the formation of the knee capsule. Its upper superficial fibres are commonly detached from the rest by a deep intermuscular space. The Vastus Internus (Fig. 53, 8) is more or less united with the crureus. It arises from the lower half of the spiral line, from the inner side of the linea aspera, from the tendons of the adductor longus and magnus, and from the internal intermuscular septum. It is insn-ted into the upper half of the inner side of the patella and into the rectus tendon. Like the vastus externus it helps to iovm the capsule of the knee joint. The origin of the lower part of the muscle cannot be seen quite distinctly at present, since it is miited with the tendons of the adductor longus and magnus by a sirb-sartorial plane of fascia, which covers in'the femoral vessels in Himter's canal. The Crureus covers the fi-ont of the femur between the two vasti and beneath the rectus. It arises from the upper part of the spiral hne and the anterior and outer surfaces of the femur, to aboiit four mches from the lower end of the bone, as well as from the lower part of the external interaiuscular septum, and is inserted into the patella with the other extensor muscles. Its surface is tendinous to allow free movement of the rectus upon it. Its lowest fibres of ongni_ fonu the snhrrurens, which will be best dissected with the knee joint. The snpra-puiellar pouch is a prolongation upwards of the synovial membrane of the knee-joint for two inches or more above the top of the patella beneath the crureus and vasti, and receives the insertion of the subcrureus. It is often separated from the true joint cavity by an hour-glass constriction, and occasionally by a complete septum Bursa in connection with the quadriceps will be found in ront of the patella, and between the ligamentum patella3 and the upper part of the tubercle of the tibia.