29 THE BRACHIAL ARTERY. flexor of the fore-arm upon the tipper arm, and is supplied by both the musculo-cutaneons and the musoulo-spiral nerves. The Brachial Artery (Figs. 12 & 13) is the direct continuation of the axillary, and extends from the lower border of the teres major to its point of bifurcation into radial and iilnar arteries, at the level of the jrmction of the head with the neck of the radius. The artery is super- ficial, or at least crossed by no muscle, in the whole of its coui-se, but may be overlapped by a well-developed biceps; and it gradually timis fi'om the riiner side of the arm to the middle of the bend of the elbow. In front it has the skin and fascite, with the internal cutaneous nerve until this pierces the fascia, and about the middle of the arm it is generally crossed by the median nerve (but the nerve may pass beneath the vessel); at the bend of the elbow it is also crossed by the bicipital fascia and the median basilic vein. Behind it has first the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profiuida vessels, which sepa- rate it fi-om the long head of the triceps; it then rests upon a small portion of the internal head of the triceps ; next, on the insertion of the coraco-brachialis ; and afterwards upon the brachialis anticus for the rest of its course. To the outej- side is the median nerve, with the coraco-brachialis muscle for a short distance above, and afterwards the biceps muscle, which is the guide to the vessel iii applying a lignture; both these muscles overlap the artery m a muscitlar ann. To the iuver side is the ulnar nerve, in close con- tact above, but soon leaving it to pass backwards to the hollow behind the internal condyle ; and afterwards, from a varying point, the median nerve, which' continues in close relation to the vessel for the rest of its coiu'se. The basilic vein lies to the inner side of the artery throughout its com-se, but is in closer contact in the upper part than the lower, i.e., after piercing the deep fascia. Venee comites suiTound the artery in its whole length. Fig. 12.—The axila land upper arm (from Maclise's Surgical Anatomy). 1. Median nerve. 2.2. Ulnar nerve. '6. Musculo-spiral nerve. A. Sterno-mastoid (cut). B. Scalenus anticus. C. Sterno-hyoid (cut). D. Clavicle. E. Stenio-tliyroid (cut). P. Subclavins muscle. G. Innominate artery H. Common Carotid artery. K. Upper cord of Brachial Plexus. L. Junction of Internal Jugular and Subclavian veins. M. Basilic vein and junction with axillary vein, m.m. Cephalic vein. N.N. Peotoralis major. 0.0. Poctoralis minor. P. Latissimus dorsi. Q. Teres major. S, Axillary artery. T. Brachial artery. U. Coraco-hrachialis. W. Internal condyle. X.X. Triceps. Y. Fascia of arm. Z. Biceps.