THE DORSALIS PEDIS ARTERY. 175 Branches of the anteiior tibial artery in front of the leg :— The anterior tibial Jiccurreiit arises as soon as the artery reaches the front of the leg, and winds through the fibres of the tibialis anticiis or extensor longus digitorum to the front of the knee, to anastomose with the articular arteries. Muscular branches to the adjacent muscles arise at various points. The Mulhdlar arteries, internal and external, the latter being the larger and more constant, pass beneath the tendons to the malleoli, in the neighbourhood of which they are distributed. The external anastomoses with the anterior and jjosterior jDeroneal arteries, and with the tarsal branch of the dorsalis i)edis; the iiiternul with the internal calcanean of the posterior tibial artery. Two small branches are iisually to be found arising fz'om the artery before it pierces the interosseous membrane, the posterior tibial recurrent, passing over the back of the head of the fibula, and the superior fibular, passing outwards over the neck of the bone (p. 157). The Anterior Peroneal branch of the peroneal artery (p. 156) appears between the tibia and fibula thi-ough an opening in the lower part of the interosseous membrane, running ujion the anterior inferior tibio-fibular ligameut and beneath the peroneus tertius to supply the outer malleolus, and to anastomose with the external malleolar and tarsal arteries. The inferior tibio-fibular joiut thus separates the anterior and posterior peroneal arteries. The Dorsalis Pedis Artery (Fig. 86, 12) is the continuation of the anterior tibial from the ankle-joint to the base of the 1st meta- tarsal bone, opposite which it divides into the communicating branch to the sole of the foot and the dorsal artery of the great toe. Its direction is fi-om the centre of the instep to the first interosseous space, and it lies at first superficially between the tendons of the extensor propriushallucis and the extensor longus digitorum, but is crossed near the point of bifurcation by the innermost tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum. It lies upon the astragalus, scaphoid, and midrlle cuneiform bones, and their dorsal ligaments, and has the anterior tibial nerve to its outer side. Two venm comites accompany the vessel. Branches of the dorsalis i)edis artery. A few small unnamed tarsal branches spring from the inner side of the vessel and anastomose with the internnl plantar. The Tarsal arUrg arises from the outer .side of the vessel immediately below the annular ligament, and crosses the foot beneath the extensor brcivis digitorum to anastomose with the arteries about the external malleolus.