THE BRACHIAL PLEXUS. 19 (as seen in front) bj^ the teres major, subscapularis, long head of the triceps, and the neck of the humerus. It also supplies branches to the shoulder-joint, the greater tuberosity of the humerus and the acromion. It anastomoses with the anterior circumflex, the supra-scaprdar, the sui^erior profunda, and acromio-thoracic. The Axillary Vein'(Pig. 3, i8) lies to the inner side of the artery. It is formed by the junction of the basilic vein with the vena; comites of the brachial artery, usually near the upper border of the teres major, and, having received tribiitaries corresponding to the branches of the axillary arter_y, and the cephalic vein immediately below the clavicle, it reaches the outer border of the first rib and becomes the subclavian. It is intimately related to the axillary lymphatics. Brachial Nerves (Fig. 5).—The large cords of the brachial plexus are derived from the anterior branches of the 5th, 6th, 7th, Sth cervical and the greater jjart of the 1st thoracic nerves, which make theu- apjaearance in the posterior triangle of the neck, receiv- ing usually a commimicating branch siiperiorily from the 4th cervical, and occasionally one below from the 2nd thoracic nerve (Part IV.). The nerves coalesce and divide again in a variable manner (see Posterior Triangle of the Neck), but the resiilt is that they enter the axilla as three cords, lying to the outer side of the first part of the axillary artery. The posterior and internal cords then pass behind the second stage of the vessel, the latter con- tinuing its course to reach the inner side, while the outer cord remains external; and the several branches derived from these trunks, and now to be examined, more or less sm-roimd the artery in its third part. The plexus consists occasionally of only two cords, when it enters the axilla; in which case a third cord is formed below the clavicle by the luiion of branches derived from these two cords. / Outer cord . . . „ , , . . ,, From 4lh, 5th, (Externa anterior thoracic. 6th, and 7th cer-l Ex ernal cutaneous, vical nerves. °^ median. Brachial plexus formed by Sth, (ith, 7tli, Bth cer- vical, and 1st thoracic Liner cord f ^"terna! anterior thoracic. From Bth 'ccrvi-J ^'V'*''' ^^'^^'^ median, cal and 1st thor- ! V l""''^'' nerves, with communi- ; . ' i Internal cutaneous eating branch above '^'^"^ neives. ^ [ from 'Itli cervical . '•Lesser internal cutaneous. , Three subscaiiular nerves Posterior cord . . (5th, Otli, 7th, and 8th c). From 5tli, Otli, I Musculo-spiral ((ith, 7th, and 7th, and 8tli cer- "i Sth c. nerves and 5th c. vical nerves. I and 1st th.). \ \ Circumflex (5tli and 6th c). C 2