THE LARYNX, 522 halves ov aUii, which meet at an angle in front and form a promi- nence, especially distinct in the male adult, called the pomum Ailami. Each ala is quadrilateral in shape, and has a rounded posterior /wrr/«7-into which hbres of the stylo- and palato-pharyngei muscles are inserted; an inferior border, which gives attachment to the crico-thyroid muscle in its posteiior half, and to the crico- thja'oid membrane in its anterior half; and a superior border which forms the V-shaped notch of the pomum Adami, and gives attach- ment to the thyro-hyoid membrane and a few fibres of the stylo- pharyngei. Its posterior border is prolonged above and below into superior and inferior cornnn. The superior cornu, the longer of the two, runs upwards, backwards, and i:iwards, and gives attachment to the thyi'o-hyoid ligament, while the inferior cornu passes down- wards, forwards, and inwards, to articulate with the facet m the side of the cricoid cartilage, and gives attachment to the crico- thjToid and inferior constrictor muscles. On the outer surface of the ala is an ohhque ridfje, extendmg from a tubercle at the root of the superior coriui to another tubercle about the middle of the lower border of the cartilage. The ridge gives attachment to the sterno-thyroid and thp-o-hyoid muscles, and the surface behind it to the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. The inner surf (tees of the ate are smooth, and in the recedmg angle formed hj their iunction are attached nine structui-es, viz.. the thyro-epiglottidean ligament, the two pairs of thyi-o-arytienoid ligaments (false and true vocal cords), the two thyro-epiglottidei muscles, and the two thyi-o-arytasnoid muscles, the last just external to the inferior ligaments or true cords. The Cricoid Cartilage (Fig. 251, 19) {kpIkos eTSo,, Uke a rmg) is a ring of cartilage, shallow in front, where it is connected with the thyi-oid cartilage by a membrane, and has the crico-thyroideus attached to its outer surface ; but deep behind, where it fills up a part of the space left between the posterior borders of the thyroid cartilage. Its upper border looks obliquely forwards, while its lower border is h.nizontal. The nppn- border presents two oval articular sm-faces for the arytienoid cartilages, at the .sides of the deep portion, and more anteriorly gives origm to the crico- aryta^iioidei laterales. The lo,rev border is connected by a ligainen with the fii'st tracheal ring. 0, ,,,,b side, and near the lower border of the '^^^^ small facet for articulation with the inferior cornu of thyroid ...artilage. and below this is the attachment ..f the lowest hbie. 9 the inferior constrict..r. The deep posterior mrf.ce is ^^^f^^ the middle line by a vertical ridge, to which are attached some