THE LATERAL VENTRICLES. 641 The Corpus Oallosum (Fig. 301, c. c), the great transverse commissm-e of the brain, consists of fibres passing transversely from one hemisphere to the other, forming the floor of the middle jjortion of the longitudinal fissure, and the anterior wall and roof of the lateral ventricles. It is nearer the anterior than the posterior exti'emity of the brain, and is slightly arched from before back- wards. In a median sagittal section its anterior extremity will be seen to bend abruptlj^ backwards and downwards to the base of the brain, fonning the (jenu and rostrum, while posteriorly it ends in a thick free border, termed the splmhim, which forms the upper boundary of the transverse fissure of Bichat and lies in contact with the velum interpositum. Beneath, it is connected with the sqitumhiciduni, and fiu'ther back with the fornix (Fig. 310). The Rostrum has been seen to become continuous superficially at the base of the brain with the lamina cinerea, and to give oif two ■pvdunch's which extend outwards, one on each side, to the beginning of the Sj'lvian fissru-e. On the ujjper sm-face of the corpus callosum in the middle line is a mesial longitudinal furrow, the raphe, on either side of which are two white bands, the strku obtedcn or nerves of Lancisi, and outside these are other longitudinal lines {lateral stf iw), overlapi^ed by the gyrus fornicatus. The longitudinal elements are crossed by transverse markings called the lim-ce transversce, which indicate the coui-se of the fibres of the structiu-e. The anterior caUosal fibres cm-ve forwards on entering the hemispheres, the posterior back- wards {forceps major)i and the intermediate fibres {tapetum) pass directly outwards. The Corpus Callosum is about foiu- inches in length fi-ota splenium to genu, and extends to within an inch and a half of the anterior extremity of the brain, and two inches and a half of the posterior extremity. "The Lateral VfiNTRidtES. [To open the lateral ventricle iti each hernisphBre, the corpus callosiun is to be carefully cut through about half an inch from the middle line, until the delicate membrane {ependijma ventri- culorum) lining the ventricle is seen ; the handle of the scalpel shoiild then be used to reflect the brain substance and expose the cavity.] The Lateral Ventricle (Fig. 302) consists of a central cariti/ or bod//, and three cornua, anterior, posterior, and middle or descending. The Anterior cornu tm-ns forwards and outwards into the front of the hemisphere, and offers nothing of importance lor notice. The