170 THE FRONT OF THE LEG. toes, and, at the point of bifurcation, send anterior perforaiinij arteries to the dorsum of the foot. The digital arteries run on the sides of the toes with the digital nerves, and anastomose in the pulp of the terminal phalanges. The cnmmiinicating Iran'ch of the dorsalis pedis artery (13) enters the sole between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle, and besides completing the plantar arch, gives off an inner branch, which runs beneath the long flexor tendon to supply the inner side of the great toe, and an outer branch which bifui-cates to supply the adjacent sides of the great and next toe, all anastomosing with the corresponding dorsal branches of the dorsalis pedis. The External Plantar Nerve (Pig. 84, 5)-—The deep portion of the nerve accompanies the artery beneath the adductor obliquus hallucis, in which it ends. It gives small branches to the adductor transversus hallucis, to the thi-ee outer lumbricals, and to all the interosseous muscles, except those of the fourth interosseous space which are supplied by the superficial portion. The Fourth Layer of Muscles consists of the plantar mter- ossei, which wiU be better seen when the dorsal interossei are dissected. Front of the Leg and Foot. TThe skin remaining on the front and outer side of the leg and on the back of the foot is to be removed, and the superficial vems and nerves dissected out of the superficial fascia, after which the deep fascia should be cleaned.] The Superficial Veins form an arch across the dorsiuu of the foot ending in the internal and external saphenous vems on opposite sides. The internal saphenous vein is to be traced from the inner side of the dorsal arch upwards in front of the internal malleolus to the posterior part of the inner side of the knee, ihe external saphenous vein passes from the outer side of the aixn behind the external malleolus to the middle of the back of the leg. Cutaneous Nerves.-On the outer side of the leg are a few cutaneous branches from the external popliteal nerve; and on tne inner side from the lonij sajihenous. _ The Musculo-Cutaneous Nerve (Fig. 8(5, 13) pierces the deep fascia about the lower third of the outer side of the fi-ont of the le , and iust before or after doing so divides into two portions, lie internal division (15) gives branches to the inner side of the ank^ and foot, thou to the inner side of the great too, the outer side 01 the second, and the inner side of the third too: frequently also oiving a .''mall branch to join the anterior tibial nerve between