106 THE FEMORAL SHEATH. tlie inner exti'emity of the ilio-pectineal line. It fills the angl between Ponpart's ligament and the pubic bone, and presents a free edge turned outward,-; towards the femoral sheath. Behind it lies the conjoined tendon, the fascia transversalis, a small anastomotic arch between the pubic branches of the deep epigastric and obtm-ator vessels, and more deeply the subperitoneal tissue and peritoneum. The name Liyamerd of Cooper is given to a fibrous band which runs along the ilio-pectineal line from the nio-pectineal eminence to the pubic spine. The Sheath of the Common Femoral Vessels (Figs. 47, 48, E) lies between the process of fascia lata (process of Burns) passing to Poupart's ligament in front, and the pectineal and iliac fascire behind. This sheath appears as a tube, broader above than below, and composed of a delicate connective tissue, containing more or less fat. It invests the femoral artery, vein, and a portion of the deep lymphatics, and may be traced beneath Poupart's ligament upon the external iliac vessels, where it is continuous with the subperitoneal fascia which ensheaths the latter, while below it may be followed as a vascular sheath throughout the limb; it is pierced externally by the crural branch of the genito-crm-al nerve. It is usually stated to be fomied by the union of the fascia transversalis and fascia iliaca aromid the vessels, but it is essentially a prolonga- tion of the subperitoneal tissue sheath of the iliac vessels, reinforced by some fibres from the fascia transversalis in front, and is separated from the iliac fascia behind by loose connective tissue. Three vertical incisions, one in the centre and one at each side of the tubular sheath, wiU enable the dissector to see that it is divided by two slender septa into three compartments, the femoral artery occupying the outermost, the femoral vein the middle, and Figs. 47 and 48.—The tmatomy of the groin (from IMaclise's Surgical Anatomy). A. Anterior superior ihac spine. B. Umbihcus. C. Spine of piibes. D. Obhquus externus. d. Its tendon. E. Obliqnns internus. e. Its tendon. F. Transversalis abdominis. f. Its tendon (conjoint). G. Bectns muscle, with sheath. H. Internal spermatic fascia, con- tinuous with h, the infundi- bular portion of the fascia transversalis. I. Peritoneum. K. Fascia transversalis. L. Epigastric artery and veins. M. Spermatic cord. N. Femoral arlerj-. n. Profunda fenioris. O. Femoral vein. P. Saijhenous vehi. Q. Sartorius. R. Sheath of femoral vessels. S.S. Saphenous opening. T. Anterior crural nerve. IJ. Fascia lata, pubic portion. V. Fascia lata, iliac portion. W. Iliacns internus.