THE STVLO-HYOID. 407 It is a depressor of the hyoid bone and a feeble elevator of the scapula. The steruo-hyoid, sterno-thyi'oid, and omo-hyoid muscles are aU supplied by the ansa hj^joglossi, except the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid, which receives a branch from the descendens cervicis. The thyro-hyoid is supplied by a special branch of the hypoglossal nerve. The Digastric (Pig. 198, i) muscle consists of two bellies, placed above the hyoid bone, to which the intermediate tendon is attached by fascia. It arises from the digastric fossa on the inner side of the mastoid process of the temporal bone; and is inserted into a rough surface at the lower border of the inferior maxilla, close to the median line. Its action is to depress the lower jaw, or if the jaw is fixed, to raise the hyoid bone and larynx. Its posterior belly is supplied by a branch of the facial nerve, and the anterior by the mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior dental nerve (oth). The submaxillary salivary gland lies in the angle between the two beUies. The Stylo-hyoid (Eig. 198, 4) is the muscle in immediate con- nection with the posterior beUy of the digastric, and is pierced by the tendon of the latter close to the hyoid bone. It arises from the outer or posterior part of the base of the styloid process of the temporal bone, and is inserted into the upper surface of the body of the hyoid bone at its jruiction with the great cornu. It is an elevator of the hyoid bone and is supplied by the facial nerve. [In order to show the sheath of the carotid vessels completely, the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid must be reflected. But before doing so the dissector of the left side should seek the termination of the thoracic duct {v. p. 422). Tv'^^^^ muscles have been reflected the sheath is to be opened ihe descendens cervicis nerve has already been traced upon it and within will now be found the common 'carotid arterv nearest the median line ; more externally the internal jugular vein," and between but behind these the pueumo-gastric (or vagus) nerve. Behind the sheath will lie found the trimk of the sympathetic nerve, Ivine parallel with the vessels ; and crossing behind these, at the leVel of the (,th cervical vertebra, wiU be seen the inferior th^Toid arterv and recurrent laryngeal nerve. The sheath is to be carefully dissected away, and the branches of the artery and the vein followed out and cleaned, as lar as the dissection will permit. Tlie largo livposlos^al nerve will be found looping round the occipital or sterno-n^'astoid artery, and crossing in front of the external and internal carotids n a curved direction immediately below the digastric muscle • and 'a:^^:f P~^-*™ crosses b^lSlS