490 THE PALATE, otic ganglion; and the palato-glossus and palato-pliaryngeus by the pharjmgeal plexus. The soft palate is supplied by posterior branches of the descending palatine artery, which reach it through the accessory palatine canals, by the ascending palatine and tonsillar branches of the facial arterj', and by twigs from the ascending pharyngeal artery. Its nerves are derived from the middle and posterior palatine branches of Meckel's ganglion. The EustacMaii Tube (Fig. 236, 2) is a channel of communi- cation between the upper portion of the pharynx and the tym- panic cavity. It is about an inch and a quarter in length, and nms obliquely downwards, forwards, and inwards, to its jDharyngeal opening. Its walls, in the outer two-fifths of its extent, are formed by the petrous portion of the temporal bone; in the rest of the canal they are composed partly of cartilage, partly of fibrous tissue. The whole length of the passage is lined with ciliated mucous membrane, continuous with that of the tympanum and naso-pharynx. The inner aperture has already been seen (p. 486), as well as the relation of the cartilage to the palatine muscles. The cartilage is triangular in shape, and its large upper end is bent forwards and downwards, the deficiency at the lower part being completed by fibrous tissue. In the recent condition the thick mucous membrane converts the opening into a mere vertical sUt. This is generally closed, but during the process of deglutition it is opened by the action of the tensor palati muscle, aided by the salpingo- pharyngeus when present, and thus the equilibrium of the air in the tympanum is maintained. [ The palate is to be drawn up so as to put the pillars of the fauces on the stretch as much as possible, and the mucous membrane is to be removed to expose the palato-glossus and palato-pharyngeus muscles.] The Amygdala or Tonsil is placed between the palato-glossus and palato-pharjmgeus muscles, and is usually much shi-unken after death. It consists of lymphoid tissue with a niunber of mucous follicles, the orifices of which may be seen on the internal surface. The otitside of the tonsil is in close relation with the superior constrictor of the phtu-jnix and with the ascending pharyn- geal artery, and lies about a third of an inch in front of and to the inner side of the internal carotid artery, opposite to the angle of the lower jaw. [The tongue and the larynx are to be detached by diviiUng aU the structures between theiu and the palate, and are to be carefully