397 THE STERNO-CLEIDO-MASTOID MUSCLE. [The platysma is to be carefully reflected upwards like the skin, the superficial nerves are to be dissected out, and the sterno-mastoid cleaned by removing that part of the deep cervical fascia which forms the superficial layer of its sheath.] The External Jugular Vein (Fig. 195, 14) is formed by the junction of the internal maxillary and temporal veins in the parotid gland. The trunk so formed {temporo-maxillaTy) is soon joined by the'posterior auricular (10) and sometimes by the occipital vein, and gives off a large commxmicating vessel, the nmimunicating facial (13), to the common trunk of the lingual and facial veins (internal jugular); it then crosses the sterno-mastoid between this muscle and the platysma, and receives, near the middle of the neck, the posterior exteriuil jugular (12) from the cervical and occipital region. Reaching the outer border of the sterno-mastoid, close to its clavicular origin, it is joined by three tributaries, the transversalis colli (16) and supra-scapular (18) on the outer side, and the anterior jugular (23) in fi'ont. Finally it pierces the deep fascia and opens into the subclavian vein. The vein and its principal tributaries are valved before their terminations. The Anterior Jugular Vein (Fig. 195, 23) begins beneath the chin by the union of small superficial and deep branches, and passes down the neck, near the middle line, to reach the sterno-mastoid. It here receives a tributary (19), sometimes of considerable size, communicating with the facial above, and running along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid. It then pierces tEe deep fascia, runs beneath the sterno-mastoid a little above its origin, and ends, as stated, in the external jugular. The two anterior jugular veins are joined together, just above the sternum, by a transverse branch, which runs in the fat between the two layers of the deep cervical fascia. The vessel may be wounded in the operation for wry-neck. The Superficial Cervical Nerve (Fig. 185, 17), a nerve of small size, is seen to divide into two or three branches supplying the skin over the anterior triangle, the upper one communicating with branches of the facial nerve below the jaw. The Sterno-CIeido-Mastoid Muscle (Fig. 185, 28) arises by a rounded tendon from the anterior surface of the manubrium stemi, about half an inch below the supra-sternal notch, and by a broad tendinous bilammar origin from the inner third of the upper part of the clavicle. Between the two heads of origin is a cellular interval, which may extend for some distance up the neck. The .sternal n ) """"f-V' ''""'1 and outer surface of the mastoid process of the temporal bone {sterno-mastoid)