THE OVARY. 349 bodies. One of the fimbrintj {Jimbriu ovurka or tubo-uvarian liga- inent, 13) is attached to the ovary, and serves to direct the ostium in gi-asping the ovum as it emerges fi-om that organ. The tube is muscular in structui-e, and is lined by a longitudinally pHcated mucous membrane with ciliated epithelium. Its external orifice {ostium ahduinvia/e) opens into the peritoneal cavity. The Round Ligament (Fig. 175, 8) placed in the anterior part of the broad ligament is composed of unstriped muscular fibre and areolar tissue, and is covered by peritoneum. It extends from the angle of the uterus to the inguinal canal, through which it passes to become lost in the fat of the labium. In the child, and occa- sionally in the adult, it is accompanied for a short distance into the inguinal canal by a funicular process of peritoneum called the canal of Nuck. It is supplied by a small artery which anastomoses at the superior angle of the uterus with the ovarian and uterine. Its lymphatics open into the inguinal glands. The Ovary (Fig. 175, 11) is an almond-shaped body jorojecting from the posterior part of the broad ligament, and attached to the superior angle of the uterus by a muscular band, the atero-omrmn Injamtnt (12), and by its opposite extremity^ to the fimhriu ovuriru of the Fallopian tube. It rests in a shallow peritoneal sulcus [Jbssu ovariai) at the side of the true pelvis, between the internal iliac artery and vein, a little below a point midway between the anterior superior iliac spine and the median line, it presents for description a free and an attached border; two extremities, the uterine and tubal; and two surfaces. Its true position is doubtful. It is generaUy represented as lying horizontaUy with its surfaces looking upwards and downwards, and its extremities pointing inwards and outwards, but there is reason to believe that its long axis is vertical, the surfaces looking inwards and outwards (SjTningtou). It IS composed of a fibro-muscular stroma condensed peripherally into a cortex {tuniai albiujiufn), which is covered with epithelium, and contains innumerable vrisucs or Graafian, msides. From time to time certain of these ovisacs enlarge, approach the surface and burst, cUscharging each an ovum, which is received by the mouth of the oviduct and conveyed to the uterus. This process causes u scarring of the originaUy smooth tunica albuginea, and certain changes in the ruptured ovisac which lead to the fonnation of 'i yellowish mass caUed the mrpus lutmm. Should impreguation occur, the increased determination of blood to the ovary gives a much larger development to the corpus luteuni than under ordinaiT