488 THE PALATE. tvom the outer surface of the cartilage of the Eustachian tuhe. The tendon descends vertically between the supei-ior constrictor and internal pterygoid, to wind round the hainular process of the sphenoid bone, where it is lubricated by a minute bursa ; and then taking a horizontal direction becomes inserted into the transverse ridge on the under surface of the palate bone, and, by means of a strong fan-like expansion of tendinous fibres, into the aponeurosis of the soft palate, meeting with the fibres of the opposite muscle in the middle line. The Palato-glossus lies immediately above the buccal layer ot mucous membrane of the soft palate, and descends in front of the tonsil in the anterior pillar of the fauces, to enter the side of the hinder portion of the tongue. It is attached aoove to the anterior portion of the soft palate, meeting its feUow in the median Ime, and Idow joins with the posterior transverse inti-insic fibres of the tongue The two muscles together form a faucial sphincter. The Palato-pharyngeus (Fig. 236, 9) is attached above to the soft palate and its fibrous aponeurosis by two slips, which are separated by fibres of the levator palati and azygos uvul«, and meet in the middle line with the fellow muscle of the opposite side. It descends behind the tonsil in the posterior piUar of the fauces; its fibres then diverge, and becoming closely connected with those of the stylo-pharyngeus, reach their loiver attachment to the posterior borders of the thyroid cartilage and into the pharynx, blending with the constrictors and extending behind as far as the median raphe. The musole may thus be divided into palato- laryngeal and palato-pharyngeal portions, the latter fonning, with the corresponding fibres of the opposite side, an obhque elliptical sphincter between the nasal and buccal portions of the pharynx. The Salpingo-pharyngeus is an inconstant slip, extending from the cartilaginous portion of the Eustachian tube to }om the outer fibres of the palato-pharyngeus, of which it may bo reg-arded as a part. , , , . Admns.-1h.Q lemtores palati raise the soft palate, and are ot service in vocalisation. They probably have no action upon the Eustachian tubes. The «e«.som palati render the anterior part ot the soft palate tense and resistent, during the passage of the bolus of food beneath it during deglutition ; at the same time they open the Eustachian tubes, their palatal attachment then representing the origin and the tubal fibres the insertion of the muscles. The azygos uvdce shortens the soft palate and uvula. The pa/ato- qiossi narrow the isthmus faucium sphincterieally, and so bring tne gustatory mucous membrane into close contact with the looa