THE EXTENSOR LONGUS HALLUCIS. 173 and the extensor longus digitonim. The fibres end in a broad tendon, which becomes narrower near the ankle and passes thi'ough the most internal division of the anterior annular ligament, to be inserted into the imder-siirface of the internal cuneiform bone and the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. Just before its insertion it grooves the inner side of the internal cuneiform bone. The tibialis anticus is a dorsal flexor of the foot at the ankle-joint, and an adductor at the talo-calcaneo-scaphoid joint. It is supplied by the anterior tibial nerve. The Extensor Longus Digitorum (Fig. 85, 4) arises from the ui^per three-fourths of the anterior surface of the fibula and for about an inch from the adjacent part of the interosseous membrane; fi-om the outer tubero.sity of the tibia close to the tibialis anticus; from the fascia upon the upper part of the muscle, and from, the inter-musciUar septa on either side. The muscular fibres extend nearly as low as the annular ligament, through the outer division of which the tendon passes, and at once divides into fom- to the foui' smaller toes. The insertion of the extensor into the toes is similar to that of the extensor of the fingers, but on a smaller scale. Each tendon forms an expansion on the back of the first j^halanx, and is there joined by the tendons of the corresponding interossei muscles (but seldom by the lumbricales), and in the case of the second, thii-d, and fom-th toes, by a tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum; it is then continued forwards, and divides into three parts, the central portion going to the second phalanx and the lateral stronger pieces to the third phalanx. The action of the extensor longus digitorum is to draw up the foot at the ankle (dorsal flexion) and to extend the four outer toes, chiefly at the metatarso-phalangeal joints; the interossei being the principal extensors of the middle and ungual phalanges. The Peroneus Tertius (Fig. 80, 6) is often a part of the extensor longus digitorum. It arises, below the extensor, from the lower fourth of the anterior sui'face of the fibula; slightly from the interosseous membrane; and from the septum between it and the peroneus brevis. Its tendon passes through the same division of the annular ligament as the extensor longus digitorum, and is inserted into the upper surface of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, close to the inter-metatarsal joint. Its action is to assist the extensor digitorum as a dorsal flexor, and to abduct the foot at the talo-calcaneo-scaphoid joint. The Extensor Longus Hallucis vel Proprius (Fig. 85 5) appears between the tibialis anticus and the extensor digitorim^ in the lower thu-d of the log. It arises from Ihe mi.ldlo two-fourth.