THE THORAX. 556 small oblique opening, thi-ougli which, a probe can be introduced, ■will be found in the adult. [To open the right ventricle, its flaccid wall should be grasped with the left hand, and the scalpel made to transfix it about half- way down, and well to the right side of the septum; the knife being then carried towards the apex, the cavity of the ventricle will be opened. The left forefinger is to be passed up into the pulmonarj' artery, and will serve to guide the incision, which is to be prolonged into that vessel, if possible, betmeen two of the semilimar valves. All clots being removed, the whole of the ventricle will be displayed.] The Biglit Ventricle (Fig. 264, «) consists of a main cavity, the walls of which show columnar projections formed by the muscular substance of the heart; and of a smooth funnel-shaped portion (ij)finuUbidum or conus arteriosus) leading upwards and to the left into the pulmonary artery. The projections on the wall of the ventricle are called columnce carnece (Ji) ; of these four varieties may be described; one in which the column merely stands out in relief, being attached to the waU of the ventricle in its whole length; a second in which the column is attached at both ends but is fi-ee in the middle, so that a probe may be passed between it and the wall, trahecuhe carnece; a thii-d, called muscnU papilJures ((/), which project into the cavity of the ventricle and give attachment by their extremities to chordce tvndinece, or fibrous cords passiug to the flaps of the auriculo-ventricular valve ; and a fourth variety consisting of bands which pass from one fleshy column to another, or to the ventricular wall. One of these latter, running fi-om the base of the anterior papillary muscle to the septum, is called the moderator bund, a structure which is largely developed in the ox and some other of the lower animals. The right auriculo-ventricular or tricnsi^id valve (e) is formed by a reduplication of the endocardium or lining membrane of the heart, and between its layers are some tendinous and muscxdar fibres, the former being continuous with the chordae tendineso. The entii-e valve is attached above to a fibrous ring {zona tendinosa), which bounds the aiu-iculo-ventiicular opening, and is divided below into three hmjer ntsps, light, left, and posterior, and three smaller cusps alternating with these, all giving attachment by their free borders and ventricular surfaces to chordae tendineae. The chorda; tendinece are connected to three groups of musculi pajnllares, anterior, posterior, and internal or septal—the last group, however, are very imperfectly developed, and some of the cords of the posterior cusp may be attached directly to the septal wall. Each