597 SECOND LAYKR OF MUSCLES. sides of the neck. In some of the lower animals, it is of large development and composed of yellow elastic tissue, and gives an important support to the head. The Latissimus Dorsi (Fig. 285, 4) arises by a tendinous origin fi-om the posterior thii-d of the outer Hp of the crest of the ilium, and the upper sacral spines ; from all the lumbar and the six lower thoracic spines and the supraspinous ligament; and from the outer sm-faces of the thi-ee or four lower ribs, interdigitating with the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. The broad muscular fibres become collected together as they wind round the inferior angle of the scapula, to which they sometimes have a slight attach- ment, and then pass forward and upward, at first behind, then below, and finally in fi'ont of the teres major, to be inserted into the bottom of the bicipital groove of the humerus. The fibres of the muscle are so twisted that those which were highest at their origin are lowest at the insertion, and vice versa. At its insertion the tendon is separated from that of the teres major by a bursa p. 23). The latissimus dorsi, when taking its fixed point below, extends, adducts, and rotates the humerus inwards, di-awing it behind the back, and at the same time draws back the shoulder girdle (acting upon the stemo-clavicular joint); or if the arm is raised the muscle would depress it. When the humerus is fixed, the muscle would pull up the trunk, as in climbing, or might act upon the lower ribs as an extraordinary muscle of in.spii-ation. It is supplied by the long subscapular nerve, and perhaps also by the thoracic nerves which pierce it. [The trapezius is to be divided by a vertical incision near the spme, care being taken not to cut the subjacent tendinous origins of the rhomboidei in the cervical region. In reflecting the muscle its tendon will be seen to glide over the smooth triangular surface at the inner end of the spine of the scapula. Care must be taken of the spinal-accessory nerve and the accompanying branches of the superficial cervical artery. The posterior sui-face of the levator anguli scapulEe and rhomboidei muscles is now to be cleaned.] Second Layer of Muscles consists of the levator anguli scapulte and the rhomboidei. 14. Splenius colli, partially seen : the common origin of the splenius is seen attached to the spinous processes below the origin of rhomboideus major. 15. Vertebral aponeurosis. 16. Serratus posticus inferior. 17. Supra-spinatus. 18. Infra-spitiatus. 19. Teres minor. 20. Teres major. 21. Long head of triceps. 22. Serratus niagnus. 23. Obliquua internus.