THE ELBOW JOINT. 86 tendon during flexion and abduction of tbe arm, when the lower portion of the tube emerges fi-om the bicipital opening (Fig. 11). The Glenoid Ligament is a fibrous ring continuous with the tendon of the biceps and attached around the border of the glenoid cavity, which it therefore deepens. There is a single Synovial Membrane in the shoulder-joint, which is reflected over the glenoid and capsular ligaments and around the tendon of the biceps. The Elbow-joint. [The muscles about the elbow are to be removed, and gi-eat care must be taken, in detaching the supinator brevis, not to remove or damage the external lateral and the orbicular ligaments Beneath the triceps close to the joint may be found a little slip of musculai- fibre attached to the lower end of the humerus and the back ot the joint- this is the Hubauconeus, which is however often wanting or but slightly developed. All the muscles of the fore-arm and hand should now be removed to faciUtate the examination of the wi-ist, &c In removing the deep muscles of the fore-ann, care must be taken not to injure the interosseous membrane and the oblique ligament.] The joint between the humerus and fore-arm bones, the elbow- joint proper, is almost a pm-e giugh/mns or hinge, and is provided with antei-ior, posterior, and lateral ligaments. The supenor radio- ulnar articulation, which is continuous with the elbow-jomt, is an example of diarthrosis rotatorius, the head rotating m a nng foi-med partly of bone, partly of ligament. AU these Hgaments imite to form one general capsule enclosing a single synovial cavity. _ The Anterior Ligament (Fig. '^9, i) is a broad but thin membrane attached to the humerus immediately above the coroiioid and radial fossfe, and below to the coronoid process of the ulna a Kttle below its edge, and to the front of the orbicular bgaineiit.^ The Posterior Ligament is thin and loose, and is attached to the humerus along the sides of the olecranon fossa, as high as the jimction of its upper and middle thirds, at which level it extends across the floor of the fossa; thence it reaches to the external and posterior borders of the olecranon process of the ulna, a short Ois- tancc beliind the articnlar surface. Its strongest fibres usually form a transverse band bridging across the olecranon fossa, it ■nves attachment by its posterior surface to a few fibres of the tri- ceps (mh.aMwnrus),'anA anteriorly is connected with aphca adiposa which fills the olecranon fossa during flexion, but is di-awn upwards by the sub-auconeus in extension.