THE INTERNA!. PUDIC ARTERY. 133 both of which it supplies; cand ends, at the anterior border of the ilium, by anastomosing with the superior branch of the external circumflex and with the deep circumflex iliac artery. The inferior branch (6) crosses the gluteus minimus to the great trochanter, to supply the parts iu its neighbom-hood, and ends in the tensor vagiute femoris, anastomosing with the external circumflex and sciatic arteries. Vence comites accompany the branches of the artery and open into the internal iliac vein. The branches of the deep division are accompanied by those of the superior gluteal nerve. The Sciatic Artery (Fig. 61, 13) is a branch of the anterior division of the internal iliac artery, and emerges from the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen below the pyriformis, where its position is incUcated by a point at the junction of the middle and lower thirds of a line running fi-om the posterior superior ihac spine to the ischial tuberosity. It gives large inferior gluteal branches to the gluteus maximus, and muscular branches to the other smaller muscles of the neighboiu-hood, accompanying their respective nerves ; and anastomoses with both the external and in- ternal cii-cumflex arteries of the profunda femoris. Its named branches are, 1, the cocci/rjeal (15), which pierces the great sacro- sciatic ligament to supply the parts about the coccyx ; 2, the comes nervr uchiadici (28), which runs upon the great sciatic nerve and into Its terminal branches, and appears to be the direct continuation o± the mam trunk ; and 3, the anastomotic branch (16), which passes to the root of the great trochanter to anastomose with the gluteal and internal circumflex arteries, and sometimes with the external circumflex, m the so-caUed crucial anastomosis. The corresponding to the sciatic artery open into the internal Uiac vein. The Internal Pudic Artery (Fig. 61, 9) is only seen in its course over the spine of the ischium, as it winds out of the -reat sacro-sciatic foramen below the pyrifoi-mis to re-enter the pelvis bv itrnuT' '^bove the tendon of the obturator nternus. The artery is accompanied by its vein and by two nerves LtZtXX'*"''^'""^^"''^ ^"-^^ hotorZtt^l ""'7 '?ni!"""' ^^I'P-- lower oomois ot the quadratiis. The upper is n br.u.r.li r^f vi, ^1