17 THE AXILLARY ARTERY. until it pierces the coraco-brachialis. The branches of this portion are the Subscapular, Anterior Cii-cumflex, and Posterior Circum- flex, all of which usually arise near the lower border of the subscapularis. Branches of the Axillary Artery (Fig. 4). 1. The sujH'rior thoracic (3) is a small branch supplying the side of the chest about the iirst and second ribs, and anastomosing with the internal mammary and intercostal arteries. 2. The acromio-thoracic {thoracica-humerana; thoracic axis) (i) is a large branch which arises from the artery immediately above the pectoraHs minor, and after reaching the upper border of the muscle, pierces the costo-coracoid membrane and divides into four' branches. One [thoracic) runs forward to supply the sen-atus magnus, intercostals, and pectoralis muscles; a second [acromial) passes outwards to the acromion process and shoulder, anastomosing with the posterior circumflex and suprascapular ; a third [humeral] downwards in the groove between the pectoralis major and deltoid by the side of the cephalic vein ; and a fourth [cJaviciilar) upwards to the clavicle and subclavius. 3. The long thoracic (5) runs along the lower border of the pecto- ralis minor to the side of the chest, where it suppHes the mamma, and is hence sometimes called the external mammary artery. It anastomoses with the internal mammary, intercostal, acromio- thoracic, and subscapular arteries. A separate external mammary artery often exists in females, parallel with but external to the long thoracic, and assists in supplying the breast. 4. The alar thoracic (3) are twigs of siipply to the axillary glands, seldom arising directly from the axillaiy, but generally from its branches. 5. The sithscapular (15) is a large branch which runs along the lower border of the subscapularis muscle to the side of the chest with the long subscapular nerve, to sujiply the serratus magnus, the intercostal spaces, and the scapiila and its muscles; anasto- mosing with the intercostals, long thoracic and scajjular arteries. An inch or less from its origin this artery gives oS a large branch, the doraalis scupulcv (17), which winds round the lower border of the subscajndaris muscle, grooving the axillary border of the scapula, and, after giving a ventral branch called the infra-scapular, dis- appears through a triangular interval, bounded (as seen from the front) by the long head of the triceps, the teres major, and the subscapularis. The terminal branch of the subscapular runs to the angle of the bone and anastomoses with the termination of the posterior scapular artery.