623 THE BASE OF THE BRAIN. the middle cerebral artery, and winds round the crus cerebri to the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle. The Circle of Willis (Fig. 294) is the name given to the com- munication between the arteries at the base of the brain, and may- be traced on either side from before backward as follows :—Anterior communicating, anterior cerebral, and internal carotid arteries; posterior communicating, posterior cerebral, and basilar arteries. This free anastomosis is of imjDortance in caiTj-ing on and equal- ising the cii-culation of the blood in the brain, when an obstruction arises in one of the main trunks. Various irregularities of the vessels forming the circle of Willis may be met with, one or other of the arteries being much above or below its normal size; but the direct communication between the trunks is almost constant. The Veins of the brain open into the sinuses of the skull, which have been examined {p. 369). The superior cerebral veins enter the superior longitudinal sinus ; the inferiur ctrehntJ enil in the inferior longitudinal, lateral, cavernous, superior petrosal and superior longitudinal siauses, and the venre Galeni; the superior ceri-beUar veins enter the vente Galeni; and the inferior cerebellar veins pass to the occipital or sigmoid sinus. The Base of tse Brain. [The arachjioid and pia mater are to be carefuUy dissected from the base of the brain, care being taken not to detach any of the nerves. It should be noticed that the pia mater disappears between the splemum of the corpus callosum and the mid-brain, at the commencement of the great transverse fissure of the brain (p. 647). The pia mater upon the cerebellum and posterior part of the cere- brum should be left undisturbed, so that the velum interpositimi may not be damaged.] The convolutions of the under siu-face of the great brain or Cere- brum are divided into an anterior and a posterior group by the Sylvian fissm-e. The anterior group, representing the under surface of the frontal lobe, is subdivided.into the straiyht and the supra-orbital rouvoln- tums by the olfactory sulcus, a straight fissure which riuis parallel to the longitudinal fissure. The straight conrolufiun lies on the inner side of the olfactory sidcus, and is continuous with the antero- infenor extremity of the marginal convolution of the mesial aspect of the brain. The supra-orbital convolutions lie over the orbital plate of the frontal bone, and are divided into anterior, posterior