FRONT OF THE UPPER ARM. 28 from the tip of the coracoid process of the scapula, in commoi with, but to the outer side of, the coraco-brachialis, and the t\\' heads unite to form a large fleshy belly. The fibres converge to a broad tendon, from which is given off, immediately above the elbow-jouit, an expansion, the bicipital or seiiii/anar fascia, re- ceiving superficial fibres from both heads, and inserted into the fascia on the upper and inner part of the fore-arm (22). This would have to be divided in order to follow the tendon of the biceps (15), which passes deej)ly to be inserted into the i)osteiior border of the bicipital tubercle of the radius, a bursa being placed between the tendon and the smooth anterior surface of the tubercle. It will be seen in a later dissection. The tendon becomes flattened near its insertion, and is twisted so that its vider edge becomes avierior. The chief action of the biceps is to supinate the fore-aim and to flex it upon the upper aim, the radius then representing a lever of the third order. The long head slightly abducts and flexes, the short head adducts and flexes the humerus. It is supplied by the musculo-cutaneous nerve. The Coraco-brachialis (Fig. 10,' 8) arises from the tip of the coracoid process, in common with, but to the inner side of, the short head of the biceps, from the tendinous upper part of which it also takes origin; and some of its innermost fibres are usually derived from an intermuscular septum connecting it with the pectoralis minor. It is pierced by the musculo-cutaneous nerve, which has previously given off branches for its supply, and is inserted into the inner side of the shaft of the humerus about its middle, opposite the insertion of the deltoid, and into a process of deep fascia continuous below with the internal intermuscular sep- tum, and extending upwards as far as the head of the humerus. It is a flexor and adductor of the humerus. The Brachialis anticus (Fig. 14,11) arises from the fi-ont of the shaft of the hiunerus in its lower half; and the fibres have also an extensive attachment to the front of the internal intermuscular septum, and a smaller one to the upper part of the external inter- muscular septum ; the origin is bifid above, the two slips embracing the insertion of the deltoid. It is inserted into a rough triangular impression on the front of the coronoid process of the ulna. It covers the front of the capsule of the elbow-joint, and is intimately connected with the anterior ligament. A considerable portion of the muscle appears superficially on the outer side of the arm between the biceps and triceps, but it is covered in front by the biceps, and is overlapped below by the supinator loiigus, extensor carpi radialis longior, and pronator radii teres. It is the direct