102 FRONT OF THE THIGH. to the latter. The tendo Achrllis maj' be traced to the os calcii?. Its naiTOwest portion is a little above the bone. In the foot, the following points of practical utility should be thoroughly recognised. Firstly, on the inner side, but not easily to be felt in "the normal state, is the head of the astrufjalus, about a finger's breadth below the anterior border of the malleolus; in front of this is the prominence of the tuberosity of the scapJioi'l bone, to which the tendon of the tibialis posticiis may be traced; and more anteriorly lies the slighter prominence of the interna! cuneiform bone, with the base of the first metatarsal bone in front of it, and the tendon of the tibialis anticus attached to both bones. Secondly, on the outer side, the tendons of the peronei crossing the calcaneum, and farther forwards the prominent base of the fifth metatarsal hone. The Front of the Thigh. [An incision is to be made along Poupart's ligament, and carried down the inner border of the thigh for half its length, and this is to be ioined by another across the limb at that point ; the iiap ol skin thus marked out is to be carefully reflected to the outer side of the thigh. The superficial fascia is to be first examined.] The Superficial fascia of the thigh is continuous %vith the super- ficial fascia of the abdomen over Pouparfs ligament, and generally contains a good deal of fat, particularly in the female subject it is divisible into two layers in the upper part of the thigh, and the deep laver will be seen by reflecting the superficial layer m the same way as the skin, but not so far down, the separation between the two layers of fascia being marked by some small vessels, glands, and minute nerves. , , „ ^i. The Superficial Vessels (Fig. 45) are branches of the common femoral arteiy, with their accompanying veins and lymphatics, and are thi-ee in number, viz.:— . „ x-l * i The Superli.rial .piqastrir artery (.), wliich arises fi'om the femoral immediately below Poupart's ligament, and passes upwards and inwards over the front of the abdomen. The Superficial circmnflex iliac arter;/ {d), a smaU branch running outwards a little below Poupart's ligament. _ _ The Superior external pudk arfer,, (/), runnmg inwards ovei the spermatic cord to the scrotum, or to the labium m the female The Veim correspond in course, and will be seen to open into the lone, saphenons vein. This large vessel, which commences at the inner side of nn arch on the dorsum of the foot, passe.s in front oi