452 THF, PTRRYGO-MAXILLARY EKGION. given off from the trunk of the nerve, before its suhdivision into anterior and posterior hranclies, and is closely connected with the Otic ganglion. • The Internal Maxillary Artery (Fig. 222) is seen in this dissection in its first and second portions, the tHrd lying m the spheno-maxillary fossa. It is one of the terminal branches of the external carotid artery, and arises in the parotid gland immediately behind the neck of the jaw. The First Part of the internal maxillaiy artery, with its accom- panying veins, passes forwards between the neck of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament. It gives off a descending branch, the Tnfmor dental, and three ascending branches, theMnldle memngeal, tympanic and deep auricular, and sometimes a smcdl memngeal. a The Inferior dental artery (n) descends between the internal lateral ligament and the lower jaw to the inferior dental foramen, living off, before it enters the bone, a mylo-hyoid branch and a small twig to accompany the lingual (gustatory) nerve; it then rims in the inferior dental canal, supplymg the posterior teeth, and after giving an incisor hrauch to the front teeth, appears on the face a! the meutal artery at the mental foramen, with the mental S-anch of the third division of the 5th nex-ve. Its .nylo-hyo.d M pierces the internal lateral ligament in company wi h a nerve of the same name, and runs in a groove on the internal sm-face of the lower jaw to the cutaneous siu^face of the mylo-hyoid and to the anterior belly of the digastx'icmuscle, joining the sub-mental artery. m SL/e meniZjeal ar^er, (7) ascends on the deep surface of the'extei^al pterygoid muscle, ^^^^^^^ ts::s^vrte ~i.pino^^ it enters the skull (Fig. 224, n). Before ^omg so xt -a-ny gives off the meningea parva to enter the foramen ovale, but th^. giveb Oil i-iiu J I -ppospl It IS accompanied by and upwards to the pterygo-ina:;aiaiT8s8Uie va.J" „ P betweeu the temporal aad ejctenial pteTS?''. "t'™" SciaUy ternal and inter-nal pterygoid musdes. When rt runs superhcmLy