THE FRONTAL LOBE. 633 I different brains and even on different sides of the same brain, bnt within certain limits their arrangement is fairly constant. The ]}u8al surfuce has already been described (p. 623). ■ The (Jalvarial surface (Figs. 299 and 300), moulded to the form of the inner surface of the vault of the cranium, is subdivided by means of three important fissiu-es, the fissure of Sylvius, the tissui-e of Eolando, and the external Parieto-occipital tissui-e, into foiu- lobes, frontal, parietal, temporo-sjjhenoidal and occipital. A fifth lobe, the Central lobe or Island of Eeil, is concealed at the bottom of the fissm-e of Sylvius (p. 629). The Fissure of Sylvius, the commencement of which was seen on the basal sm-face, winds on to the calvarial sm-face, and rimning obhquely upwards and backwards, divides after a short course into two branches, the uuterior or vertical, which ascends for a short distance into the inferior convolution of the frontal lobe; and the pusteriur or horizontal, which continues the dii-ection of the main fissure backwards and upwards for about three inches, and then usuaUy turns somewhat abruptly upwards for about aninch^ termi- natmg m the supra-marginal fissui-e of the parietal lobe. The point at which its course is changed is called the aiigfe. The Fissure of Rolando or Central fissure commences above close to the longitudinal fissui-e, about half an inch behind the central pomt of this, and runs downwards and forwai-ds ia a sinuous course at an angle of about 65° with the longitudinal fissm-e, to end a little above the posterior branch of the fissure of Sylvius, and about an mch behind the anterior limb of the same fissui-e. The External parieto-occixjital fissure is continuous with the Inter- nal purieto-onipital fissure, which will be found on the mesial surface of the hemisphere. It runs outwards and forwards for about an inch, starting fi'om the longitudinal fissm-e about midway between the upper end of the fissm-e of Eolando and the hinder extremity of the brain, and ends above the first annectaut gyrus between the supra-paiietal lobule and the superior occipital convolution. The outer surface of the Frontal lobe is boimded by the longitu- dinal fissure above; by the junction of the calvarial and basal surfaces, and by the anterior part of the Sylvian fissure below • and by the fissure of Eolando behind. It is subcHvided into four'con- volutions by thi-ee secondary sulci, superior, inferior and precentral The precentral sulcus runs parallel to the fissure of Eolando, and between the two lies the ascending frontal con mlntiou. The superior sulcus runs more or less paraUol to the longitudinal fissm-e and joins the precentral sulcus postcriorfy: it separates the superior or