563 THE FCETAL CIRCULATION. bile, and ministers to the storage of amyloid matter in the hepatic ceUs; the smaller through the ductus venosus, which serves as a safety pipe in conditions of embarrassment of the portal cii-culation. In the inferior vena cava the blood is joined by that returned from the lower exti'emities, and is then poured into the right auricle. The Eustachian valve, of large size in the foetus, directs the current across the amicle to the patent foramen ovale, and the blood enters the left aiu-icle, where it meets with a smaU admixtm-e of impm-e blood fi-om the lungs. From the left auricle the blood necessarily passes mto the left venti'icle, and is thence propelled through the aorta to the head and upper extremities, touchmg but probably not mtermuigluig with the superior caval stream entering the aorta by the ductus arteriosus. Prom these parts it is returned by the superior vena cava, which enters the upper part of the rio'ht auricle and the blood is joined by the cardiac blood from the corona.ry sinus and descends at once into the right ventricle, thus taking a course at right angles to, and in fi-out of, the inferior caval stream probably without admixture %vith it. Prom the right ventricle the blood is propeUed into the pulmonary artery, and a small portion reaches the lungs through the right and left pulmonary arteries to retm-n to the left ventricle, but by far the larger portion passes thi-ough the ductus arteriosus (a short tube connected with the pulmonary artery close to the bifiu-cation), and enters the arch of the aorta immediately beyond the origin of the left subclavian artery. Thi-ough the aorta passes the blood supplying the trunk and viscera; and then entering the ibac arteries, a smaU portion only IS conveyed by the external iliacs to the lower extremities but the greater part enters the internal iliacs to reach the hypoqastric arteries, two vessels which run to the umbilicus and then wind round the umbihcal vein to the placenta, under the name of umbilical arteries. It wiU be seen that the foetal circulation comprises two main streams, which keep almost wholly distinct from each other excent at one ponit: the well^xygenated placental stream supplyinc, the heart, head, neck and upper extremities; and the relatively innnu'e 8uj.'rn,r caval stream which, in part, goes to supply the luuo-s abdoimnal viscera, and lower extremities, and returns to contami- nate the placental stream in the inferior vena cava- and in part passes to the placenta for restoration of its vitalising elements, ihe hvor IS oi very large proportionate size in the fcBtus .uid appears to serve the double pm-pose of depui'ation and stora'^e of nutn(!nt material. ^ The Pulmonary Artery (Pig. 269, 28) is about two inches 00 2