THE LKFT BRONCHUS. 573 horizontal aorta, the left carotid and subclavian arteries, the left vagus, the left recuiTent laryngeal nerve, and the deej) cardiac nerves. It bifiu'cates into the right and left bronchi ojoposite the upper border of the i5th thoracic vertebra, the septal portion of its last cartilage lying slightly to the left of the median line, so that the right bronchus is more likely to admit a foreign body than the left. The angle of bifm-cation is about 100°—110°. It is difficult to say whether the right bronchus is more horizontal or more vertical in its dii'ection than the left, on account of the asymmetry caused by the origin of the large eparterial branch fi-om the former tube; hence, perhaps, the discrepancy in the statements of different authorities. The Right Bron,ch.us (Fig. 271) is larger than the left. At a distance of about one inch fi'om its origin is given off a'large eparterial branch to the upper lobe of the lung. The right pulmonary artery passes backwards beneath this branch to reach the posterior surface of the lower part of the main bronchus (Fig. 279). The vena azygos major hooks over the right bronchus to open into the superior vena cava. The Left Bronclius (Fig. 272) rans beneath the arch of the aorta, crossing the oesophagus and the descending aorta. Its un- divided portion is nearly twice as long as that of the right bronchus, because the branch to the ujjper lobe of the lung comes off at a lower level than the eparterial branch on the right side. The pulmonary artery jDasses above it before breaking up into its branches. (See also p. 545.) 4. Glosso-pharyngeal nerve. 5. Lingual nei-ve (5tli). 6. Spinal-accessoiy nerve. 7. Middle constrictor of pharynx. 8. Internal jugular vein (cut). 9. Superior laryngeal nerve. 10. Ganglion of trunk of pneumo- gastric nerve. 11. Hypoglossal nerve on hyo-glossus. 12. Ditto communicating with eighth and first cervical nerve. 13. External laryngeal nerve. 14. Second cei-vical nerve looping with first. 15. Pharyngeal plexus on inferior constrictor. IG. Superior cervical ganglion of sympathetic. 17. Superior cardiac nerve of pneunio- gastric. 18. Third cervical nerve. 19. Thyroid body. 20. Fourth cervical nerve. 21. 21. Left recurrent laryngeal nerve. 22. Spinal-accessory, communicating with cervical nerves. 23. Trachea. 24. Middle cervical ganglion of sym- pathetic. 25. Middle cardiac nen'e of pneumo- gastric. 26. Phrenic nerve (cut). 27. Left common carotid artery. 28. Brachial plexus. 29. Phrenic nerve (cut). 30. Inferior cervical ganglion of sym- pathetic. 31. Posterior pulmonary plexus of ' pneumo-gastric 32. Thoracic aorta. 33. Oesophageal plexus. 34. Vena azygos superior. 35. Vena azygos minor. 30. Gangliated cord of sympathetic.