THE MEDIAN NERVE. 73 The digital nerves can be traced along the sides of the tendinous sheaths, lying superficially to the arteries and giving filaments to the pulp of the finger, dorsal twigs to the niati-ix of the nail, and others which unite with the dorsal digital nerves and supply almost entirely the skin over the backs of the second and third phalanges.* The Anterior Annular Ligament (Fig. 33, i) is the broad band of fascia binding down the flexor tendons at the wrist. It is attached on the outer side to the scaphoid bone and to both sides of the gi'oove on the trapezium (binding down the flexor carpi radialis tendon), and on the inner side to the unciform process of the unciform bone, and slightly to the pisiform bone. It is crossed by the ulnar vessels and nerve, the cutaneous palmar nerves, and the tendon of the palmaris longus, the deej) fibres of which are inserted into it; and the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris sends an expansion to it over the ulnar vessels and nerve. The outer attachment of the ligament gives passage to the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, while beneath the ligament lie the median nerve, the tendons of the flexors of the thumb and fingers, and two carpal bursal sheaths, one for the tendon of the flexor longus poUicis, the other, larger and very complex, for the tendons of the superficial and deep finger flexors. These extend from just above the annular ligament to about the middle of the palm; the first generally, but not constantly, communicates with the digital bursal sheath of the thumb, and the second with that of the little finger. The Median Nerve (Fig. 22, 6) is flattened as it passes beneath the annirlar ligament superficially to the tendons, and divides into two ti-unks which subdivide into four digital nerves (33), to supply three and a half fingers. The first or outermost, after giving a small branch to supply the abductor, opponens, and outer head of the flexor brevis pollicis, bifurcates to supply the two sides of the palmar aspect of the thumb ; the second digital nerve supplies the radial side of the index-finger, after giving a small twig to the first liunbricalis muscle; the third, after supplying the second lumbricaLis, bifurcates near the roots of the fingers to supply the ulnar side of the index and the radial side of the middle fingers; the fourth bifurcates to supply the ulnar side of the middle finger . * It will be observod Unit the number of fingers supplied by Uie ulnar artery w the complement of that supplied by the w.rye, and that the same rule holds Witn respect to the radial artery and the median or radial nerves, thus : — Ulnar artery .... 31 fingers. Ulnar nen'c l.i fingers, Kadial artery .... ]J fingers. Median or I^adial nerve , , fingers,