THE FEMALK PEKIN^UM. 219 fascia of the body generally, and usually contains mucli fat beneath the integument of the labium. The devp luytr of superficial fascia is not so strongly marked as in the male, but has the same connections. It is continuous with the deep fascia of the groin, and is attached on each side to the margins of the rami of the os jiubis and ischium, nearly to the tuberosity. It then makes a tiu-n around the superficial trans- versus perintei muscle on each side, and joins the triangulai' ligament. Owing to the position of the vulva, the deep layer of superficial fascia is divided in the middle line and becomes continuous with the sheath of the vagina; and the pouch between the deep layer of superficial fascia and the triangular ligament (p. 209) is divided into two pai'ts, which have been named the pudendal or vulvo-scrokd sues of Broca. [The deejD layer of superficial fascia is to be removed, and the superficial perinjeal vessels and nerves dissected out, care being taken to i^reserve the transvers;is perinsei muscle, which passes outwards and backwards from the central point of the perinjeum.] The Superficial Perinseal Artery (artery of the labium) (Fig. 108, 5) is a branch of the internal pudic artery, and is larger than in the male. It arises luider cover of the ramus of the ischium and runs forwards and inwards, to enter the pouch of fascia by piercing the hinder border of the triangular ligament, then passing over or imder the superficial transversus periuEei muscle to supply the superficial muscles of the perinseum and the labirmi. It gives off the transverse perimeul artery (4), which runs towards the median line close to the superficial transverse muscle, and anastomoses with the opposite artery and with the neighbouring branches. Veins corresponding to the arteries open into the internal pudic vein. The Superficial Perinaeal Nerves (Pig. 108) are two in number, and ai'e branches of the pudic nerve. The iidcvnul or uiderior (8) nerve rmis upwards and inwards, enteiiug the pouch of fascia and being distributed to tho posterior pai-t of the vulva. The external or posterior (4) nerve is larger, and is distributed to the superficial muscles of the perina3um, forming a junction with tho inferior pudendal nerve. The Inferior Pudendal Nerve (Fig. 108, 2) is a branch of the small sciatic nerve, which pierces the dee]) fascia of the thigh about an inch in front of the tuberosity of tho ischium. It is usually of