550 THE THORAX. dii-ection beMucl the fifth costal cartilage and sixth nb around the apex of the heart, and finally inwards to join the inferior border. There is hence an interspace between the two antei-ior borders, in which the pericardium is separated from the parietes only by the inner portion of the left pleura and the subpleui'al and mediastinal connective tissue. This space coincides with the area n/'cardiuc duJncsa of physicians. It will be seen that it is much larger than the "anterior mediastinum" (Fig. 259), and is very different in outline. It should be remembered also that while the mediastinal area is constant in its dimensions, the inteiiiulmonic area varies during life with the amount of au' in the lungs, and for obvious reasons may be greatly widened when exposed in the dead subject. The inferior nmrgin is sharply defined and follows the hue of reflection of the pleura, but never reaches quite so low, even after the deepest inspiration. The left lung is somewhat longer vertically than the right, owing to the lower level of the diaphi'agm on the left side ; it is, however, of smaller bulk in consequence of the encroachment of the ventricu- lar portion of the heart upon that side of the thoracic cavity. The Heart (Fig. 263) is placed obliquely between the lungs, and rests on the diaphragm, with its base dii-ected backwai-ds and to the right, and the apex to the left side. The base Ues opposite to the 6th 7th and 8th thoracic vertebrtB, and the apex beats between the oth'and'eth ribs, about 3 inches fi'om the middle line, below and to the inner side of the nipple. A median sagittal secfum of the body (Fig. 270) leaves, on the right side, a portion of both auiicles. with all the venous orifices except those of the left pulmonary veins, and a small portion of the anterior part of the right ventricle On the left are the whole of the left ventricle, nearly the whole of the right ventricle, the pulmonic and aortic orifices (the latter sometimes in the median line, rarely to the right), portions of both auricles, and the openings of the left pulmonary veins The right hordn- of the heart is situated an inch and a halt ii-om the middle line; the upr.r, which is about two inches below the nia e nipple and one to its sternal sicft, lies three inches from the middle of the sternum ; the hase is opposite the 6th, 7th, and 8th thoracic vertebrae; and the hwer border is marked by a Ime drawn from the 6th right chondro-sterual articulation to the apex of the heart. The positions of the central points of the arterial and <,«r<a</o- ventri,^lar orifices, according to Braune, are as M ows, but the e are, of course, subject to considerable variation The Ostnunjtd- rnonale lies behind the upper border of the thu-d left costal cartilage.