7 SHOULDER AND ARM. immediately below the clavicle, but projecting foi'wards and out- wards to a plane anterior to it, is the cor ami d process, and the relation of these bones to each other should be carefully observed. In a muscular subject, a long,'triangular_groove or dimple, the n)/m, ckiricular fossa, at this point marks the separation between^thq upper parts of the deltoid and the pectoraUs major; and a linear furrow, extending obHquely fi'om near the inner end of the clavicle, occasionally marks the division between the sternal and claviciilar fibres of the latter muscle. By lifting the arm and drawing it from the body, the anterior and posterior boundaries of the axilla will be made prominent, and the fascia extending from one to the other will be put on the stretch so that the finger cannot be pushed into the armpit; whereas if the arm is brought to the side the fascia is relaxed, and the finger will readily feel the head and neck of the humeru.s, with the great vessels and nerves to theii- inner side, and internal to these again the wall of the thorax, with probably some Ijnnphatic glands. The biceps muscle forais a prominence on the front of the ARM, and the brachial artery and media,n verve can be traced along its inner border to the bend of the elbow, and the shaft of the humerus can be readily felt. The position of the coraco-braclualls may be seen on the inner side of the aim in a muscular subject, and on the outer side a sulcus corresponding to the insertion of the deltoid, and below this the convexity of the subcutaneous portion of the brachialis anticus, between the biceps and triceps. The 2)ronator radii teres is seen crossing the lower part of the brachialis anticus to reach the outer side of the front of the fore-arm. In front of the elbow is a hollow, corresponding to a space between the supinator longus and pronator teres, known as the ante-cubital fossa, over which the superficial veins may be seen beneath the integument. The prominent internal condyle of the humerus and its relation to the olecranon process of the ulna should be observed, and the vlnar nerve can be felt between the two points of bone. The rounded external condyle, with the ridge leading to it, is distinct in most subjects, and immediately below it, the head, of the radius, which should bo rotated, in order that its relation to the condyle may be better appreciated. The rounded posterior surface of the arm is fonned by the triceps muscle. In the FOUE-AKM the radius can be but little felt, except at its lower extremity; hnt the olecranon process and sharp posteaior margin of the ulna are always to bo recognised, even in very muscular subjects. The tendon of the biceps may bo felt jjassing to its iTisortion. It should bo observed that the ulna is the more