569 GREAT VESSELS OF ROOT OF NECK. The Left Subclavian Artery (Fig. 269, 20), arising near the end of the horizontal aorta, behind and somewhat to the left of the left common carotid, extends to the outer border of the first rib, and may be conveniently divided into a thoracic and a cervical portion. The Thoracic portion is nearly vertical in its dii-ection, and Lies in a plane posterior to that of the left carotid artery and slightly to the left. It is crossed in front by the left innominate vein and cardiac nerves; to the inner side and behind are the trachea, the oesophagus, the left recui-rent laryngeal nerve, the thoracic duct, and the spine with the longus colli muscle ; on the outer side it is related to the left vagus and the left pleura and lung. The Cervical portion has been described (p. 414). Irregnlaritics of the Great Vessels.—The number and position of the branches of the arch of the aorta are subject to variation. The commonest ii-regularity is for the left carotid to arise from the inno- minate, thus reducing the branches to two; but there may be four large branches, owing to the right carotid and subclavian arising separately, or in rare cases to the right subclavian arising from the exti-eme left of the arch, and passing to the right side in front of or behind the oesophagus. The left vertebral artery not in- frequently arises from, the aorta between the left carotid and left subclavian; and the thyroidea ima may occasionally spring from the arch. The Right Innominate Vein (Fig. 260, 11) conuneuces at the inner end of the clavicle by the junction of the subclavian and internal jugular veins, and then descends on the outer side of the innominate artery to join the vein of the opposite side, the union of the two forming the vena cava superior opposite the lower border of the first costal cartilage or first intercostal space. It is closely mvested by the right pleui-a, and has the phi-enic nerve on its outer side and the vagus behind. The Left Innominate Vein (Fig. 260, 14), longer and more nearly hoiizontal than the right vein, commencing at a correspojiding point on the left side and in the same way, in front of the left common carotid artery, and runs obliquely downwards and to the right, lying above the level of the arch of the aorta. It crosses the mesial plane in front of the three great branches of the aorta, to unite with the right innominate vein behind the right half of the sternum, and the innermost part of the first intercostal space. Tributuries.~Ea.ch. innominate vein -receives the internal mam- mary, the inferior thyroid, the deep cervical, and the vertebral veuis. The left vein receives, in addition, smaU thymic and peri- cardiac tributaries, and the left superior intercostal (the right endiu-