480 THE PHARYNX. of the same nerve ; one with the superior ganglion of the sympa- thetic; one with the facial nerve and carotid plexus through Jacobson's nerve. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve gives off the following branches in its course to the tongue :— 1. Carotid branches, which join the sympathetic plexus on that vessel, and communicate with the pharyngeal branch of the pneumo-gastric. 2. A muscular branch to the stylo-pharyngeus, probably derived from the spinal-accessory. 3. Pharyixjenl branches, which assist in forming the pharyngeal plexus, and supply the constrictors and mucosa. The motor fila- ments probably come from the spinal-accessory communication. 4. Tonsillitic branches to the tonsils and the soft palate, forming the plexus or circulus tonsillaris. 5. LiiKjaal branches, which have been before traced to their termination (p. 46(i). [By cautiously cutting away the temporal bone with the bone- forceps so as to open the cavity of the tympanum, the dissector may, in a favoui-able subject, see some of the branches of Jacobson s nerve on the inner wall of this cavity.] The Tiimpairic branch of the cjlusso-pharijmjeal nerve (Jacobson's nerve) (Fig. 232, g) arises from the petrous gangUon, and enters an apertm-e in the ridge of bone between the carotid foramen and the jugular fossa. It pierces the floor of the tympanum and o-rooves the promontory on the inner wall of the cavity, giving branches to the fenestra ovalis (12), the fenestra rotunda (13), and the lining membrane of the tympanum and Eustachian tube (11). The communirating branches are thi-ee in number: one jommg the carotid plexus in the carotid canal (10); the second to the great superficial petrosal nerve (15); and the thii'd rvmning through the temporal bone to the otic ganglion, as the small superficial petrosal ''^Opportunity may be taken at this point to examine the ossicles of the tympanum (p. o07). > . , , , ■, The Pharyngeal Plexus (Figs. 231 and 232) is to be found upon the middle and inferior constrictors of the pharynx, it svinnlies the constrictors and sends branches to the mucous mem- brane of the pharynx, tongue, and larynx^ Minute ganglia arc sometimes seen on the nerves. The branches forming the plexus are derived from the nerves which have been examined, viz.. the glosso-pharyngeal, the pneumo-gastric (pharyngeal and superior