THE THORAX. 580 closely invested by tlio pleura on the left. The deacendiwi portion of the. arch, which lies in contact with the body of the fifth thoracic vertebra, is sometimes described as a part'of the descending thoracic aorta (page 567). Branches.—From the front of the aorta are given off pericardiac, left bronchial, cesophucjml, and mediastinal branches. From the back part of the aorta arise the right and left intercostal arteries, which will be afterwards traced. a. The pericardiac branches are small and irregular. h. The left bronchial arteries, two in number, run on the posterior surface of the bronchus, and supply blood to the tissues of the limgs. The right bronchial artery usually arises fi'om the fii-st aortic intercostal of that side, but sometimes from the main trunk. A bronchial vein accompanies each artery; the right opening into the vena azygos major, and the left into the left superior intercostal vein. c. The wsophageal arteries are four or five small branches to the guUet, anastomosing above with the inferior thyroid, and below with the gasti'ic arteries. d. The mediastinal arteries are small twigs to the cellular tissue and glands of the posterior mediastinum. They anastomose with the pericardiac and oesophageal arteries, and foim part of the sub- pleui-al mediastinal plexus of Turner. [The trachea is to be cut just above the bifurcation, and the lungs are then to be removed from the chest and kept for sub- sequent examination. The intercostal vessels, the azygos venis, and the gang-bated cord of the sympathetic, with its branches, are now to be dissected out by removing the plem-re, and opportiuuty may be taken to fqUow out the thoracic duct, if this was not done satisfactorily before.] The Aortic Intercostal Arteries (Fig. 274), nine or ten iu number on each side, arise from the back part of the aorta, and supply the nine or ten lower intercostal spaces, anastomosmg \^ith the superior intercostal artery above. The arteries of the right side are necessarily longer than those of the left, owing to the position of the aorta to the-left side of the median line. The upper arten. ^ ascend to reach theii- proper intercostal spaces, but the lower vessels riui transversolv, passing beneath the cvsophagus. thoracic duct, vena azygos major, and gangliated cord of the sympathetic on the right side; and beneath the left azygos veins and the gangliated cord of the sympathetic on the left side. Each artery gives off close to the vertebra? a Posterior branch, which passes backwards between the ti-ansverso processes, dividing