539 THE PLEURyE. pass to form the " siib-pleural mediastinal plexus" (Turner); (/) sUrnul, to the sternum and triangularis sterni; (</) anterior inter- costcds, two to each of the upper six intercostal spaces, running outwards at first beneath the internal intercostal muscle, then between the two intercostals, and anastomosing with the posterior intercostal branches; and (A) perforating branches to the pectoral muscles and to the mamma and the skin. The vence comites of the internal mammary artery unite to open into the corresponding innominate vein. On opening the thorax as directed, the lungs wiU be exposed by the necessary division of the pleuras, and, unless attached by old adhesions, have probably fallen back so as to show the pleura pericardii and its pLicte adiposse. The great vessels of the heart will be seen emerging fi-om the upper part of the pericardium, and if the pericardium has been opened to allow of the injection of the body, a portion of the heart may be visible, but for the present the opening may be advantageously closed with a stitch. Suh-phural Cuniiedive Tissue (Fig. 257). Between the parietal pleiu-a and the chest-wall may be seen a well-marked layer of con- nective tissue, which is prolonged in a more attenuated form beneath the diaphragmatic and pericardiac plem-a, and into the neck over the pleural domes. It is continuous with the abundant media- stinal areolar tissue surrounding the vessels and nerves, and passes into the neck and axillae chiefly in the foi-m of vascular and nervous sheaths, and thi-ough the aortic opening to join the subperitoneal tissue; in certain positions it becomes the seat of abundant fatty deposits, as over the front of the pericardium, where it forms large adipose folds which extend on to the adjacent part of the dia- phragm. It is difficult to demonstrate beneath the visceral layer of the pleura, but is nevertheless present and invests the pulmonary lobules. Over the root of the lung it is found in considerable quantity, and there serves to bind the component elements together. The Pleurae (Fig. 259) are two shut sacs of serous membrane Immg the thorax and covei-ing the lungs, but have been opened in removing the sternum. One of the lungs is to be di-awn forward, when its pleura can be readily traced over the inner surface of the sternum and ribs (costal portion) to the back of the root of the lung, forming the lateral boundary of the posterior mediastinum (media- stmal portion); thence around the hmg (pulmonary portion) to the front of the root, from whicli it passes on to the pericardium (peri- cardial layer), and is caii-iod forward to about the middle; of the sterniun, where it becomes continuous with the costal portion. If the lung is drawn forward, below its root wiU be seen a fold of