210 THE PERINEUM. by theii- lateral attacliinent to the rami of the pubes and ischium from extending on to the thighs, it necessarily distends the pouch, and creeps into the scrotum and groiii and on to the abdomen. [The deep layer of superficial fascia is to be removed, and the superficial perinteal vessels and nerves dissected out; care bemg taken to preserve the superficial transverse muscle, which runs outwards from the central point of the perinseum.] The Superficial Perinaeal Artery (Fig. 99, 5) is a branch of the internal pudic, and arises under cover of the ramus of the ischium near the front of the ischio-rectal fossa. It enters the superficial perinteal pouch of fascia by piercing its hinder boi-der, and then passes forwards, over or under the superficial transversus perinfei muscle, to supply the superficial muscles of the perinseum and the integuments of the scrotum, and anastomose with the external pudic arteries. It usuaUy gives off the transverse permmal artery, which runs towards the median line close to the supei-ficial transverse muscle, and anastomoses with the opposite arteiy and with the neighbouring branches. Veins corresponding to the superficial perimeal artery open into the internal pudic vem. The Perinaeal Nerve (Fig. 99) generaUy leaves the pudic as a single large trunk in the lesser sacro-sciatic foramen, and supphes two superficial perioueal nerves; muscular branches to the thi-ee muscles in the corresponding half of the superficial perinseal mter- space (transversus perinsei, ischio-cavernosus and bulbo-cavernosus); and a branch which may be followed thi-ough the accelerator imna? to the bulb of the Mvethvei{hulbo-nrethral nerve of CruveOhier). The external or posterior superficial perineal (3) nerve has a short course m the ischio-rectal fossa, where it gives a branch to the anus. It then pierces the reflection of the deep layer of supei-ficial fascia, and gives branches to the scrotum, forming a junction with the inferior pudendal nerve and posteriorly with the inferior hremor- rhoidal nerve. . . The internal or anterior {j) nerve accompanies the superfacial perinfeal artery either over or under the transversus perinnei muscle, and is distributed to the scrotum near the median line, where it unites with its fellow of the opposite side, giving also one or two small branches to the levator ani. The before-named muscular and ^^rethral twigs may spring fi-om this branch instead of from the perinreal trunk. . . The Inferior Pudendal Nerve (Fig. 99, i) (Soemmenng) is a branch of the smaU sciatic nerve, which pierces the deep fascia of the thigh about an inch in front of the tuberosity of the ischium.