459 THE SUBMAXILLARY GLAND. being fixed, a depressor and retractor of the jaw. Its contraction raises the whole tongue towards the floor of the mouth, and is thus of importance in deglutition. It is sappJicd (with the anterior belly of the digastric) by the mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior dental nerve. [The mylo-hyoid is to be detached from the lower jaw and turned forward, when three structures will be seen lying in the following order fi'om above downwards on the hyo-glossus muscle, viz., the lingual nerve (5th), the deep portion of the submaxillary glaiul with Wharton's duct and the sublingual gland, and the hypoglossal nerve (12th). In addition, immediately below the 12th nerve there is very frequently a large ranine vein corresponding to a part of the lingiial artery. In front of the hyo-glossus will be seen the genio- hyoid sti-etching between the chin and the hyoid bone, and a few fibres of the genio-glossus, together with the terminal branch (ranine) of the Lingual artery. The jaw should now be divided just externally to the genio-hyoid, when it can be turned up, and the tongue being drawn out of the mouth, the fold of mucous membrane forming fhe/npiiiim /intjiice will be seen, with the horseshoe-like sub- liiif/uat fiihl, on to which open the ducts of Walther, the iiapillu suhnaxiUdris on each side, with the common opening of Wharton's and Eivini's ducts, and the fimbriated folds outside these. The tongue may now be put on the stretch with hooks, and the dissection can be proceeded with by cleaning the deep part of the submaxillary gland and its duct, and raising the mucous mem- brane fi-om the subungual gland, beneath which the duct passes.] The Submaxillary Gland (Fig. 224) consists of two portions, superficial and deep. The superficial part lies in the angle between the two belUes of the diagasti-ic under cover of a portion of the body of the lower jaw. It is related externally to the submaxillary impression upon the inner surface of the jaw and lymphatics, and below this to the facial vein, branches of the facial nerve, and the platysma and integument. Internally its deeper surface rests upon the mylo-hyoid, the posterior part of the hyo-glossus, the lingual vessels, and the hyi^oglossal nerve. The facial artery is embedded in a deep groove in its substance and gives many branches to it: and five or six submaxillary lymphatic glands lie within or upon it. It is separated posteriorly from the parotid gland by the stylo- maxiUary ligament. The rfcep portion of the gland is continuous with the superficial portion around the posterior border of the niylo-hyoid. It lies upon the hyo-glossus and below the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, its anterior extremity touching the hinder end of the sublingual gland. The dud (Wharton's) arises from the deep portion and is about