664 THE EYE. 4, posterior elastic lamina, or membrane of Descemet; 5, posterior epithelium (of anterior chamber). The cornea in health is a non- vascular structure, and its uouiishment is derived from the sur- rounding vessels; but it is traversed by a multitude of dehcate branches of the ciliary nerves, some of which may be traced into the anterior e25ithelium. By squeezing the eyeball between the finger and thumb the cornea will be rendered white and opaque, but resumes its fonner appearance when the pressm-e is relaxed. [Holding the eye lightly with the left hand, the scalpel is to be thrust thi-ough the margili of the cornea into the anterior chamber, when the aqueous humour will necessarily escape. With scissors the cornea may then be removed entii-ely.] The Anterior Chamber (Fig. 315, 3) is the space between the cornea and the iiis. It commimicates with the posterior chamber through the pupil, and is filled with the aqueous humour. The Iris (Fig. 315, 2) is the vascular contractile curtaia which sejjarates the anterior from the posterior chamber. It is composed of unstriped circular and radiating muscular fibres, blood-vessels, and pigment, and may be regarded as a prolongation of the choroid coat. In man, the pigment is of various colours. It is contained partly in cells dispersed through the tissue, and partly in a multiple layer of cells called the Uvea, which covers the posterior suj'face of the iris, and is continuous with the pigment of the ciliary jjrocesses. The Pupil is a circrdar opening (in man) in the centre of the iris, and varies in size according to the degree of the contraction of the annular muscular fibres imder the influence of light or dui'ing con- vergence of the eyes. The Posterior Chamber, lying behind the iiis, is little more than a virtual space, since the iris is visually in contact with the front of the lens. [In order to see the choroid coat entu'e, a fi-esh eye should be taken. A puncture having been made through the sclerotic, about its middle, a blowpipe is to be introduced, and air forced between the sclerotic and choroid coats, which will thus bo separated from one another. The sclerotic may then be divided aroimd the equator of the globe, and the posterior cup-likc portion being left as a support to the eye, the anterior part (with the cornea) is to be carefully detached from the choroid. In order to do this it will b(> necessary to scrape the interior of the sclerotic with the handle ot the scaljiel near its junction with the cornea, so as to tear throxigh the ciliary muscle which attaches the choroid and iiis to the sclerotic coat.]