SCARPA'S TRIANGLE. 112 and deep divisions; the femoral vein with its tributanes and some deep Ijnnphatic glands ; and the anterior crural nerve with some of its branches. The saphenous vein is not one of the contents of the space, until it has pierced the fascia lata to end in the common femoral vein. The Femoral Artery in Scarpa's Triangle (Pig. o2, 4).—ihe femoral artery (under which term is included the common femoral trunk and its superficial femoral branch) is the continuation of the external iliac artery, and extends fi-om Poupart's hgament to the opening in the adductor magnus, through which it passes to the popliteal space. The part now exposed is that above the point crossed by the sartorius, and is usuaUy over a thu-d of the whole len-th of the vessel. When the thigh is slightly flexed and abducted, the artery runs fi-om a point midway between the sym- iDhvsis pubis and the anterior superior iliac spme (or about a thu-d of an inch to the inner side of the centre of Poupari s hgament) throuo-h the middle of the triangle in a Kne with the prominent adductor tubercle on the inner condyle of the femur ; but when the thigh is fully extended it wiU be seen to wind slightly to the inner side of the limb. This portion of the artery, lying within its sheath, is covered by the superficial fascia and the fascia of Burns, and one or two branches of the internal cutaneous nerve cross the vessel at variable points. Behind the artery from above downwards are, the psoas - the nerve to the pectineus; the pectineus itself, separated from he femoral artery by the profunda artery and vem and the femoral vein; and occasionaUy, between the pec mens and he adductor longus, a small portion of the adductor brevis. To the ol- side throughout is the anterior criu-al nerve usually sepai-ated a the upper part by a small interspace; and the long saphenous branch and the nerve to the vastus internus ai. m c ose relataon with it at the lower part of the space (Fig. o ., 19), the lattei ! nl in fhP former The femoral vein is to the wmr side neai ?ou;:i lita-^^^^^ lo-r down passes ,eMn, the ai^ry, and forms one of its posterior relations at the apex of the ti-iangle. Tranches in Scarpa's Triangle (Pig. 52).-The small(l)..i..r. Brancnesi ^ ^ circumflex iliac; and 3) superior aWy exannned. A larger l.anch^ Seivferior erternal pndic, arises from the upper port o he aiter ^ul passes beneath Ihe fascia lata to the scrotmn or labnim an, ^"trZ^Y subjects tho deep epigastric and rf,.,, c/™/.. i'ia branches are seen to arise below Poupart's ligament from the commo, femoral, instead of from the external iUac ai-tery.