THE OBLIQUUS INTERNUS. 231 is triangular with the base downwards and inwards at the pubic crest, and is about au inch in length and half an inch across. The tendinous fibres limiting it above and below have been named the jn/lurs or columns of the rimj. It will be observed that the outer pillar is flat and triangular at the upper part, but becomes round and thick below, where it is attached to the pubic spine and corre- sponds to the inner extremity of Poupart's ligament; whilst the internal pillar attached to the pubic crest is flat and continuous with the rest of the tendon. At the ujDper part of the ring may be seen some cvirved fibres running in a transverse direction and called the intercolumnar fibres, the continuation of which forms the inter- columnar or external spermatic fascia, and is prolonged as a covering of the cord and testicle. It should be noticed that the spermatic cord does not lie in the centre of the ring, but upon the outer pillar or Poupart's ligament, which is slightly drawn down by the weight of the testis. [The external oblique is to be reflected by cutting, both vertically and horizontally, thi'ough its muscular fibres where they join the tendon, and by detaching them from the ribs immediately below their origin. The greater part of the muscle can then be turned back towards the loin, and the corresponding tendon may be dis- sected up as far as possible towards the median line. The handle of the knife should be passed under the triangular portion of tendon left in the groin, after which the tendon may be readily divided by a vertical incision, parallel to and as near the median line as possible, and reflected towards the thigh without endangering the subjacent parts. When this is done, it wiU be found that the tendinous' fibres of one side decussate or interlace with those of the other imme- diately above the pubes in the manner described. The internal oblique muscle will then be exposed, and wiU be most readily cleaned by beginning at the lower border of the muscle on the right side, and at the upper border on the left side of the subject. Near Poupart's ligament, a little more of the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves will be seen.] The Obliquus Internus (Fig. Ill, i8).—The fibres of this muscle take a direction opposite to those of the obliquus externus. The origin is from the posterior tendon of the tranversalis muscle (the so-called "fascia lumborum" or "lumbar apoiiouro.sis"), from the anterior two-thirds of the middle lip of the crest of the iluim, and the outer half of Poupart's ligament. The upper fibres pass to bo insi-rted into the lower margins of the cartilages of the last throe ribs, where they fall into a line with those of the internal intercostal muscles. Below this the muscle is inserted into the xiphoid appendix and hito the linea alba by an aponeurosis, which