THE PANCREAS. 272 Fig. 138. membrane (see p. 261 and Eig. 138), and are fixed to the spine by the mesentery, which extends from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra obliquely across the spine into the right iliac fossa, where the ileum joins the cseoum. The commencement of the ileum is arbitrarily fixed at the junction of the second with the third fifth of the length of the conjoint tube. A foetal relic, representing the omphalo-mesenteric duct, and known as MecM's diverticulum, is occasionally found as a nanw tube, from half an inch to five or six inches in length, opening into the ileum at a distance of eighteen inches to three feet from the ileo-csecal valve. If long it may rim upwards to the umbilicus. The Pancreas (Fig. 139) lies transversely m the abdomen, occupying the epigastric and left hjiJochondriac regions, and is subdivided into a head, body, and tail. The head is embraced by the duodeniun, and sends a process downwards and inwards behind the superior mesenteric vessels ; the hodi), which is concave posteriorly, crosses the aorta and left kidney opposite the 1st lumbar vertebra ; and the tail runs in the gastro-splenic omentum, to come in contact with the lower and back part of the visceral siu-face of the spleen. The median sagittal plane cuts through the neck and the lower process of the head. It is related //; front with the posterior layer of the lesser sac of peritoneum, and near its lower border with the attachment of the transverse meso-colon; and more anteriorly is covered by the stomach except over a small projection from its upper border, the omentale, which rises above the lesser curve o the organ to reach the lesser omentum. Posteriorly are the crura of tl^^^^^'^Pf ^^"^1 cava; the commencement of the portal vem and its formatu e tubu- taries, the superior mesenteric and splenic veins, wi h the mfenoi mieilteric usaiaUy joining the latter; the aorta ^^^^^^ its superior mesenteric branch; the thoracic duct; the gǪ^' and the left kidney and renal vessels. The upin-r border is m contact Fig 136.-The relation of the peritoneum to the wall of the small ^ intestine (W. A.). 1. Mesentery. , , by peritoneum. 3- Irtcr" '"'"^ t Mnscuiaris. d! Toi^ion of nnisculariK uncovered 7. Mucosa.