607 THE SEMISPINALIS. The posterior division of the third nerve often gives an internal branch, which takes the same direction as the gi'eat occipital nerve, but runs to the inner side of this and communicates with it. The externa/ branch joins and is distributed with the corresponding branch of the second nerve. The posterior divisions of the remaining- cervical nerves divide into external and internal branches. The external branches supply the cervicalis ascendens and transversalis capitis et colli: the internal are distributed to the deeper and more internal muscles, and give off cutaneous filaments (those from the 4th and 5th of large size) to the integument over the posterior spinal muscles. The Deep Cervical Artery lies upon the semispinabs colli muscle, and is exposed when the complexus is reflected. It is the posterior branch of the superior intercostal arterj^ (p. 421), and reaches the back of the neck by passing between the tiunsverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib. It supplies the deep muscles, anastomosing with the muscular branches of the vertebral, and with the princeps cervicis of the occipital artery. There is thus established between the carotid and subclavian arteries a communication which would enlarge after ligature of the common carotid artery. The Semispinalis (Fig. 286) is divided into the semispinalis colli and semispinalis dorsi, and lies between the complexus and the multifidus spinse. Semisjn'nalis colli (ii) arises horn the transverse processes of the SIX upper thoracic vertebrce, and is inserted into the spines of the cervical vertebrae from the 2nd to the oth inclusive. Semispinalis dorsi (lo) arises from the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae from the sixth to the tenth inclusive, and is Fig. 288.—The nerves of the back (from Hirschfeld and Leveille). 1. Great occipital nerve. 2, 3. Complexus muscle. 4, 5. Splenius capitis. 6. Great occipital nerve. 7, 8. Small occipital nerve. 9. Sterno-mastoideus. 10. Semispinalis colli. 11. Superficial cervical nerve. 12. Levator anguli scapulse (cut). 13. Eighth cervical nerve. 14. Sterno-mastoid (cut). 15. Trapezius. 16. Trachelo-mastoideus. 17. Deltoid. 18. Transversalis cei*vicis. 19. Infra-spinatus. 20. Sacro-lmnbalis. 21. Teres minor. 22. Erector spinte. 23. Teres major. 24. Lateral cutaneous of last thoracic. 25. Latissimus dorsi. 26. Obliquus interuus. 27. Longissimus dorsi. 28. Lateral cutaneous of first lumbar. 29. Posterior division of first lumbar. 30- J. „ of sacral nerves, 31- ,, of fifth lumbar. 32. Gluteus nniximus. 33. Obli(iuus oxternus. 35. Lateral cutaneous of last thoracic. j> J) of first lumbar.