THE OBTLTR.VrOR INTERNUS MUSCLE. 329 the male, iind of the vagina in the female ; the middle fibres blend with the longitudinal fibres of the rectum and the external sphincter; and the posterior fibres partly unite with those of the opposite side in the median raphe l)ehiiid the anus, and partly are attached to the apex of the coccyx. It is .'in/.p/ird by a branch from the 4th sacral nerve. ^ The Coccygeus (Fig. 164, 8) is a little triangle of pale muscular fibres having its Insertinn into the side of the coccyx, and its oriijin (the apex of the tiiangle) from the spine of the ischiuaii immediately above the attachment of the levator ani, from which the muscle is separated by a narrow cellular interval. The coccygeus is intimately connected with the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament, which has nearly the same attachments and lies external to it. It is siqiplied by a branch fi-om the 4th sacral nerve. The levatores ani and coccygei raise and support the floor of the pelvis during expiration and abdominal expulsive actions. The Obturator Internus Muscle (Fig. 16o, ig) has been destroyed on the right side, but on the left side of the pelvis may be seen both above and below the level of the fascial origin of the levator ani. It urise^s fi'om the posterior aspect of tJie rami of the pubes and ischium immediately in front of the thyroid foramen • from the inner half of the pelvic surface of the obturator membrane' and from the sm-face of bone behind the foramen as far as the great sacro-sciatic notch, and above it as high as the ilio-pectineal Hue. ihe fibres end m a tendon, which timis at a right angle around the margm of the lesser sacro-sciatic foramen, to be ins.rM on the fore part of the upper border of the great trochanter of the femui-. its deep surface presents thi'ee or four Unear grooves as it winds over the edge of the sacro-sciatic notch, and the bone is here encrusted with cartilage and lubricated by a bursa. It is supplied coid with the firs sacral nerve. It is an external rotator of the lemur, and a feeble abductor when the thigh is flexed. thniret£^ndSl"''/'"'\*r f^'^^'^^^ carefvdly detaching the inteina i.^ arter A ZTf ^'l ^•^""U'nng branches of