205 THE PERIN/EUM. inferior borders of the great sacro-sciatic ligaments, in the recent subject overlapped by the margins of the glutei maximi; and foiming the posterior mesial limit of the space is the extremity of the coccj^. The perinseum has been generally considered to resemble the heraldic lozenge, bat has more aptly been compared to an inverted ace-of-hearts. The inferior aperture of the pelvis is larger in the female than in the male, but considerable variation in the spa.ce between the rami of the pubes •will be found in different individuals. As a rule the subpubic angle is one of 90*^ or more in the female, but is less than a right angle ia the male. The perinseal space may be conveniently divided into halves, by a line passing fi-om the anterior border of one tuberosity of the ischium to the other; the anterior or ui'ethral half, the perinceain pro2xr, contains the uruio-genital organs, and the posterior half, or ischio- rectal rtgivn, the lower extremity of the bowel and the ischio-rectal fossEe. It will be seen, however, that this arbitrary line does not coincide exactly with the true anatomical Limits between the two segments of the perinseal structiu'es. PosTEEioE Space in both Sexes. [A little cotton-wool is to be iutroduced into the rectiun, and the anus is to be carefully sewn up, the stitches being placed as near the white line mentioned above as possible. A transverse incision is then to be made in front of the anus, connecting the two tuber- osities, and a similar one across the lower extremity of the coccyx. These are to be joined by a vertical median incision, which at the anus spHts into two parts to surround that orifice, close to the sutui-es, and the skin is to be reflected on each side.] The integument surrounding the anus is pigmented and beset with hairs and large sebaceous follicles. It moreover possesses scattered bundles of smooth muscular fibre (coiTugator cutis ani) continuous with the dartos of the scrotum and periuEeimi; and small furrows which radiate from the anal aperture. The veins in this region are very liable to varicose dilatation. The External Sphincter Ani (Fig. 99, i6) siuTounds the anua and lies close beneath the skin. It consists of two symmetrical halves, which are attached to the tip of the coccyx behind, and meet about an inch in front of the anus at the tendinous centre of tho perinreum; some fibres encircling the anus without attachment to bone. The muscle closes the lower end of the bowel, and is supplied by the inferior hcBmoiThoidal nerve and by a branch of the fom-th sacral nerve.