GO THE BACK OF THE FORE-AllM. 3rd metacarpal bone. It is an extensor of both elbow and wrist joints and a sUgbt abductor of the hand. The Extensor Communis Digitorum (Fig. 24, 8) arisen from the external condyle with the preceding muscles; from the fascia of the fore-ann, and from the intermuscular septa on each side of it. It ends in three tendons, which pass through the fourth division of the annular ligament with the extensor indicis, and, the inner- most having subdivided, the fom- tendons thus formed are into the fingers in the following way :-Opposite the metacai-po- phalangeal joint each tendon receives slips on both sides from the interossei; it expands upon the phalanx, and is joined on the radial side by the tendon of the lumbricalis, finally its lateral portions are prolonged to the base of the thii'd phalanx, whilst the midcUe portion is attached to that of the second phalanx. The division into three slips figured on diagrams is somewhat artificial, and must be made with the scalpel, since the three parts are, in the natural state, united. The tendon of the cxUn.or in.bas joins the ulnar side of the first or outermost tendon opposite the first phalanx; the tendon to the ring finger is joined by oblique tendinous^shps to the tendons on each side; and the tendon to the litt e hnger joined by the two divisions of the extensor minimi digiti, both above and below the band uniting it with the tendon of the rmg 'Iheadion of this muscle is to extend the wrist and fingers, and in a very smaU degree the elbow. Its principal action, however, is upon the proximal phalanges (into which it is not directly inserted); the true extensors of the middle and ungual phalanges being the interossei and lumbricales. . , , ^ , The Extensor Minimi Digiti (Fig. 24, g) might be taken as a part of the common extensor, but it is separated from it by an intermuscular septum. It arises from the external condyle : h-om the fascia and from the intermuscular septa on each side ; and ii> tendon, after passing through the fifth division of the annular ligament in the groove between the radius and the ulna, and over the posterior inferior radio-ulnar ligament, is generally divided both slips being iuserted into the common expansion on the tii> phalanx of the Uttle finger, but the innermost ^-^^^^ '^ forward than its feUow (Fig. 27, 19). ^V^fir'''^^'^ dent ..xtension to the little finger, chiefly at the metacaipo phalangeal joint, and aids the extensor communis m other respect The Extensor Carpi Ulnaris (Fig. 24, 10) ur.ses from the back of the external con.lvle, from the fascia, and from tOie mtermusculai septa on each .side; and ha., an additional origin from an expansion