MESENTERIC VESSELS. 261 ribs, and the small intestines be drawn down. Beginning at the upper end of the jejunum {i.e., at the point where the small intestine can first be distinctly seen, usually on the left side of the body of the third lumbar vertebra), the dissector should remove the whole of the anterior layer of the mesentery from its root down to the edge of the bowel, where it is to be cut off. This must be continued along the whole length of the small intestine, and the mesentery will be found to pass obliquely downwards from left to light. After the vessels contained in the mesentery are cleaned, the imder layer of the ascending and transverse meso-colon must be removed in the same way, to expose the vessels going to the large intestine.] The Superior Mesenteric Artery (Fig. 131, lo) is the vessel which supplies the small and half the large intestines. A branch of the abdominal aorta, it comes off opposite the first lumbar vertebra immediately behind the neck of the pancreas, and is embraced by an inferior extension of the head of the organ, which passes behind both the artery and vein. It runs forward between the pancreas and the transverse portion of the duodenum, giving off the inferior jmncreatico-duodeiia/ branch (13), which takes a curved course to the right between the head of the pancreas and the duodenum, to anastomose with the superior pancreutico-duodenal artery. The trunk of the superior mesenteric artery will then be seen to take a slightly curved direction from left to right, and from its convexity or left side are given the branches to the small intestine (16) {vasa intestini tenuis), while from its concave right side arise three branches to the large intestine, ileo-colic (15), ri(]ht colic (14), and middle colic (11) arteries (named in their order from below upwards). The branches to the small intestine form a series of primary, secondary, and sometimes tertiary loops, which inosculate freely with one another, and give off straight branches (longer in the irpper than in the lower part of the mesentery) to the intestine, each of which breaks up into two twigs, ojie for each half of the segment of gut supplied. The branches to the large intestine take the com-se indicated by their names; thus the ilocj-colic goes to the end of the ileum and commencement of the colon (caecum), the right colic to the ascending, and the middle colic to the transverse colon. Each of these arteries divides into two branches, which spread out, one on each side, to inosculate with the adjacent branches of the' neigh- bouring vessels, forming the primary loops; the ileo-coHc also anastomoses with the vasa intestini teiuiis. and the middle colic with the inferior mesenteric artery; and thus a free anastomosis is es al5liHhod from one part to another of the intestinal canal. The colica dextra and the upper branch of the colica sinistra pass