THE ABDOMINAL WALL. 234 carried along the crest and Poupart's ligament to near the lower border of the muscle. The muscnlar fibres must be carefully (livided until a cellular interval is reached, in which, near the cnsta ilii, will be found the branches of an artery (deep circumflex ihac). The muscle is then to be turned backwards and forwards, care being taken not to injui-e the exposed vessels and ner^^es or the subjacent transversalis muscle.] The Nerves (Fig. 110), five or six in number, are branches of the lower thoracic nerves, which run horizontally forwards to pierce the rectus muscle and emerge on the front of the abdomen. At this stage they may be seen giving off theii- lateral mtaneous branches, which pierce the obhquus internus and externus at once. Close above the crista ilii may be found the iUo-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal branches of the first lumbar nerve (i6), runnmg downwards towards the pubes. The ilio-htjpogastric has been seen to supply the skin above the pubes the ilio-mguinal that of the penis and scrotum (labium m female) and inner side of the thigh. From one of these nei^es usually the ilio-hypogastric, is given off an iliac branch which pierces the external oblique and its fascia above the crest of the iUum and descends upon the outer side of the buttock to supply the integument of that region. The twelfth thoracic nerve also sends an iliac cutaneous twig to supply an area of skin m front of the distribution of the last-named branch. The arteries of the abdominal wall are derived from the lower intercostals and from the kmrbar branches of the abdominal aorta; their course resembles that of the corresponding nerves and they anastomose with the deep circumflex iliac laterally and with the deep epigastric anteriorly. A large branch o the deep ™- flex iliac artery runs vertically upwards between the internal oblique and ti-anversalis from a short distance behind the antenoi superior iliac spine. . . . The Transversalis Muscle (Fig. 116, 6) has its or,<pn-h fiom the inner surfaces of the cartilages of the lower six ribs, where it interdigitates with the diaphragm; 2, by a strong aponeurosis which posterioriy is divided into thi-ee lamm., the an eno^^^^ wHch is attached to the intertransverse liganients and antouoi sm faces of the transverse processes; the middle to the ^^V^ fJ^' transverse processes; and the posterior to the «P;^«"f^ and-supra-spinous ligaments of all the lumbar vertobrre (foinnn, the greater part of what is sometimes called the hnnbar apoue^ros'. ^^i:iLora.) (Fig. 117); 3, from the anterior two- hu-ds of the inner lip of the crest of the ilium, and 4. from the outer third