THE EXTERIOR OF THE BRAIN. 632 glosso-phaiyngeal, by a number of fibrillse which unite to fonn a single nerve. This lies parallel to the glosso-pharyngeal nei-ve and to the inner side of a small lobe of the cerebellum, called the flocculus or lube of the pneumo-gastric. The Spinal-accessory nerve (25) springs partly from the medulla and partly from the spinal cord. The upper part (accessory to the vagus) arises by fine fibrillse, below the origin of the pneumo- gasti'ic, for the whole length of the medulla. The spinal portion (Fig. 290, g) originates in a similar way from the side of the spinal cord, between the ligamentum denticulatum and the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, reaching as low as the sixth cervical nerve. The deep origins of the ninth, tenth and eleventh nerves may be traced to sjiecial nuclei in the lower part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The spinal fibres of the eleventh are connected with the grey matter of the spinal cord. The Twelfth, or Hypoglossal Nerve (Fig. 298, 27) arises super- ficiallj'^ by numerous fibrillBe from the groove between the anterior pyramid and the olivary body. The nerve roots unite into two bundles, which pierce the dura mater separatelj'. The deep fibres may be traced to a special nucleus at the lower jiart of the foirrth ventricle. [By slicing down the pons Varolii, the arrangement of its trans- verse and longitudinal fibres may be seen. These are in alternate layers, the transverse being continuous with the crui'a cerebelli, and the longitudinal with the fibres of the cord and the ciirra cerebri. The superficial fibres are transverse, beneath these is a longitudinal layer which is succeeded bj^ a deep layer of transverse and a still deeper layer of longitudinal fibres. The longitudinal fibres are continued up into the cius cerebri on each side ; and, on making a deep long cut into this stmctiu-e, it will be seen that a grey nucleus of dark colour, the locus niger, occupies the interval between the superficial and deep fibres. The posterior aspect of the j)ons and medulla forms the anterior wall of the fourth ventricle.] The Exterior of the Brain. [The brain being placer! with the base downwards, the pia mater is to be removed from the upper siu-face of the cerebriim.] The exterior of each hemisphere of the brain has thi-ee sui-faces, Calvarial, Basal and Mesial. It is subdivided by fissm-es of varying depth into prominences called convolutions, and these are grouped by natural and arbitrary boundary lines into lobes, lobidcs and regions. The convolutions and fissures vary considerably in