411 THE SUPERIOR TH7R0TD ARTERY. cnrtilao^e, and, lying at first to tlie innor side of and then superficial to the internal carotid, ascends in the substance of the parotid gland to a point opposite the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, where it gives otf its terminal branches. Superficially in the neck it is crossed by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, the hypo- glossal nerve, and the lingual and facial veins, and deeply is separated from the internal carotid by the styloid process, the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, the pharyngeal branch of the vagus, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. It enters the parotid gland behind the angle of the jaw, and in the gland lies beneath the tejnporo-maxiUary vein and is crossed superficially by the facial nerve. Tnferimlli/ are the hyoid bone, the pharynx, the ramus of the lower jaw, and the stylo-maxillary Hgament. Its branches may be divided as follows :— Anterior set: 1, Superior Thyroid; 2, Lingual; 3, Facial. Posterior set: 1, Occipital; 2, Posterior Am-icular. Ascending branch : Ascending Pharyngeal. • Terminal branches : 1, Temporal; 2, Internal Maxillary. The anterior and posterior sets can now be partly dissected ; the rest will be given in other dissections. The Superior Thyroid Artery (Fig. 199, 12) arises close to the bifurcation of the common carotid, and sometimes fi'om the main artery itself. It mns forward beneath the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone, and then downward to the thyi-oid body to anastomose with the inferior thyi-oid artery from the subclavian and with the thj-i-oid vessels of the opposite side. It gives off an inferior hi/oid hrnnrh, which runs along the lower border of the hyoid bone, and anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side and with the hyoid Fig. 201.—The triangles of the neck (from Maclise's Surgical Anatomy). A. Common Carotid. B. External Carotid. C. Descendens cervicis nerve lying on the Internal Carotid. D. Internal .Jugular vein. E. Sternal portion of Sterno-mas- toid. *E. Clavicular portion of Sterno- mastoid. P. Platysnia (cut). G. External .Jugular vein. H. Parotid gland. I. Facial vein. K. Submaxillary gland. L. Upper part of platysma. M. Cervical fascia. N. Sterno-hyoid muscle. O. Omo hyoid muscle. P. Sterno-thj'roid muscle. Q. Sheath of Carotid artery. R. Cervical fascia enclosing sterno- mastoid. S. Upper part of same fascia. T. Third part of Sub lavian artery. U. Descending superficial branches of cervical plexus. V. Trapezius. W. Transverse cervical artery. X. Brachial plexus. 2. Hyoid bone. 3. Ijingual arterj'. 4. Facial artery. 5. Occipital artery. G. Posterior belly of digastric.