178 THE FRONT OF 'I'HE LEG. The Peroneus Brevis (Fig. 85, 8) lies beiieatli the peroiieus longus, and arises from the lower two-thirds of the outer surface of the^fibula, its upper part being in front of the lower part of the origin of the peroneus longus; and from the intermuscular septa on'each side. It rests upon the lower part of the fibula, and its tendon winds behind the external malleolus, where it is lodged m a groove beneath the tendon of the peroneus longus. It then runs along the outer side of the os calcis in a sheath of fascia in front of the lono- tendon and peroneal tubercle, and is inserted into the most prominent part of the tuberosity at the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. ■ . .-L The peronei act as plantar flexors of the foot, i.e., they pomt the toes. Both muscles, birt especially the peroneus longus, abduct the foot at the talo-calcaneo-scaphoid joint, and the peroneus longus ni addition fonns an important diagonal tie for the longitudinal arch of the foot. Both are supplied by the musculo-cutaneous nerve. The synovial membrane under the annular Ugament is common to the two peronei, but it divides into two parts as the tendons approach the peroneal tubercle of the calcaneum. The External Popliteal Nerve (Fig. 86, i) is to be followed along the inner border of the biceps tendon into the fibres of the peroneus longus, to which point it was ti-aced in the dissection of the popliteal space. It gives off an externa paieUar cutaneous branch to the outer side of the knee-joint before entering the muscle, and afterwards a recurrent articular branch, which pierces the extensor longus digitorum to reach the upper part of the tibiahs anticus and the fi'ont of the knee. In then divides into anter.or tibial U), and musculo-cutaneous (3) nerves. The Musculo-cutaneous Nerve gives branches to the peroneus longus and peroneus brevis, and then appears between the peroneus longus and extensor longus digitorum, finally becoming cutaneous by piercing the fascia in the lower third of the leg. [The tendons on the back of the foot ai;e to be divided or held aside, and the transversus pedis in the sole is to be removed t.. permit a clear view of all the mterossei.] Beneath the transversus pedis will be found the plantar transrcr.^^ liaament of the metatarsus, from which its fibres arise, and over which the'digital vessels and nerves pass. It connects the heart, of the metatarsal bones together, and crosses beneath (on tJio plantar side of) the tendons of the iiiterossei muscles. The dorsal transverse ligaments, much weaker than the last, jom the dorsal aspect of the heads of the metatarsal bones, and between the two