BRANCHES OF ABDOMINAL AORTA. 285 The Supra-renal arteries (Fig. 143, 7) arise opposite the first lumbar vertebra and pass, one on each side, transversely to the sujira-renal capsules, the right going beneath the vena cava. In the foetus they are as large as the renal arteries. In addition to this artery {middle, capsidar), the capsule is supplied by a branch from the phrenic (superior) and one from the renal artery (infeiior). The right rein enters the vena cava, the left the renal vein of its side. The Renal arteries (Fig. 143, g) ari.se on each side of the aorta immediately below the capsular arteries, about haK an inch below the superior mesenteric artery, and opposite the lower border of the first lumbar vertebra (the right usually a little lower than the left). They run ti-ansversely to the concave border of the kidney, the right going behind the vena cava. The aorta being a little to the left of the middle line at this point, the right renal artery is necessarily slightly longer than the left, while, owing to the position of the vena cava on the right of the column, the right renal vein is much shorter than the left. The renal artery, after giving of¥ a small inferior rcqjsidar twig, breaks up into three or four branches ju.st as it enters the kidney : one or more of these may pass in front of the vein, and occasionally a branch may run behind the ureter, or may pierce the kidney above or below the hilum, but as a rule the relation of the parts at the hilum of the kidney is (1) Vein, (2) Artery, (3) Ureter, from before backwards. An additional renal artery not infi-e- quently arises from the lower part of the aorta, or from the common iliac artery, and occasionally more than one such vessel is present. It is important for the surgeon -to bear in mind these and other possible variations in the arterial supply in operations upon the Iddney. The renal or emulgent veins open into the vena cava, the left crossing in front of the aorta immediately below the superior mesenteric artery, and receiving the left spermatic and supra-renal veins. The Spermatic arteries (Fig. 143, 10) are two long slender branches, which arise from the front of the aorta about an inch below the renal, and pass downwards behind the peritoneum to the internal abdominal ring, and through the inguinal canal to the testes. The right courses obliquely over the vena cava (sometimes behind it) and each crosses the psoas, the genito-cnmil nerve, and the ureter, ami near Poupart's ligament the external iliac vessels • then entering the internal inguinal ring to the outer side of the deep epigastric vessels, traverses the inguinal canal, to emerge at the external ring and enter the scrotum. the female the spermatic artenes become the ovarian, and pass into the pelvis to ramif^^ in