THE BACK. 602 (Fig. 286, 3), the inner division of the erector spinse, has two sets of insertions ; an inner, by tendinous slips into the trajisverse pro- cesses of all the thoracic vertebrae, and into the accessory tubercles of the lumbar vertebrae; and an outer, by fleshy slips into the ten lower ribs between their tubercles and angles, and into the trans- verse processes of the lumbar vertebra3. It is prolonged to the neck and head by two muscles, the transversalis cervicis and the trachelo-mastoid, both of which «r/A'efrom the transverse proces.ses of the five or six upper thoracic vertebras, the latter muscle having an additional origin from the articular processes of the four lower cervical vertebrae. The Transversalis Cervicis is inserted into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the cervical ver- tebrfB fi'om the second to the sixth. The Trachelo-mastoid is inserted into the mastoid process beneath the splenius capitis. The Complexus arises from the articular processes of the 3rd, 4th, oth and 6th cervical vertebrae, from the transverse processes of the last cervical and six upper thoracic vertebrae, and fi-om the si)ine of the last cervical vertebra; it is inserted into the space between the superior and inferior curved lines, on the inner side of the area for the superior oblique. It is pierced by the great occipital and third cervical nerves. The most internal and superficial part of the complexiis has been called the Biventer Cervicis, from the fact that it consists of two fleshy portions or bellies with an intervening tendon. The erector spinre, with its continuations upwards, extends the entire spine and head if the muscles of the two sides act together. Acting singly, they lateralise and rotate the vertebrae. Occipital Artery (Eig. 287, 3)-—The second poi-tion of the occipital artery is now exposed in its coui-se between the muscles attached to the occipital bone. It has been seen to pass under the posterior belly of the digastricus, and disappear beneath the sterno- mastoid, splenius capitis, and trachelo-mastoid, to reach its groove in the mastoid portion of the temporal bone internally to the digastric groove. Finally it crosses the supei-flcial aspect of the superior oblique and complexus, and passes to the back of the scalp between the attachments of the sterno-mastoid and trapezius. Thf great occipital nerve, which has a similar distribution, pierces the complexus and trapezius to reach the occiput. The branches of the artery are (1) Mmcitlar to the sterno-mastoid, splenius, trachelo- mastoid, and digasti-icus; (2) Auricular to the back of the aunclo. anastomosing with the postcrius auricular of the external carotid : (3) Mtuimjeal, through the foramen lacerum posterius; (4) MastouL piercing the mastoid foramen to supply the mastoid ceUs and dura