THE LATERAL VKNTRICLES. 642 Po'.terior c.orim ciu'ves backwards aiid then inwards iuto tlie Mnder part of the brain, and ijresents on its inner wall two ridge-like elevations, one, the forcrps major, due to a biindle of fibres con- tinuous with the splenium of the corpus callosum and cui-ving backwards into the occipital lobe; the other, called the luppocampus mi'))or or calcar avis (Pig. 303, 7), corresponding to the bottom of the calcarine fissui-e. The Middh liorn commences at the same point as the posterior horn, but tui-ns downwards behind and beneath the optic thalamus to reach the base of the hemisphere. It will be traced in a subsequent dissection. The Body of the ventricle is bounded superiorly by the corpus callosum, and its floor, which slopes downwards and forwards in front, is fonued by the following parts, from before backwards— 1. Corpus striatum ; 2. Tfenia semicii'cularis ; 3. Optic thalamiis; 4. Choroid plexus ; 0. Fornix. The lateral ventricles commuuicate with one another and with the third ventricle by means of the Foramen 0/ Monro, a Y'Shaped opening bounded anteriorly and superiorly by the anterior pillars of the fornix, and behind by the anterior extremity of the optic thalamus. The Corpus Striatum (Fig. 302, 3) or superior ganglion of the hemisphere appears as a grey pyriform body in the floor of the ventricle, its greater end being dii-ected forwards and its narrow extremity or tail backwards and outwards. When cut ti-ansversely it will be seen to consist of two grey portions, an intraventriculnr or caudate nuclnis correspondiog to the sui-face exposed on the floor of the ventricle, and a larger extraventricidar or lenticular nucleus which corresponds in position with the Island of Eeil. The two nuclei are separated by a layer of white substance, called the internal capsule, consisting of fibres prolonged fr-om the crus cerebri and, in their passage through the grej- nuclei, causing the striated appearance from which the name of the body is dei-ived. A thin layer of grey substance called the claustrum is found outside the lenticular nucleus, and is separated from it by a band of white fibres, called the external capstUe, which joins the internal capsule below the nucleus; and fi-om the grey matter of the Island of Eeil by a second and unnamed layer of white matter (Fig. 306). The two corpora striata are separated behind by the two optic thalanii. The Taenia Semicircularis or Stria terminalis (Fig. 302, 6) is a narrow band of white matter lying superficially between the corpus striatum and the optic thalamus ; it joins the iuitorior pillar of the fornix in front, and posteriorly it becomes lost in the nucleus aniygdalce in the descending horn of the ventricle. A vein (vena