THE TYMPANUM. 503 the anterior than the posterior, a point to be recollected in extract- ing impacted foreign bodies. The framework of the outer two-fifths is composed of the cartilage of the pinna; that of the inner thi-ee- tifths of bone (petrosa). It is lined with skin, which is intimately adherent to the periosteum in the bony part of the canal, and presents hairs and ceruminous glands in the cartilaginous segment. A layer of cuticle is reflected on to the fibrous membrana tympani. The meatus receives arteries from the posterior auricular branch of the external carotid, the auricular branch of the internal maxillary, and the anterior auricular branch of the temporal. Its nerves are derived from the great auricular, the auriculo-temporal, and the am-icular branch of the vagus. The deep portion of the passage is related above to the middle fossa of the cranium, ia front and below to the glenoid fossa and vaginal process, and behind to the mastoid process. The Tympanum. [If the tympanum has not been damaged in the previous dis- sections, an attempt may be made to trace the facial nerve through the temporal bone m the following manner. The base of the skuU being tm-ned upward, the saw is to be carried thi'ough a Une di-awn trom the stylo-mastoid foramen to the foramen ovale; or a more ci)mplete view may be obtained by making a vertical saw-cut in the skull, in a line fi-om the interval between the external auditory meatus and the anterior border of the mastoid process towards the mternal auchtory meatus, until the posterior part of the aqueduct of J^ ailopius and the stylo-mastoid foramen are opened. The rest of the bone suiToimdmg the aqueduct is then to be clipped away with bone-forceps. By either of these cuts the tympanum will be divided, and It will be possible to examine its waUs and ossicula, together with the seventh nerve and the chorda tympani.] The Tympanum or Middle Ear is an air-containing chamber situated above the jugular fossa, and intervening between the external auditory meatus and the labja-inth. It is lined with mucous membrane continuous with tjiat of the pharynx, and communicates in front with the Eustachian tube (by wliich'aii- is admitted from the nasal portion of the pharynx), and behind with the mastoid cells through the mastoid antrum. Its transverse diameter is very narrow, from 1 to 3 lines, but its greatest antero-posterior and vertical diameters exceed half an inch (average 7^, lines) mooter wall consists partly of bone, partly of membrane." The i.iembrana tympani, a fibrous structure, is fixed into a narrow gi-oove in an incomplete bony ring, the a>undns f„nrirus, and is connected to the roof of the tympanum at the point of dekciency