POSTERIOR TRIANGLE OF NECK. 384 The Brachial Plexus (Fig. 187) is formed by the anterior divisions of the oth, 6th, 7th, and .Sth cervical nerves and part of the 1st thoracic nerve, with a small branch of communication from the lowest cord of the cervical plexus (4th). The nerves appear at the outer border of the anterior scalenus in four pieces, because the Sth cervical and 1st thoracic unite close to the vertebral foramina; the oth and 6th next unite, and thus three trunks are formed. The three trunks formed by the jimction of the five nerves sub- divide and reunite to form three cords, as follows. Each tnink divides into an anterior and a posterior branch; the anterior branches of the upper and middle trunks foim the outer cord, the anterior branch of the lowest forms the inner cord, and the three posterior branches unite to form the posterior cord. Several varieties have been described in the arrangement of the cords ; but this win be found to be the most common. The hranches above the clavicle (Fig. 187)— a. The nerve to the subclavius is a small branch lying in front of the plexus, and derived from the trunk formed by the 5th and 6th nerves above the supra-scapular nerve. It crosses the 3rd stage of the subclavian artery to reach the muscle, and communicates with the phrenic nerve. h. The nerve to the rhomboids is from the Sth nerve. It pierces the"scalenus medius, passes beneath the levator anguli scapulas, to which it gives a branch, and ends by entering the under surface of the rhomboids. c. The Suprascapular nerve, the largest branch above the clavicle, appears above and at the outer side of the plexus, and is given off from the cord formed by the oth and 6th. It dis- appears behind the trapezius, clavicle, and posterior beUy of the omo-hyoid, to reach the supra-scapular notch. d The nerve to the serratus maynus (i^osterior thoracic, external respiratory of BeU) lies behind the plexus against the seiTatus ma-nus muscle, and is derived from the oth and 6th and 7th nerves before they join, the formative branches uniting m the scalenus- medius. .... . . , e. A branch to the phrenic nerve, of very variable size, is given by the 6th nerve at the upper part. _ /. Small branches to the longus colli and scaleni muscles arise trom the nerves close to the foramina. rif the time for tui'ning the subject has not arrived when both the posterior triangles of the neck are dissected, the orbit should be at once proceeded with ; but if not now dis.sected, this had better be postponed until after the dissection of the anterior tnangle.J