THE LTPS. 491 liresei-ved for subsequent examinatiou. By inverting the skull the haid palate will then be brought into view.] The Hard Palate (Pig. 240, lo) is continuous with the soft palate, but its mucous membrane is much more dense, and is in- separably united in great part with the periosteum of the maxillary and palate bones. The mucous membrane presents a median ridge indicative of the foetal division of the parts, and is thrown into more or less ti-ansverse folds near the anterior part, where it is prolonged on td the gums. Numerous mucous glands lie imme- diately beneath the mucous membrane, and open upon its surface. The (Jesreiidirifi palatine artery wiU be found emerging from its bony canal a little behind and internal to the last molar tooth. From this point it runs forwards in its groove, giving branches outwards to the gums and inwards to the bone and mucous mem- brane, and anastomoses in front with the naso-palatine artery, which appears through the foramen of Stenson. It is accompanied by its vein, some Ij-mphatics, and the large or anterior palatine nerve. The naso-palatine nerves pierce the foramina of Scarpa, the left in front. The Gums (Fig. 237) are composed of dense fibrous tissue, covered by the mucous membrane of the mouth and inseparably imited with the periosteum of the alveolus. They are prolonged into the sockets of the teeth, and become continuous with the periodontal membrane covering them. The Teeth (Fig. 237) of the upper jaw are 16 in number, viz., 4 mcisors, 2 canines, 4 bicuspids, and 6 molars, the posterior molars bemg the dmtes sapientice or wisdom teeth. Each tooth consists of a crown, a neck, and a fang, and upon extracting a molar tooth it will be found to have three fangs, two being on the outer (buccal) and one on the inner (palatine) side, but in the case of the wisdom teeth these are commonly fused together. The teeth of the lower ja.w correspond in number to those of the iipper jaw, but have been necessarily interfered with in the progress of the dissection. The lower molar teeth differ from those of^ the uijper jaw in jnesenting only two fangs, placed one in front of the other. The Lips (Fig. 237) are covered externally by skin, and are lined internally by mucous membrane amtaining large mucous .'lands and a good deal of lymphoid tissue. Between the skin and nuicous membranes are the muscles already described (p. 433) • some intrinsic muscular fibres passing from skin to mucous membrane through the thickness of the lip; tlie labial veins and lymphatics; and the coronary arteries, the last lying near tlio free border of the lip close