436 THE FACE. The Levator Anguli Oris (Fig. 213) arises from the canine fossa of the superior maxilla immediately below the infra-orbital foramen, and passes downwards and outwards beneath the pre- ceding muscle to the angle of the mouth, joining the fibres of the orbicularis oris and zygomatici, some passing into the lower lip. It raises the corner of the mouth and assists in elevating the lower lip. The Zygomaticus (Fig. 213) is either a smgle muscle, or has two slips forming the zygomaticus major and miaor. The Zygomaticus major (ii) arises from the malar bone close to its junction with the zygoma, and passes obliquely to the angle of the mouth, where it blends with the orbicularis oris, the levator and depressor anguli oris, and the skin. The Zygomaticus minor (lo), much smaller, arises fi'om the malar bone in front of the preceding, and is inserted between it and the levator labii superioris, with which it unites. The Orbicularis Oris (Fig. 213, 7) is the sphincter muscle sur- rounding the mouth. It is joined by all the other muscles which are inserted into the lips: in fact, the fibres from the bucciuator. risorius, levator anguli oris and depressor anguli oris, constitute the major part of the so-called ' orbicularis.' It is attached on each side to the septum of the nose by a small slip (naso-labiaUs) (Fig. 212, g), and by two other accessory fasciculi to the superior maxiUa close to the incisor tooth, and to the lower jaw close to the canine tooth. The true orbicular fibres are difficult to demonsti-ate. Its action is to pucker and protrude the lips as in whistling. On the side of the jaw wiU be seen the insertion of the Platysrua Myoides, continuous more or less with the orbicularis oris at the angle of the mouth, and with the muscles below the lip. Occa- sionaUy there is a strong skin muscle, probably an appendage to the platysma, passing transversely from the fascia over the masseter to the angle of the mouth, called the Risorius Muscle of Santorini. This draws outwards the corner of the mouth, and acting with its fellow compresses the lips. The Depressor Anguli Oris (Fig. 213, 13) (triangularis menti) is a triangular muscle arising horn the outer sui'face of the lowei jaw, below and a Uttle externally to the mental foramen and i,rserted into the angle of the mouth, some fibres passing m o he upper lip, and decussating with the levator augidi oris, it not oSy depresses the angle of the mouth, but draws the upper hp slightly downwards. . ,j,.„f„< The Depressor Labii luferioris (Fig. 213, 12) (^^^^^^ menti) arises from the oblique line on the outer sm-face of the lower