THE INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN. 413 mastoid process it gives off the stylo-mastoid hru)u-h into tlie stylo- mastoid foramen, and then supplies aaricuJur, mastoid, and temjioral branches to the pinna and the structures of the mastoid and posterior temporal region, besides sending a small branch beneath the posterior belly of the occipito-f rontalis. It anastomoses with the temporal and occij)ital arteries. The Veins con-esponding to the bi'anches of the external carotid artery do not take quite the same course as those vessels. The internal maxillary and temporal veius unite iu the parotid to form the trinporu-maxillary vein, which afterwards receives the postcrifir (luricnlar vein, and passes down in the substance of the gland on the outer side of the external carotid artery and facial nerve ; at the angle of the jaw it divides into the external jugular and the facial communicatiny. The latter joins the facial vein to form the common facial, which enters the Internal Jugular. The facial vein, is more supei-ficial than the artery and runs over the submaxillary gland. The lingual vein usually joins the facial. The occipital vein seldom accompanies the artery, but generally ends in a network beneath the complexus. The Internal Jugular Vein (Fig. 199, 5) is deeply placed to the outer side of the internal carotid artery immediately below the base of the skidl, and afterwards holds the same relation to the common carotid artery. It is crossed by the stjdoid process and stylo- pharyngeus muscle, the spinal-accessory nerve (which, however, is sometimes beneath the vein), the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles and the occijjital artery. It is covered by the steruo-uiastoid in the lower part of its course. It has the pneumo-gasti'ic nerve between it and the internal and common carotid arteries, and is enclosed in the carotid sheath of cervical fascia. It receives the facial, lingual, p/iarynyeal, superior thyroid, and iniddlc thyroid veins, and unites with the subclavian vein to form the rena innominata. Its relation to the carotid artery differs on the two sides. At the root of the neck, on the left side, it somewhat overlaps the artery, but on the right is separated from it by a small angular interval. [Tlie inner end of the clavicle having been removed with the sterno-mastoid, a little dissection close above the sternum will readily expose the scalenus anticus muscle attached to the first rib, haying the phrenic nerve lying upon it, and branches of the thvroid axis crossing it. The puciuno-gastric if traced down will bo found to cross the first part of the subclavian artery, which with its branches is to be defined. The sympathetic, and the thoracic duct on the left side, are to bo carefully preserved.]