THE ABDOMINAL VISCERA. 300 the gut foiTiiH the base of the interserous triangle (Pig. 138). The muscvihir cocat consists of an external layer of longitudinal fibres and an internal thicker layer of circular fibres, both complete and continiious. The mucous membrane is amplified in extent of sur- face by plications called valvulse conniventes, by papillary projec- tions called villi, and by follicular involutions known as tubes of Lieberkiihn; and its thickness diminishes progi-essively, together with the cahbre of the gut, as it becomes more remote fi-om the stomach and approaches the ciecum. Eacemose glands (Brunner's) are found in the upper part of the duodenum, and aggregations of lymphoid follicles chiefly in the ileum, while solitary Ijonphoid foUides are scattered throughout the intestine. A musculan's mucosce is present in the submucous tissue, as in the stomach, and enters into the formation of both the villi and valvulse conniventes. The valvalce couniL'eiiti'S (or valves of Kerkring) are transverse folds of mucous membrane and submucous tissue, which wiU. be seen to commence about the middle of the second stage of the duodenran, and to increase in size as they approach the middle of the jejvinimi; below this point they become smaller, disappearing in the lower foxu-th of the ileum. They extend around about two-thirds of the circiimference of the gut. The Villi are minute projections from the surface of the mucous membrane, and give it a velvety appearance, which may be best seen by floating a piece of intestine in water. They begiii at the pyloric sphincter and end at the ileo-ctecal valve, and attain their greatest length (about j^th of an inch) where the vahiilfp conni- ventes are most developed. Each viUus is a prolongation of the mucous membrane, formed of lymphoid tissue and covered with columnar epithelium. It contains in its centre a single or double lacteal, surrounded by a delicate layer of involuntary niuscle prolonged from the muscular is mucosa;; externally to which is a capillary plexus, with the basement-membrane on which the epithelium rests. rjehcrkiihrs follicles are minute tubes lined with colmnuar epithelium, and common to the whole of the small mtestuies. They are placed between the villi, and dip into the submucous areolar tissue, their depth being proportionate to the thickness ot the membrane. . 14. +1, The Solitary follicles are seen as white round bodies about tne size of millet seed, containing a milky fluid. They consist ot lymphoid tissue, and are found in the whole length of the digestive tract, but are most numerous where the multiplication of surface is least.