105 FEMOEAL HERNIA. carefully removed, together with the small veins, the artifically produced saphenous opening will be clearly seen.] The Saphenous opening (Fig. 46, E) varies considerably in different subjects, and is generally best seen in the female. It is an oval cleft nearly half an inch wide, without any distinct limitation internally, but sharply bounded on the outer side and below by^ the semicircular border {falciform marc/in) of a j^rocess of fascia {jirocess of Burns), which passes fi'om the fascia lata of the fi'ont of the thigh to become attached to the whole length of Poupart's Hgament. The falciform margin which partly encircles the long saphenoiis vein has a well defined curve like that of a French horn. It crosses in front of the femoral sheath to join the inner part of Poupart's ligament at a variable point, while internally and below it passes imperceptibly into the pubic portion of the fascia lata which covers the pectineus muscle. The pectineal fascia passes behind the femoral sheath to be attached to the ilio-pectineal line above, and to become continuous with the ilio-psoas fascia ex- ternally. The saj^henoirs opening is the external apertm-e through which a femoral hernia passes, and might therefore well be called the external femoral ring, although strictly speaking there is in the undissected condition no definite ring, but merely a weak point in the fascia through which the hernia proti-udes, pushing before it the cribrifoi-m fascia. The edges of the saphenous opening will be fomid to be relaxed when the thigh is flexed and adducted, the position in which the limb is placed when the "taxis" is applied for the reduction of a hernia. [An incision is to be made from the lower end of the saphenous opening transversely outwards for two inches, and a corresjjonding one immediately below Poupart's ligament, and the piece of fascia thus marked out and including the falciform process is to be reflected to the outer side.] Gimbernat's ligament (Fig. 50, ii) consists of a strong baud of fibres passing from the innermost portion of Poupart's ligament to Fig. ill.—Superficial dissection of the groin (from Maclise's Surgical Anatomy). A. Umbilicus. b. Superficial fascia of tliigli. C. Anterior superior iliac spine. c. Inguinal lymphatic glands. D. Position of internal abdominal d. Junction of superficial veins r'liS- with— E. Saplienous opening. e. Internal Huphenous vein. F. Cord appearing at external f. Middle cutaneous nerve. abdominal ring. g. Femoral lymphatic glands, U. Fdn-es of external oblique. i. Superficial epigastric vein, a. Su|)erliciu] fascia of abdomen. U. External cutaneous ni^rve.