275 THE LARGE INTESTINE, The transverse colon is invested by peritoneum derived from both sacs, and rnns in a curved direction inwards, forwards, and slightly downwards to the anterior abdominal wall opposite the umbilicus (but is sepai-ated from it by the anterior double layer of the great omentum); thence outwards, backwards and upwards to the lower end of the spleen, where it bends to form the splenic flexure. The descending colon begins below the splenic flexure, and like the ascending colon is usually bound down to the posterior abdominal wall without the intervention of a mesentery; it passes downwards over the front of the left kidney, the transversaKs tendon, and the crest of the ilium, about an inch to the inner side of its mid-point, to enter the iliac fossa. The gut then developes a mesentery and becomes known as the sigmoid flexure. The sigmoid flexure resembles the rest of the colon in its general characters, but is invested by peritoneum along its whole leno-th, and is fixed to the abdominal wall by a meso-colon. It first runs downwards and forwards, reaching the anterior abdominal wall on the inner side of the anterior superior spme of the ilium, thence passes backwards into the true pelvis, turning upon itself in an S-like form, at length loses its mesentery opposite the third sacral vertebra, and becomes continuous with the rectum at a point arbitrarily but somewhat indefinitely fixed at the left sacro-iliac joint. The Rednm is 8 or 9 inches in length and extends from the left sacro-iliac joint to the anus. It is divided into thi-ee portions, the fii'st, 4 or 5 inches in length, reaching as far as the third piece of the saci-um; the second, 3 inches long, passing to the tip of the coccyx ; and the third, about an inch in length, ending at the anal apertm-e. It is characterised by the absence of sacculation owing to the distribution of the longitudinal fibres of its muscular coat around the whole circumference of the gut, but there is no definite point at which this change of arrangement takes place. The first Vortmui^ continuous with the sigmoid flexm'e, and is connected to the back of the pelvis by the same mesentery. Behind it are the left pyrifoi-mis and sacral plexus, and the left internal iliac arterv with Its branches ; and the left ureter is behind and to the loft o> this part of the bowel; in front is the small intestine fillino- in the rccto-vosical pouch. The second puriion is fixed to the back of the lower half of the sacnim, and is covered bv peritoneum onlv ^ "PPer third of its anterior siu-face, the loLr woThi^^'^.A '! surface bcmg intimately connected with the back of the bladdeT the vasa deferentia, the vesicuho scminales, and the prolto,* The proBtate is aometimea regarded as a relation nf 11,„ n, • i would .n th. .... have a length^of over two ttTlt.'^^£'^lS:,r ^.f