176 THE FRONT OF THE LEG. The Metatarsal artery arises lower than the preceding aud near the bases of the metatarsal boues. It also runs outwards beneath the extensor brevis digitorum, and gives off three interoaaeout branches to the outer spaces. These run forward upon the dorsal interossei muscles, and bifm-cate at the roots of the toes to supply the adjacent sides of two toes each, the outer one giving off a branch also to the outer side of the little toe. The anterior and posterior perforating arteries, derived from the plantar arch and its digital branches, join these interosseous arteries near their origins and points of bifui-cation. The Communicatiwj branch passes between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle to the sole of the foot, where it joins the plantar arch (p. 170). The Dorsalis halluds rmis forward upon the great toe and, alter giving a branch which passes to its inner side beneath the Ion- extensor tendon, bifurcates to supply the adjacent sides of the fir.st and second toes. ■. p . v The Anterior Tibial Nerve (Kg. 86, 4) is a branch ot the external popHteal nerve; it runs obUquely around the outer side of the neck of the fibula in the fibres of the peroneus longus, and reaches the anterior tibial artery by piercing the extensor longus di-itorum It lies' to the outer side of the artery m the upper part of°the leg, but in fi'ont of it about the middle, and reaches its outer side agaSl at the ankle. Its muscular relations are the same as those of the artery, with which it passes tmder the annular hga- ment In the leg it supplies the four extensor muscles, and as soon as it enters the foot gives a filament to the ankle-joint and divides into two branches. The outer hvanch (19) is distributed to the extensor brevis digitorum and the articulations of the tarsal and tarso-metatarsal joints, having a pseudo-gaugliform thickening of its sheath; the mner branch (16) Ues to the outer side of the dorsal artery, supplies rarely the 1st dorsal interosseous muscle and becoming cutaneous is distributed to the adjacent sides of the great and second toes. [The peroneal muscles are to be exposed on the outer side of the leg by removing the fascia covering them, when a strong inter- muscular septum will be found on each side attached to the fibula, separating them from the muscles of the front and back of the leg A portion of the fascia is to be left below the malleolus to form an external annular ligament.] The Peroneus Longus (Fig. So, 7) anSes slightly from the outer tuberosity of the tibia ; from the head and upper two-thn: of the outer surface of the fibula, its origin in the middle thir