THE SIDE OF THE NECK. 422 The Thoracic Duct may be seen, on careful dissection, rising as high as the lower border of the seventh cervical vertebra, then crossing behind the carotid sheath and in front of the vertebral artery, the first stage of the subclavian artery, and the phrenic nerve, to enter the subclavian vein as above stated. It is closely related to the lowest of the deep cervical glands, and is endangered during the operation for the removal of these. It is sometimes double. It conveys the whole of the lymph of the body, with the exception of that passing through the right trunk. The Right Lymphatic Trunk drains the right side of the head, neck, and chest, the right pleura and lung, and the right side of the heart; and terminates in the right subclavian vein. The Pneumo-gastric Nerve (Pigs. 205 & 206) (10th nerve) is only seen in its cervical portion at present. It is enclosed in a separate compartment of the carotid sheath, lying between and behind the jugular vein and common carotid artery, and enters the superior apertui-e of the thorax on the inner side of the phi-enic nerve, passing, on the right side, between the subclavian artery and the innominate vein, and on the left side between the-common carotid and subclavian arteries, and behind the innominate vein. Its Superior Laryngeal branch (14 & g) springs from the ganglion of the trunk below the jugular foramen, and running forwards beneath the internal carotid artery, appears opposite the hyoid bone, and pierces the thyro-hyoid membrane to supply the mucous membrane of the larynx. Before entering the larynx the nerve gives a smaU external lanjmjeal branch, which runs obliquely downwards, along the upper border of the inferior constrictor and beneath the sterno-thyroid muscle, to supply the crico-thjTOid, one of the intrinsic muscles of the larynx. It gives ofe also some filaments to the inferior constrictor and sometimes a small cardiac branch. The Recurrent Laryngeal Nerve (26 & 21) (inferior) is seen run- ning upwards along the side of the trachea, between this and the oesophagus, and after passing under cover of the lateral lobe of the thyroid body, disappears beneath the lower border of the inferior constrictor. It Hes superficial to the ligamentous band wluch fixes the lateral lobe of the thyroid body to the upper tracheal rings, before passing beneath the constrictor (Pig. 208). Its course diflers on the two sides of the body; on the right it arises fi-om the pneumo-gastric in the neck, below the subclavian artery, and wmds behind that vessel; on the left it arises in the thorax, and tm-ns m like manner round the ai-ch of the aorta external to the ductus arteriosus. It gives off cardiac, tracheal, and oesophageal branches,