646 INTERTOR OP THE BRAIN. bottom of the collateral fissure, uiirl its greater or less development deiieiids upon the depth of this. The Erpporampus Major (Fig. 303, 3) is a prominent convex body corresponding to an unfolding of cerebral matter around the dentate fissure, and occupj'ing the whole length of the cornu. Its anteiior extremity is enlarged, lobulated, and marked with more or less distinct transverse grooves, and has received the name pes hippocampi (i) from its fancied resemblance to the foot of an animal. It has a thin layer of white fibres on the surface, but consists princiiDally of grey matter continuous with that of the uncinate gyrus, by the folding of which it is develojied (Fig. 304). At the anterior border of the hippocampus major is a thin band of white cerebral matter continuous with the posteiior pillar of the fornix, known as the Fimhria or Tmiia Hipporampii (Fig- 303, 2). By lifting this up with the handle of the scalpel and tiu'ning it aside, the dissector exposes the Dentate Convolution or Fa.scia Dentata, a border of grey matter which receives its name from the toothed aspect given to it by the jjassage of small vessels across it at regular intervals. This is the free edge of the uvrinate <iyrus. The Dentate Fissure lies between the dentate convolution and the upper surface of the imcinate convolution (Figs. 301, 304). The f'horoid Plexus of the descending cornu is continuous with the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle, and is now seen to be connected with the border of the fold of pia mater which enters the brain through the transverse fissure of Bichat. [The fornix should be cut through opposite the foramen of Monro, and reflected with the handle of the scalpel. The trans- verse markings called the Lyra will then be seen between its posterior pillars; and the velum inteii30situm beneath will be brought into view. By carefuHj- scraping away the brain substance with the handle of the knife, the continuity of the velum interpositiun with the pia mater through the great trans- verse fissm-e may be easily demonstrated.] The Velum Interpositum (Fig. 305, 5) is a double fold of membrane of triangular fonn, inflected into the interior of the brain at the transverse fissui-e from the pia mater over the upper surface of the cerebellum and the occipito-temporal convolutions of the under surface of the cerebrum. Between its layers, near the middle line, are the two veins of Galen passing to the straight sinus, the veins of the corpus striatum, and the choroid branches of the cerebral arteries, which enter it laterally. Its upper siu-face is in cojitact with the corpus callosum and fornix; its under surface forms the roof of the third ventricle, and rests upon the optic