THE SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. 492 to the mucous membrane, and anastomosing freely across tlie middle line. A fold of mucous membrane called the fritn um Jahii connects each lip with the alveolus in the median line, and is more jjromi- nent in the upper than in the lower lip. The ScrpERioR Maxillary Nerve. [The skull being placed with the base downwards, a cut with the chisel is to be carried in a straight line from the sphenoidal fissure to the foramen ovale. The side of the skull is then to be sawn thi'ough at right angles to the first incision, meeting it at the fora- men ovale. The saw being then placed obliquely on the malar bone, so that the incision shall pass downwards and outwards from the lower and outer angle of the orbit, the cut is to be carried into the spheno-maxillary fissure. The piece oE bone will now be detached and may be removed, and with the bone-forceps any remaining bone is then to be taken away, so as to expose the whole extent of the superior maxillary nerve.] The Superior Maxillary Nerve (Fig. 237, i) (second division of the oth) leaves the cranium at the foramen rotundum, and, having crossed the upper extremity of the spheno-maxillary fossa, traverses the infra-orbital canal and appears on the face at the infra-orbital foramen. It gives off the following branches :— 1. A small recurrent filament to the dura muter, close to its origm from the Gasserian ganglion. 2. Tcmporo-malar branch (4), which enters the orbit by the spheno-maxiUary fissiu-e, piercing the unstriped muscle {urhitalh) bridging the cleft, and divides into two branches [mahir and temporal), which have been seen in the dissection of the face and .scalp. 3. Spheno-palatine hranrlies, which descend mto the spheno- maxHlary fossa to Meckel's ganglion (6), and become continuous with the descending palatine nerves (p. 500). 4. Posterior dental hranches (2), which supply the gum and adjacent portion of the mucous membrane of the cheeks, and then enter the canals on the posterior aspect of the upper jaw, to supply the molar and bicuspid teeth and the antral mucous membrane and to communicate with the anterior dental nerve. The bicuspid teeth arc sometimes supplied by a separate branch, the middh '^''T. \nterior dental branch (5), which arises fi-om the nerve in the infra-orbital canal, and can only be seen by laying tlie canal open. It descends in a special canal in the wall of the antrum to the incisor and canine teeth, and has a communication with the posterior