409 THE INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. Oil the right side it commences behind the top of the steruo-clavi- ciilar articulation, by the Ijifurcation of the innominate into common carotid and subclavian arteries, but ou the left side it begins at the arch of the aort.a. Its direction in the neck is upwards and a little outwards, and would be sufficientlj^ indicated bj' a line from the inner end of the clavicle to the fi-ont of the mastoid 2)rocess. It ordinarily divides at the level of the upper border of the thyi'oid cartDage into external and interaal carotids. Its relations are—in front superficial structui-es including the platysma, the sternal origin and anterior border "of the storno- mastoid, the lower portion of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thAToid muscles, the sterno-mastoid branch of the superior thyroid artery, the internal jugular vein at the root of the neck on the left side, the middle and superior thyi-oid veins, the anterior jugular vein (separated fi-om the artery by the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles), the descendens and communicans cervicis nerves, and a portion of the lateral lobe of the thji-oid body. Behind are the thi-ee lower cervical and two upper thoracic vertebrce, with the longus colli and rectus capitis anticus major, the subclavian artery, the vertebral and inferior thyroid arteries, the recm-rent laryngeal nerve, the spnpathetic cord and middle cervical ganglion, the thoracic duct on the left side and the right Ijonphatic trunk on the nght. Externally are the internal jugular vein, which overlaps it below on the left side, the pneumo-gasti-ic nerve, and the apex of the lung (especially on the left side); and mternalh/ the trachea, larjaax, thyroid body, pharynx, oesophagus, and recm-rent laryngeal nerve'. The point of bifurcation of the common carotid may vary a little, but is more frequently above than below the upper'border of the thyroid cartilage. The vessel is somewhat enlarged at its termina- tion, and here is closely related in front to a vascular glomeruJus (which resembles a mass of connective tissue in the dead subject) called the carotid f/anglion. The Internal Carotid Artery (Fig. 200, 8) ascends to the base of the skull, lying close to the pharynx, and upon the prevertebral muscles, the vagus, and the sj-mpathetic cord. It is first to the outer side of the external carotid, and is crossed in front bv the hyiDoglossal nerve, the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and the posterior auricular and occipital arteries; and 6eAr»tZ by the superior laryngeal branch of the pneumo-gastric. In its further course it i'. deeper than the external carotid, and is separated from it by the styloid process, the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus niusoles, the ^losso-pharjTigeal nerve, and the pharyngeal braneli of the vaeus J- maily it enters the carotid canal in the petrous bone '