39 THE SUPRA-SCAPULAR AKTERV. uerve, which is remarkable for having an enlargement upon it depending upon a thickening of the perineural connective tissue. The supra-spinatus is an abductur, and the infra-spinatus and teres minor muscles are external rotators and abductors, of the humerus. The Teres Major Muscle (Fig. 16, 7) arises from a quadrilateral impression at the inferior angle of the infra-spinal fossa of the scai^ula, and from the intermuscular septa between it and the teres minor and infra-spinatus muscles. Its close relation to the latissi- mus dorsi has been already noticed, but its insertion into the inner lip of the bicipital groove and the bm-sa between it and the tendon of the latissimus should be again clearly seen. It is swpplicd by the lower subscapidar nerve, and is an adductor and internal rotator of the humerus. The Posterior Circumflex Artery (Fig. 16, 4) with its veins, and the Circumflex Nerve (Fig. 16, 2), appear through the quadrilateral space. The nerve is distributed to the deep surface of the deltoid muscle, and to the teres minor muscle (the branch presenting the above-mentioned enlargement), and supplies also the shoulder-joint, and the skin over the lower part of the deltoid and back of the arm. The posterior circumflex artery not in- frequently arises from, or in common with, the superior profunda, in which case it is below instead of above the teres major. It supplies the same jjarts as the nerve. The Dorsalis Scapulae Artery (dorsal branch of subscapular) (Fig. 16, 11) does not pass through the triangular space as seen from behind, but winds beneath the teres minor in a groove on the axillary border of the scapula, to supply the infra-spinal fossa and anastomose with the posterior scapular and supra-scapular arteries. It gives off a ventral iitfni-scapular branch, which will be after- wards traced beneath the subscaj)ularis, and a superficial branch, which runs between the teres major and minor and down to the angle of the scapula, to anastomose with the subscapular and posterior scapular arteries. [The supra-spinatus and infra-spinatus are to be divided near their insertions, and the muscular fibres cleared out of the supra- spinal fossa in order to see the supra-scapular artery and nerve and the origin of the omo-hyoid muscle.] The Supra- scapular or Transversalis humeri Artery (from the thyroid axis) passes over the transverse ligament of the scapida and is distributed to the supra-spinal fossa, and also to part of the infra-spinal fossa by a branch which winds around the