THE PERINEUM. 209 The Perineal branch of the Fourth Sacral nerve is of small size aucl not readily seen. It ajipears at the side of the coccyx after piercing the coccygeus muscle, and is distributed to the external sphincter. A iHrforatimi cntanenv8 branch of the sacral plexus, which has passed through the gi-eat sacro-sciatic hgament, is usually found winding round the edge of the gluteus maximus from the ischio- rectal fossa. Anterior Space m the Male. [The scrotum being drawn up with hooks, an incision is to be made in the median line, extending from the central point of the perinreum to within three inches of the extremity of the penis. The skin is to be reflected to each side, and the testicles held out of the way with hooks.] The Superficial Fascia of the anterior half of the perinEeum is chvisible into two layers—superficial and deep. The siq^trficial layer of superficial fascia is continuous with that of the scrotum, and Like the latter is fatless and contains a layer of involmitary muscular fibre, the durtos. The deep layer of superficial fascia (Fig. 99, 6), or Fascia of Colles, is brought into view by the removal of the superficial layer as a distinct membrane in thin subjects, but is not easily defined in fat ones. It is continuous in fi-ont with the fascia of the scrotum and penis, and over the root of the penis with the fascia of the abdomen; laterally it is attached on each side to the margin of the ischio- pubic rami as far back as the tuberosity ; and posteriorly turns around the transversi perinfei muscles, and joins the posterior boi-der of the deep perinaeal fascia or triangular ligament. A pouch, which may be called the superficial picrinmd interspace, is thus foi-med between the fascia of Colles and the triangular lio'a- ment, and encloses the root of the penis (the bidb of the corpus spongiosum and the crura of the corpora cavernosa) with its surrounding muscles, vessels, and nerves. It is subdivided into two lateral halves posteriorly, by a median septum of fascia re.nching from the deep surface of the fascia of Colles to the subjacent bulbo-cavernosus muscle, but this septum disappears anteriorly. This interspace is of importance surgically with regard to extra- vasation of lu-ine. If extravasation should occur from rupture of the bulbous or adjacent portion of the urethra, either from external violence or from the unskilful use of a catheter or other cause the urine is effused into the pouch, and, being prevented by the union oi^the two fascia) posteriorly from running back to the anus, and V