THIi SIDE OF THE NECK. 412 branch of the linj^ual artery ; a mpcriar lari/nf/ecil branch, which pierces the thyro-hyoid membrane with the correspondiug nei-ve; a crico-thyruid branch, anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side across the crico-thyi'oid membrane ; and a sujierfinul desrendin;/ branch, which supplies the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone, and gives oii a sterno-mastoid artery. The Lingual Artery (Fig. 199, 8).—Only a very small portion of the lingual artery is now visible, running first upwards and then transversely upon the middle constrictor of the pharynx, imme- diately above the greater cornu of the hyoid bone, to disappear beneath the edge or through the fibres of the hyo-glossus muscle. It is crossed by the digasti-ic and stylo-hyoid mussles and the hyiioglossal nerve, and overlapped by the submaxillary gland. The remainder of the vessel will be described in the dissection of the submaxillary region. The Facial Artery (Fig. 199, 4) passes upwards and forwards beneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles and hypoglossal nerve, and forms a remarkable sigmoid curve as it lies in a deep groove on* the posterior part of the submaxillary gland before reaching the jaw. It crosses the jaw with the facial vein to its outer side, immediately in fi'ont of the masseter muscle, and will be followed out in the dissection of the face. Its inferior puhitine branch may be seen disappearing between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, and the tcmsillar branch between the stylo-glossus and pterygoideus internus; its submaxillary branches (two or three) enter the gland, and the sul-mental branch, often of large size, runs forward over the mylo-hyoid muscle to the chin, where it supplies the surrounding tissues and anastomoses with the subUngual, inferior labial and superior hyoid arteries. The facial artery frequently arises in common with the hngual. The Occipital Artery (Fig. 199, i) is only seen in its first part It runs backwards along the inferior border of the digastric, and then beneath its origin in a special groove in the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, and may usually be recognised by the fact that the hypoglossal nerve hooks round its sterno-mastoid branch. The artery crosses the hypoglossal nerve, internal carotid artery, pneumo-gastric nerve, internal jugular vein, spinal-accessory nerve, and sympathetic trunk. It gives off a stcrno- mustoul branch, which enters that muscle with the spinal-accessory nerve, its further cour.se will be traced later. _ The Posterior Auricular Artery, of much smaller size than the last and not easily seen unless carefully looked for, arises above the digastric and in the substance of the parotid gland. Xear the