PELVIC VISCERA OF FEMALE. 348 threads; these being the minute seminal tubes. In an injected preparation the tubes may be traced as follows (Fig. 171): Each lobule is composed of convoluted fuhuli snnhiiferi (3), which anatomose mth one another: these as they emerge from the lobules become sti-aight, and form the vasu rerfa (4), about twenty in number. Entering the mediastinum, the vasa recta anastomose to form the rde testis (5), from which arise the rasa efferentia (6) ; and these, from twelve to fifteen in number, pierce the tunica albuginea to form the mi,i vasciihsi (7) of the globus major of the epididymis. The ducts are then aU coUected into one tube, which by its convolutions forms the body and globus minor of the epididymis, and ends in the vas deferens. The latter enters the abdomen through the ingmnal canal, and has been traced to its opening, upon the margin of the sinus pocularis of the prostate. Attached to the top of the testis, immediately in front of the globus major of the epididymis, may generally be found one or two little vesicles caUed the hydatids of Morr/agui, the remains of Miiller's duct; and in the ceUular tissue of the cord, immediately above the epidid^-mis and beneath the fimicular tunica vaginalis, IS seen a small white branching structure, the Orga7i of Giraldes, which is probably part of the remains of the Wolffian body of the foetus. Pelvic Visceea m the Female. [The organs removed from the pelvis are to be laid out upon the table with the rectum upwards ; this is to be cleaned, and, after it Has been exammed, is to be dissected from the uterus.] The Rectum (Fig. 174, 4) corresponds to that of the male but IS related anteriorly to the pouch of Douglass and vagina, instead of to the bladder and recto-vesical pouch. The description of the rectum will be found at page 333. [The preparation being reversed, the bladder and urethra are next to be d'ssected and examined. The peritoneum is to bo dissected up from the bladder and left attached to the uterus.] The Bladder (Fig. 174, 7) is wider transversely and narrower in Its antero-posterior diameter than in the male. It is firmly attu..hed behuHl to the neck of the uterus and to the front wall of he vagma ; the relation to the vesicula, seminales and vasa do erontn., being of course wanting. The ureters turn forwards 0^ e ch sKlo of the upper part of the yagi„a, to gain the ba,se of the Walder, running „bl,qu..ly for a short di.stanco in the ve.sico- vagn.al septum, then forwards, piercing the coats of the vise . Jo