DEEP DISSECTION OF ABDOMEN. 280 a figure-of-8 before they can pass into the tendon, thus almost com- pletely surrounding first the aorta and then the ossophagus. The right leaflet of the tendon is the largest. The pericardium is attached to the upper surface of the diaphragm, partly to the tendon and partly to the muscular fibres connected with the left leaflet, and aids in the upward fixation of the summit of the dome. Openings.—There are three large openings in the diaphragm, for the Aorta, the CEsophagus, and the Vena Cava; and small orifices in the crura for the splanchnic nerves, one in the left crus for the vena azygos minor, and one in the light crus for the vena azygos major, if this vessel does not pass through the aortic opening- The Aortic and CEsophagml openings are formed by the fibres of the crura. The anterior or oesophageal opening, which is slightly to the left side, is entirely muscular; but that for the aorta will be found upon dissection to be bounded by the internal tendinous fibres of the two crura, and usually by a fibrous arch between these. The aortic opening is strictly speaking behind the diaphragm, as it is completed posteriorly by the vertebral column. The opening for the Vena Cava is entii-ely tendinous. It is more or less quadrilateral {foramen, quadratmn), and is situated in the right division of the cordiform tendon. Through the aortic orifice pass the aorta, the vena azygos major, and the thoracic duct: through the aisophageal opening, the oeso- phagus with the two pneumogastric nerves; through the (■</(■(// opening, the vena cava inferior (which is firmly attached to the margins of the apertm-e), and also a branch of the phrenic nerve. The greater and lesser splanchnic nerves pierce the crus on each side, and the vena azygos minor passes through the left crus. The gangliated cord of the sympathetic is continued into the abdomen from the thorax beneath the ligamentum arcuatum internum. The costo-xiphoid space on each side, between the sternal and costal origins of the muscle, transmits the superior epigasti-ic vessels and some cellular tissue. It is sometimes the seat of a hernia. ^rf/o,i._The diaphragm is essentially a n\uscle of inspuatioii. It acts partly by the straightening of its curved fibres, so augmentmg the space between it and the lower part of the chest waU; and partly by elevating the ribs to which it is attached. Its tendon probably does not descend to any material degree, but it opposes a passive resistance to the upward pressui-e of the abdominal viscera dming the contraction of the abdominal muscles. The diaiihragm ia supplied bv the phrenic nerves from the cervical plexus, which, after traversing the thorax, pierce the fibres of the muscle and ai-o distributed principally on its under surface. Its arteries, the phrentc,