185 THE SEMILUNAR CARTILAGES. Fig. 91. ]iiMiiiitiou (internal rotation) of the leg wliich is permitted during flexion of the knee. If the lateral ligaments are now divided, it will be fonnd that the femur and tibia become more separated than before, showing that the object of the crucial ligaments is not simply to maintaia the articular sm-faces in apposition. It will also be seen that whilst rotation of the tibia outwards can now be carried to an exti-eme degree (so as to bring the crucial ligaments almost ■parallel), rotation inwards is immediately- checked by the tension of the anterior liga- ment, and it is thus that the tendency of the popliteus muscle to rotate the leg inwards is counterbalanced. The Transverse Ligament (Fig. 91, 4) is a small band connecting the anterior extremities of the two semilunar cartilages, and often not distinct. The Semilunar Cartilages (Fig. 91, 6, 7), which can be partly seen now, but will be full exposed by divicUng the crucial ligaments, are two fibro-cartilages interposed between the tibia and femur. They are triangular on section and present each two free siu-faces, superior and inferior, turned towards the femru- and tibia respectively; and an outer attached surface or base connected with the inner aspect of the capsule, and following the curvature of the outer border of the corresponding tuberosity of the tibia. They are fixed to the tibia partly by marginal fibres (coronary ligaments), derived from the capsule, partly by the direct attachment of their fibrous extremities to impressions in front of and behind the tibial spine • and are also connected to the intercondylar notch of the femur by fabrous bands, which join the crucial ligaments. They serve to deepen the tibial facets, and at the same time to form for each Fig, 91.-The right knee-joint laid open from the front, and dissected to show tlie interniil ligaments (from Wilson). 1. Cartilaginous surface of the lower extremity of tlie femur. 2. Anterior crucial ligament. S. Posterior (•ni<;ial ligament. 4. Transverse ligament. 5. Attaclmu.nt of the ape.x of tlu 7. ... „,,ij igauientum mncosum; the rest has hcen removed, u. Internal semilunar cartilage. External senn'lunar cartilage. Part of the ligamentum patellic turned down. Hursa situated bc'tween tlie liga- "X'lit; imtellie ami head of the tibia laid open. 10. Anterior superior tibio - libular ligament. 11. luterosseous membrane.