THE ARTERIES OF THE BRAIN. 619 The Arteries of the Brain (Fig. 294) are derived fi-om four great trunks—the two vertebral and the two internal carotid arteries. The Vertebral Artery (i) has been seen as a branch of the subclavian arteiy, and has been traced thi'ough the transverse pro- cesses of the cervical vertebrae to the atlas. The artery pierces the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament and the dura mater between the occiput and the atlas, and enters the skull through the foramen magnum by the side of the medulla oblongata. At the lower border of the pons Varolii the two vertebrals imite to form the Basilar Artery (6), which passes along the middle line of the pons to bifurcate at its anterior border into the right aud left posterior cerehral arteries (8). The Branches of the Vertebral Artery are :— 1. A small Posterior Spirnd artery (3), running down the poste- rior sm-face of the spinal cord, and separated by a small interval from its feUow of the opposite side. 2. A smaU Anterior Spinal artery (2), joining its fellow of the opposite side to form a mesial vessel running down the anterior sui'face of the spiaal cord. These spinal arteries supply the cord, and anastomose with the rami spinales of the vertebral, intercostal, lumbar, and sacral arteries. 3. A small Posterior Meningeal artery (4) to the dui-a mater. 4. The Posterior In ferior Cerebellar artery (5), passing backward to the posterior part of the inferior surface of the cerebellum, and anastomosing with the other cerebellar arteries. The Branches of the Basilar Artery are :— 1. The Anterior Inferior Cerebellar arteries, a pair of small vessels passing to the anterior part of the inferior surface of the cerebellum on each side, and anastomosing with the other cerebellar arteries. 2. Transverse arteries of the Pons, foui- or five on each side, supplying the pons Varolii. 3. The Auditory artery, arising with the ti-ansverse arteries but accompanying the auditory nerve into the temporal bone. 4. The Superior Cerebellar arteries (7), arising close to the bifui'- cation, and separated from the posterior cerebral arteries by the third pair of nerves. Each ai-tery winds around the crus cerebri, parallel to the fourth nerve, to reach the upper surface of the cere- bellum, whore it anastomoses with its fellow and with the inferior cerebellar arteries. It supplies the cerebellum and sends twigs to the optic lol)es aiid choroid i^lexus. 5. The Posterior Cerebral arteries (8), are the teiminal branches of the basilar trunk. Each artery winds around the cms cerebri,