78 MUSCLES OF THE THUMU. tendon to join the outer head of the flexor hrovis pollicis. The deep pahnar arch is buried in its fibres of origin, and emerges between it and the adjacent border of the adductor transversus. The Adductor Transversus Pollicis (Fig. 33, 6) arises from the narrow anterior surface of the lower two-thirds of the shaft of the middle metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb, and into the tendon of the extensor secundi internodii; the muscle foniiing a triangle with its base to the ulnar side. It necessarily covers the muscles m the first and second interosseous spaces (which may be seen m part at its anterior border), and will have to be divided to expose them. Of the muscles of the thumb, the abductor opponens and outer head of the flexor brevis pollicis are sup2'lied by the median, while the two adductors and the inner head of the flexor brevis polhcLS are supplied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve. , . ^ ^ The Deep Branch of the Ulnar Nerve (Fig. 22, 22) is to be traced out, and will be found to arise fi-om the ulnar ti-unk near the pisiform bone, and to pass with the profunda vessels around the ulnar side of the root of the unciform process and between the flexor brevis and the abductor minimi digiti, giving branches to these muscles and to the opponens. It then foiins an arch across the bases of the metacarpal bones, accompanj-ing the deep palmar arch, and supplies the two innermost Inmbricales, the seven mterossei muscles (palmar and dorsal), the obhque and transverse adductors, and the deep head of the flexor brevis poUicis. The Deep Palmar Arch (Fig. 31), the termination of the radial artery, commences in the first interosseous space ^mediately after passin- through the interval between the two heads of the abductor ndicis It may be traced, with its venaj coniites, runnmg m the fibres of origin of the adductor obhquus pollicis to emerge between the adjacent borders of this muscle and the adductor transversus ^°ThTdeep arch has a slight convexity towards the fingers and is- placed at he junction of the bases with the shafts of the metacarpa bones. It is completed by anastomosis with the deep branch of the- ulnar artery. Its branches arc as follows:— ... I Frinceps pollicis, a large branch of uncertain origm, sometmie arising froi L radial at the back of the abductor indicis, but us3fy on the palmar side of the nuiscle; it passes along the meta- bone of he thumb, and then bifurcates to supply bo h side 0? the thiab superficially. It frequently receives an anastomotic branch of the superficial pahnar arch.