187 T1BIO-FIB0LAR ARTICULATIONS. The Bursas in the ueighbom-hood of the knee ure as follows:—1. The stthcru7-eus bursa, which extends two inches or more above the jiatella, and is usually, but not always, continuous with the .synovial cavity. 2. The pop/iteits bursa, a jirolongation of synovial membrane which siuTounds the tendon of the popHteus, passing with it over the back of the external semilunar cartilage and of the iaiternal tuberosity of the tibia, and may establish a communi- cation with the superior tibio-fibular joint where the muscle crosses the posterior tibio-fibular ligament. 3. The gastrocnemius bursa, lying beneath the inner head of the gastrocnemius and the tendon of the semi-membranosus, and often named after the latter muscle. It sometimes communicates with the sjTiovial cavitj' (most fre- quently in male adults), probably in consequence of absorption of the capsule by long-continued pressiu'e against the back of the condyle. 4. The anterior semi-membnowsus bursa, between the tibial attachment of the tendon and the internal lateral ligament. 5. The prepatellar bnrsce (B. subcutanea, B. subfascialis, and B. subtendinosa (occasional)). 6. The infra-patellar bursa between the ligamentum patellas and the upper part of the tibial tubercle. 7. The hicqis bursa, separating the tendon of the muscle from the long external lato'al ligament. 8. The sartorius bursa, common to the tendons of the sartorius, semi-tendinosus and gracilis. This lies below the level of the joint. Occasional bm-sfe may also exist in front of the tubercle of the tibia and ligamentum patellte, and beneath the outer head of the gastrocnemius. TiBio-FiBULAB. Articulations. [The whole of the muscular fibres connected with the bones of the leg and foot must be removed, but the tendinous insertions about the foot should be kept to be examined with the ligaments.] The Superior tibio-fibular articulation (Fig. DO) is a simple ai-throdial joint, the synovial membrane of which is occasionally continuous with that of the knee through the medium of the popliteal bursa. The anterior and posterior (lo) ligaments are short bands connecting the anterior and posterior sm-faces of the head of the fibula with the outer tuberosity of the tibia, and forming a cai)sule. The joint is strengthened by the tendon of the biceps. Thf. Middle tibio-fibular articulation is formed by the iulerosseuus 'W<>w''''l' Of membrane, and is the great bond betwoon the .shafts of he bones of the leg. Its fibres run downwards from the tibia, to the hbula, and are attached to the sharp interosseous borders of