THE ABDOMINAL VISCERA. 297 Sympathetic Nerve.—The Ginu/h'ated Cords of the Sympathetic (Fig. 149, i) will be found on each side of the spinal column, and behind the vena cava upon the right side. A ganglion is situated opposite each vertebra, and gives off a number of branches, which may be divided into (1) those communicating with the ganglia above and below; (2) those communicating with the spinal nerves, which are often two in number, and accompany the lumbar arteries beneath the tendinous arches of the psoas; (3) branches to the plexuses upon the neighbouring arteries supplying the viscera and the vertebrae and bgaments. Some Ji/mphatic ylaiuh (Jumhar) may also be found sm-rounding the great vessels. They receive the lymphatics from the testis in the male, from the ovary and Fallopian tube in the female, from the Uiac and sacral glands, and from the ascending or descending colon. A few renal lymphatic glands are found above the renal vessels. The Vena Azygos Major may be seen lying close to the right side of the aorta, and communicating with two or more of the lumbar veins, and sometimes with the vena cava or right renal. It passes through the aortic opening. The Vena Azygos Minor may be seen to commence in the left lumbar veins or from the left renal, and to pass through the left cms of the diaphi'agm. Receptaculum Chyli.—By detaching the right crus of the diaphragm from the vertebrae, and if necessary, removing a piece of the aorta opposite the upper lumbar vertebrae, the receptaculum chyli, the dilated origin of the thoracic duct, will be seen lying between and behind the aorta and vena cava, opposite the second lumbar vertebra. It receives all the lymphatics and lacteals of the abdomen, and is continued upwards as the thoracic duct. The subject will now be turned for the dissection of the back, and the dissectors of the abdomen should occupj- the time with the examination of the viscera. The Structure op the Viscera of the Abdomen, [The stomach and intestines should be cleaned by allowin? a stream of water to jiass through them ; and the stomach, with portions of the small and large intestine, should bo distended with TOata'^]™^'^^^ ^ ^^"^-P^P®' Vovm.it of dissection of their The Stomach (Fig. 150) has been described (p. 267) as to form and relations.