THE PERINEUM. 208 visceral portion (recto-vesical fascia). It is now seen at its insertion into the side of the lower part of the rectum, and behind this into the central line of the perinseiun (where it meets its fellow of the opposite side in a median raphe), and into the anterior surface of the extremity of the coccyx. Its free anterior border runs by the side of the prostate; its posterior border is opposed to the anterior margin of the coccygeus. It is covered on its upper surface by the recto-vesical fascia, and on its lower surface by the ischio-rectal or anal fascia, which is derived from the inner sui-face of the obturator fascia. The levator ani supports the abdomino-pelvic viscera, and, when in couti-action, helps to compress them, and so takes a part in the expiilsion of their contents. It is also an extraordinary muscle of expiration, since it assists in forcing the viscera into the concavity of the diaphragm; and it may compress the prostatic veins, and so conduce to the erection of the penis and the expulsion of the prostatic secretion. It is doubtful whether it has any dii'ect influence upon the anal aperture either as a dilator or constrictor. It is supplied by the fourth sacral nerve. The Inferior Hsemorrhoidal Artery (Eig. 99, 13) arises fi-om the internal pudic artery under cover of the ischium, pierces the canal of Alcock, and takes a nearly transverse coui-se inwards to the anus and lower end of the rectum, where it anastomoses with the middle htemorrhoidal branch of the internal iliac and the superior heemorrhoidal branch of the inferior mesenteric. Ventt comitcs run with the artery, and join the pudic vein. The Inferior Hsemorrhoidal Nerve (Fig. 99, 13) is a branch of the internal pudic nerve, taking the same coui-se as the pudic nerve in the same sheath of fascia. In the ischio-rectal fossa it runs transversely, superficial to the inferior hsemorrhoidal vessels, and is distributed to the external sphincter and skin of the anus, giving a branch forward to join the superficial pemiteal nerves. Figs. 100 and 101.—The male perinoeum (from Maolise's Surgical Anatomy). Fig. 100.—A superficial dissection showing the vessels and nerves. Fig. 101.—A dissection of the muscles. A. Urethra. I- Gl"te"8 masimus. B. Accelerator uriuu3. K. Levator am. C. Central point of perinaaum. L. Trumgular ligament, D. Erector penis. 1. Superfacial penmeal vessel., and E. Transversus perineei. nei;\es. F Anus ^' Inferior hiemorrhoidal vessels g'. Tuber ischii. '""i H. Coccyx.