;^30 THE BUTTOCK. lip of the iliac crest; and from the fascia lata covering it ab(jve th<. gluteus maximus. The fibres converge to be inserted into thr- diagonal line of the great trochanter, extending fi-om its posteiior superior angle obliquely downwards and forwards. The anterior border of the gluteus medius is frequently unite-l with that of the minimus and with the ilio-trochanteiic band, whicli lies beneath it. The insertion of the gluteus medius is best seen when the muscle has been divided. A bursa will be foiuid m connexion with its tendon, separating it from the sui-face of the great trochanter aboye the diagonal line. [The gluteus medius is to be divided close to its origin without iniuring the gluteus minimus, the separation from which is marked by an artery T and the anterior borders of the muscles leaving been separated with the scalpel, the gluteus medius is to be turned down without injuring the vessels and nerves beneath.J The Gluteus Minimus (Fig. 60, 8) arises from the area bounded by the middle and inferior curved Hues, the upper part of the anterior margin of the great sciatic notch, and the anterior border of the ilium as far as the anterior inferior spine. It is rnserted into the anterior border of the great trochanter, _ .,.4.1 The two smaUer glutei, acting from their insertion, mchne the trunk laterally towards the same side, and aid also m flexion, extension, and rotation. If the pelvis be fixed, they act as abductors of the thigh and assist in the movements of flexion extension, and rotation of the limb, the anterior portions of both muscles rotating inwards and flexing, the posterior portions rota- ting outwards and extending. They are both supphed by the superior gluteal nerve. ,■>.•. 1 i 1 The Pyriformis (Fig. 60, 9) «'-'^''^ ^^^^ the fi-ont of the latera mass of the sacrum between the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th sacnxl foramina, as well as from the grooves external to the foramina, also from the upper part of the great sciatic notch, and often fi-om the great sacro-sciatic ligament; passing out of the foramen it ends in a round tendon, wluch crosses the tendon, of the obturator internus and gemelli, and is/»..r#<v? mto a distinct depres- sion at the posterior part of the upper margin of the great trochanter. The muscle is occasionally divided into two parts by the passage ot a portion of the great sciatic nerve through its fibre^. it is an external rotator and abductor of the thigh in the extended position and an abductor when the limb is flexed. It is supphrd by a special branch of the sacral nerves within the pelvis. ^,.1,0 The Obturator Internus and Gemelli (F,g. 60, ii).-Only the tendon of the obturator internus is now seen, the muscle arrs»,g