650 INTERIOK OF THE BRAIN. chiasma, tuber cinereum, infundibulum, coi'ijora albicantia, the upper surface of the crura cerebri, and the locus perforatus posti- cus (from before backwards). Its anterior houndary is formed by the anterior pillars of the fornix; the anterior commissure, crossing in front of these and visible in theii* angle of divergence; and the lamina cinerea. Posteriorly lie the posterior commissure, the pineal gland with its pedimcles, and the aqueduct of Sylvius. The Anterior commissure is a round bundle of white fibres which may be traced on either side into the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, and is joined in fi'ont by a commissm-al band between the two olfactory nerves. The Posterior commissure, also white, is a thinner band of fibres rimning transversely between the two optic thalami beneath the pineal body. Between the anterior and posterior commissures is seen the Middle or soft commissure, a flat grey band joining the two internal nuclei of the optic thalami. The third ventricle communicates with the two lateral ventricles by the foramen of Monro, and with the foui-th ventricle by the iter a tertio ad quartum ventricuJum or aqueduct of Sylvius, a narrow canal about half an inch in length, which passes beneath the pos- terior commissure, the pineal gland, and the corpora quadrigemina (Fig. 310, i6). The Thalamus Opticus (Fig. 307, 6) is now fuUy exposed as a large ovoid body, grey within, and covered by a thin layer of white matter {straiitm zonule) externally. It is placed behind and iatemal to the corpus striatum, and is continuous externally with the sub- stance of the hemisphere (Fig. 304). It forms part of the floor of the lateral ventricle, the external waU and roof of the descending horn of the same cavity, and the lateral wall of the third venti-icle. Its anterior extremity (in the lateral ventricle) presents a slight prominence, the anterior tubercle; its posterior extremity, within the lateral curve of the great ti-ansverse fissui-e, has another tubercular prominence, the indvinur or fosterior tubercle; its under sm-face partly rests upon the crus cerebri and the grey matter of the floor of the third ventricle, and is partly free, fonning the roof of the terminal portion of the middle horn. In the latter situation it has two projections, the external and internal yeuicnlate bodies, which he in contact with the upper surface of the uncinate gyrus, and are connected with the quadrigenunal bodies and optic tract. Its rela- tions to the anterior and middle commissiu-cs have been mentioned. A white band, the imieal stria, continuous witli the peduncle of the pineal gland, runs along the junction of its upper and inner sui-faces- By turning the brain on its side the optic tract may be readily traced to the under surface of the optic thalamus, and wiU be found