149 THE BACK OF THE LEG. TuK Back ok the Leg. [A vertical incision througli the centre of the remaining portion of skin on the back of the leg, joined by a short transverse cut at the heel, will permit the reflection of the skin to each side.] The External Saphenous Nerve (Fig. 68, 8) is formed by the junction of the communicans tibialis and fibularis, which branches pierce the deep fascia of the caK midway between the knee and the ankle. The nerve thus fonned runs along the outer side of the tendo AchilHs, to pass behind the external malleohis to the outer side of the foot and little toe. This nerve or the external popliteal gives off one or more external cutaneous branches to the outer side of the leg. A branch or two of the internal sajthenous nerve (7) may be fouud on the inner side of the back of the leg. The termination of the smaU sciatic nerve may also be seen at th& middle of the back of the leg. The External Saphenous Vein (Fig. 68, 6) arises from the outer side of the dorsal venous arch of the foot, and passes behind the external malleolus close to the external saphenous nerve, then, running up the centre of the leg, it pierces the deep fascia at the point where the communicans tibialis nerve emerges, or at the level of the popUteal space ; it has been already traced to the popliteal vein. It is often joined to the internal saphenous vein by a large branch which leaves it close to its termination. The External Deep Fascia of the leg is continuous with that of the thigh. It receives reinforcements from the hamstring muscles, and gives origin to the fibres of the tibialis anticus and extensor longus digitorum in front of the leg. It is adherent to the periosteum of the subcutaneous surface of the tibia, and from its deep sm-face pass two principal intermuscular septa, one in front of and one behind the peronei longus and brevis; besides a smaller septum between the extensor digitorum longus and the tibialis anticus. Beneath the gastrocnemius will be found deep fascial investments, one for the popUteus, mainly derived from the tendon of the semi-membranosus, the other, beneath the solous, for the flexor longus digitorum, tibialis posticus, and flexor longus hallucis. Near the ankle this subsoleal iutennuscular fascia and the anterior portion of the external deep fascia become continuous, and form the annular ligaments wliich bind down the foot tendons to tlic tibia and fibula. [The deep fascia of the leg is to bo removed, except near the maUeoh, where thickened portions passing on each side between that bone and the calcaneum, called the internal and external