THE CEKEBELLUM. 653 The Ceeebelltjm. The Cerebellum (Fig. 298, 28), or smaller braiii, lies beneath the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, and in the skull is separated from them by the tentorium cerebelli. It is of a darker colour than the cerebrimi, and its sm-face is divided by sulci into laminae instead of convolutions. It consists of two lateral hemispheres united by a median portion; and a horizontal fissure, which passes round the margin, divides the organ into an upper and a lower part. The Upper surface is flat, except in the middle, where there is a slight elevation called the superior vcrmiforvi process. A deep notch in the middle line in fi'ont lodges the corpora quadrige- mina, and a deeper notch or fuiTow behind receives the falx cerebelli. The sui'face presents a number of subdivisions. The jDarts of the superior vermiform process enumerated from before backwards are as follows :— (1) The liityulu, thi'ee or four cerebellar laminae prolonged over the valve of Vieussens; (2) the central lohe, at the fore part of the superior vermiform process; (3) the culmen monticuli; (4) the clivus monticuli; and (0) the folium cacuminis, a thin lamella boimding the horizontal fissure. On each side of the superior vermiform firocess are :—(1) The ala of the lobus centralis continued fi'om the central lobe ; (2) the lobus lunatus anterior continuous with the culmen monticuli; (3) the lobus lunatus posterior continuous with the clivus monticuli; (4) the postero-superior seniilunur lohe continuous with the folium caciuninis. The fissm'es separating these lobes from before back- wards are: — (1) the precentral; (2) the ^^o«<ce;/i?-«/! ; (3) the ■preclival; and (4) the postclival. The cerebellum is connected to the cerebrum and spinal cord by thi-ee peduncles or crm-a:—superior, middle and inferior. The sujierior can now be seen. The Bupen'or Peduncle (Eig. 308, 3) {jjrocessus a cerebello ad testem) is a broad flattened white band, which is connected below with the inferior vermifoi-m process, and passes upwards, forwards, and inwards to the con'csponding testis (inferior quadiigeminal bodj-). It fonns the superior lateral boundary of the foiu-th ventricle. The two processes are prolonged beneath the corpora quadrigemina to the optic thalami, their fibres decussating in their passage. The Valve of Vieussens (Fig. 307, 13) (Velum mcdullare unterius) is the thin layer of white nervous matter, stretched between the two superior peduncles of the cerebellum, and connected with the