THK EAH. 502 soft palate and uviila, and then rnns forward on the hard palate, supplj^ng it, and anastomosing with the naso-palatine artery in the anterior palatine canal. 2. The Vidian artery accompanies the nerve through the Vidian canal, and supplies the upper part of the pharynx and the Eustachian tube. 3. The pteryiio-palatine artery is very small, and runs backwards through the pterygo-palatiue can^l to supply the upper part of the pharynx, the Eustachian tube, and the sphenoidal sinus. 4. The siiperivr nasal or apheno-palatine artery enters the nose by the spheno-palatine foramen. It gives a naso-palatine branch, and smaller branches to the mucous membrane of the upper part of the cavity, which anastomose with the anterior and posterior ethmoidal branches of the ophthalmic artery. The naso-pxilutine branch runs down the septum of the nose with the naso-]ialatine nei-ve; it supplies the septum, and anastomoses with the artery of the septum fi-om the facial trunk, and with the descending palatine artery after passing through the foramen of Stenson in the anterior palatine canal. The veins correspond, and open into the internal maxillary vem and pterygoid plexus. The Otic Ganglion. rn the part is not too much decomposed, the otic ganglion may be exposed, fi-om within, on the side upon which the mternal ptery- goid muscle has not been cut away. The levator palati muscle and the Eustachian tube are to be carefully removed, when upon the inner surface of the pterygoid muscle wi l^e foimd the neije to that muscle, and this if ti-aced upwards will lead to the gaughon.J It has been described on p. 467. The Ear. The Meatus Auditorius Externus may be examined on the sections made to separate the anterior part of thc skull. with the pharynx, from the posterior segment (p. 475). It is a canal about n inch knd a quarter in length, directed inwards along the trans- verse axis of the cranium, narrowest in the niuMlo, curved in its course with the convexity upwards. It is .lo.ert ilioal y by the luembrana tympani and meu.brane o Shi-apnel . and owSg to the inclination of the axis of the membrane dow - wls and^orwards, the lower wall is longer than the upper, and