128 THE BUTTOCK. the inner aspect of tlie gluteus maximus, and by the side of the coccyx appear two small branches derived fi-oia the posteiior branches of the upper three sacral nerves. The ascending branches are derived from the lesser sciatic nerve and the perforating cutaneous branch of the sacral plexus, and tm-n round the lower border of the gluteus maximus, to supply the integument over the lower part of the buttock. [The portion of deep fascia covering the gluteus medius and seen in front of the gluteus maximus is to be cleaned, and then the gluteus maxhuus itseU, the fibres being put on the stretch by flexing and inverting the thigh, and the dissector beginning at the upper border of the muscle on the right, and its lower border on the left limb.] The Gluteus Maximus (Fig. 59, 2) arises from the rough triangle between the posterior thii'd of the crest of the ilium and the superior curved line on the dorsum ilii; fi'om the aponeiu'osis of the erector spinis, fi'om the lower part of the sacrum, and the side of the first thi'ee pieces of the coccyx; from the fascia coveiing the gliiteus medius, and by deep fibres from the posteiior surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, which wiU be seen when the muscle is diyided. The fibres run downwards and outwards, and the upper half of the muscle is inserted into the fascia lata (ilio- tibial band), the lower half being also atta.ched superficiaUy to the fascia, but deeply to the rough gluteal ridge leading fi-om the back of the trochanter major to the linea aspera of the femui-. The o-luteus maximus is one of the most important muscles of the lower extremity. Acting from the pelvis it is a powerful extensor and external rotator of the thigh, and a tensor of the fascia lata, and its lower fibres aid in adduction. Acting fi'om the feimu- it extends and rotates the trunk. It is siqiplied by the inferior gluteal nerve, a branch of the sacrfil plexus or of the small sciatic nerve. TThe oluteus is to be divided near its origin and turned down, when its attachment to the sacro-sciatic ligament above and the fascia below will be better seen. Some bmnches ot the glut«^^l artery at the upper, and of the sciatic at the lower part of the mulde must necessarily be divided, but the nerves going to its under surface from the small sciatic shoidd be preserved if possible.] Throe bursLV will be found in connection with the gluteus maxi- mus • one between the upper part of its tendon and the great ti'ochauter; a second between the tendon and the vastus externus;