DEEP DISSECTION OF ABDOMEN. 282 common iliacs. It is ensheathed by sub-peritoneal connective tissue, in whicli are lymphatic glands and more or less fat; and is closely invested by the solar and aortic sympathetic plexuses. It is covered in front by the liver, stomach, transverse colon, intestines, and peri- toneum, and, in more immediate contact, by (1) the pancreas, with the splenic vein near its upper border, (2) the left renal vein, (3) the transverse duodenum, and (4) the branches which spring from its anterior aspect. Behind are the bodies of the lumbar vertebra' and their ligaments, and the left lumbar veins. To its riyht is the right crus of the diaphragm, and the vena cava lies in close contact below, but is separated from it above by an angular interspace : and deeply placed between the upper part of the aorta and the right crus are the receptaculum chyli and thoracic duct, and the vena azygos major; the great splanchnic nerve may either run through the aortic opening or pierce the right crus. To the left are the left gangliated cord of the sympathetic, the left crus of the diaphi-agm, the splanchnic nerves, and, perhaps, the commencement of the vena azygos minor. Its point of bifurcation, though often in the middle line, and occasionaUy a little to the right side, is usually a Uttle below and to the left of the umbiHcus, above which pomt it may be compressed. . The Branches of the abdominal aorta are—1. Phrenic or dia- phragmatic. 2. Cceliac axis (dividing into gastiic, hepatic, and splenic). 3. Superior mesenteric. 4. Supra-renal or capsular. 5. Eenal. 6. Spermatic (ovarian in female). 7. Inferior mesen- teric. 8. Middle sacral. 9. Lumbar arteries. 10. Common ibacs. The Phrenic arteries (Fig. 143, 2) are two small branches, which arise close below the aortic opening in the diaphragm, either from the aorta or from the coeUac axis or other branches. Irom tlien Ficr. U2.-Deep dissection of thorax and abdomen (from Machse's Surgical " Anatomy). C. Left Subclavian vein. T. 1^1*f Jf" D. Ri^W Innominate vein. U. R.ght P~-l-,^^ ,,,,,,, E. Left Common Carotid. » • ^^'^ ^^^^ ureter P. Innominate artery. ^ ^^t'^.^,,! liiac artery, L. Thoracic Aorta. Left iuternal abdominal ring. M. ffisophagus. ^ abdomiual ring. N. Ensiform cartilage. ^ «^ ,„esenteric artery. 0. Left kidney. ^ 1 i,i.,e vein. P. U.nb,lKU«. J niac vein. Q. Abdominal Aorta. "