313 THE SUPRA-RENAL BODY. pyramids to the cortical substance, forming cortico-medullary arches between the cortex and bases of the Malpighian pj'ramids. Erom these arise the iidcrlobiilar ai'teries, which pass between segments of the cortical substance called pyramids of Ferrein (Fig. 156, c. t), and give off afferent arteries to the Malpighian bodies or yhrmeruli (Fig. 157, y). Each Malpighian body is enclosed in a capsuh at the extremity of a minute uriniferous tube (i), and consists of a capillary plexus with an arterial twig (or afferent vessel) entering, and a venous radicle (or efferent vessel) leaving it, and these bodies are arranged along the arteries like bunches of currants upon a stalk. The uriniferous tube (3) connected with the capsule is convoluted in the cortical substance, and a secondary intertubular plexus is formed around it bj^ the venous radicle which emerges from the Malpighian tuft. The tube then becomes suddenly smaller, and passes for a variable distance iato the pyi-amid as the looped tube of Henle (5—g); again curving upon itself it reaches the cortex, increases in size, and opens into the collecting tiihides which represent the axial elements of the pyramids of Ferrein (13, 14). The uriniferous tubes of the pjTamids of Maljiighi, formed by the collecting tubules, con- verge at their apices, and unite to form a smaller number of larger tubes, which finally empty themselves into the calices; from these the urine passes into the infundibula, and thence into the pelvis and ureter. Between the straight tubes of the medulla are numerous recui-rent arterial branches [a. r.) from the cortico-medullary arches, and these are reinforced by straight efferent vessels from some of the deeper glomeruli. The renal artery also supplies the fibrous capsule of the kidney with branches, which anastomose with the lumbar and j^hrenic arteries. The interlobular veins, after receiving the blood from the secondary plexus on the tubes, accompany the interlobular arteries, and unite in arches at the base of the pyramids, between which they pass as the straight veins, to emerge at the hilum and form the renal or emulgent vein. On the sui-face of the kidney may be seen small venous radicles forming, from their arrangement, what are known as the »S'<«rs of Verheyen {v. s). They receive blood from the capsule of the kidney, and pass inwards to join the venous arches. The Supra-Renal Body is enclosed in a fibrous capsule, and on section will be seen to consist of two parts, cortical and medullary, the former yellowish in colour, the latter dark brown and generally broken down in the centre by decomposition so as to form a cavity. It is abundantly supplied with arterial blood from the aorta and