SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIS. 321 liY peritoneum, both above and below, depends ujjon the distension of the viscus; since, in the contracted state the antero-inferior surface is in contact with the pubic bones, whilst in the distended condition it rises above the bone usually for a distance of two ruches or more, and lies against the posterior surface of the anterior abdominal muscles. Thus tajDping above the symphysis may generally be effected without injury to the serous membrane, but, as the peritoneal fold occasionally fails to rise, the operation is not free from danger. The depth of the recto-vesical pouch will simi- larly be found to vary, the peritoneum reaching nearer to the prostate when the bladder is empty than when it is full; conse- quently the operation of tapping by the rectum can be only safely undertaken when the bladder is distended. The average distance of the recto-vesical pouch fi'om the anus is 2^ inches wheji both rectum and bladder are empty, and 3i inches when the bladder is distended (Cripps). The left Ureter (Fig. 161, 12), descending from the kidney, is contained in the root of the posterior false ligament of the bladder (or in the root of the broad ligament in the female), and now can be traced beneath the peritoneum to its entrance into the fundus of the bladder, at a point below and beneath the posterior extremity of the vesicula seminalis. Its relations are described on p. 292. The left Vas Deferens (Fig. 161, 8) can be traced from the testicle, and has been seen to turn down into the pelvis after leaving the inguinal canal, hooking around the deep epigastric artery, and to the inner side of the external iliac artery. It is now seen to wind over the po.sterior part of the side of the bladder, crossing the outer side of the obliterated hypogastric artery, and to be continued beneath the peritoneum to the base of the bladder, where it passes to the inner side of the ureter above the point at which the latter pierces the bladder waU, and to the mesial side of the vesicula seminalis. It will be afterwards traced to the prostate. The Prostate Gland (Fig. 161, 17) is now seen in front of the bladder as the part lies on the table; but when the body is erect it is situated below the bladder, the neck of which corresponds to the enlarged base of the gland. Its long axis is vertical or inclined lightly forwards at its lower end. The apex touches the deep triangular ligament (6) ; the posterior wall is in contact with the termination of the second portion of the rectum (or, according to some auth(jrs, with the commencement of the third part of the gut) ; the aidrrior wall lies half an inch behind the lower half of the pubic symphysis, but is separated from it by a portion of its capsule, a plexus of veins, the pubo-prostatic hgaments, and the Y s