THE SUBMAXtLLAHY REGION. 460 two inclies in length. It runs forward upon the hyo-glossus and genio-glossus to open upon the summit of a papilla close to the frasnum linguas. It Ues above the hyijoglossal nerve, and at first below the lingual nerve, but afterwards passes beneath and above the latter. The Sublingual Gland (Eig. 224) is situated beneath the mucous membrane by the side of the tongue, and lies on the hyo-glossus and genio-glossus close to Wharton's duct, into which one of its ducts {dudas Riviiii) opens, the others {duds of Walther) open- ing into the mouth on the crescentic sublingual fold near the freenum (Fig. 249). It is related externally to the sublingual fossa on the mner surface of the lower jaw; internally to the hyo-glossus, genio- glossus, genio-hyoid, Wharton's duct, and the hypoglossal and lingual nerves; Mow to the mylo-hyoid; and above to the glosso- maxilkry reflection of mucous membrane. Its anterior extremity ■ reaches to the freenum and lies in contact with its fellow, and its posterior end touches the deep portion of the submaxillary gland. The apical (jland of Nuhn is a small gland lying under the mucous membrane of the under surface of the tongue near the tip. The Lingual Nerve (Fig. 225, i) (Gustatory of 5th) appears at the anterior border of the pterygoideus internus, where it lies against the pterygo-maxillary ligament, and afterwards runs between the jaw and the mucous membrane of the mouth to reach the hyo-glossus, upon which it is at first placed above Wharton s duct and the 12th nerve. Upon the hyo-glossus it crosses the duct and lies below it, but, if followed to the side of the tongue, wiU be found to pass again between the duct and the hyo-glossus. It is distributed to all the structures of the anterior part of the tongue, to the mucous membrane of the mouth beneath the tongue, to the gums, and to the sublingual gland. Branches of convnun.catwn pass across the hyo-glossus to the hjiioglossal nerve, and a little below the level of the trunk, opposite the deep portion of the sub- maxiUary gland, may be found a branch to the submaxillary ganglion. It is connected with the facial and glosso-pharyngeal nerves through the chorda tympuni (3), and has less important com- munications with the inferior dental nerve and the mylo-hyoiU branch of this. The Submaxillary ganglion (2) is of small size and lies upon the hyo-glossus below the lingual nerve. It has throe roo s, the senso'ry derived from the lingual; the motor from the facial (<tli by means of the chorda tympani, which is prolonged on the lingual