CAVITY OF TFE ABDOMEN. 247 distension. Tlie cfecum may usually be seen a little internal to the right anterior superior iliac spine, and a portion of the sigmoid flexure at the corresponding point on the opposite side. A very much distended bladder, or the pregnant uterus, would also be apparent. Eeg-ions of the Abdomen.—Por convenience of description the abdomen is divided into nine regions, by foiu' imaginary planes, two longitudinal and two ti-ansverse. Of these regions three are median, and are called respectively epigastric, umbilical, and hypo- gastric, in their order from above downwards, and the remaining six He three on each side, and are named hjqjochondriac, lumbar, and iHac or inguinal. So far all anatomists have been agreed for some centimes, but imfortunately even at the present day there is no universally accepted rule for the position of the subdividing planes, and consequently the epigastric, lumbar, or other region of one text-book may differ very widely in dimensions from that described in another. Under these circimistances it is doubtful whether it would not be better to abandon altogether the use of terms which have no jDrecise meaning. The following scheme of delimitation is perhaps the most convenient. The ujiper truiisverse plant' corresponds to the lowest point of the costal margin on each side, the lower plane to the anterior superior iliac spines. The intersecting JoiKjitudimd planes are drawn upwards, one on each side, from the pubic spine along the outer border of the rectus. The position of the viscera in relation to the regions so marked out may be formulated as follows: Beginning at the upper part, the liver will be found to occupy the right hypochondriac, the ei^igastric, and a small part of the left h;^T30chondriac regions, and may descend into the vipper part of the light lumbar region; passing to it from the umbiHcus will be seen the obliterated imibilical vein. Its anterior margin is sharp; its " vipper " surface, which may be divided into anterior, superior and right lateral faces, corresponds to the diaphragm and to the abdo- minal wall in the .sub-costal angle ; its visceral or " lower" surface looks backwards as well as downwards, and is in contact with the stomach, the commencement of the duodenum, the hepatic flexure of the colon and the right kidney; and its posterior surface will be afterwards seen to be adapted to the crura of the diaphragm, and to the oesophagus, vena cava, and the right suprarenal capsule. The lower end of the thoracic aorta lies behind the crura of the dia- phragm, opposite the intoiwal between the vena cava and oesophagus. 1'hG stomnd, will be seen in the epigastric region, with its greater cul de sac reaching into the left hypochondiium. By drawing this