238 THE ABDOMINAL WALL. Ihe abdominal muscles are swiipUvd by the lower six intercostal nerves, and by the ilio-bypogastric and ilio-inguinal branches of the first hunbar nerve (L'ig. 110). _ The Deep Epigastric Artery (Fig. 118), with its vense comites will be traced into the back of the rectus muscle, where the sheath is deficient, passing in front of the fold of Douglas. The muscle should be divided and the artery will be seen runmng towards the sternum, anastomosmg with the lumbar, lower inter- costal, and superior epigastric branch of the internal mammary artery in its course. _ . , The nerves piercing the rectus are the tei-minations of the lower intercostal nerves, which pass through it and its sheath to reach the surface near the middle line and supply the cutaneous area between the linea alba and linea semilunaris. The Fascia Transversalis is the membrane Immg the trans- versalis muscle, and is continuous with the fusda iHaca (covering the iliacus and psoas muscles) at the iliac crest and Pouparts ligament, and with the diaphragmatic fascia at the line of origin of this muscle. Opposite the point at which the external iliac vessels pass beneath Poupart's ligament it gives a process to strengthen L anterior wall of the femoral sheath, while the fascia iliaca pass s upon the ilio-psoas beneath the sheath but without aiding it. formation. (The sheath itself is a continuation of the subperitonea rstment If the extei.al iliac and other abdominal vessel.^ It is usually thin and transparent, and is sometimes difficult to demonstrate on account of its intimate connexion with the sub- Wtoneal tissue. At the internal abdominal ring the transversahs SL irprolonged over the elem'ents of the ^^^^^ infundibuliform fascia, in the manner described. Inteinally it i» a Sed to the ilio-pectineal line behind the conjoined tendon, and reaches the middle line along the back of the crest of the pubes. Anatomy or Inguinal Hernia. This will be the best time for examining the parts concerned in • rt.vnln To do this the muscles should be restored as S; as'Sle to thL natural positions, and the student will agaSf stiX the external abdominal ring. The spermatic cord with its vessels will be seen to pass through this openmg (the xnttcolumnar fascia having been previously ijmoved), and on t^fc ng ini the cord by turning the muscles aside in then- ord f wUl be found to disappear beneath the sharp arched boi-der of the Lnsversalis muscle. The tissue beneath this muscle is the fasaa