440 THE FACE. 4. The Superior Coronary (17) brancli, often arising in common with the iufei'ior coronary. It pierces the orbicularis oris, and runs beneath the mucous membrane of the lip not far from its free border to anastomose with the vessel of the opposite side. It gives a little branch to the septum of the nose {artery of the aeptnm). 0. The Lateral Nasal (19) branch, passing beneath the levator labii superioris alisque nasi to be distributed to the ala and side of the nose, anastomosing with the anterior ethmoidal artery. 6. Muscular branches fi'om the posterior side of the artery, anastomosing with the transverse facial, infra-orbital, buccal, and mental arteries. 7. The Angular artery (21), which is the terminal branch and anastomoses with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic. The Facial Vein (Fig. 195) commences at the inner angle of the orbit in the angular vein, formed by the frontal and supra- orbital veins. It then runs in a straight course obliquely across the face to the edge of the masseter, where it lies close to the outer side of the artery, and, after receiving the deep facial or anterior internal maxillary branch from the pterygoid region, and tiibutaries corresponding to the branches of the artery, passes into the neck. There it is joined by the inferior labial and facial communicating veins and forms the common facial, finally ending in the internal jugular vein. It is crossed by the zygomaticus major miiscle, but lies upon Stenson's duct, and in the neck is superficial to the submaxillary gland. Its tributaries do not run with the arterial branches correspond- ing to them in name. The superior labial vein collects a number of small branches from the upper lip and runs upwards to join the main vein near the wing of the nose, the inferior labial in like manner runs obliquely downwards and enters the facial trunk below the jaw. The deep facial joins the vein while it is crossmg the buccinator, and establishes a communication with the deep pterygoid plexus and through this with the cavernous sinus. The Transverse Facial Artery (Fig. 214, 12) arises from the temporal artery in the parotid gland, and appears on the face above the parotid duct, to run transversely inwards below the zygoma towards the infra-orbital region, anastomosing with the facial, buccal, and infra-orbital arteries. In a well-injected body the terminations of the infra-orbital and iuforior dental arteries will be found emerging at the infra-orbital and mental foramina, with branches of the 2nd and 3rd divisions of the. 5th nerve. The infra-orbital foramen will be found between the levator labii superioris and levator anguli oris, and the mental