252 CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. layer of the lesser omentum, and cover the posterior surface of the stomach; thence it is prolonged downwards to fonn the second layer of the great omentum as far as the lower edge of this fold, and upwards again as the thii-d layer ; after which it covers the front of the transverse colon and forms the upper layer of the transverse meso-colon. It then invests the anterior suiiace of the pancreas, and is reflected upon the lobus Spigelii and lohns caudatus of the liver, to reach the transverse fissm'e. It will be noticed that the lobus Spigelii is the only portion of the liver covered by the peritoneum of the lesser sac, and that the lobus caudatus coincides in position with the foramen of Winslow. The Foramen of Winslow (Figs. 127 and 128) is simply a kind of hour-glass constriction of the peritoneum dividing it into two parts, and is caused by the passage of the hepatic artery for- wards and upwards from the posterior abdominal wall to the transverse fissure. When the finger is in the foramen it will feel the following boundaries. In front, the lesser omentum, contammg the hepatic artery, portal vein, bile duct, and hepatic nerves and lymphatics ; hehind, the right crus of the diaphragm and the inferior vena cava; hdow, the hepatic artery (as it passes forwards from the aorta) and first part of the duodenum ; above, the lobus caudatus of the hver. ■ The two sacs of the peritoneum may be ti-aced together in the following way. Beginning at the hver, one layer covers the front and the other the back of the under surface of the organ, and the two meet at the transverse fissure to fonn the lesser omentum. Thev then separate to enclose the stomach, unitmg at its lower border to form the anterior double layer of the great omentum; reflected upon themselves, they next form the two posterior layers, which separate to enclose the transverse colon, and form the trans- verse meso-colon as they are prolonged to the spme The two layers now separate. The upper one (lesser sac) is prolonged over tiie pancreas to the under sui-f ace of the Hver ; the under layer (greater sac) covers the lower part of the duodenum m front; then foi-m. the mesentery, the recto-vesical pouch in the male, and the recto- vaginal and utero-vesical pouches in the female, and passes oyer the abdominal wall to the diaphi-agm, fi'om which it is reflected on to the liver, where the description commenced. On passing the hand into the lesser sac, its cavity is found to be shut off from that of the greater sac on the left side by a double lamina of peritoneum. This septal fold is the gastro-phnnm ^'^Thrperitoneum should now be traced horizoutaUy. Below