25 THE MEDIAN CEPHALIC VEIN. below the teres major, and is distributed to the inner and back jiavt of the arm. The Median Vein (Fig. 7, 14), arising in a plexus above the wrist, runs up the centre of the fore-arm, and after receiving a deep vein (profunda) divides just below the elbow into two branches, the median basilic and median cephalic, which pass obliquely inwards and outwards respectively, to assist in forming the basilic and cephalic veins. The profunda vein pierces the deep fascia near the bend of the elbow to join the median near its point of bifurcation, and forms a communication between the veiue cumitcs of the ulnar artery and the superficial veins, the direction of the cm-rent of blood varying in different subjects. The Anterior and Posterior Ulnar Veins (Fig. 7, 12) end on the inner side of the fore-arm in a single trunk, which unites with the median basilic to form the basilic vein. The Basilic Vein (Fig. 7, 10) runs up the inner side of the arm to about its middle, where it pierces the deep fascia and is con- tinued up into the axillary vein, receiving, at a variable pomt, the venee comites of the brachial artery. To the inner side of the basiUc vein, and about an inch above the condyle, is a lymphatic gland of small size, which receives lymph from the inner part of the hand and fore-arm. The Radial Vein (Fig. 7, 11) ascends on the outer side to join the median cephalic and form the Ceplialic Vein (5), which passes lip the outer side of the biceps, and then between the pectoralis major and the deltoid; it has already been traced to its ter- mination in the axillary vein close to the outer border of the first rib. The Median Basilic Vein (Fig. 8, B.) has important relations, since it Kes superficial to the brachial artery, and crosses over or imder the internal cutaneous nerve. It is usually selected for venesection on account of its size. Somo protection is afforded to the artery beneath by the interposition of the bicipital or semi-lunar fascia, a tendinous expansion from the biceps (Fig. 0, a). The Median Cephalic Vein is usually of smaller size and crosses the tendon of the biceps, (jIoso to the outer side of which, and beneath the vein, the Musculo-cutaneous Nerve (Fig. 7, g) pierces the fascia and divides into its anterior and posterior branches to the fore-aim. The two external cutaneous branches of the Musculo- sjiiral nerve appear in the line of the extei'nal intermuscular septum close to the insertion of the deltoid, the up])or and smaller one accompanying the cephalic vein to the upper and outer part of tlie front of the fore-arm : the lower and larger one running behind the