225 NERVES OF ABDOMINAL WALL. cord be traced up from the testis, it may be felt to disappear tbrougb iin opening known as tbe external abdominal ring, and even in a perfectly well-formed subject the fore-finger can be passed into the ring with tolerable facility, if pushed up fi'om below, carrying the scrotiun before it. In a subject with a tendency to hernia, the finger can be carried along the inguinal canal to the internal abdominal ling, or if a ruptiu-e actually exists, may be passed into the abdominal cavity, pushing the loose skin before it. In the female, the abdominal ring is usually of small size, and generally too contracted to admit the finger, but may be enlarged by a hernia. The projection above the pubes, which is covered with hair and known as the mans Veneris, is due simply to a development of fat in the superficial fascia at this point. The skin of the abdomen of women who have borne children is marked by numerous small white scars, the result of its over-distension during pregnancy. [In order to dissect the abdominal wall, it is necessary to distend the abdomen fully with air. To do this, a narrow knife should be thrust through the mubilicus into the peritoneal cavity, and a blowpipe shoiild be inserted. A circular incision should previously be made through the skin round the umbilicus, and a piece of whipcord tied round the blowpipe in the groove cut in the skin. When the abdomen has been fully distended, the blowpipe is to be withdi-awn, and the opening carefully secured. One incision is to be carried from the ensiform cartilage to the pubes (avoiding the umbilicus), and another along the crest of the ihum and from the anterior superior spine of the ilium horizontally to the middle Hue, joining the first at right angles. A thiixl at the level of the ensiform cartilage is to reach well back to the loms. _ The skin is then to be reflected from the median line by these incisions.] The Superficial Fascia in this region resembles that through- out the body, but is sometimes much loaded with fat; it is to be reflected by the same incisions as the skin, and in doing this there wni be found in it the cutaneous nerves. The Cutaneous Nerves (Fig. 110) consist of two sets, anterior and lateral. The anterior nerves, which are very small, will bo found in two rows, one close to the linea alba, and the other piercing the tendon of the external oblique near the outer border of the rectus ; the lateral branches will be found of greater length running along the fibres of the same muscle and also givino- a few small twigs backwards. Both sets are derived from the .".ix lower thoracic spmal nerves. About two inches behind the anteriorspine ot the ilmm and half an inch above the crest will bo found the