53 THE ULNAR ARTERY. profundus partly by tlie anterior interosseous branch of the median and partly by the ulnar nerve.. [By separating the flexor longus poUicis from the flexor profundus digitorum, the interosseous vessels and the anterior interosseous vessels aiid nerve, as well as the pronator quadratus muscle, will be displayed.] The tendons of the flexor sublimis and jirofundus are provided with bursal sheatlis common to the two; a carpal .sheath Ij'ing beneath the annular ligameiit and extending a little above and below it, and th'i/ital sheaths, one for each finger, Ij'ing within the theca, and extending more or less into the palm beyond the pro.Ki- mal side of the ligamentiim vaginale, especially in the case of the little finger, the digital sheath of which communicates with the carpal sheath. The bursal sheath of the thumb tendon commonly extends from above the annular ligament to the distal joint, but is occasionally divided into two jiarts by an interval opposite the metacarpal bone : in rare cases it communicates with the carpal sheaths of the finger tendons. The Pronator Quadratus (Fig. 21, 17) is the onlj' muscle in the arm whose fibres are transverse. It arises from the lower oblique line on the front of the ulna, below the origin of the flexor profundus, and is inserted into the whole of the front of the radius below the attachment of the flexor longus pollieis. This muscle is a powerfid pronator of the fore-arm, and is supplied by the anterior interosseous-branch of the median nerve. The Ulnar Artery (Fig. 21, 14) arises from the bifurcation of the brachial artery at the bend of the elbow, and at first takes an oblique com-se inwards beneath the median nerve (separated from it hj the deejj head of the pronator teres) and four of the muscles arising from the internal condjde (pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flexor sublimis digitorum). It lies first u}ion the insoition of the brachialis anticus, then upon the flexor profundus digitoriun, being there bound down by a process of deep fascia. The ulnar nerve is in internal relation to the artery for the lower two-thii-ds of the fore-arm, and in the lower third both artery and nerve lie comjiarativcly .superficially between the tendons of the flexor carpi ulnaris and (he flexor sublimis; they both rest on the flexor profundus digitorum mitil they pass forward to the hand, between the annular ligani(int and a process from tlio tendon of the flexor carpi idnaris. Two vena; comites are in close relation with the artery. Brandies.—1. The Anteriar ulnar recurrent (Fig. 21, to) will bo found between the brachialis anticus and ^jrouator teres, running