511 THE TONGUE. tei-minal structures {nrfjan of Oorti) m connexion with the scala media (Pig. 24(5). The Semicircular Canals are called external, superior, and posterior. Each presents an ampvUn at one extremity, and the non-aminiUated extremities of the posterior and superior canals join together, so that there are onh^ five vestibular openings for three canals. Within the bony tubes are the memhranous semicircular canals, which open into the uti-icle, and branches of the auditory nerve are distributed upon their ampullse. The membranous labyrinth contains a fluid called endolymph, and is separated from the bony labyrinth by a distinct space occupied by a fluid called perili/mpji. The STTPERFICI.4.L Anatomy of the ToNoirE. [The tongue and larynx, which were laid aside, are to be examined, without separating them from one another The branches of nerves and the several muscles, which were necessarily divided m removing the tongue, are to be identified before the examination of the organ itself is proceeded with.] The Tongue (Eig. 248) is connected with the os hyoides, styloid process, lower jaw, soft palate, and pharynx by its extriusic muscles (p. 462); and with the epiglottis and floor of the mouth by reflections of mucous membrane. It is supported below by the mylo-hyoids and anterior bellies of the digastrici, and is closely related to the subUngual, submaxillary and apical salivary glands Its dorsal surface is covered by papilte on its anterior two-thii-ds' and presents the prominences and orifices of numerous mucous glands and folhcles behind. The under surface is smooth, and presents at its point of junction with the floor of the mouth a shaiply defined central fold of mucous membrane, the frtenum and a number of apertures connected with saUvary glands The Papillae (Fig. 248) of the tongue" are of three kinds Circumvallate, Eungifoi-m, and Filiform or Conical niepap,lhe Hrmmvullafai (5) are fi-om eight to fifteen in number and are arranged in two oblique rows, which meet in tlie middle hue postenorly at a deep follicle, the foramc. rcvrum, represent- mg the upper extremity of the thyro-lingual duct (pa-e V^H] Each papilla consists of a central eminence, surrounded bv a fjssa and a circular outer wall, and is covered on its free surface with Hecondary papilla. The circimivallate papilla,, as we l V t i surface belnnd them are supplied by the glosso-phary,:: 1 to^ The papi la^fanfpformesavo scattered over the tongue but " , t:cularly at the tip and sides. They are globiUar in fcn-m,' a^lj ^ lave