THE PHARYNX. the tonsil between them. The anterior pillar extends vertically from the soft palate to the side of the tongue, and is formed by a fold of mucous membrane in which the palate-glossus muscle usuaUy lies. The posterior pillar passes obliquely backwards, to the posterior waU of the pharynx, and is formed by a similar fold occupied by the palato-pharyngeus muscle. The tonsil is generally much shi-unken in a subject which has arrived at this stage of dissection. [The pharynx and upper part of the oesophagus are to be carefully distended with cotton-wool or tow, and the preparation bemg placed with the face downwards is to be secm-ed over a smaU block with hooks, one set of which should draw the ojsophagus down and keep the pharynx tense. The vessels and nerves at the back ot the Ijharynx are to be examined before the pharyngeal structures are dissected.] The vessels and nerves now to be examined have all been seen in part from either the fi-ont or the side in previous dissections. They are now all seen from behind, and this must be borne m mind, or the description will be misunderstood. The section of the base of the skull is seldom precisely similar on the two sides, and it will generally be found advisable therefore to trace the parts first brought into view on one side; and the carotid artery, etc.. on the other, as in the illustration (Fig. 231). The Sympathetic Nerve (Fig. 231), with its superior and middle cervical gangba, is at once exposed, and some of its branches may be very conveniently traced. The Snperror cervical ganglion (12) has been described on ^'The Middle cervical gamjlion (18) is of smaU size, and is connected with the 5th and 6th spinal nerves. It lies upon the cui've of the inferior thyroid artery opposite the sixth cervical vertebra and o-ives off (1) thyroid branches upon the inferior thyroid artery, r2) the middle carddac nerve (Fig. 232). and two or three descending branches of convniimication, which pass in front of and behmd the first portion of the subclavian artery to form a loop known as the ansa Vicussenii, and join the inferior cervical ganglion. The Inferior cervical ganglion lies below the transverse process ot the last cervical vertebra and upon the neck of the fii-st nb and may be seen just above the first portion of the subclavian artexj between the origins of the vertebral and superior intercostal arterie., and behind the inferior thyroid artery. It receives conm,an rations from the 7th and 8th cervical nerves, and from the middle cervical and first thoracic ganglia. Its branches of distribuhon are two