547 THE LUNGS. united weight averages about 43 ounces, of which about 22 belong to the right hing, and their specific gravitj"- varies from 0-345 to 0-746. Each lung is divided into two priuci^Dal segraents bj' an oblique fissm-e, and the upper segment of the right is intersected bj^ a second fissure. These fissures extend down to the roots and subdivide the lungs into lobes, superior and inferior on the left side, and superior, middle and inferior on the right. The superior lobe of the right lung receives a large eparterial bronchial tube, which passes above the right pulmonary artery; all the other tubes of both lungs being hyparterial. The pulmonic plem-a is intimately adherent to the lung tissue, and is prolonged into the fissm-es. Each lung may be described as having a base, an apex, an ex- ternal or parietal siu-face, an internal or mediastinal sm-face, and anterior, posterior and inferior margins. The base is concave, with sharp margins, and rests upon the dia- phragm. The apex is rounded and projects only to a small extent above the oblique plane of the upper opening of the thorax, but it reaches about an inch and a half above the horizontal level of the fii'st costal cartilage, and Hes behind the subclavian vessels. The outer surface, moulded to the inner surface of the thoracic wall, is strongly convex and marked by oblique ridges corresponding to the intercostal spaces, and by a long oblique fissm-e running from a httle below the apex at the back to the lower part of the anterior border in the front. In the right lung the portion of the organ above this fissure is subdivided by a second deep fissui-e, passing almost horizontally forwards from the middle of the oblique fissm-e to the anterior margin. The inner surface may be divided into three portions, corresponding to the superior, middle and posterior mediastina, the middle mediastinal portion presenting an ii-re"-ular aperture, the hihim, for the passage of the structui-es of the root. In a lung which has been hardened in situ, each segment bears distinct impressions of the principal structiu-es contained within the con-esponding part of the interpleui-al space. This moulding is indicated in Pigs. 261 and 262, and conveys a valuable idea of the relations of the siu-face under consideration. The anterior margin of each lung is sharp and ovoriaps the heart and great vessels, reaching the mid-line of the sternum opposite the third costal cartilage, and meeting the opposite lung. That of the right lung then passes vertically downwards as low as the junction of the gladiolus with the ensiform cartilage- whUst that of the left lung passes outwards to the loft in a curved NN 2