11 THE AXILLA. abdominis. A slip, of some surgical interest, is often found near the axillary border of the muscle, connecting it witb the biceps or the latissimus dorsi. The Axilla. [If the arm is well drawn from the side the boundaries of the axilla or armpit will be readily seen, and if the skin has not been already removed from the posterior boimdary (latissimus dorsi), it should now be turned back. The strong deep fascia will be seen stretching from the pectoralis to the latissimus dorsi, forming the base of the conical space known as the axilla; and the student should again notice that it is impossible to thrust the finger deeply into the space so long as the fascia is stretched by the extension of the arm, but that when the arm is di-awn to the side the finger enters readily, and can feel the axillary artery (if injected), and the head of the humerus. The lateral cutaneous branches of the intercostal vessels and nerves are to be found behind the border of the pectoralis major, by carefully dividing the fascia parallel to the ribs.] Lateral Cutaneous Nerves and Vessels.—The first inter- costal nei-ve has no lateral branch, but six lateral branches from the upper nerves (from 2nd to 7th) will be found appearing at the side of the chest, between the digitations of the serratus magnus, and are accompanied by corresponding arterial twigs. Each lateral cuta- neous nerve, except that of the second, divides into anterior and posterior branches, which turn forwards to the pectoral region and backwards over the latissimus dorsi respectively. The lateral cutaneous branch of the second nerve passes down the inner side of the arm to join the lesser internal cutaneous nerve, or nerve of Wrisberg, and is hence called the iidercosto- hiimerrd nerve. The corresponding branch from the third nerve usually accompanies and joins this. These last must be found at once and are to be carefully preserved (Fig. 1, 24). [All the fat is to bo removed from tlie axilla, and the muscles cleaned so far as they are exposed. Care must also be taken not to injure the following structures whilst cleaning them:—the axillary vessels (particularly the vein) and the largo nerves, which are to the outer side of the spaxje ; the posterior thoracic nerve, which runs v(!rti(;ally upcjn th(i serratus magnus ncsar the posterior wall of thi' axilla, giving off a branch to each digitation of the muscle; the subscapular vessels at the outer border of the subsc-apularis; the long thoi'acic artery near the lower border of the pectoralis minor; and the three subscapular nerves which cross the space, passing froTn above downwards and outwards. Ouv. or two of the numerous lymphatic glands should also be preserved.]