598 THE BACK. The Levator Anguli Scapulae (Fig. 285, lo) ariaea from the IDOsterior tubercles on the transverse processes of the upper fom- cervical vertebras, and is inserted into the base of the scapula opposite the supraspinous fossa. The surface of this muscle has been seen in the posterior triangle of the neck, where it covers the splenius coUi. The Bhomboideus Minor (Fig. 285, ii) is a narrow muscle, arisivg from the ligamentum nuchfe, and fi-om the spines of the seventh cervical and first thoracic vertebras, and the supra- spinous ligament. It is inserted into the base of the scajsula opposite the spine. The Rhomboideus Major (Fig. 285, 12) arises from the spinous processes of the upper fom- or five thoracic vertebi'SB below the fii-st, and the supra-spinous ligaments. It is inserted into the base of the scapula opposite the infra-sinnous fossa, the middle fibres being usually attached to a fibrous arch which is unconnected with the bone. The three muscles of the second layer act upon the scapula, drawing it upwards and inwards towards the spine. Acting in association with other muscles they tend to rotate the scapula at the acromio-clavicular joint, and to make the glenoid cavitj- look downwards. The superficial cervical artery passes over the outer surface of the levator anguli scapulse, and the posterior scapular ai-tery r\ms beneath this muscle to reach the hinder margin of the scapula, between the attachments of the rhomboids and serratus magnus. The levator anguli scapulas is supplied by branches from the 3rd and 4th cervical nerves, the rhomboids by branches fi-om the oth cervical. [The posterior belly of the omo-hyoid is to be traced out to the scapiila, and the levator anguli scapula^, rhomboidei, and the upper half of the latissimus dorsi are then to be divided, when thesnipiila can be drawn away from the ribs, and the inner surface of the serratus magnus muscle, with a quantitj- of loose cellular tissue between it and the ribs, will be brought into vie\v. This muscle is to be divided by a vortical incision, and the clavicle being sawn through (if this has not already been done), the arm will be attached onlv by the vessels and nerves, which may be cut and the lunl^ reuioved. Between the rhomboidei and the serratus \vill be seen the posterior scapular artery, and more externally the supra- scapular artery runs above the ligament of the notch while the nerve passes beneath it. The attachment of the ouio-hyoid muscle to the upper border of the scapula will also be exposed. The dissector of the arm ^vill proceed at once with the dissection ot