THE ILEUM. 301 Bruiintr^s glands, peculiar to the upper f)art of the duodenum, are small racemose glands situated iu the submucous areolar tissue and opening into the intestine by minute ducts. To see these it is necessarj' to pin out a jiiece of duodenum with the mucous membrane downwards, and then carefully to dissect away the muscular coat. The Duodenum (Fig. loO) should be laid open along its free border, in order to see the common oj)ening of the bile and jDan- creatic ducts, which is marked by a papilla situated at the back of the second portion of the intestine, and about or below its middle (13). A second opening, the accessory duct of Suntorini, connected with the lesser pancreas, may sometimes be fomid above this part. A probe should be passed thi'ough the papilla into the common bile duct and along the pancreatic duct. The duodenum is the widest and thickest portion of the small intestine, and is characterised structm-ally by the presence of Brunner's glands in the mucous membrane of its upper segment. It contains also valvulse conniventes, villi, Lieberkiihnian tubes, and solitary follicles. [The jejimum and ileum (except a few inches to be left attached to the csecum) should be laid open along the line of attachment of the mesentery, in order to avoid damaging Peyer's patches, which are at the opposite side of the gut.] The Jej unum, including about two-fifths of the remaining small intestine, is remarkable for the large size of the valvulre conni' ventes, the gi-eat development of the villi, and the number of sohtary follicles, but has no special characteristic. Its nominal separation from the ileiim is arbitrary and useless. In the Ileum the valvulse conniventes wiU be found to diminish rapidly in size, and to be absent altogether at the lower part. A small tube or cord may sometimes be found in connection ynth. the gut, about thi-ee feet from the ileo-ctecal valve, extending towards the lunbilicus. This is called Meckel's diverticulum, and is a relic of the vitelline duct of the foetus. Peyer's patches {(jlandukK agmfnatce) are the special characteristic of this part of the intestine, but are occasionally found in the Jejunum; they are from twenty to thirty in number, but vary much ill size and are sometimes invisible. They wiU be recognised as shallow oval or rounded depressions, dotted on their surface, and of a lighter colour than the rest of the intestine, and are alwavs found on the part of the intestine farthest from the attachment of the mesentery. Each patch consists of a collection of h-m- phoid follicles.