THE PELVI«. 315 the bladder, forming the redo-vesical pouch; and thence over the back of the bladder to the abdominal wall. On each side of the recto-vesical pouch it overlies the obliterated hj'pogastric arteries and the ureters, and the folds so formed are called the posterior false ligaments of the bladder. Passing from the side of the bladder to the pelvis it forms the lateral false ligaments; and the portion reaching to the back of the abdominal wall over the uj-achus is known as the superior false ligament of the bladder. Thus the false liga- ments of the bladder, five in number, are all formed by peritoneum. In the Female (Pig. 125) the peritoneum passes from the rectum to the posterior wall of the vagina, about an inch telow its attach- ment to the cervix uteri, forming the recto-vaginal pouch of Douglas a.nd posterior ligaments of the uterus (Fig. 129), thence over the body of the utenis, and from the fi'ont of the cervix to the bladder, forming the utero-vesical pouch. On each side of the uterus it is stretched across the pelvis, forming the broad ligament of the uterus, which contains the round ligament in front, the ovary and its liga- ment behind, the Fallopian tube above, and a quantity of vessels, connective tissue, and unstriped muscular fibre. The false ligaments of the bladder are the same as in the male, but are less distinctly marked; and the reflection of jjeritoneum from the bladder to the uterus in fi'ont has been named the w jifcj'io?'ligament of the uterus. [The peritoneum is to be stripped off the upper part and sides of the bladder, bat the recto-vesical pouch is not to be interfez'ed with at present. By scraping away a little fat v/ith the handle of the knife the pelvic fascia wiU be brought into view, but to examine it from the outside thoroughly the following dissection must be made. One dissector holding the pelvis fii-mly, the other is to clear away the remains of the adductor muscles on the left side of the pubes so as to expose the obturator exteruus muscle, which must then be carefully removed. Beneath the muscle will be found the branches of the obturator artery, forming a circle around the foramen and lying upon the obturator membrane, which gives passage to both obturator artery and nerve at its upper part. On removing the obturator membrane, the fibres of the obtm-ator in tern us muscle will be brought into view. With the .saw a horizontal cut is now to be made from the upper margin of the obtui-ator foramen into the cotyloid cavity, and a similar one at the lower margin of the obturator foramen, the extremities of the two cuts being about an inch apart in the bottom of the cavity. These are to be joined bv a vertical cut with the chisel, and the piece of bone bavin"- been loosened with that instrument, can bo removed with the boiie-for- ceps. With the chisel and bone-forceps the margins of the obturator foramen may then be cut away so as to leave only a rino- of bone. The obtui-ator internus being now fully exposed, should bo carefully detached from the adjacent structures, and may then