THE SOLE OF THE FOOT. 160 In the description the terms superficial, deep, &c., necessai-ily refer to the position of the parts as seen in the dissection, and not to that which they would hold if the body were in the upright position. The Plantar Fascia (Fig. 79, 2) closely resembles the fascia of the palm, and is divisible into three portions. The central, which is the strongest, is attached to the under surf ace of the gi-eat tuberosity of the OS calcis, but, as it passes forwards, expands to nearly the entire width of the foot. It splits into five portions opposite the heads of the metatarsal bones, and at tliis point distmct transverse fibres will be seen passing across the foot, beneath the longitudinal fibres. The five processes are attached to the sides of the proximal phalanx, and to the sheath of the flexor tendons of each toe, and between them pass the several digital vessels and nerves. A superficial transverse lujament, like the fascia of Gerdy m the hand, may be seen in the skin of the web of the toes, passing over the digital vessels and nerves, and becoming continuous with the fascia of the toes and dorsum of the foot. The central portion of the fascia gives origin to muscular fibres by its deep surface, and also by two intermuscular septa, which wiU subsequently be seen on each side of the flexor brevis digitorum. The lateral portions of the plantar fascia are much thmner than that in the centre, and mainly cover the muscles of the great and little toes on the inner and outer sides of the foot, but there is u strong band on the outer side running fi-om the outer tubercle of the calcaneum to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. ■pig, 76.—The front of the leg (from Madise's Surgical Anatomy). A. Tibialis anticus. E. Fibula, a. Its tendon. . F. Peroneus longus. B Extensor longus digitorum. G. Peroneus brevis. , • Tf7tp,,^onR ° K. Extensor brevis digitorum. C; Extensor longus polUois. L. Anterior Tibial artery and nerv c. Its tendon. Fig. 77.—Superficial dissection of the sole of the foot (Maclise). K n 1 H. Flexor brevis pollicis. A. Calcaneum. 1 ■ i„. " ™ . ,„ r,-„,.;,, I. Lumbricales. IbduotoSimi digiti. L. External PlanUr artei-y ^ ^'^^^^L. M. L= Plantar artery and F. Flexor longus digitorum. nerve. G. Flexor longus pollicis. p;g_ 78.—Deep dissection of the sole of the toot (Maclise). H. Metatlal bone of great toe. L. gxtenm^^^^^^^^^