589 ARTICULATIONS OF THE RIBS. and (2) those connecting the ribs with the transverse processes (costo-transverse). 1. The Costo-vertebral ligaments are Anterior, Capsular, and Inter-articular. The Anterior Costo-vertebral or Stellate Ligament (Fig. 280, 2) consists of tkree short fasciculi, which radiate from the anterior sm-face of the head of the rib. The superior fasciculus passes to the vertebra above ; the middle fasciculus to the inter- vertebral substance; the inferior fasciculus to the vertebra below. The whole hgameut is closely connected with the anterior common ligament of the vertebra?. In the case of the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ribs, which articulate each with a single vertebra, the stellate Ligament is attached principally to that vertebra, but sends a few fibres to the vertebra above. The Capsular Iiigament is a thin layer of fibres surrounding the articulation where the anterior ligament is wanting. The Interarticular Ligament (Fig. 280, 4) is seen by re- moving the stellate ligament, and is a short band passing between the lidge on the head of the rib and the intervertebral substance, and dividiag the articulation into two parts, each with a separate sijnovial memhrane. It is absent fi'om the articulations of the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ribs, which have each a single sj'novial membrane. 2. The Costo-ti-ansverse ligaments are Anterior, Posterior, and Middle. The Anterior Costo-transverse Ligament (Fig. 280, 3) is attached to a rough ridge on the upper border of the neck of each of the ribs, except in the case of the first, and ascends to the lower border of the transverse process of the vertebra above. It separates the anterior from the posterior division of the intercostal nerves. The Posterior Costo-transverse Ligament (Fig. 281, 4) is a short thick band passing outwards from the apex of the transverse process of the vertebra to the rough non-articular portion of the tubercle of the rib (Fig. 282, 5). [In order to see the middle costo-transverse ligament, it will be necessary to make a horizontal section through the transv erse process of a vertebra and the neck of the corresponding rib, when the short ligament will Ijo found between the two.] The Middle Costo-transverse Ligament (Fig. 282, 4) consi.sts of short strong fibres, passing Ijetwoen the posterior sm-face of the neck of the rib and the anterior surface of the corresponding trans- Verse process. \