THE LIVER. 307 cava and the ductus venosus. It will be described with the posterior surface. The Lohns caiidatus (17) is a small ' tail' of liver substance wliich connects the lobus Sjiigelii with the right lobe proper, and lies behind the transverse fissui'e. It forms the upper boundarj^ of the foramen of Winslow, and is covered by the peritoneiim connecting the greater with the lesser sac. The hft luhe is on the opposite side of the longitudinal fissure. It presents a rounded prominence corresponding to the lesser omentum, the tiiher omentale (2), and around this, nearer the marginal border, a concavitj% the gastrin impressiuii (22) which is continuous with the gastric area upon the imder surface of the lobus quadratus, and with a roimded amuphac/eal notch (3), on the posterior border for the abdominal portion of the oesophagus. [The vessels entering the transverse fissure should be defined, and the fibrous tissue around them (capsule of GHsson) removed. The riyht and left hepatic ducts will be found to emerge from the corresponding lobes and to unite in the common hepatic duct, which is about two inches long; this is afterwards joined by the cystic duct from the gall-bladder and forms the common bile duct (ductus communis choledochus), a tube nearly three inches long, which should be traced into the duodenum.] The posterior surface consists of (1) a smaU portion of the left lobe, together with its aisophageal notch near the termination of the longitudijial fissui-e; (2) the greater part of the fissure for the ductus reuosus; (3) nearly the whole of the lobus Spigelii; (4) the fissure for the vena cava, with, perhaps, a iMnticulus or little bridge of hepatic substance crossing the fissure behind the vessel; (5) the portion of the righ t lole proper which Kes between the layers of the coronary ligam'ent and in direct contact with the diaphragm. It IS here that an important anastomosis occurs between the phrenic and hepatic vessels. The Lobus Spigelii'^ is an oblong lobe bounded below and in front by the transverse fissure, on the left by the fissm-e for the ductus venosus, and on the right by the fissure for the vena cava; and is connected inferiorly with the right lobe proper by the lobus candutus. Only its lower border belongs to the inferior sur- face ; the rest, looking directly backwards, presents a vertical aortic impression, and is separated from the bodies of the 10th and 11th thoracic vertebrae by the diaphragm and the thoracic aorta It is the only part of the liver that is covered by'the peritoneum of the lesser sac. ri^ sS-" - •