437 THE PAROTID GLAND. jaw, between the symiihysis and the mental foramen. Its fibres run upwards and inwards to tho lower lip, some crossing the midfUo line and decussating with those of the opposite muscle. A median triangular interval is left between the two over the chin. It is a depressor of the lower liji. The Levator Menti (Pig. 213, 14) is a triangular muscle placed internally to the depressor of the lower lip, arising fi-om the incisive fossa of the lower jaw and running downwards and forwards to be inserted into the skin of the chin. It is best dissected by everting the lower lip and removing the mucous membrane. It is an elevator of the chin and lower lip. AU the muscles of the face are supplied by the facial nerve. In health the muscles of the two sides of the face antagonise one another, and an equilibrium is unconsciously maintained; but should the nerve of one side be divided, or become paralysed from any cause, the balance of power will be destroyed, and the face is at once cb-awn to the healthy side by the preponderating muscles. The Parotid Gland is the largest of the salivary glands, and is placed in front of the ear. Its superficial part overlaps the masseter muscle, reaching as high as the zygoma and as far back as the mastoid process, and below, it is separated from the submaxillary gland by the stylo-maxillary ligament. An anterior lobe, more or less detached fi-om the rest, lies upon the masseter and is known as the socia parotidis. The deep portion presents three processes; one occupies the posterior part of the glenoid fossa (glenoid lobe), the second accompanies the internal maxillary artery beneath the lower jaw (pterygoid lobe), and the third passes backwards beneath the sterno-mastoid, and reaches the root of the styloid process and the deep vessels and nerves of the neck (carotid lobe). The duct of Stensou (ductus Stenonis) is about 3 inches in length. It arises from tho anterior part of the gland below the socia parotidis, and receiving a small duct from the latter passes transversely across the masseter, and tm-ns sharply round in front of this muscle to open into the mouth through the buccinator muscle, opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. Immediately below tho duct is the buccal branch of tho facial nerve, and above it the transverse facial artery. The gland is traversed by the external carotid artery which gives off its two terminal branches (temporal and iutornal maxillary), as well as some parotid and masseteric twigs in its •substance; by the transverse facial artery; by the tomporo- inaxiUaiy vein; and by the pes aiiserinus of the facial nerve branch"r/r^'^'^'r""^ "'7' ""''^ and a branch of the great auricular nerve (cervical plexus) supplies the