554 THE THORAX. the heart, by drawing the organ ui^wards; and the right and left pulmonary veins pass outwards from the back of the left auricle to join the roots of the lungs. The Cavities of the heart are to be opened in situ, and in the order in which the blood enters them. [The right auricle is to be opened by one incision from the superior to the inferior vena cava, and another at right angles to it into the auricular appendage.] Right Auricle (Fig. 264, i).—The interior of the auricle consists of a main cavity, the atrium or sinus venosus, and the diverticulum of the auricular appendage. It is smooth internally, except on its anterior wall and in the appendix, where the muscular fibres form prominent bands, for the most part running parallel to each other like the teeth of a comb, and hence called musculi pedinati. The endocardium, or lining membrane, is seen to be continuous with the lining membrane of the veins. The large openings into the right auricle are those of the superior vena cava (3), entering at the upper and anterior part; the inferior vena cava (4), entering at the lower and back part; and the coronary sinus (7), lying between the inferior caved and the auricuJo-ventri- cular (9) openings and below the Eustachian valve. The foramina Thehesii are numerous small openings which are foimd in the wall of the auricle, corresponding to the anterior cardiac veins and the vena3 cordis minimse. Similar but still smaller apertui-es may be found in the other cavities. The tubercle of Loiuer is a projection occasionally found in the wall of the aiuicle, between the superior and inferior venae oavoB. It depends upon a subserous deposit of fat. The coronary valve (8) (valve of Thebesias) is a thin imperfect endocardial fold at the orifice of the coronary sinus. The Eustachian valve (6) is a semilunar fold placed in fi-ont and to the left of the opening of the vena cava inferior, extending between this orifice and the lower border of the anniilxxs ovalis unmediately above the opening of the coronary sinus. In the fcetus it du-ects the cuiTcnt of blood from the inferior vena cava thi-ough the foramen ovale, but in the adult is generally oribriform and very imperfect. The fissa ovalis and nnnulus ovalis (5) are also remains of fcetal structui'es, found on the inner wall of the right auricle. The annulus oralis is a muscular ring suiTOunding the shallow fossa ovalis, and representing the margin of the foramen ovale of the fcetus. The fossa ovalis is a thin membranous portion of tue