REMOVAL OF THE BRAIN. 366 the right lateral sinus. It is foi-med by a splitting of the dura mater, and its canal is triangular in section, and traversed by small tendinous cords {clwrdcK WilUsii). It receives superior cerebral, diploic, memngeal, and pericranial veins (through the paiietal foramina); the orifices of its tributaries all pointing from behmd forwards, i.e., in the opposite direction to the current of blood m the sinus itself. [The dura mater is to be divided longitudinally on each side of the sinus and turned down. By this means the subdural space mil be opened, and the arachnoid membrane will be seen reflected over the pia mater covering the brain. By slightly separating the two hemispheres of the brain with the handle of the knife, the iaU cerebri wiU be exposed, and must be detached from the crista galii of the ethmoid bone.] Removal of the Brain.—The head being tilted a Kttle back- wards, the anterior lobes of the cerebrum are to be raised, when the Olfactory nerves and bulbs (1st pair) wiU probably be detached with them from the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, or if not, they can be readily displaced with the handle of the knife. The Optic Nerves (2nd pah") of large size, will be seen close to the aatenor cHnoid processes, and should be divided, when the Internal Carotid Ai-teries will be brought into view, and must also be cut, together with the infundihuhtm attached to the idtuitary hochj in the middle line. The 3rd pair {mutores uculorum) will be seen piercmg the dura mater behind and a little external to the carotid arteries and behind th^ anterior clinoid process, and after dividing these, the tentorium cerebelli wiU be brought into view, with the slender 4th nerve {patheticus vel trochlmris) on each side, at the pomt ot tHe decussation between its free and attached borders, a little behind and external to the posterior clinoid process. The tentorium is to be divided on each side by carrying the knife backwards and out- wards, parallel to the margin of the petrous bone, and the 4th pair will be cut at the same time. The tentoiium having been turned aside, the remaining cranial nerves will be exposed, and must be cut, in their numerical order. The 5th pair {trifarial) will be ound to be composed each of two roots, the larger and suporior one bemg chiefly sensory, and the deeper, which is anterior at its ongm, chiefly motor in function. The 6th pair {abdaceutcs) lie nearer the median line below the posterior clinoid processes. The /th or facial, and the 8th or auditory, the latter behind and below the former and connected with it by a band of fibres called tlie pars intermedia, are seen on each side entering the mtei-nal auditory