499 MECKEL'S GANGLION, nasal bone in its passage from the orbit to the face; in its course, it gives a branch to the septiun, before emerging between the nasal bone and the superior lateral cartilage, and is accompanied by the anterior ethmoidal artery. Dissection or Meckel's Ganglion, etc. Before beginning this dissection, the student should ascertain the position of the spheno-palatine foramen (Pig. 239, e), opposite to which the spheno-palatine ganglion is placed, and through which the spheno-palatine vessels and naso-palatine nerve enter the nose. It wiU be found in the post-meatal region, immediately behind and a little above the posterior end of the middle turbinate bone. It is closed by mucous membrane in the recent state. [The mucous membrane Uning the vertical plate of the palate bone is to be removed, without injuring the underlying vessels and nerves passmg through the spheno-palatine foramen. It must also be taken away from the back of the floor of the nasal fossa, and h-om the roof of the mouth behind the level of the posterior dental toramen, m domg which the terminal branches of the descendino- palatine nerve wiU be exposed, and may be traced forward to thS hard palate and backwards to the soft palate. The hard palate is next to be chipped away behind the level of the posterior palatine toiamen; the descending palatme nerves and vessels may then be easily exposed by cutting away with the chisel the thin plate of bone covei-mg them, m a hue between the spheno-palatine foramen and the posterior palatine foramen. By foUowing up the descendino: palatme nerve, Meckel's ganglion wiU be fouml Vposite if the f^T'^- ^^^y P^rts of the body of the sphenoid and other bones sui-rouncHng the space in which the ganghon lies, two branches may be traced'up from the gaTiglion to the superior maxillary nerve, and the Vidian nerve may perhaS be followed backwards through the VicUan canal.] ^ Pei^aps The Spheno-palatine or Meckel's Ganglion (Pig -m ^) a minute pinkish body situated in the spheno-maxillary'fossa opposite the spheno-palatine foramen. Its vrotor and s^p^at/^Hic oots are denved fi^om the Vidian nerve, formed by the j'lmction of the great superficial petrosal branch of the facial with the ereat deep petrosal of the carotid plexus; its sensor,/ root is formed by the spheno-palatme nerves wliich pass downwards from the superior maxillary nerve, and some of which run behind the ganglion to form the palatine nerves. fe<^"guon to The Branches (Pig. 241) of the ganglion are ascending, de- scending, internal, and posterior. 1. The ascnuliu!j branches arc two or three of very small size, KK 2