THE FACIAL NERVE. 441 foramen beneath the depressor anguli oris. The frontal and supra- orbital arteries shotdd also be traced, if the scalp has not already been fully dissected {r. p. 3(51). The Transverse Facial Vein terminates in the temporal or temporo-maxillary vein. The Lymphatics of the face cannot be demonstrated in the com-se of an ordinary dissection, but some small glands (pre- auricular) may be seen in the fascia covering the parotid gland. They di-ain the cheek and lateral frontal region, while the mid- frontal region and the greater part of the face are drained by the suh-maxiUary glands, which lie beneath the angle of the jaw. The lymphatics of the parieto-occipital region end in the mastoid and sub-occipital glands, which Ke a short distance below the superior cm-ved line of the occipital bone and its continuation on to the temporal bone. [The skin being removed fi-om the opposite side of the face in the same way as above directed, a dissection is to be made of the nerves alone, all other tissues being sacrificed for that purpose. To find the facial nerve, the best way is to cut transversely into the parotid gland about half an inch below the zygoma, and to dissect carefolly to some depth until some large branch of the nerve, which passes through its substance, is reached. One having been found, it is to be followed carefully backwards and forwards, when it will lead to other branches; and the parotid gland is to be removed piecemeal to show the ramifications of the nerve, which are then to be traced as far as possible towards the median line.] The Facial or Seventh Nerve (Fig. 215, 17) leaves the skull at the stylo-mastoid foramen, and gives off immediately the posterior auricular, dic/astric, and stylo-hyoid branches. The posterior uurindar nerve (13) winds below the meatus to the back of the ear and communicates with the great auricular nerve (23). It divides into an auricular branch, which supplies the posterior and sometimes the superior am-icular muscle, and an occipital branch, which suppUes the posterior belly of the occipito- frontalis and unites with the small occipital nerve. The difjastric and stylo-hyoid verves (21) supply the posterior belly of the digastricus and the stylo-hyoid. A branch from the digastric nerve perforates the digastric muscle and communicates with the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and the stylo-hyoid nerve communicates with the sympathetic on the external carotid. Passing forwards deeply in the parotid gland, the facial nerve divides into two large portions, the temporo-facial (22) and the cervico-farial (ig), from which numerous branches arise, causiuo by their interlacement the appearance termed the pes anserinus or