THE INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. 455 extending beneath the malar process to anastomose with the infra- orbital arterj'. It gives off the posterior superior dental artery, which enters one of the foramina on the posterior surface of the superior maxilla, runs in the bone, supplying it and the molar teeth, and giving off twigs to the antrum, gums, and buccinator. The [nfra-orbital Artery (4) may be seen running into the back part of the spheno-maxillary fissui'e to reach the infra-orbital canal. It gives anterior dental branches to the incisors, canine, and bicuspids, and emerges at the infra-orbital foramen upon the face, where it supplies muscles and integument, and anastomoses with the alveolar, facial, and transverse facial arteries. The Internal Maxillary Vein receives branches corresponding to those of the artery, and between the muscles foi-ms the pterygoid plexus, which communicates with the facial vein by the deep facial rein, and with the ophthalmic vein and the cavernous sinus by means of the veins coming from the orbit, and through the foramen Jacerum medium. The internal maxillary vein finally enters the parotid gland, to join the temporal vein and form the temporo- maxillaiy vein. \ The Inferior Maxillary Nerve (Figs. 223 and 224) (3i-d\ division of oth), emerges from the foramen ovale, lying in front of the middle meningeal vessels and external to the otic ganglion. After giving off the nerve to the internal pterygoid and a small recurrent branch, which passes thi'ough the foramen spinosum with the middle meningeal artery and supplies the mastoid ceUs and great vnng of the sphenoid, the trunk breaks up into anterior motor and posterior sensory divisions, each of which, however, contains both motor and sensory fibres. The Motor Division (Fig. 223) is of small size. It is placed externally to the sensory portion, and is distributed to the muscles of mastication, running with the corresponding branches of the mternal maxiUary artery. Its branches are, anterior and pos- terror temporal (4 & 5), masseteric (9), external ptery,,oid and I'urral (8). I J.I ^ ■The temporal branches run outwards and upwards in the temporal muscle and supply it. A third temporal branch is occasionally present. The masseterir branch passes over the sigmoid notch to enter the deep surface of the muscle, and supplies articular branches to the temporo-maxillary articulation. The nerve to the external pterygoid passes between the two heads, giving a branch to each. Lastly the hnccal nerve, the only branch that is not motor IS very large and distinct, and commonly arises with the anterior deep temporal. It enters the muscle, supplying sensory filament