171 THE FASCIA OF THE LEG. the first and second toes. The oater division (17) supplies the outer side of the third toe, both sides of the fourth, and the inner side of the fifth toe, and gives a communicating- branch to the external saphenous nerve. In some cases its area of distribution is encroached upon by the latter. The External Saphenous Nerve (Fig. 86, 21) winds around the external malleolus from the back of the leg, and is distributed to the outer side of the little toe, or occasionally to both sides of the little toe and half the next, joining the musculo-ciitaneous nerve. The Anterior Tibial Nerve (Fig. 86, 16) runs beneath the annular ligament and to the outer side of the dorsaUs pedis artery, after giving off an urtlculuf branch to the ankle, and an cxkrnal branch beneath the extensor brevis digitorum to supply it and the tarsal and tarso-metatarsal articulations; it often presents a pseudo- ganglionic enlargement due to tliickening of its sheath. The teriiiinaJ branch receives a branch of communication from the inner di vision of the musculo-cutaneous, and is then prolonged upon the first dorsal interosseous muscle ; it ends by bifurcation into two digital branches to the adjacent sides of the first and second toes, sometimes also supplying the first and second dorsal interossei. The Internal Saphenous Nerve Hes in front of the internal malleolus with the internal saphenous vein, which it accompanies. It may be traced along the inner side of the foot, as far as the ball of the great toe. The Fascia of the Leg is dense and white, and is attached to the subcutaneous sm-face of the tibia on the inner side and to the anterior and posterior external borders of the fibula on the outer side, forming intermuscular septa between the peronei longus and brevis and the adjacent muscles. It gives origin to muscular fibres at the upper part of the leg, where it should therefore bo allowed to remain undisturbed; but the rest shoidd be removed, except a thickened band over the ankle joint, the (interior annular lii/amcnt (Fig. 76). The anterior annular ligament consists of two parts, one passing from the tibia to the fibula, and having a separate compartment lined with a synovial sheath for the tibialis anticus tendon, while the rest of the structures pass beneath it; the other being attached externally to the upper surface of the os calcis in front of the calcaneo-astragalar interosseous ligament, and reaching internally, by two more or loss distinct bands, the inner malleolus and the inner row of tarsal bones. This latter portion has tbree compartments lined by synovial sheaths, for (1) the tibialis anticus, (2) extensor longus hallucis, and (Ij) extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius; the anterior tibial vessels and nerve pass beneath