636 THE EXTERIOR OF THE BRAIN. line drawn from this towards the preoccipital notch at the base of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, cutting the arbitrary line running backwards from the angle of the Sylvian fissure. Its internal surface is represented by the quadrate lobule on the mesial surface of the hemisphere. Its external surface is subdivided by two sulci, the intra-paiietal aud the superior post-central, into three segments, the ascending parietal convolution, the supra-parietal lobule, and the infra- parietal lobule. The Intra-jmrietal sulcus commences above the posterior limb of the fissm-e of Sylvius, and runs upwards parallel to the lower part of the Eolandic fissure {{lars ascendms inferior or inferior post-central), then bends backwards and courses in a dii-ection nearly parallel to the longitudinal fissirre into the occipital lobe, between the first and second annectant convolutions Q-ars Jiorizontalis). The Superior Post-central sulcus may be regarded as a continua- tion upwards of the ascending portion of the last, but is often separated from it by a convolution, It runs parallel to the upper half of the Eolandic fissm-e nearly to the longitudinal fissure. The Asctndimj jiarietal convolutiuii is parallel to the ascending frontal convolution. It is bounded in fi-ont by the Eolandic fissui-e, and behind by the superior post-central sulcus and the ascending portion of the intra-parietal sulcus. The Huperior parietal convolution or Superior-parietal lobule lies above the longitudinal portion of the intra-paiietal sulcus, between the superior post-central and external parieto-occipital fissures. It is continuous below the latter with the first annectant convolu- tion, and at the longitudinal fissure with the quadiute lobule on the mesial surface of the hemisphere. The Inferior parietal lobule lies below the longitudinal portion of the intra-panetal sulcus, and behind its ascending portion. Three fisstu-es terminate m it below: the posterior branch of the fissure of Sylvius in front, the paratkl or superior temporo-sphiuoidal fissm-e in the middle, and the u,ferxor temporo occipital (2nd temporal) sulcus behind: and around each of these arches a convolution : the supra-marginal over the byivian fissure, the angular convolution over the parallel fissme anil the vost-parietal over the inferior temporo-occipital. Ihe lattei convolution is continuous with the second and third annectant ^The Temporo-Sphenoidal or Temporal Lobe occupies the midcUe fossa of the cranium. It lies below the fissme of bylvius and the imaginary line connecting the angle of the latter with the parieto-occipibal boundary line, and it is separated fi-om the lower