THE THIGH. 101 that its relation to the upper border of the pelvis and surrounding parts may be clearly appreciated during the movements of the limb. The positions of the gluteal and sciatic vessels where thej^ escape from the pelvis may be found hy drawing two lines from the posteiior superior iliac spine to the top of the posterior border of the great trochanter and to the tuber ischii respectively. The gluteal artery will be found at the junction of the upper and middle thirds of the first, and the sciatic artery at the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the second. The head of the femur may be felt behind the trochanter when the limb is rotated inwards, and in a very thin subject it may be detected in front when the finger is thrust deeply into Scarpa's triangle. The great sciatic nerve lies midway between the great trochanter and the ischial tuberosity, and to the inner side of the acetabular margin. The position of the hip joint may be defined by drawing down- wards a line an inch long at right angles to the middle of Poupart's ligament. The fi-ee extremity of this liiie corresponds to the head of the femiu' immediately below the middle of the border of the acetabulum. The cundijles of the femur, the adductor tubercle above the inner tuberosity, and the patella are to be examined, and it shordd be noticed how large a part of the articular end of the femur is uncovered by the patella when the knee is flexed, while during extension two-thirds of the articular sui-face of the patella is above the femoral trochlea. The lifjamentum patelke and its attachment to the tibia are to be noticed, and the finger should be carried along the subcutaneous surface of the tibia, down to the ankle. The hva-l of the fibula is readily felt behind and below the outer tuber- osity of the tibia. The hand canied to the back of the joint will recognise the outer and inner hamstrings attached to the fibula and to the tibia, and when the knee is flexed may sink into the popUteal space behind the joint. The external popliteal iierre lies on the umer side of the biceps tendon and then passes behind the head of the fibula to wind around the neck, where it bifurcates. The lower fourth of the fibula is subcutaneous and terminates in the prominent external malleolus, behind which the perone((l tendons can bo felt. On the inner side, the inner malleolus lies anterior to and higher up than the outer; and behind its border will be felt the large tendon of the tibialis posticus, external to which is the tendon of the flcror liingus digit„runi. In the living subject the pulsation of the posterior tibial artery mny usTially be felt inunodiately external