ISO KNEE-JOINT. second toe ■ the 3rd nnd 4tli into the outer sides of the third and foLLTth toes. A portion of the 4th is very conspicuous m the dissection of the sole. » The three phtrdar i>derossei (Fig. 88) arise from the inner sides of the tHrd fourth, and fifth metatarsal bones, and are n, verted mto the correspondiDg sides of the first phalanges of the same toes and into the extensor tendons. They thus act as adductors towards the second toe. The principal uses of both dorsal and plantar mterossei are however, as in the hand, to flex the proximal and extend the middle and ungual phalanges. They are supj^led hj the deep branch of the external plantar nerve, except those m the foui-th space, which receive a branch from the superficial part of the nerve. The Knee-Joint. The knee is an example of a modified gingljmius or hinge-joint. The hinge movement between the femur and the tibia takes place around a shifting transverse axis through the femoral condyle, and is complicated, at the end of extension and at the ^eg-- flexion, by a slight rotation around a vertical axis passing through thJmildle of the outer facet of the tibia. During Aexion, the relaxation of the ligaments permits also movements of pronation and supination of the leg around a vertical axis passing through the inner tubercle of the tibial spine. Its synovial membrane .s the most extensive in the body. The knee-joint has in front the patella and l^g;--^;-\i;f with the expansion of the extensor muscles and the fascial band. Intexiat and external patellar ligaments) which help to form . cluk BeMnd are the popliteal --^f\r\''"TT J Z Tanches, some lymphatic glands -^h ^^^^^ t articular artery runs between the exter. al semi-lunai caitila.e the external lateral ligaments. _ -u cpmi-ten- The knee is flexed by the biceps, dinosus gracilis, sartorius, popliteus, gastrocnemius, and plantaiu. irs^i;-'«^ by the quadriceps extensor. PronaUon is fected > leml-membranosus, semi-te.dinosus graciUs. sartonus and popliteus; and supination by the biceps only.