INTRODUCTION. 4 should be seen in what way those effects are modified by changes of position in the other joints concerned. The muscles may act: (1) as joint motors causing various altera- tions in the position of the bones (flexion, extension, abduction, adduction, rotation inwards and outwards, &c.); (2) as dilators or constrictors of the various apertures of the body—mouth, anus, palpebral fissui-e, &c.; (3) as cUlators or constrictors of the thoracic and abdomino-pelvic cavities; (4) as, motors of soft parts—skin, mucous and synovial membranes, &c.; (5) as tensors of deep fascite, as in the thigh; thus probably aiding the circulation m the muscles. The influence of gravitation upon muscular action is very considerable. In certain cases movements of flexion involve a predominant exertion of the extensor muscles, and vice versa. Thus in bending forward the body at the hips while in the standing position, the movement having been initiated by the flexors the extensors come into play to restrain and regulate it: <.e., to lower the trunk to the degree and at the rate required. The AETEEIES of a subject are usually mjected, and it is impossible to follow out all the minute branches without tlds assist- ance ; but an opportunity should be taken by the advanced student to repeat his dissection upon an uninjected subject, m which the appearance of the parts more closely resembles that of the hvmg ^°The VEINS may be divided into superficial and deep, the foi-mer runnin- in the superficial fascia, the latter accompanying the arteries^ The two sets of vessels are united by commmncatmg branches. Nearly aU the arteries of the limbs are accompanied by pahed veins {vencl ccutes), the exceptions to this rvde bemg the commol femoral and the upper part of the axillary arteries ^ Se head and neck the veins are usuaUy smgle, and sometmies do not lie in close relation with the arteries. _ The LYMPHATICS as a rule accompany the vems, and like the latter form two groups, superficial and deep, which mter- coinmunicate through apertiu-es in the deep fascia. ?S main triuiks of the NEEVES and their principal branches are IX oUowed out, but their minute ramifications requu-e Ire thtlndlaboiu.fortheirdissection than a student cun usually afford to bestow upon them. , . • r.f , pu-t of Iris duty, and will be thrown away unless he at the same