3 INTRODUCTION. decomiDosed, the epidermis or cuticle is easily sejiarated, but it should be carefully preserved during the dissection, as it prevents the subjacent parts from drying. lu removing the skin, the first incisions should be made at once through its whole thickness, and a corner being held with the forceps, the knife is to be carried with a sweeping movement beneath it, the edge being towards the skin and the back to the fascia, which should be left smooth and unifoi-m. The under surface of skin neatly reflected is white, and the tissue beneath it more or less yellow. The SUPEEFICIAL FASCIA consists of loose areolar tissue containing more or less fat. It contains the superficial blood- vessels, nerves, and lymphatics, and may in some situations be divided into two layers. The DEEP FASCIA is a more or less dense fibrous structm-e, usually white and glistening in aj)pearance, lying beneath the superficial fascia, closely investing the musculature of the liinbs, and sending inwards deep intei-muscular processes or septa, some of which are strongly attached to the bones. It forms sheaths for the muscles, and gives attachment to muscular fibres. In some parts it may be subdivided into superficial and deeper laminae, as in the neck and thigh. In cleaning MUSCLES, it is essential that the fibres shoirld be made tense by moving the limb or applying the hooks. A muscle should invariably be cleaned along its fibres, the dissector beginning at one edge and advancing steadily to the other, and thus reflecting a complete layer of fascia; the knife being held with the back to the muscle, to avoid injury to it. The attachments of a muscle (origin and insertion) should always be most carefully followed out, and studied on the separate bones; but it is important also to clean the fascia fi-om the whole length of the muscle, or it will soon look dirty. A muscle should be divided, when necessary, midway between its origin and insertion, so that these important points may be preserved for further reference. The action of the various muscles may be roughly but very usefully investigated in the course of dissection. As a rule, the eifect of the contraction of a nuiscle, upon any' articulation over which it passes, may be estimated by ascertaining what movements at that joint apiiroximate the origin and insertion of the muscle; but where the connection of a muscle witli a puUoy or sesamoid bone leads to an alteration in the course of its long axis, the calculation must be made from the point at which tlie line of action is so changed. Where a muscle passes over more than one joint, its effects upon each articulation must be tested separately, and it 15 2