463 THE LINGUAL ARTERY. Wharton's duct. On the dvep or inner side are the genio-glossus, the inferior lingualis, the origin of the middle constrictor, the lingual artery with its veu£8 comites, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and the stylo-hj'oid ligament. The hyo-glossi draw the tongue downwards and backwards into the floor of the mouth. One hyo-glossus contracting alone, di-aws the side of the tongue downwards and inclines the whole organ towards the side from which the muscle acts. It is supplied by the hypoglossal nerve. The Stylo-Glossus (Fig. 226, 9) arises from near the tip of the styloid process and from the stylo-maxillary ligament, and passmg obUquely forwards and downwards, reaches the side of the tongue, into which it is inserted, the fibres blending with those of the hyo-glossus behind, and with the inferior Hngualis beyond the anterior border of the hyo-glossus. The stylo-glossi raise the margins of the tongue and draw the organ upwards and backwards, retracting it into the mouth when It hasbeenprotinided, and assisting the hyo-glossus and the anterior fibres of the genio-glossus. One muscle acting singly would retract the tongue and draw it towards the cheek of the same side It is supplied by the hypoglossal nerve. The Stylo-Pharyngeus (Eig. 226, 11) ar/.6. from the root of the styloid process on its inner side, and passes downward to disappear between the superior and middle constrictors of the pharynx opposite the hyoKl bone. Its insertiou into the posterior border 'oi he thyroid cartilage and into the pharynx will be seen in the cUssection of that region* (jx 484). The stylo-pharyngeus is supplied by the glosso-pharjTigeal nerve which IS seen ^ndmg round its posterior border. more or less obliterated.] ungual artery are The Lingual Artery (Fig. 227) has been seen in its first stao-p between its origin from the external carotid to the posterit bo^dS t.«., that the muscle which ariseH hi^hLt f lerfpH .^'"'^'n" "''^ insertions, ordero the origin from above clownwa-ds i s X ^2^^;, , stylo-Klossus. l'"aryngeus, stylo-hyoid, aiul