CAVITY OV THE NOSE. 496 body; opening into it is tlio aperture of the posterior ethinoidul colls. (Tlie spheno-palatine foramen which uiiens into the meatus in the skeleton is here covered in Ly the mucous membrane.) (Fig. 239, h.) . The Middle Meatus, of considerable length, presents antenorl\- and close to the attachment of the tui'binate bone, the opening of the uifundibiilum, common Fig. 239, to the frontal sinus and anterior ethmoidal cells; and a little below this the orifice of the anfeiTim. A second antral apertiu-e, corre.spond- ing to the gap in the skeleton behind the micifonn process of the ethmoid, is sometimes present, but is usually covered in by mucous mem- brane. (Fig. 239, !J.) The Inferior Mtutus, the largest, contains a single opening, that of the nasal duct, about half an inch behind the anterior end of the turbinate bone; this aperture is very small and may be either cii-cular or slit-bke. (Fig. -39^ 0 The reyiou of the atriwn is qrrite smooth, and hned with a mucous membrane bearing ciliated epithehum, except m the vestibular portion near the nostx-il, where the sm-face has the character o skin and is beset with bristly hairs. Its waU is Fig. 239.-The outer wall of the nasal fossa in the skeleton (from Wilson) 1. Frontal bone. 2. Nasal bone. 3 Crista galli of the ethmoid. 4. Cribriform plate of the ethmoid. 5'. Part of the sphenoidal sinus. 6. Basilar portion of the sphenoid bone. 7. 7. Palatine process of the superior maxillary bone. 8. Nasal spine. 9. Palatine process of the palate bone. a. Superior turbinate bone. h. Superior meatus. . c. A probe jnissed into the posterior ethmoidal cells. d. Opening of the sphenoidal smus into the superior mpatus. Spheno-palatine foramen. Middle tm'biuate bone. n. Middle meatus. A probe passed into the mfimdi- bulum leading from the frontal sinus and anterior ethmoidal cells; the triangular aperture immediately above the latter is the opening of the antrum. Inferior turbinate bone. k. Inferior meatus. /. A probe passed up the nasftl duct. I. Internal pterygoid plate. (. Its hamular process. ; External pterygoid plate. ,. Root of the pterygoid process, I Posterior paltvtine forainnia.