THE INTERIOR OF THE BRAIN. 640 runs down-wai-ds and forwards to join the calcarine fissure near its middle. The Marginal Couvo/utiuns lie between the calloso-marginal fissure and the margin of the longitudinal fissure. They are subdivided by many secondary fissures (the most constant of which, the sulcus marginalis, subdivides the middle of the gyrus into superior and inferior jDarts), and about an inch and a half of their posterior extremity, partly cut off by a vertical fissure, coitc- sponds to the ascending frontal and parietal gjTi of the outer surface, and is sometimes termed the paracentral lobule. The Gyrus formcatus (Convolution of the Corpus Callosum) arches around the rostrum, genu, body and splenium of the corpus caUosum, and is continuous behind with the quadrate lobule and the upper limb of the posterior end of the uncinate gyrus. It is separated from the marginal convolutions by the calloso-marginal fissure. This and the uncinate gyi'us together form, around the corpus callosum and crus cerebri, a kind of ellipse {limbic lobe), which is complete except at one point, opposite the anterior perforated spot. The Quadrate lobule, representing the inner surface of the parietal lobe, lies between the terminal portion of the calloso-marginal fissure and the internal parieto-occipital fissure, and is continuous below with the hinder part of the fornicate gyi'us. The Cuneate lobule is a wedge-shaped group of convolutions between the parieto-occipital and calcarine fissm-es. Thk Intekior of the Brain. [A slice of brain substance about an inch thick is to be taken from the top of the right hemisphere, the knife being camed through the calloso-margmal sulcus; the centriun ovale mmus will thus be exposed.] The name Cerium. Ovale is given to the white substance of the cerebrum as seen on horizontal sections at different levels. It appears as a white mass of somewhat oval shape surroimded by the plicated grey matter of the convolutions. It is dotted by mnmte red or dark points, the punda vascnlosa, corresponding to divided blood vessels. ^ TBy slicing off one hemisphere a little above the level of the fl poiDUs callofum, a side view of the upper part of the opposite ■ SShe^^wm be obtained, but the convolutions of the inner^ smTcS can be thus only very imperfectly obBervf • T^^^^ ™ of the upper parts of both hemispheres a little above the level ot the corpus callosum displays the centrum ovale majus.]