Y 2 THE INTERNAL TLTAC ARTERY. 823 surface of the ujiper part of the vagina, to form the recto-vaginal pouch, and is then refleeteJ over the body of the uterus to forni the utero-vesical pouch. The recto-vesical fascia gives coverings to the rectum and vagina Ihis should be defined, and the latter canal may be laid open alono- the side to study the position of the us uteri. The bladder, urethra, and other pelvic organs in the female are described on p. 343, ct aeq. _ [The viscera of the pelvis being drawn down to the left the internal ihac vessels and sacral plexus of the.right side can be exammed ; the position of many of them on the feft side having been previously, as far as possible, ascertained. Opportunity m f The Internal lliac Artery (Fig. 162, 4) is a branch of the common diac, arising opposite the lumbo-sacral articulation, and immecbately passing into the pelvis. It is usually about an inch to an inch and a half long, and is smaller than the external iHac. In the oetus It is proportionally much larger, as the hypcnjastrir a^ier^i, the direct continuation of the common iliac in size and direction, passed forwards over the bladder to the mnbilicus • but this IS now converted into a fibrous cord, which however is per;ious for a short cUstance, and thus gives branches to the bladder The mternal ihac is crossed at its origin by the ureter, and closely covered by the peritoneum in front; behind it are the internal iliac vein, the sacrum and the lumbo-sacral cord, and in the female th ovary rests m a depression (fossa ovarica) between the artery and Lil f °' ^'^^ sacro-sciatic noteh ^ divides mto anterior and postenor trunks, which give branches to the viscera and to the inside and outside of the pelvis Branches (Fig 162).-From the anterior division are given oft' hiee visceral and three parietal branches; from the t^osterior division three parietal branches. posteiioi Antcriar Dinhum. Visceral f Superior vesical. „ . , ^, , , brandies ^"ferior vesical. P'"-'etul f Obturator. ( Middle hiemorrhnidal h™nclies. "1 "n'e- \ nciatio. j Uterine ) additional infemal,. Tliov„„; 1 ' Vaginal . in« to tl.e I'ontcritir Ih'risli,!,. Parietal branches. [ Illo-Uimbar. [ Lateral saoral.