THE SPERMATIC CORD. 243 Occasionally, however, this obliteration does not occur, and the tunica vaginalis remains continuous with the peritoneum. In that case the hernia descends at once into the tunica vaginalis and lies in contact with the testis, and being the consequence of a congenital defect it is termed iviKjenitid hernia (Fig. 121). fnfuniilc or mrystcd lierniu exists when only a jmrtial obliteration of the peritoneal tube has taken place, the tunica vaginalis being left larger than usual and extending upwards, towards or into the inguinal canal. Should a hernia descend, it passes down behind this portion of the tunica vaginalis, and there are then three layers of serous membrane in front of that covering the intestine, two being formed by the tunica vaginalis and one by the peritoneal sac (Fig. 122). The Spermatic Cord may now be examined, and will be found to consist of (1) the oas deferens or duct of the testicle, together %Yith the deferential branch of the superior vesical artery and the deferential veins with lymphatics; (2) the spermatic artery ^vith its compHcated plexus of veins and the testicular lymphatics- (a) the spermatic plexus of nerves ; (4) the internal cremaster, small bauds of uustriped muscular fibre, probably the relics of the lateral bands of the gubernaculum testis; (5) the obliterated processus va-nnalis of the peritoneum ; (6) sub-peritoneal connective tissue surroundiuo- aU the structures named and sometimes bearing more or less fat in its me.shes. The Coverings of the Cord from within outwards are as ioUows :-(l) mfundibuliform fascia, fi-om the fascia transversalis • (2) cremasteric fascia, with the suppljdng branch of the genito-crural nerve and the cremasteric artery from the deep epigasti-ic ■ (3) inter colmnnar fascia; (4) superficial fasciae and integument These various lammse are for the most part capable of subdivision into secondary layers, and hence it is always difficult to identify the rmmerous planes that are encomitered in dissection or oiieration rhe cremaster may, however, be made out by its muscular fasciculi' Ihe vas deferens may be readily felt through the coverin-s as « hard cord, lying as a rule behind the other elements and^eisilv separable from them. ^asuy Tunica Vaginalis Testis (Fig. 120). -13y drawing the testiHn oiit of the scrotum and making an incision over the anteH^.^^ t, the Uuuca ra,,nu,lis will be opened, and will be seen to cm^i^f f two parts, the tunica vaginalis propria (visceral TZ^.^ \f testis, and the tunica refle.a or par/around (p eHU umca vaginalis propria adheres intianately to ft^ t" tunica albuginea. ^ subjacent K 2