PAET III. DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. The Perineum. [The perinreum is to be ftiUy exposed by bringing the buttocks of the subject to the edge of the table, where they are to be raised upon a block. The thighs are then to be flexed upon the abdomen, with the legs bent; and the body is to be secured upon the table with a cord passing beneath it from one knee to the other, a block being placed lengthways between the knees to keep them sufficiently apart. A staff is to be passed into the male urethra, and seciu'ed in its place by tying a loop of string round the penis and fastening it to the handle of the instrument. It is necessary to flex the knees, when the thighs are bent, in order to remove the tension that would otherwise occur in the hamsti-ings and sciatic nerve.] External Appearances.—/?(. the male the skin is of a darker tint than that of the rest of the body, and is more or less covered with hair, which should be removed. In fi-ont will be foimd the scrotum, containing the two testes, and obscuring at present the root of the penis and deeper portion of the urethra. Behind the scrotum is the anus or orifice of the bowel, and between the two is the true perinceum, which will be seen to be marked by a median raphe. Around the anus the skin is thrown into folds, which may be much enlarged in one variety of external piles. By drawing the anus open, a white line will be seen about half an inch above the margin of the aperture, marking the junction of the skin with the mucous membrane, and corresponding to the separation between the internal and external sphincter muscles. In the female the external parts of generation are tenned collec- tively the vulva. They comprise two labia niajora, two labia minora or nymphaj, the clitoris, and the vestibule. The two labia mujora may be considered to represent the scrotum, cleft in the median Ime by the genital fissure. These are continuous above with the mona Veneris, a prominent portion of the fat-bearing integument over the pubes (only partially seen in this view) The labia are united in front by the anterior commissure; they bound