THE BACK OF THE FORE-ARM. 56 ligament, over which it passes to be distributed to the skin of the palm. The Ulnar Nerve (Pig. 22, 2) enters the fore-arm behind the internal condyle, by passing between the heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris. It Hes under cover of that muscle aud upon the flexor profundus digitorum for the whole of its course in the fore-ann; and about the middle third of the fore-arm comes into close relation with the iilnar artery, and, keeping to its ulnar side, accompanies it over the annular ligament into the pahn. Branches (Fig. 22).—The ulnar nerve gives small articular branches to the back of the elbow, and suppHes one and a half of the muscles of the forearm, viz., the flexor oarpi ulnaris and the inner half of the flexor profundus cHgitormn. In the lower third of the fore-arm the nerve gives a ilorml hranch (20), which turns backwards beneath the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris to be distributed to the back of the Httle and half the ring finger as far as the middle of their second phalanges, and sometuues replaces the adjoining branch of the radial. A cutaneous palmar branch of smaU size arises below the middle of the fore-ai-m, and, after running down in fi-ont of the uhiar artery becomes cutaneous close above the annular hgament, and is distributed to the skin of the palm on the uhaar side, communi- cating with the palmar cutaneous of the median. The Radial Nerve (Fig. 22, 13) is seen to aiise from the musculo-spii'al nerve opposite the elbow. It lies at first upon the supinator brevis, to the outer side of, and at some htt e chstance from, the radial artery; but in the middle third of the fore-arm it is in close relation with the artery on the pronator teres, and occa- sionally touches it, leaving the vessel at the lower third to cross beneath the tendon of the supinator longus to the back of the fore- arm and hand. . , , • .1 j. „ The Posterior Interosseous Nerve (Fig. 22. 7) is he outer terminal branch of the musculo-spiral; it runs for a short distance 1 the supinator brevis, here giving off branches for the suppb o that muscle and of the extensor carp, radmhs brcyior; it then wtds round the radius in the substance of the supinator brevi.. and its fm-ther course will be seen on the back of the fore-ann. The Back of the Fore-akm. rm f,.o„f nf the fore-arm having been dissected, the skin can be