COMMON ILIAC VESSELS. 287 Liito miu^cuhir to the erector spinte, and spinal to the vertebral canal through the intervertebral foramen, the latter vessel supijlyirig the bony and ligamentous walls of the canal, the membranes of the cord, and the cord itself by means of a long twig which runs along the nerve root. The lumbar reins, three or four for each side, open into the inferior vena cava. They are connected opposite the transverse processes of the vertebrte by a vertical vessel, the ascending Imnhar vein, which forms the radicle of the azygos veins. The Common Iliac Arteries (Fig. 145, G) are the dii^ect continuations of the abdominal aorta, and extend from the bifui-- cation at the fom-thlumbar vertebra to the lumbo-sacral articulation, where each divides into the external and internal iliac arteries! The right common iliac is usually a little longer than the left; and the relations difPer on the two sides, owing, principally, to the fact that the two common iliac veins unite to form the vena cava on the right side of the vertebral column. Both arteries rest on the vertebral column, covered in front by the peritoneimi, and are usually crossed near their termination by the ureters, but the left is crossed in addition by the rectum and superior htemorrhoidal vessels, and the right by the termination of the ileum and the lowest branch of the superior mesenteric artery. The left artery rests against the psoas magnus, while the right artery lies upon its own vem below and crosses the vein of the opposite side above. The only branches from the trunks are small twigs to the iliacus muscles and to the ureter. Common Iliac Veins.—The left common iliac vein will be seen to He to the inner side of its own artery, and then to pass beneath the right artery to reach the vena cava, whilst the right vein is at first behind and then to the outer side of the right artery until it imites with the left. Thus both the veins He to the right of their respective arteries, and the commencement of the vena cava is immediately to the right of, or sometimes even sHghtly behind, the Fig. 14.5.-The Iliac and Femoral Arteries (from Maclise's Surgical Anatomy). A. Aorta at bifurcation. N. Arteria Profunda femoris B. Anterior superior iliac spine. O. Femoral Vein C. Symphyms pubis. O. Saphenous Vein D. Poupart s igament. p. Aiaterior Crural Nerve ' E. External Cutaneous Nerve. Q. Sartorius P. Vena Cava inferior. K. Eectus femoris. G. G. Common Piac Arteries. S. Pectineus H. H. Common Iliac Veins. T. Adductor lonffus I. Externa Iliac Artery, U, Gracilis. ^ M. Rectum. ^^X"^' -^.ry.