181 THE KNEE-JOINT. The ligaments of the knee may conveniently be divided into extra- and intra-articular. The Extra-articular Ligaments are posterior and lateral. The Anterior Ligaments (Fig. 89) are represented by th.e pateUa and the lii/anieidiimpatellce. in the middle, with the expansions of the vasti and the patellar ligaments on either side. The external patellar lUjami'rit is a process of the ilio-tibial band attached to the outer border of the bone below the vastus externus and to the ligamentum pateUte, while the internal patellar lif/ament, derived from the internal intermuscular septum and inner tuberos'ty of the femiu', is similarly connected on the inner side. Some deep supplementary fibres may also pass from the tuberosities of tbe tibia to either side of the patella, and it should be noted that the patellar attachment of the vastus internus extends lower than that of the vastus externus. Between the ligamentum patellfB and the upper part of the tubercle of the tibia is a bursa {bursa sah-patellaris), wbich must not be confounded with the proper barsa patellai in front of the bone. [To see the remaining external ligaments, the pojditeal vessels and nerves and the remains of the gastrocnemius and plautaris must be removed. The tendons of the biceps, semi-membranosus and popliteus are to be traced out fully, and should be carefully pre- served, but cut short. The internal lateral ligament will be" found to be incorporated with the capsule, the external is beneath the tendon of the biceps and external patellar ligament, and is not seen until these have been divided.] The Posterior Ligament (Fig. 90, 8) (ligament\im posticum Winslowii) is a flat band, attached above the condjdes of the femur and to the back of the head of the tibia; it is closely connected with the tendon of the semi-membranosus, from which a large band of fibres passes obliquely upwards and outwards across the back of the joint (13), and on the outer side it receives a slip from the short external lateral ligament. It is extremely thin beneath the heads of the gasti'ocnemius, and is frequently ]ierforated where the inner head of this muscle and the semi-membranosus tendon are separated from the back of the internal condyle by a bursa, which in that case conimimicates with the cavity of the -joint. The External Lateral Ligaments (Figs. 89, 5 ; 90, 2) are two iii number, the A,/,,/ and shnrl. th.. l„ng being tlu^ anterior one of the two. The hnnj li,;,nnr„l. is ;i round cord extending from the margin of the gastrocnrmius impression u])on the side of the external condyle, immediately al)ovc the ])osterior extremity of the depression for the popliteus, to the middle of the bicipital