119 INNER SIDE OF THE THTGH. femoris, and also gives a branch to the pectineus on the inner side of the limb. The branch to the sartorius has been already seen to arise from the middle cutaneous nerve, and the nerve to the pec- tineus, also arising from the superficial division, crosses beneath the femoral vessels to the surface of the pectineus muscle. The deep division supplies branches to each of the constituents of the quad- riceps extensor, the nerve to the rectus giving a branch to the hip joint, and those to the vasti and crureus giving twigs to the knee joint. The Internal Saphenous Nerve (Fig. 57, 22) is the longest brunch of the deep division of the anterior crural nerve. It lies close to the outer side of the femoral artery, and enters Hunter's canal with it; then crossing the artery near the lower end of the canal it pierces the sheath, appearing beneath the sartorius at the inner side of the knee. In the thigh it gives a communicating branch to the subsartorial plexus, and at the knee its patellar branch pierces the sartorius and ends in the patellar plexus. The nerve becomes cutaneous between the sartorius and gracilis, and nuis down the inner side of the leg and foot. Inner Side of the Thigh. [The .supei-ficial muscle of the inner side of the thigh (adductor longus) IS ah-eady partially seen : to expose the rest of the region an incision is to be made along the rami of the pubes and ischium, and the skin is to be reflected, when the gracilis will be brought into view. The femoral vessels must either be cut and turned down, or puUed forcibly outwards.] A few cutaneous branches of nerve to the skin of the inner side of the thigh will be found appearing below the adductor longus. They are derived from the obturator. The Adductor Longus (Fig. 53, 13) arises by a round tendon from the front of the os pubis immediately below the crest, and expands to be inserted into the inner border of the linea aspera, in the middle third of the bone, and into the internal intemiuscular septum, blending with the insertions of the adductors brevis and magnus. It is supplied by the superficial division of the obturator nerve. In the middle third of the thigh it separates the superficial from the deep femoral vessels, the latter disappearing from Scarpa's triangle between the adjacent borders of this muscle and the pectineus. The Gracilis (Fig. 54, 20) is the most internal of the muscles oi the thigh and arises from the rami of the os pubis and ischium Dy a broad tlun tendon about three inches in leugtli. It is inserted