THE BRACHIAL PLEXUS. 21 it then to acoompany the posterior circumflex artery through the quacb-ilateral space ah-eady described, and winding round the humerus to supply the deltoid, teres minor, shoulder joint, and integument, to which it will be subsequently traced. Three Suhscapular nerves (Fig. 6, 27, 28, 29) are derived from the posterior cord. The long, or middle, subscapiilar nerve is seen at the lower border of the subscapularis muscle accompanying the sub- scapular artery, and ends in the latissimus dorsi. The two phorter subscapular nerves will be better dissected when the arm is removed; the upper enters the subscapularis, the lower the subscapularis and teres major muscles. The Posterior or long thoracic nerve (external respiratory of Bell) (Fig. 6, 16) lies upon the serratus magnus, giving off a twig to each seiTation. It is a supra-clavicular branch of the brachial plexus, derived from the fifth, sixth and seventh cervical nerves, and descends behind the brachial cords and axillary vessels to its distribution. The Serratus Magnus (Fig. 6, 32) covers the side of the chest, arisiny by nine digitations from the outer surfaces of the eight or nine upper ribs and from the intercostal fascia, the first digitation being attached to the first and second ribs (joining on the latter the second digitation) and to a fibrous arch bridging the first intercostal space. The fibres have a general direction backwards to a special area upon the ventral surface of the scapula bordering the vertebral margin, where they are inserted, the first two digita- tions uniting to form a thicker portion which is attached to the upper angle, while the last four or five (the lower three of which interdigitate with the external oblique muscle of the abdomen) form a still larger bundle, corresponding to the broader jjortion of the area adjoining the inferior angle of the scaprUa, the inter- mediate portion having a slender attachment to the vertebral border of the scapula between the thick upjier and lower attach- ments. Action.—The muscle as a whole draws forward the scapula and with it the whole of the shoulder girdle, the centre of tho move- ment being at the sterno-clavicular joint. The lower digitations acting alone draw forward the lower angle of the scai)ula, and so rotate tho glenoid cavity upwui-ds and aid in the elevation of the arm, this motion occurring at the acromio-clavicular articulation. The muscle has no influence upon the respiratory movements. Its essential uses are in reaching, pushing or striking in a forward direction, and in raising tho arm. With the rhomboids, it keeps tho vertebral border of the bone appUed to the chest wall.