LIGAMENTS OF THE ATLAS AND AXIS, 524 glosso-epiglottic folds, and the narrow extremity is attached to the hyoid hone by the hyo-epiglottidean ligament, and to the thja-oid cartilage by the thyro-epiglottidean ligament. The Jutenil hurdeni give attachment to the arj^tflsno-epiglottidean folds, the thyro- epiglottidei, arytEeuo-epiglottidei, and some fibres of the stylo- pharyngei muscles. Ligaments op the Cervical Vektebr^. The ligaments uniting the cervical vertebrte together are, except in the case of the first two, similar to those found in other parts of the spinal column, and their description will be found at the end of that of the thorax. The student would do well to refer to this description in order to observe the slight differences between these ligaments in the cervical and thoracic regions. Ligaments or the Atlas, Axis, and Occiput. [In order to examine the special ligaments of the first two cervical vertebra? and the occipital bone, it will be convenient to separate the whole of the cervical fi-om the thoracic spme.] The ligaments of the fii-st two vertebrce and the occipital bone may be conveniently divided into (1) those external to, and (2) those internal to, "the vertebral canal. The external ligaments more or less resemble the Ugaments common to the vertebral column, but the internal ligaments have special relation to the movements of nutation and rotation, which are peculiar to this region. -r. . • j 1. The External Urjaments are the Anterior, Posterior, and Lateral Occipito-Atlantal, and the Anterior and Posterior Atlanto- axial ligaments; besides Capsular ligaments for the articular processes of the vertebrae and the condyles of the occipital bone. The Anterior Occipito-Atlantal Ligament (Pig. 258) consists of a superficial and a deep portion. The superficial portion (i) is narrow and mesial, and is attached to the basilar process of the occipital bone above, and the anterior tubercle of the atlas below. The deep portion (2) is broad and membranous, and is attached to the occipital bone close to the foramen magnum above, and to the upper margin of the anterior arch of the atlas below. The Posterior Occipito-Atlantal Ligament (Fig. 2o4, 3) resembles the ligamenta subftava, but is composed of sxhite fibrous tissue. It is thin and membranous, and is attached above to the posterior margin of the foramen magnum, and below to the posterior