CARTILAOES OF THE LARYNX. 623 of the fibres of the oesophagus, the concave surface on each side giving origin to the crico-arytrenoidei postici muscles. The Arytaenoid Cartilages (Fig. 252, i6) (dpuroiVo, a pitcher*) are two in number, and are of a pyramidal shape. The base of each cartilage is triangular, and articulates near its outer angle with the upper border of the cricoid cartilage; above its anterior angle is a sharp projection, the 'processus rocalis, which gives attachment to the time vocal cord; and its external angle forms the prominent proci-ssiis muscularis, into which are inserted the crico-arytfenoideus posticus and crico-arytainoideus lateralis. The apex is curved backwards and inwards, and is surmounted by the cornicula laryngis. The posterior surface is smooth and concave, and gives attachment to the arytfenoideus muscle; the antero- external sm-face is rough for the origin of the thyro-arvtfBnoideus and arytajuo-epiglottideus muscles; and the internal sm-face, the narrowest, is smooth and is covered with mucous membrane. The Cornicula Laryngis or Cartilages of Santorini are two pau-s of small conical cartilag'es, connected with the apices of the arytrenoid cartilages and with the arytfeno-epiglottidean folds. The Cuneiform Cartilages or Cartilages of Wrisberg are two small rod-like bodies developed in the arytreno-epiglottidean folds of muc.jus membrane, but are sometimes wanting. These and the last are composed of yellow fibro-cartilage, while the thyroid, cricoid, and arytrenoid cartilages are of the hyaline variety. The Epiglottis (Fig. 252, 2), also composed of yeUow fibro- cartilage, is shaped like a cordate leaf, and has been seen to be connected by Ugaments with the thyroid cartilage and the hyoid bone. The upper thii-d of its anterior (buccal) surface and the whole of its postenor (laryngo-pharyngeal) surface are covered with mucous membrane. The cartilage is excavated, especially on Its posterior aspect, by numerous depressioii.s, in which mucous glands are lodged. The posterior sm-face is larger than the upper apertm'e of the larjnix, and may be divided into a lower or respiratory portion, covered with ciliated epithelium, and presenting m the middle line a Httle prominence, the cnshiw ; and an upper or gustatory portion, covered with squamous laminated -jpithelium and forming a part of the digestive tract. Tlio free portion of the unkrwr surface is connected to the back of the tongue by three * Tliis derivation has reference lo the api.earanee „f botli <MirlilatreH tal«.n