THE LAMINA CINEREA 625 fissure, and is sometimes called the linguul lohuk, or fifth temporal ijijrus (the fom-th being the external temporo-occipital convolution). The hvol-, or uncus, is situated at its anterior extremity in contact with the side of the cms cerebri, and is crossed by a delicate greyish band, the hand of Giaconiini, continuous with the dentate convolution. The Collateral sulcus is of considerable depth, and leads to the foi-mation of a longitudiaal ridge, the eminentia collateralis, in the middle horn of the lateral ventiicle. The Dentate or Hippocampal fissure and convolution may be exposed by separating the uncinate gyrus from the crus cerebri. The convolution, as will be shown, is really formed by the free border of the grey matter of the uncinate convolution. It will be most convenient to examine the several sti-uctures found on the base of the brain in front of the pons Varolii, first in the median line and afterwards on each side. In the median line fi'om before backwards are—(1) the longitudinal fissure; (2) the lamina cinerea; (3) the oijtic commissure; (4) the tuber cinereum (with the infundibulum and pituitary body); (5) the corpora albicantia ; (6) the locus perforatus posticus. On each side from before backwards are—(I) the under surface of the frontal lobe of the cerebrum, with (2) the olfactory bulb and its peduncle resting in the olfactory sulcus; (3) the optic nerve (in front of the commissure), and (4) the optic tract (behind the commissure); (5) the locus perforatus anticus, at the root of the olfactory nerve and close to the commencement of (6) the fissui-e of Sylvius; (7) the crus cerebri diverging fi-om its fellow, with the commencement of the transverse fissure to its outer side; (8) the third nerve, appearing between the divergent crura; (9) the foiu'th nerve winding roimd the outer side of the crus; (10) the temporo- occipital convolutions. The Longitudinal Fissure (Fig. 298, i) divides the cerebrum into the two hemispheres. The portion now seen separates the fi'ontal lobes of the cerebrmn, and, if these are drawn apart, a white body, the corpiis callusum, will be seen at the bottom of the fissure. The anterior part of the corpus callosum, aroimd which the anterior cerebral artery turns, is known as the (/enu, and the portion contiiuied backwards and downwards from tliis into the lamina cinerea is teraied the rostrum. The Lamina Cinerea (Fig. 298, 4) is a thin grey layer, con- tinuous superficially with the rostrum of the corpus callosmn and prolonged to the margin of the optic commissure, and above that to s s