ACTIONS OF LARYNGEAL MUSCLES. 517 thyroid cartilage should be cut through and the ala drawn forward, any tissue being detached from its inner surface to within a quarter of an inch of the median line. A vertical cut is then to be made thi-ough it there with strong scissors or the bone-forceps, and the piece IS to be removed. The larjaix being distended as before, the muscles can be readily dissected.] The Crico-Arytaenoideus Lateralis (Fig. 251, i6) arises horn the upper border of the side of the cricoid cartilage, and its fibres pass obliquely upwards and backwards to be inserted into the anterior aspect of the prominent outer angle of the base of the aryt«3noid cartilage. This muscle is always more or less closely connected with the thyro-arytsenoideus, which is above it, and is supplied by the recui-rent laryngeal nerve. The Thyro-Arytaenoideus (Eig. 251, 14) has a more horizontal direction than the preceding muscle. It arises fi'om the receding angle of the thyi-oid cartilage immediately external to the inferior or true vocal cord, and as far down as the crico-thyroid membrane to which some of its fibres are attached. It passes backwards,' the upper fibres more obHquely than the lower ones, and is inserted mto the lower half of the rough antero-external sm-face of the aryttenoid cartHage, external to the processus vocalis, and by some fibres into the outer surface of the vocal cord. It is sHp2>/ied by the recui-rent laryngeal nerve. [If a second larynx can be procured, a veiT satisfactory way of seeing the thyi-o-arytienoid muscle is to cut the thyroid cartilage homontally at the level of the true vocal cords, when the muscles can be readily displayed unniediately outside them.] The arytainn-epiglottideus consists of a thin plane of fibres which nr:se from the upper part of the antero-external surface of the ai7t,8enoid cartilage, and after reinforcement by some of the super hcial fibres of the arytrenoideus, pass to be inserted into the side of the epiglottis. The inferior portion of the muscle passes in the mucous fol.l foiming the outer wall of the sacculus laryn-is and is known as the amipressor sacruli /ar;/H,jis of Hilton, or ,m,L,m- epiij/nttideits inferior. The thyro-epifihttideus is a small paii-ed muscle arisiu,/ from the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage above thethyro-aryLioideus and v.,,er<«/into the side of the epiglottis. ^ loweus, Actions of the Laryngeal Muscles. The cartilages aiv moved upon one another by the several -uscles, m such a manner as to a,lter either the ens on of the vc|c.l cords or the size of the glottis. The action of these niusele will be better understood, if it be remembered that the c icoS