472 DEEP DISSECTION OF THE NECK. the pnoiiino-gastrio and spinal-accesaory nerves, being closely united with the ganglion of the trunk of the former nerve. It then passes outwards between the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein, and crosses both the internal and external carotid arteries. It has branches of communication with the pneumo- gastric, the superior cervical ganglion, and the loop between the anterior branches of the first two cervical nerves, and gives a recui-rent branch to the dura mater through the anterior condyloid foramen. Its distribixtion to the muscles of the hyoid bone and tongue has been already seen (p. 461). The Rectus Capitis Lateralis (Eig. 230, 8) is now seen from the side, between the jugular vein and the vertebral artery. It arises from the upper surface of the transverse process of the atlas, and is inserted into the under surface of the jugular process of the occipital bone. It is supjMed by a branch of the anterior division of the first cervical nerve. It slightly inclines the head lateraUy u-pon the atlas. [Bv carefully removing the rectus lateraUs, the .smaU anterior branch of the first cervical nerve may be found beneath it upon the anterior arch of the atlas, forming a loop with the second nerve. J The First Cervical Nerve (sub-occipital nerve) (Fig. 229) has a small anterior division, which leaves the posterior division on the posterior arch of the atlas. It runs forward beneath the vertebral artery, and Hes on the anterior arch to the inner side of the rectus lateraHs, which it suppKes; it passes in front of the transverse process of the atlas, and foi-ms a loop with the second cervical nerve, from which are given branches of commimication to the pneumo-gastric and the hypoglossal nerves, and to the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. The Superior Cervical Gang'Uon (Fig. 229, 8) of the sympa hetic can now be seen. It is a fusiform enlargement of the sj-mpathetac nerve, about an inoh in length, Ipng beHnd the internal carotid artery, and upon the rectus capitis anticus major opposite the 2nd and 3rd cervical vertebr«3. It gives branches of commumcatwn to the 9th, 10th, and Uth cranial nerves, to the foui' upper cervical nerves, and to the middle cervical ganglion; and branches of d>s. Mian. (1) to the internal carotid artery, forming the carotid and cavernous plexuses; (2) to the bi-anches of he extern o^^^^^ artery (nervi molles); (3) to the pharyngeal plexus; 1"^ ' fibunents which join the superior I'^^T^geal arteiT; and o) the snperior rardlac verve to the cardiac plexus (Fig. 232). It wiU be much more satisfactorily examined later on from behmd (Ing.