PART VII. F DISSPJCTION OF THE BRAIN. Before dissecting the Membranes or Vessels of the Brain, it will be well to recognise the several parts of the Encejjhalon, as this will assist the student in following the description. The Encephalon consists of the Cerebrum, the Mid-Brain, the ''erelellmn, and the Medulla Oblongata; connected together bj' a commissural sfeructUi-e called the Poiis Varolii. The Cerebrum forms the greater part of the mass of the encephalon, and is incompletely divided by a vertical median fissure into two sj-mnietrical hemi- spheres, which are united by a large transverse commissure called the corjnis caUosum. The Mid-Brain lies between the cerebrum and the pons Varolii, and comprises the crura cerebri and corpora quadri- (jemina. The Cerebellnm lies beneath the hinder part of the cerebral hemispheres, and is attached by pedimcles to the cerebrum and meduUa oblongata. The Medulla Oblongata forms a kind of stem to the cerebrum and cerebellum, and passes downwards to the vertebral canal to become continuous with the spinal cord. The Pons Varolii consists of a. set of transverse fibres, commissm-al between the two halves of the cerebellimi, and a set of longitudinal fibres passing between the medulla and the rest of the encephalon. These parts will be readily recognised by referring to Fig. 298. The average weight of the brain in the adult is 48 ounces, in the female 43| ounces (Boyd). The proportion to the rest of the body averages 1 to 36'o, and is practically the same in the two sexes. [The brain is to be placed in a plate with the base upward, for the examination of the membranes and the dissection of the vessels.] The Membranes of the Brain, are the Dura Mater, the Arach- noid, and the Pia Mater. The Dura Mater has boon already seen as a fibro-serous mem- brane lining the skull, supporting the meningeal vessels, forming the rigid walls of the venous sinuses, and giving off processes separating the hemispheres of the brain from each other, and the hinder part of the cerebrum from the cerebellum (p. 367).