47 PALMARIS LONG US. radialis; 3, palmaiis longus (which may be absent); 4, flexor sublimis digitorum; o, flexor carpi ulnaris. All these muscles have a common origin from (1) the internal condyle, (2) the fascia of the fore-arm, and (3) the intermuscular septa derived from it; but three of them, viz., the pronator teres, flexor sublimis digitorum, and flexor carpi ulnaris, have extra bony attachments. The Pronator Radii Teres (Fig. 19, 8) arises from the internal condj-le above the other muscles, and from half an inch or an inch of the supra-condylar ridge; from the fascia of the fore-arm over it; and fr-om the intennuscular septum between it and the flexor carpi radialis ; and by a second head from the ridge on the inner side of the coronoid process of the ulna below the ulnar origin of the flexor sublimis. The median nerve lies between the two heads, the ulnar artery beneath them. It is inserted by a broad tendon into the middle of the outer side of the radius, immediately below the supinator brevis. It pronates the hand by rolling the radius on the ulna, and flexes the elbow ; and is sit-piilied by the highest branch of the median nerve. The Flexor Carpi Radialis (Fig. 19, 7) arises fiom the internal condyle in common with the other muscles ; from the fascia of the fore-arm ; and fr-om the intennuscular septa between it aiid the pronator teres on one side, and the palmaris lougus and flexor sublimis on the other. It ends about the middle of the fore-arm in a broad tendon, which soon becomes rounded, and disappears at the root of the thumb, piercing the external attachment of the annular ligament and passing through the groove in the trapezium, to be inserted into the base of the second, and slightly into the base of the third metacarpal bone. It is a flexor, an abductor and a pronator of the hand, and a slight flexor of the elbow. As a flexor of the wrist it acts upon both the radio-carpal and intercarpal joints. It is supplied by the median nerve. The Palmaris Longus (Fig. 19, 12) arises from the common attachment to the inner condyle; from the fascia of the fore-arm ; and from the intennuscular septa on each side of and beneath it. Its long and nari'ow tendon passes superficially to be inserted into the annular ligament, and terminates by expanding into the radiat- ing palmar fascia in the centre of the hand. It serves to make tense the palmar fascia and thus i)rotect the deep structures in the palm. It slightly flexes the hand and elbow, and fixes the annular ligament during the action of the mirscles of the thumb and little finger. It is supplied, by the median nerve. The palmaris longus is subject to great variations ; it is freijuently wanting, but is sometimes largely developed, its muscular belly