THE CCELIAC AXIS. 266 coronary and hepatic plexuses of tlie sympatlietic, and tlie riglit to the back of the viscus, joining the solar and splenic plexuses, and these can be generally seen thi'ough the peritoneal coat without fui'ther dissection. The Hepatic Artery (Fig. 134, i) curves upwards and to the right side, forming the inferior and anterior boundaries of the foramen of "Winslow, and ends by dividing into the right and left hepatic hraiir.hes, which enter the transverse fissui-e of the liver. The artery gives off first the pyloric branch (3), which has been seen to anastomose at the upper border of the pyloric end of the stomach with the gastric, and secondly a ti-unk which immediately disappears behind the first portion of the duodenum and is called the gastro-duodeval (13). From the right hepatic branch is given off the smaller ci/stic (7) artery, which is disti-ibuted to the gall-bladder by two branches, one passing between it and the liver and the other along its fi'ee surface. The Splenic Artery (Fig. 134, 20) can be seen only in part, taking a tortuous course behind the stomach and along the upper border of the pancreas to the spleen. [To continue the dissection it wiU be necessary to remove the intestines which have been examined, by putting a couple of Hffatui-es uiion the upper part of the jejunum, and also upon the upper part of the rectum, and dividing the intestme between the two ligatures at each point. By cutting the supenor mesenteric artery the small intestine will be at once set fi-ee, but the large intestine must be carefully removed by divicbng the meso-colon close to the intestine throughout, and lastly by cutting the inferior mesenteric artery. The gastro-duodenal and splenic arteries and their branches are then to be cleaned.] The Gastro-duodenal Artery (Fig. 134, 13) can be traced out by tm-ning up the stomach. After passing behind the fii-st portion of the duodenum, it divides into the right gastro-epiploic and the superior pancreatico-duodenal arteries. , „ , The (iastro-epiploira dextra (23) vuns from right to left along the great curvatui-e of the stomach between the folds of the great omentum, supplying branches to both surfaces of the stomach and to the great omentum; it anastomoses with the gastro-epiploicii sinistra of the splenic artery. .„ , . 1 w The I'auaratico-dnodenam superior [17) will be found bet^^cen the duodenum and the head of the pancreas, siu-roundmg the latter, and supplying both; it anastomoses with a small branch rom the commencement of the superior mesenteric artery called the pa,>- creatico-dnodenalis inferior (Fig. 131, 13), and gives branches to both pancreas and duodenum.