THE PERINEUM. 216 The deep perinoeal pouch or hderspace, between the superficial and deep layers of the triangular ligament, is now opened up. The contents are the deep transversus perinsei (compressor urethras); the membranous portion of the urethi-a; Cowper's glands; portions of the pudic vessels and dorsal nerve of the penis, and the artery to the bulb. The sub-pnbic ligament and dorsal vein of the penis lie at the anterior angle or apex of the interspace. The Deep Transversus Perinsei or Compressor TJrethi-ae (Pig. 102, g) arises from the inner surface of the ischio-pubic rami, between the attachments of the ti-iangular ligament and fi-om both layers of that ligament, and divides into anterior and posterior slips, which run inwards transversely across the median line to enclose the membranous portion of the lu-ethra. Within the fibres of the compressor on each side are (1) Cowper's gland, (2) the pudic artery, giving off the artery to the bulb, and di^ddiiig into the artery to the corpus cavernosum and the dorsal artery of the perns, (3) tlie corresponding veins, and (4) the dorsal nerve of the penis, a branch of which supplies the muscle. The duct of Cowiier's gland and the other structures named have been seen to pierce the superficial layer of the triangular ligament to reach the supei-ficial pouch. [The muscular fibres are to be divided near the ui-ethi-a in order to see one of .Cowper's glands, and the pudic artery and nerve with their branches are to be followed out close to the ischio-pubic rami.J Cowper's Glands (Fig. 103, E) lie close to the membranous portion of the ui-ethi'a, one on each side of the median line, and are most readily found by tracing the small branch of supply to each gland from the artery to the bulb. The gland resembles a pea in size and shape, and consists of numerous minute lobules. Although it is so close to the membranous lU'ethi-a, the duct pierces the superficial layer of the triangular Hgament to open into the bulbous portion of the canal, and is nearly an inch long. The Pudic Artery (Fig. 107, g), one of the two tei-mmal branches of the anterior cUvision of the internal iliac, will be found under cover of the pubic arch. After running in Alcock's cau=il (p. 206) in the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa, and giving ott its inferior ha3morrhoidal and superficial permaial branches, it pierces the deep layer of the triangular ligament near its b^e to enter the deep perinatal interspace. Here it runs in the fibres of the compressor urethras, close to the ischio-pubic rami, and gives off the arteries to the bulb and corpus cavernosum, and tei-minates in the dorsal artery of the penis.