107 COVERINGS OF FEMORAL HEIWIA. subperitoneal fat aiul a l^uipliatic gland the innermost or smallest one. This last division of the femoral sheath is the femoral or criifdl faiHiL The Femoral or Crural Ring (Fig. 50, 12).—If the finger be passed upwards along the cruial canal, it will enter the Crural or Femoral Riiuj beneath Poui^art's ligament, displacing a lymphatic gland and a small piece of subi^eritoneal fat which occupy it, the latter forming the septum crurale. The boundaries of the crural ring can be better felt than seen, and are, in/rout, Poupai't's ligament, with occasionally a distinct band of fascia traiisversalis beneath it, called the deep crural arch; heJiind, the body of the pubes, with the pectineus muscle and jmbic portion of the fascia lata; extenialli/, the femoral vein ; and internally-, the sharji margin of Gimbernat's ligament. The crural ring is the aperture through which a femoral hernia leaves the abdomen, and the point at which strangulation most commonly occurs; the finger should therefore thoroughly explore it. (Fig. 49, E.) The Crural or Femoral Canal (Figs. 47, 48) is the canal, half an inch in length, along which femoral hernia descends from the crural ring to the saphenous opening; but as soon as the hernia has forced its way through that spot, it ascends, owing to the close attachment of the cribriform fascia to the margin of the saphenous opening, and lies along Poupart's ligament, or if of large size, may stretch the fascia sufficiently to mount over the ligament and simulate an inguinal hernia. The Coverings of a Femoral Hernia will be readily learned if the course it takes has been thoroughly understood. In its descent the intestine pushes before it (1) peritoneal sac, (2) subperitoneal fat, (3) femoral sheath, (4) cribriform fascia, (5) super- ficial fascia and skin. It must not be supposed that the surgeon will recognise these various coverings in operating upon a strangu- lated femoral hernia, but it is necessary that he should identify the sac or peritoneuin, which is usually to be recognised liy its thin bluish appearance, and by the fluid goneiully to be seen through its slightly ti-ansparent wall. Fig. 49.—Internal view of the femoral ring and its relation to the blood- vessels (from Maclise's Snrgical Anatomy). A. Anterior superior iliac spine. I. External Iliac vein. B. Transversalis fascia. .1. Obturator artery external to C. Syni|)bysis pubis. D. Vas deferens. E. Crural or femoral ring. F. Peritoneum. G. Psoas. H. Extermil Iliac artery. crural ring. Tj. Hpiue of ischium. M. Bladder. crural ring. K. Obturalror artery internal to