508 THE TYMPANUM. hody articulates -with the head of the malleus ; the short process is attached to the margin of the orifice of the mastoid antrum; the loiuj process is nearly parallel to the handle of the malleus, and has at its extremity a small nodule of bone, the os orhicidare, separate in the foetus, which articulates with the stapes. The Stapes (stii-rup) (d) has a small head and neck, connected to a relatively long oval base by two crura. It is articulated by its head with the long vertical process of the incus, and being at right angles to this is almost horizontal in position. The hase is attached to the fenestra ovalis, but not quite closely, both the base of the stapes and the margin of the fenestra ovalis being coated with hyaline cartilage, and the two suiiaces imited by elastic fibres. The neck gives attachment to the small stapedius muscle. The articulation of the ossicula to one another takes place by means of small capsular joints with synovial membranes. Theu- attachment to the waUs of the tjonpanimi is strengthened by minute ligaments, three of which are fixed to the maUeus and one to the incus. The Muscles of the Tympanum are two in number, viz., the tensor tympani and stapedius; and some anatomists add a laxator tympani, and laxator tympani minor. The Tensor Tympani (Fig. 228, 2) arises from the cartilagmous Eustachian tube and the adjoining sm-face of the sphenoid, and runs backwards in a distinct canal above the processus coch- leariformis, round the margin of which it bends as over a puUey, to be inserted into the root of the handle and the processus brevis of the malleus. It is supplied by a branch from the otic gangUon. The Stapedius arises from the interior of the pyramid, and emerges from its apex to be inserted into the neck of the stapes. It is supplied by a branch of the facial nerve. The Laxator tympani is inconstant. It consists of a few fibres arising from the spine of the sphenoid, and passing through the Glaserian fissure to be inserted into the neck of the malleus. As the malleus and incus swing together round an antei-o- posterior axis, any movement inwards of the membrana tympani must produce a similar though slighter movement inwards of the base of the stapes, and, the cavity of the inner ear bemg fiUed with fluid, a corresponding bulging of the .secondary membrane of the tympanum closing the fenestra rotunda must result. The Inner ear or labyrinth (Fig. 245) consists of three portions, the vestibule, three semicircular canals, and the cochlea. The bony Vestihuh (3) is a little chamber receiving the opening* of the semicircular canals and of the scala vestibuU of the cochlea,