VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE GROIN. 227 Litonil cutaneous branch of the last thdvadv nerve, and close upon the crest of the bone, a little ]i()steri()r to the preceding nerve, will be seen the//!/«t: imHc/i of the iliii-liijpdtiastric nerve (1st lumbar), both of them going to the buttock (13), while the hypogastr-ic branch of the latter nerve may be traced in the hjqDogastric region over the lower part of the rectus. Accompanjdng the nerves will be found (in a well-injected body only) small branches of arteries derived from the intercostal, internal mammary, and eiJigastric arteries. [The external oblique muscle is to be cleaned, the dissector begmmng from below on the right side, and from above on the left and takmg care not to remove its tendon near the median Hne by niistake. The mterdigitations with the sen-atus magnus and latissimus dorsi are to be carefully defined.] The Obliquus Externus (Fig. Ill, 12) arises from the outer surfaces of the bony portions of the eight lower ribs, and from the intercostal fascia between the bones, interdigitating with the sen-atus magnus bj- four or five points above, and' with the latissimus dorsi by three or four points below. Its fibres pass downwards to the middle'line and pelvis (p. 229). [In order to see the whole of the insertion of this muscle it will be necessary to contmue the dissection by reflecting the triangle of skm left upon the grom.] & The Superficial Fascia of the Groin (Fig. 112) is divisible into two layers—supei-ficial and deep. The supn-fidal layer of superficial fascia {a) resembles that found elsewhere, but the deep layer {b) (Scai^pa's fascia) is more mem- branous. It IS du-ectly continuous with the deep layer of the superficial fascia m the perinoeum (p. 209), opposite the upper limit oi the attachment of the genitals, and is attached firmly to the fascia lata of the thigh below Poupart's Ugament, thus preventinc any urine which may have been infiltrated into the tissues from passing down the thigh. Superficial Vessels and Nerves (Fig. 112).-Botween the ayers of superficial fascia will be found three small bri L „f the femoral artery, with their accompanying veins "'''''^''^^ • The superficial cireun>fiex iliac (U) runs outwards about the level of Poupart's hgament to the anterior superior spine • the sunerfi .^i ^yastric^^ runs upwards for a short distanc on'the S fi t wall; -.mi the snperior external pudir ( f) runs overllV Q 2