507 THE OSSICULA AUDITUS. which leads to the mastoid cells. Against it rests the short process of the incus. The fluiir, narrow and irregidar, lies above the jugular fossa aud is pierced by Jacobson's nerve. The roof is a thin portion of bone, separating the tympanum from the middle fossa of the cranium. The upper portion of the tympanic cavity between the ossicles and the roof is called the attic. It is subdivided into two parts, anterior and posterior, by the suspensory ligament of the malleus. The Aqueduct of Fallopius (i), or canal for the facial nerve, forms a slight projection cm-ving behind the pyramid, and is continued above the fenestra ovalis, between it and the eminence of the external semiciixular canal. It extends from the bottom of the meatus auditorius internus to the stylo-mastoid foramen, its coui'se being at first outwards to the inner wall of the tympanum, aud then backwards along the upper part of the wall, lastly downwards to the stylo-mastoid foramen. Ljdng in a bend at the upper part of the canal is the iutiimrsmdut (janyliformis, an enlargement of the facial nerve at the point where it is joined by the petrosal nerves thi'ough the hiatus FaUopii. The facial nerve as it descends behmd the tympanum gives off the chorda tympani and a minute branch to the stapedius muscle (Fig. 237, 14). The Chor<Ja Tympani (Fig. 228, 9) enters the tympanum just below the pyramid, and passes forward across the membrana tympani, between the handle of the malleus and the long process of the Ulcus, to the canal of Huguier, by which it leaves the temporal bone to join the lingual nerve (p. 456). It is invested by a reflection of the mucous membrane of the tympanum, which projects into the tJ^npauic cavity. The Ossicula Auditus (Fig. 243) are the malleus, incus, and stapes. The Maileus (hammer) (b) consists of a head, neck, handle nianubnum), and two processes (processus gracibs and processus brevis). The head looks upwards and articulates by its internal and posterior aspect with the body of the incus; the mmmhriuia is inserted between the mucous and fibrous layers of the membrana tympani, and is directed downwards and slightly forwards, its extremity reaching to the. umbo; the proceams gracilis passes forwards and somewhat downwards, and is inserted into the Glase- nan fissure; the processus brrris gives attachment to the tensor tympani muscle, and rests against the upper part of the membrana tympani. The Incus (anvil) (a) consists of a body aud two processes. The