LIGAMENTS OF THE VERTEBRAE. 593 front than behind in the cervical and lumbar regions, and the reverse in the thoracic region. On dissecting the concentric laj'crs of an intervertebral substance, their fibres will be found to pass obliquely between the adjacent vertebrte, taking opposite directions by alternate layers. By cutting thi-ough the attachment to one of the vertebrae with a strong knife, a pulpy material in the centre will be seen to expand considerably above the level of the fibro-cartilaginous rings around it: this is probably a relic of the chorda dorsalis of the embryo. The Artiviihir Processes are surrounded by Capsular Ligaments (Fig. 284, 2), which are looser in the cervical than in the thoracic and lumbar regions; they permit a simple gliding movement between the processes. Each joint has a simple synovial mem- brane. The Arches are united by the Ligamenta Subflava (Fig. 284, i). These are to be seen on the internal surfaces of the arches which have been removed, and wiU be found to consist of a series of yeUow elastic ligaments, extending between the lamince of the vertebrae on each side of the middle line, fi'om the axis to the sacrum. Owing to the overlapping of the lamina?, the ligaments are attached to the posterior surface of the arch below and to the anterior sui-face of the arch above (Fig. 281, 2). The Sirinous Processes are united by (1) the Interspinous and (2) the Supraspinous ligaments, both of which give attachment to muscles. The Interspinous Ligaments are placed between the spinous processes of the vertebrae, extending from the root to the tip of each. They are stronger in the lumbar than in the thoracic, and in the thoracic than in the cervical region. The Supraspinous Ligament (Fig. 281, i) is a fibrous cord extending along the tips of the spinous processes, from the last cervical vertebra to the sacrum. It is continuous with the Irga- vientiim nnchw, and is thicker in the lumbar than in the thoracic region. It is composed of superficial and deep fibres, which have the same arrangement as those of the anterior and posterior common ligaments. The Transverse Processes are connected by Intertransverse Ligaments, which are round and thick in the thoracic, and thin and membranous in the lumbar region. They are frequently absent in the cervical region.