INNER SIDE OF THE THIGH. 122 except the pectineus, wWch receives its nerve from the anterior crural, with sometimes an additional twig from the obturator or accessory obturator. . The Profunda Artery (Fig. 54, 16) has been seen to anse from the femoral artery in Scarpa's triangle, from one to two inches below Poupart's ligament; lying at first to the outer side of the femoral artery and against the iUacus, and then winding mwards on to the pectineus behind the femoral vessels and its own veins. It next passes below the border of the pectineus behind the adductor longus, which separates it from the superficial femoral vessels, and on to the adductor brevis andmagnus, ending by piercing the latter. The profunda vein is superficial to its artery in the whole of its coui-se The Branches of the Profunda are the external and internal cii'cumflex, three perforating arteries, and a terminal branch, besides branches to the muscles on the inside of the thigh. 1 The External Circumflex artery (11) arises from the outer side of the prof^mda near its origin, and has been ah-eady seen m the dissection of the thigh (p. 116). When this vessel as is not mire- quently the case, springs from the common femoral, the uppei par of the profunda is no longer external to the superficial femoial, but lies behind or internal to it. . • ^ +1,^ 9 The Internal Circumflex artery (Figs. 55, 56) anses from the inner side of the profunda near its origin, and passmg backwards between the psoas and the pectineus, reaches the obturator externus muscle above the adductor brevis, where it divides mto two tei-minal branches. It supplies twigs to the muscles on the inner side of the thigh, an anastomotic branch to the obtm-ator ari^'iT, ^u articular branch to the hip-joint. Of the '^'^1^^}'^^^'''^^^^ foUows the tendon of the obturator externus to the digital ios^a ot the great trochanter, supplying the external rotator muscles and anastomosing with the gluteal, sciatic and first perforating artenes: the other passes to the back of the tHgh between the quadi-atus femoris and the adductor magnus, and supplies the vipper par ot the hamstrings, anastomosing with the sciatic and tirst perfoiatm^ arteries, and occasionally with the external circumflex. The so- caUed " crurial anastomosis" between these foui- vessels is seldom demonstrable. > ^ • 11 3 The Perfovatimi arteries (Figs. 55, 56), typicaUy three m number, pierce the' adductor muscles to supply the hamstrings and the vasti. The superior and mi.ldle arteries perforate the adductors brevis and magnus ; the inferior anses below the le el of the adductor brevis, and thoref<u-e perforates only the adductor magnus The nutrient artery to the femur generaUy comes fiom