157 THE POSTElllOK TIBIAL NEliVE. good-sized anierixyr peroneal branch, through the interosseous mem- brane, to the front of the leg, where it will afterwards be dissected; and is joined by a mmmuvimtrng branch from the posterior tibial. Its terminal branch is the ('■.rternul ralraneun, which passes over the posterior inferior tibio-fibular ligament to anastomose with the maUeolar arteries and supply the outer side of the calcaueiun, there joining with the caleanean branches of the posterior tibial and with the external plantar. 2. Muscular branches are given to the deep muscles and also to the soleus. The highest of these may send a twig to join the anastomosis about the knee. 3. The Medullar ij artery to the tibia is of large size, and enters the foramen on the posterior siu'face of that bone; it arises from the upper part of the posterior tibial, and has a dii-ection from the knee-joint. 4. A Cmnmunkatiiig (17) branch runs transversely immediately above the ankle to join the peroneal artery or its posterior terminal branch. 6. The Internal Caleanean (23) is a branch of variable size, and may be replaced by two or more separate arteries. It arises from the posterior tibial beneath the internal annular Hgament, piercing the latter to supply the inner side of the os calcis with the adjacent structui-es and the integument, and to anastomose with the caleanean branches of the peroneal and external plantar. The Anterior Tibial Artery (Pig. 73, 4) is seen just before it pierces the interosseous membrane to reach the front of the leg. It gives off two branches while in this position : the posterior tiUul recurrent, which rims upward over the head of the fibula, to anas- tomose with the inferior external articular ; and the superior fibular which winds around the neck of the fibula to anastomose with the anterior tibial recurrent. The Posterior Tibial Nerve (Fig. 74, 19) in the continuation ot the mternal popliteal trmik, and passes with the artery beneath the soleus, to lie on the deep muscles of the back of the leo- It ig placed at first to the inner side of the posterior tibial arte'ry, but crosses that vessel m the upper part and lies to its outer side at the ankle, and in the same division of the annular ligament. The nerve divides near the joint into internal and external plantar branches and If the division takes place above the inner malleolus, the nerves arc usually found on either side of the artery The posterior tibial nerve gives muscular branches to the tibialis posticus flexor longus digitorum, flexor longus hallucis, and soleus, and smaU branches to the vessels, bones, and interosseous mem- biane; finally, near the ankle, it sends oif a cutaneous cakanco.^