PART VIII. DISSECTION OF THE EYE. In order to study the general anatomy of the globe of tlie eye it will be best to procure bullock's eyes, as it is difficult to obtain the human eye in a sufficiently recent condition. It must be borne in mind however that the eye of the bullock differs from that of man not only in its larger size but in the following particulars: the cornea is oval instead of being nearly cu'cular; the pupil is elongated into a slit instead of being a circular apertiu'e; the choroid coat presents the peculiar coloui-ed appearance known as the tapetum lucidum, which is absent in man; and the yellow spot which is present in the hiunan retina is wantmg in the eye of quadi'uped>. The following description is of the human eye. [All the fat and the remnants of the muscles of the eye are to be removed with scissors, the optic nerve being carefully preserved.] The Human Eyeball (Fig. 315) is nearly globular in shape. The posterior five-sixths (sclerotic segment) consists of the greater part of a sphere with a radius of about half an inch; the anterior sixth (corneal segment) is formed by a portion of a smaller sphere having a radius of a little less than a thii'd of an ijich. Hence the antero-posterior diameter is greater than the transverse diameter. The Sclerotic (Fig. 315, ii) or external timic, constituting the framework of the larger posterior segment, is composed of dense white fibrous tissue, which serves to maintain the shape of the eyeball and to protect the internal parts. It is thicker behind than in fi'ont, and is perforated behind by the optic nerve, a little to the inner side of the axis of the globe. The opening for the optic nerve is funnel-shaped, and bridged across by a layer of fibrous tissue, the himina cribrusa, which is pierced by nimierous apertures for the fibrils of the nerve, and a central orifice for the artcria rrntmlis retina: The sclerotic is also penetrated at various pomts by the ciliary vessels and nervesaround the optic nerve entrance by the long and short ciliary arteries and nerves ; near the corneal