151 THE SOLEUS. [The inner head of the gastrocnemius has previously been cut; if the remaining head be now carefully divided near its origin, and the muscle turned down as far as possible, the plantaris and soleus, with the popliteiis covered by its fascia, will be brought into view.] 12) arises from above the external from the external Fig. 69. The Plantaris (Fig. 63, condyle of the femiu- and supra-condyloid ridge for about an inch, the muscle Ipng internally to and above the outer head of the gastrocnemius; a few fibres rise fi'om the jjosterior ligament of the knee-joint. Its fleshy fibres are about thi'ee inches long, but its tendon is the longest in the body and is very slender. It is placed between the gasti'ocnemius and soleus, and crosses obliquely to reach the mner side of the tendo Achillis, by the side of or in common with which it is inserted into the OS calcis. It is homologous to the palmaris longus of the upper extremity, and is subject to like variations (p. 47). The Soleus (Pig. 69, 5) is tendinous on its siu'face, and between it and the corresponding tendinous expansion on the deep surface of the gastrocnemius is a quantity of loose areolar tissue. It arises from the oblique line of the tibia, from the middle thii-d of the inner border of the bone, from the posterior sm-face of the head and upper third or more of the shaft of the fibula, from the intermuscular septum between it and the peroneus longus, and from a tendinous arch between the tibial and fibular origins over the vessels and nerves. The fibres end in a broad tendon, which joins that of the gastrocnemius below the middle of the leg to foi-m the tendo Achillis, the insertion of which has been seen. The muscular fibres are inserted into the deep surface of the common tendon to within two inches of the heel. Fig. 69.—Superficial muscles of the back of the leg (from Wilson) Tendou of biceps. 7. Tuberosity of os calcis. 2. Tendons of inner hamstrings ■i. Popliteal space. 4. frastrocnemius. f), 0. Soleus. 6. Tendo Achillis. 8. Tendons of the peroneus longus and brovis. 9. Tendons of the tibialis posticus and Hcxor longus digitorum,