153 FLEXOR LONGUS DKilTORUM. immediatelj- in front of the external lateral ligament, if it be desired at this stage of the dissection to see its tendinous origin. The popHteus arises from within the general capsule of the knee (though outside the synovial cavity) by a round tendon, which is fixed to the anterior extremity of the popliteal groove on the outer side of the external tuberosity, below and a little in front of the tubercle for the attachment of the external lateral ligament. The tendon passes beneath the long external lateral ligament, and is intimately connected with the short external lateral ligament. It occupies the long popKteal groove only during flexion, but occasionally a short extension groove is foimd upon the border of the outer condyle. It grooves the external semilunar cartilage and runs obliquely over the back of the outer tuberosity of the tibia just above the superior tibio-fibular joint, sometimes establishing a communication between this articulation and the knee-joint by means of the bui-sal exten- sion of the synovial membrane of the knee which invests it. It is inserted into nearly the whole of the triangular surface on the back of the upper part of the tibia, above the oblique line. The popliteus is a flexor of the leg upon the thigh, and rotates the tibia inwards dui-ing flexion. It is supposed also to produce that slight rotation inwards of the tibia, which takes place at the commencement of flexion of the knee. It is supplied by a branch of the internal popliteal nerve, which winds round the lower border to reach the anterior surface of the muscle. [The deep sub-soleal or intermuscular layer of fascia of the leo- bemg removed, the posterior tibial vessels and nerve are to be cleaned, when the subjacent muscles will be found in the following positions:—flexor longus digitorum most internally, tibialis posticus m the middle, and flexor longus hallucis to the outer side.] The Flexor Longus Digitorum (Fig. 72, 13) is a penniform muscle arisimj from the posterior sm'face of the tibia below the oblique line, and internally to the attachment of the tibialis posticus (from which it is separated by an indistinct vertical ridge and an mtermuscular septum), the lower fibres of the muscle reacliing to within three mches of the lower end of the tibia. It ends in a single tendon, which crosses to the outer side of that of the tibiaUs posticus at the ankle, and passes thi-ough a separate division of the intei-nal annular ligament; then upon the inner surface of the siistentaculum tali to the solo of the foot, where it will be seen Dreading up into four tendons, which give origin to the lumbiicales and afterwards perforate the tendons of the short flexor, to become inserted into the ungual phalanges of the four outer toes. In the