THE ILIACUS INTERNUS. 293 [The kidney being removed or turned out of the ■way, the fasciiB covering the psoas, quadratiis hunborum, and iliacus iire to be defined, and aftei'wards those muscles are to be cleaned; all nerves passing out of them being carefully preserved.] The anterior lamella of the posterior tendon of the transversalis abdominis muscle {v. p. 234) will be found to lie in fi'ont of the quadratus muscle and to pass inwards to the anterior surfaces of the transverse processes and to the intertransverse ligaments ; it is connected above with the ligamentum arcuatum externum of the diaphragm, and below is attached to the iliac crest and ilio- lumbar ligament. It is covered in front by the fascia transversalis. The fascia iliaca or ilio-psoas fascia ensheaths the psoas and ihacus. The fascia over the j>soas is attached to the lower edge of the ligamentum arcuatum internum of the diaphragm, and to the vertebrte fi-om which the muscle takes its origin, and joins the fascia over the iliacus below. The fascia coverimj the iliacus infenius muscle is attached above to the inner lip of the iliac crest, and is continuous below with the fascia over the psoas magnus. The conjoint sheath should be traced beneath Poupart's ligament, where it passes behind the sheath of the femoral vessels to reach the insertion of the muscle {v. p. 120). The Psoas Magnus muscle (Fig. 149, 6) arises by five slips from the sides of the intervertebral discs between the last thoracic and all the lumbar vertebra?, and from the adjacent parts of the bodies and roots of the transverse processes of these vertebrre; and between these slips from a series of tendinous arches crossing the constricted portion of the bodies of the four npper lumbar vertebra'. The muscle passes along the border of the true pelvis in close relation to the iliac vessels, and disappears beneath Poupart's ligament to be inserted by a tendon into the ajiex of the lesser trochanter of the femur. The Psoas Parvus (Fig. 149, 4) is a small miiscle occasionally found upon the front of the psoas magiurs. It arises in front of the upper slip of the psoas magnus, from the bodies of the last thoracic and first lumbar vertebrno, and from the intervening disc; and ends in a long tendon which is inserted into the ilio-pectineal eminence and part of the ilin-pectineal line, and gives an expansion to the iliac fascia. The Iliacus Internus (Fig. 149, 8) arises from the upper half of the iliac fossa, reaching the margins of the crest, iliac notch, and anterior inferior iliac spine ; from the upper surface of the ala of the sacrum ; from the anterior sacro-iHac and ilio-lumbar ligaments •