PALM OF THE HAND. 72 volar brancli of the radial artery, which generally pierces a few of the fibres of the abductor pollicis, or more commonly by the radialis indicis or princeps pollicis: sometimes by all of these. From its convexity are given off tour digital arteries, the first of which runs to the ulnar side of the little finger, whilst the three others bifurcate about half an inch from the web of the fingers to supply the radial side of the Httle finger, both sides of the ring, both sides of the middle, and the tilnar half of the index finger. These branches traced along the sides of the digits will be found to supply the cutaneous structui-es, the sheaths of the tendons and the jomts, and to send twigs back to anastomose with the dorsal artenes; finaUy they supply the pulp of the terminal phalanx and form a plexus beneath the nail. They are accompanied by the digital nerves; but their relative positions differ in the pabn and m the fingers,—in the former the arteries are superficial, in the latter the nerves. . . , j. -i-i; i_: Each of the three outer digital arteries at its pomt of bifurcation receives a communicating twig from the interosseous branches of the deep arch (radial ai-tery), and an intermetacarpal branch fi-om the bifurcation of the dorsal digital arteries. The branch to the fore- finger inosculates with a branch on the other side of the finger also derived from the radial (radialis indicis). The Profunda Artery is a small communicating branch arismg from the ulnar artery as soon as it has crossed the annular Ugament. It passes deeply, with the deep branch of the ulnar nerve, between the abductor and the flexor brevis minimi digiti, and along tfie ulnar side of the unciform process. It wiU be found to complete the deep palmar arch of the radial artery. The median artery from the anterior interosseous (p. o4) is sometimes enlarged and joins the superficial pahnar arch or supphes digital branches. . , The Ulnar Nerve (Fig. 22, 2) accompames the iilnar aiterj over the annular Ugament, lying to its uhiar side, and unmediately divides into a superficial and a deep portion. The deep branch (22) accompanies the profunda branch of theulnar artery (7. v.) ^^pplymg the muscles of the little finger, and be seen again ui the deep dissection of tho palm. The snperficial division 26) sends a txM to the palmaris brevis and to the integument of the u nar side of the palm, and subdivides into two cUgital branches which supply one and a half fingers, the inner one running on the u^nar side 0 the little finger, and the other bifurcating at the roots of the fingexs into branches for the radial side of the little and ulnar side of the finger, the latter uniting with a branch of the median nerve.