THE BACK OF THE FORE-ARM. 62 The Supinator Brevis (Eig. 25, 9) is an oblique muscle, covered at the tipper part by a tendinous expansion, from which some of its fibres take their origin. It arises from the external lateral ligament of the elbow, a few fibres perhaps reaching the external condyle; from the back of the orbicular ligament of the radius; from the triangular space below the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, and from the adjacent part of the posterior surface of the bone for a short cUstance. Its fasciculi sweep spii-ally around the radius, and are inserted into the upper third of that bone, extending to the inner margin of the neck, the outer margin of the bicipital tuber- osity, the oblique line, and the corresponding parts of the anterior, external, and posterior aspects of the bone. It is pierced by the posterior interosseous nerve (which supplies it), and the posteiior interosseous artery passes between it and the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. It is a powerful supinator of the radius on the ulna. % • t-u The Extensor Ossis Metacarpi PoUicis (Fig. 2o, 13) is the only one of the special extensors of the thumb which usually has an "origin from both bones of the fore-ami. It arises from the middle of the posterior surface of the radius for about two mches. the origin reaching across the bone from the interosseous hne to the attachments of the supinator brevis and pronator teres; fi'om a corresponding portion of the posterior sm-face of the interosseous membrane ; and from two inches of the middle of the outer- side of the posterior surface of the ulna, between the attachments of the supinator brevis and anconeus above, and the extensor secundi internodii below. The muscle becomes superficial between the extensors of the carpus and fingers, and having crossed the extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior, and the insertion of the supinator longus, it passes on the outer side of the styloid process of the radhis, through the first division of the posterior annular hgament and over the racUal artery, to be inserted mto the base of he metacai-pal bone of the thumb, sometimes sendmg a sbp to the trapezium and the short muscles of the thumb. The Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis (Ing. 2o. 15) from the back of the ra(Kus immediately below the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and close to the interosseous line, f'.'^" ^P^^^^ inches long and half an inch wide; also ft-om the radial half of h interosseous membrane for a corresponding distance It. tendon lies to the ulnar side of the tendon of the extensor of the nietacm- al bone in its whole course, passing through the samg division of tl.^ annular ligament, and is prolonged to be inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the thmub.