482 THE PHARYNX. necessarily be destroyed in the course of the dissection, but the superior and inferior laryngeal, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerves are to be preserved.] The Pharynx is now seen as a plane of muscle m vested on both sides by fibrous tissue, and lined anteriorly or internally by mucous membrane continuous with that of the respiratory and digestive passages and the tympana. It is fixed to the base of the skuU above and merges into the oesophagus below, at the level of the lower border of the sixth cervical vertebra. Its lateral borders are curved forwards and are attached in succession to the internal ptery- goid plate and its hamular process, to the pterygo-maxillary Uga- ment (or becomes directly continuous with the buccinator), to the posterior extremity of the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw, to the stylo-hyoid Hgament and the lesser and greater cornuaof the hyoid bone, and to the thji-oid and cricoid cartilages. It is also connected by accessory slips to the soft palate and side of the tongue. The pharynx is about six inches in length. It lies flat agamst the vertebral column and prevertebral muscles in the greater part of its extent, curving forward only at its lateral attached borders. It does not form a " sac " in the strict sense of the term. Its mucous membrane is described on p. 486. The Inferior Constrictor (Fig. 234, 17) is the lowest and most superficial of the three muscles of the pharynx, the upper oblique border overlapping the middle constrictor, which m tm-n overlaps the superior constrictor. It arises from the ala of the thyroid carti- lage behind the oblique line, from the inferior cornu of the same cartilage, and from the side of the cricoid cartilage below the facet for articulation with the inferior cornu of the thyroid ; some of its fibres often passing into those of the crico-thja-oid. All the fibres are inserted into the median raphe ; the highest ascend somewhat steeply, sometimes reaching the pharyngeal spme and are closely related to the external laryngeal nerve, while the lo^yest fibres are horizontal and are continuous with the upper fibres of the oesophagus. The recurrent laryngeal nerve passes beneath the lower border of the inferior constrictor; the superior laryngeal nerve and artery intervene between it and the middle constrictor above; and he external laryngeal nerve runs along its attached border beneath the sterno-thyroid to reach the crico-thyroid. , , , i„ The Middle Constrictor (Fig. 284, 11) is a ^^--^^ .TZ^ ,risin<, from the upper surface of the great cornu ot the hycnd bone from the lesser cornu, and from the stylo-hyoid hgament. It. fibies radiate, the upper ascending neariy as far as the pharyngeal spine ; and it is inserted into the median raphe of the pharynx, overiapped