51 FLEXOR PROFUNDUS DIGITORUM. of each tendon, Jii/unwida hrevia (MarsBall). The tendon of the flexor sublimis (jDerforcatus) will be seen to divide on the first phalanx to give passage to the tendon of the flexor profundus (per- forans), the two slips uniting beneath the latter and dividing again to be hiserti'd into the ridges on the shaft of the second phalanx; while the tendon of the flexor profundus runs on to the base of the third phalanx. The flexor sublimis is a flexor of the middle and proximal phalanges and of the wrist; and is also a weak flexor of the elbow, but its chief action is upon the phalanx to which it is attached. It is sii.ppJicd by the median nerve. The position of the ulnar arterj% between the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris and the innermost tendon of the flexor sublimis in the lower half of the fore-arm, is now to be noticed, and, by a slight separation of the tendons, the ulnar nerve can be seen Ijdng close to the ulnar side of the artery. This is the point where the ulnar artery is usually tied. [The flexor sublimis is now to be divided near its origin and turned down without injuring the median nerve, from which a branch may be traced to the deep surface of the muscle.] The Deep Muscles (Fig. 21) of the fore-arm are the flexor long-US pollicis on the radial side, the flexor profundus digitorum on the ulnar side, and the pronator quadratus, a small square muscle with transverse fibres, to be afterwards seen above the carpus bj' drawing aside the tendons. These are now to be cleaned, vessels and nerves being carefullj-- preserved. The Flexor Longus Pollicis (Fig. 21, 15) arises from the whole of the anterior siu'face of the radius between the oblique line and the attachment of the pronator quadratus, and from the outer half of the interosseoiis membrane in nearly its whole length. It generally has a small additional origin, by a slip of variable size, from the inner side of the coronoid process of the ulna. The tendon, invested by its ovrn bursal sheath, passes beneath the annular ligament and through the palm of the hand between the two heads of the flexor brevis pollicis, to be inserted into the base of the tei-minal phalanx of the thumb. The /i(/(imeidnm vcujinaJe of this tendon is much weaker than those of the finger tendons, and its synovial lining is commonly continuous with the outer carpal bursa. The Flexor Profundus Digitorum (perforans) (Fig. 21, 24) arises from the anterior surface of the ulna between the insertion of the brachialis anticus (which it embraces) and the origin of the pronator quadratus; from the adjacent half of the interosseous E 2