THE SIDE OF THE NECK. 400 sternum, there splitting into two laminae, between which are included some fat and a transverse branch uniting the two anterior jugular veins. A Second, deeper layer of fascia covers the sterno- hyoid, thyro-hyoid and omo-hyoid, binding down the central tendon of the latter muscle to the clavicle, and sending a process called the mediastinum colli backwards between the cervical viscera (oesopha- gus, larynx and trachea, &c.) and the common carotid artery, to join the prevertebral aponeurosis opposite the cervical ti-ansverse processes. A TJiird and still deeper layer ensheaths the thyroid body, fixes its isthmus to the hyoid bone, and its lateral lobes to the extremities of the first and second tracheal rings {superior and lateral thyroid h'yaments); and passing downwards becomes con- nected with the front of the pericardium. The carotid sheath is fonned -by the junction of the various layers of cervical fascia surrounding the vessels. Well-marked lymph spaces may be demonstrated between the fascial layers in the neck in certain situations. The chief of these are (1) the pre-viscercd fissure, in front of the trachea and thyroid body, extending downwards behind the lower extremities of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles into the superior medi- astinum ; (2) the retro-viscercd fissure, between the pharynx and oesophagus in front and the vertebral column and pre-vertebral muscles behind This is boimded on each side by the mediastinum, colli, and may be traced upwards as far as the base of the cranium and downwards into the superior and posterior mediastina ; (3) the sterno-mastoid fissure, behind the lower part of the sterno-mastoid muscle. It extends downwards into the axiUa and into the superior mediastinum. These fissures have considerable influence upon the direction followed by pus in cases of disease of the cervical vertebi-se, or deep suppurations in the neck. The Anterior Triangle (Pig. 185) of the neck is a space botmded in front by the median line from the symphysis menti to the sternum ; behind by the sterno-mastoid muscle ; its base is formed by the lower jaw and a line from the angle of the jaw to the mastoid process; and its apex is below, at the,top of the sternum. It is covered in by the skin and superficial fascia, the platysma, the superficial layer of the deep fascia, and the superficial vessels and nerves; and is subdivided into three smaller triangles by the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid, the stylo-hyoid and posterior belly of the digastricus, and the body of the hyoid bone. The Submaxillary Triangle is bounded above by the lower border of the inferior maxilla and the stylo-niaxillary ligament; in front by the midline from chin to hyoid bono, and behnv by the