8 DISSECTION OF THE ARM. prominent of the two bones at the wist, whilst the end of the radius extends a little lower down than that of the nlna ; and the stjdoid process of each can be readily distinguished. The tendons of the flexor carpi radialis and flexor carpi ulnaris are usually pro- minent, and serve as guides to the radial and ulnar arterirs, which may be felt (it injected) to the outer, or radial, side of each tendon. In front, below the radio-carpal joint, may be felt the projection of the pisiform bane on the ulnar side, and, less distinctly, that of the tubercle of the scaphoid on the radial side. Behind and on the outer side may be traced the extensor tendons of the wrist, fingers, and thumb. In the HAND the metacarpus and the phalanges are to be examined, and it should be borne in mind that the transverse markings, on either the palmar or dorsal aspect of the fingers, form no guide to the articulations. In the case of the metacarpo-phalangeal joints, the line of articulation is about three-quarters of an inch on the proximal side of the web. When the finger is bent, the prominence at the articulation is due to the proximal bone, and the joint is distal to that point. The limb should be carefully bandaged fi-om the fingers to the middle of the upper arm, and only uncovered as far as may be necessary in the progress of the dissection. [The arm being drawn away from the side, an incision is to be made half an inch to one side of the mechan line of the sternum in its whole length, and is to be joined at right angles by another running along the whole length of the clavicle to the acromion process, thence in a vertical direction half-way down the upper arm, and then across the inner aspect of the arm as far as the level of the posterior fold of the axilla. Another incision is to be made transversely from the ensiform cartilage, and must be carried beyond the posterior fold of the armpit. The large flap of skin thus marked out is to be reflected towards the arm, the dissector on the right side beginning at the lower end of the sternum, and on the left side at its upper extremity.] Beneath the skin is the subcutaneous fascia, which is often very fatty. The inamma will also be exposed in the female, or its rudiment in the male subject, and an incision may be carried around the nipple so as to leave it attached to the gland in the former. In a well-developed body the fibres of the platysma myoides may be seen arising from the fascia below the clavicle. , , n • -ui In the female the Mamma, or breast, is a gland of very vanable bulk lying upon tlio groat p.H'toral muscle, from which it is separated by a quantity of loose cellular tissue. Its base is