447 THE TEMPORAL MUSCLE. backwards, to be inserted into the angle of the jaw and the lower half of the ramus. The deeper and more fleshy part arises from the posterior thii-d of the lower border and from the whole length of the inner sm-face of the zygoma; it extends downwards and a little forwards, to be inserted into the. outer siu'face of the upper half of the ramus of the jaw, including the root of the coronoid process. [The temporal fascia is to be detached from the upper border of the zygoma, and a cut is to be made with the saw thi-ough the malar bone in front of the masseter, and behind it thi-ough the zygoma, as near its root as possible without injuring the temporo- maxillary articulation. The piece of bone with the masseter at- tached can then be turned down, when the deeji fibres of the muscle will be seen attached to the lower jaw, and the masseteric branch of artery and nerve will be found emerging thi-ough the sigmoid notch behind the coronoid process, and must necessarily be divided. The temporal muscle is to be cleaned and the fat beneath the masseter removed, so as to expose the buccinator muscle thoroughly, together with its branch of nerve and artery which appear in fi-ont of the coronoid process and are to be preserved.] The Temporal Muscle (Fig. 223, 2) arises from the whole of the temporal fossa, except the anterior wall formed by the malar bone; by deep fibres from the pterygoid ridge on the great wing of the sphenoid; and fi-om the rmder sui-face of the temporal fascia, which has been seen to be attached to the whole length of the temporal ridge. Its anterior fibres are nearly vertical, the posterior nearly horizontal; they converge to a tendon, which is inserted into the apex, anterior and posterior borders, and inner surface of the coronoid process, extending along the inner surface of the ramus of the lower jaw nearly as far as the last molar tooth. [A section is made by the saw downwards from the anterior margm of the neck of the jaw parallel to the posterior border of the ramus, as far as a level with the alveolar process. A second section is caiTied horizontally forwards from this point in such a way as to detach the gi-eater part of the ramus with the coronoid process but leaving a narrow line of bone connecting the condyle with the an<-le Un turning up the segment with the temi)oral muscle the zvffomatic lossa IS well exposed. ^ On removing the portion of ramus thus separated, the periosteum wm probably be left behind, and on this being dissected away, the KfprnlV '''''^ r^'^'-y seen lying on the internal lateral ligament before entering the dental foramen, and in front of these the lingual (gustatory nerve. Crossing both nerves trans- versely at the upper part of the space now exposed is the external