THE EYE. 668 Fig. 319. The Lens (Fig. 315, 4) is situated in front of the vitreous humour, and is kejit in its place by the sii..yicnmri/ liyammt, a transparent structure passing from the hyaloid membrane at the era serrata to the junction of the anterior and posterior segments of the capsule. A space called the Canal of Petit (6) may be foimd in the substance of the ligament, around the margin of the lens, but it is doubtful whether this is not arti- ficially produced. The lens is bi-convex, the posterior siu'face being more strongly curved than the anterior. It consists of fibres arranged around two Y-shaped axes, which may be seen, after a little manipulation, upon the anterior and posterior sui'faces of the sti'uctm'e. The central layers are denser than the more circumferential, and fonn what is called the nucleus. Investing the fibrous lamince is a sti-uctureless elastic capsule, which receives at its periphery the attachment of the suspensory ligament. The anterior segment of the capsule is separated fi-om the lens substance by a layer of cells (Fig. 319). The Vitreous Body (Fig. 315, 13) is a transparent structui-e filling the jjosterior part of the eyeball. It consists of a gelatinous substance enclosed in a transparent membrane called the hyaloid memhrane, and is traversed by niunerous delicate and perfectly transparent septa, the existence of which may be denionsti-ated by pressing out the fluid from the body with the fingers. In. foetal Hie it is pierced axiaUy by a vessel which passes to the lens. In an eye fi'om which the vitreous humom- has been removed, the greyish tmijigmented strata of the retina will .shi-ink, leaving exposed the retinal pigment adherent to the inner sm-face of the choroid; and in the bullock's eye will be seen the tapetum htcidum, that gives the coloui'ed appearance peculiar to the lower aniiniils. The tapetum consists of a thick layer of wavy fibrous tissue outside the retinal jjigment. Fig. 319.—The ci78talliiie lens (from Wilson's Anatomy). 1. The himimc of which the lens is capsule and front of the lens. composed. 3. Capsule of the lens. 2. The cells contained between the 4. Nuclear zone.