THE PANCREAS AND SPLEEN. 303 The Ileo-ccecal valve (Fig. 151, 5) is formed by a prolongation of the mucous membrane and cu'cular fibres of the muscular coat of ileum into the cavity of the cpecum, and appears as two folds boundiug a horizontal slit-like aperture of communication. The upper fold or flajD, which is horizontal in direction, is sometimes known as the ih-o-colic, and the lower or more vertical one as the ileO'CKcal fold. Two ridges, one on each side, extend from the angles of ujiion of the two folds, and are called the frana or retinacula. The valve permits the ready passage of fluid from the small into the large intestine, but opposes regurgitation. The mucous membrane of the large intestine has no villi, these ceasing abruptly at the free margin of the ileo-csecal valve, but resembles that of the small intestine in having columnar epithe- lium, tubular glands resembling the follicles of Lieberkiihn, and solitary follicles, embedded in the submucous tissue. The Pancreas (Fig. 139, and p. 272), should be cleaned, but left attached to the duodenum. It is a compoimd racemose gland, and consists of lobules of a yellowish colour held together by loose fibrous tissue, a small duct passing fi-om each lobule into the main ti-imk. A probe shordd be passed from the duodenum into the duct (canal of Wirsung), and when dissected out, will be foimd to pass along the whole length of the gland, nearer the posterior than the anterior siu-faco. A large accessory duct passes from the upper part of the head and occasionally opens separately into the duodeniun. The pancreatic duct lies close to the bUe duct, and the two pierce the duodenal wall, opening usually by a common orifice upon the summit of a small papilla. The Spleen (Fig. 139, spl) has been already figui'edand described (p. 277), and may now be removed and examined in section. Beneath the peritoneal coat which invests the organ, will be found a fibrous coat containing an abundance of unstriped muscular tissue, which is continued into the splenic substance, to form the traher.uhv or meshes in which the splenic jmlp is contained. In this pulp, which consists of a reticuliun of branched connective- tissue corpuscles (Quain), are fonnd the Malpi</hiai) corjinsdcs, small round or oval bodies attached to the miiiuto divisions of the splenic artery. They are composed of lymphoid tissue derived from a transformation of the external or areolar coat of the small arteries and average ^ inch in diameter. The arteries end in capillaries' which lose themselves in the connective tissue of the pulii in the ;nterstices of which the blood flows. The veins anastomose fi-eely in and upon the trabeculre, and open into the splenic vein.