POPLITEAL NERVES. 721 tliat bone the nerve enters the fibres of the peroneus longus muscle, and divides beneath it into two,—musculo-cutaneous and anterior tibiaL Its branches whilst in the popliteal Branches; space are cutaneous and articular. The articidar nerve runs with the upper external artery articular, to the outer side of the knee, where it sends a twig along the lower articular artery : both enter the joint. The peroneal communicating branch (ram. communicans Commimi- fibularis) is a cutaneous nerve, and joins the external saphe- ^ranfh. nous branch of the internal popliteal about the middle of the leg (fig. 105, ^). It arises near the head of the fibula, and soon pierces the deep fascia. Cutaneous offsets are given by it to the back of the leg. One or two other cutaneous ofisets are furnished by the Cutaneous external popliteal to the integument on the outer part of the leg in the upper half. The articular branch of the obturator nerve perforates the Articular adductor magnus, and is conducted by the popliteal artery obturator.^ to the back of the knee joint. After supplying filaments to the vessel, the nerve enters the articulation through the posterior ligament. The lymphatic glands of the popliteal space are situate Lymphatic around the large arterial trunk. Two or three are ranged aroundthe on the sides; whilst one is superficial to, and another artery, beneath the vessel : they are joined by the deep lymphatic vessels of the lower limb, as well as by the superficial set accompanying the saphenous vein. Dissection.—Now the anatomy of the popliteal space has Dissect the been learnt, the student may proceed with the dissection of thi^^?^ the back of the thigh. The piece of skin therefore between the buttock and the popliteal space should be divided and reflected to the sides. In the fat on the sides of the limb offsets of the internal Seek out and external cutaneous nerves of the front of the thigh may \ be found, if they have been preserved in front; and along the middle line some filaments from the small sciatic nerve pierce the fascia. Lastly, remove the deep fascia of the limb, taking care ^/^g^^j^^^^' of the small sciatic nerve ; and then clean the hamstring nerves, muscles, and trace into them the perforating arteries and the branches of the great sciatic nerve. The MUSCLES ON THE BACK OF THE THIGH act aS fleXOrS of Three mus- the knee joint. They extend from the pelvis to the bones olthigh^'"''^^ of the leg, and are named hamstrings from their cord-like appearance on the sides of the ham : they are three in 3 A cutaneous nerves.