DISSECTION" OF THE BRAIK other side, forming thus a decussation like that of the pyra- mids"^ (p. 210). In this way the fibres of each peduncle end partly in the same, and partly in the opposite hemisphere of the cerebrum. Between the superior peduncles is the thin, translucent, white layer,—the valve of Vieussens (velum medullare ante- rius), which forms part of the roof of the fourth ventricle (fig. 37, v). It is thin and pointed anteriorly, but widens behind, where it is connected with the under part of the vermiform process. !N"ear the corpora quadrigemina the fourth nerve is attached to the upper surface of the valve,— the nerves of opposite sides being united ; and near the lower part, the upper surface is marked by some gray trans- verse ridges. h. The middle peduncle (processus ad pontem) is com- monly named crus cerebelli (fig. 39), and is the largest of the three peduncular processes. Its fibres begin in the lateral part of the cerebellum, and are directed forwards to the pons, of which they form the transverse fibres, and in which they unite with the fibres of the peduncle of the opposite side. This peduncle is supposed to perform for the cerebellum, the same office as the corpus callosum does for the cerebrum, viz., to serve as a commissural or con- necting piece. c. The inferior peduncle (fig. 33, n) (processus ad medullam) passes downwards to the medulla oblongata, and forms part of the restiform body (e). Its fibres are connected chiefly with the laminse of the upper surface of the cerebellum. It will be better seen when the fourth ventricle has been opened. Course of the fibres. —The fibres contained in the peduncles of the cerebellar hemisphere connect it with the cerebrum, with its fellow, and with the medulla oblongata of the same side. The description already given of the middle peduncle, both here and with the pons, will suffice for the notice of its fibres. The fibres of the upper peduncle (fig. 38, /) are continued into the optic thalamus, and thus form part of the diverging cerebral set of fibres ; but before they reach their final destination there is a partial decussation with the fibres of the opposite peduncle, so that some from the right half of * This intercomnmnication was known to Reil, and was named *'ansa" by him, but the decussation has been noticed more recently by StilUng, Ueler den Bau des Hirnknotens: 1846.