211 DISSECTION OF THE BEAIN". pyramid, and join the commissural fibres both at the surface and within the medulla ; whilst others disappear, probably to become longitudinal.^' Outside the pyramids is the gray layer of the olivary body (fig. 34, /) already described (p. 209). Behind it is another separate, elongated and flattened yellowish streak, the acces- sory olivary nucleus (fig. 34, k), while at the inner part of the olive near the raphe is a second collection (fig. 34, Q, which is broken up into parts. Both of the last deposits Mr. Clarke considers to be but parts of the folds or convo- lutions of the olivary body. PdS-S VAROLII. Pons: The PONS, or ANNULAR. PROTUBERANCE (pons Yarolii, nodus encephali) (fig. 31), is situate above the medulla oblongata, position, and between the hemispheres of the cerebellum. In its natural position in the skull it fills the hollow in front of the form, tentorium cerebelli. It is nearly of a square shape, though it is rather widest from side to side, and measures two inches in surfaces, the last direction. The anterior surface is grooved along the middle line (fig. 31), and is received into the basilar hollow in the base of the skull. By the opposite surface the pons enters into the fourth ventricle, forming part of the and borders, floor of that space. The upper border is longest and most curved, and arches over the cerebral peduncles ; and the lower border overlays the prolongations of the medulla ob- longata. On each side is the crus cerebelli, whose fibres radiate over the surface. It is formed Structure.—In the pons are alternating strata of trans- tudinafaud "^erse and longitudinal fibres:—the transverse set are continu- t^an^sverse ous with the fibres of the crus cerebelli, with much gray matter interspersed : the longitudinal are prolonged from the constituent bodies of the medulla oblongata. Dissection Dissection.—The transverse fibres of the pons may be the fibres, divided along the line of the pyramidal body of the left side, and turned outwards, so as to denude the longitudinal fibres of the pyramid. In like manner a second mass of transverse fibres, which lie below the longitudinal of the pyramid (first set) may be cut through outside the pyramidal ; and the deep longitudinal fibres of the lateral and posterior columns of the cord (second set) will appear. Amongst this last set of longitudinal fibres is the fillet of the corpus olivare, which the dissector should attempt to trace upwards from that body. The superficial fibres of the pons can be seen on the side that is untouched. In the olivary- body, behind it, and at the inner side.