215 PONS YAROLII. The transverse fibres of tlie annular protuberance (fig. 33), The trans- are collected chiefly into two strata—a superficial and deep, J^^ma^^^^ which are united in the middle line : they serve as commis- sural fibres of the cerebellum, and are derived from the crus or middle peduncle of that body. There are a few other transverse, that will be described with the septum. The superficial set (fig. 31, j^,) are mostly horizontal, but superficial some from the lower part of the crus (i), ascend obliquely over the others to reach the upper margin of the pons. The deep layer (fig. 33 m',) is thickest, and contains much and a deep gray matter between its fibres. ^a^jer. The longitudinal fibres consist of three sets, viz. one from Three sets of the anterior pyramidal body; another from the lateral and fiSS^^^"^^^ posterior columns of the cord ; and a third from the corpus olivare. The fibres are not continued simply through the pons, but are increased in number by the addition of others (peduncular), which begin in the upper two thirds of the pons and join them on the' outer side. It is said by some, that transverse fibres of the pons become longitudinal, and thus increase the number. a. The fibres of the anterior pyramid (fig. 33,) pass through From an- the pons between the two sets of tranverse fibres, but not mid, one mass, for they are divided into a number of small bundles in their progress. Much increased in number, the fibres enter the crus cerebri at the upper border of the pons, and give rise to that fasciculated surface of the peduncle, which is now uppermost. 6, The ascending fibres of the lateral and posterior columns from lateral of the cord (fig. 33, ^,) are altogether deeper than the com- JiJjrpart^of missural fibres of the pons, and are mixed up with gray spinal cord, matter ; they are also more numerous than the preceding set. These fibres project close to the middle line, in the floor of the fourth ventricle, and form the eminence of the fasciculus teres ; from that spot they are continued upwards to the crus cerebri, where they enter its deeper or cerebral part. In the pons a band from the olivary fasciculus is added to these fibres. c. The olivary fasciculus (fillet, p. 209, fig. 33, c,) divides from olivary into two slips in the pons. One (i) passes backwards to the ^°^"^* upper (in this position deeper) part of the crus cerebri, and ends in and beneath the corpora quadrigemina (p. 237). The other (h) is continued to the cerebrum with the fibres of the lateral column. Septum of the pons,—In the pons, as in the medulla Septum of oblongata, there is a septum or commissure between the