259 THE MAMMA. branches of the internal mammary vessels are found with these nerves. The lateral cutaneous nerves come with companion vessels The other between the digitations of the serratus muscle, and divide the^^i^est immediately into an anterior and a posterior branch. There These have is not usually any lateral cutaneous nerve to the first inter- costal trunk ; and the cutaneous nerve of the second inter- costal trunk wants commonly the anterior of the two offsets into which the other lateral cutaneous nerves bifurcate. a. The anterior offsets bend forwards over the pectoral ^-iiterior aud muscle^ and end in the mammary gland and the integu- ments. The lov/est give twigs also to the digitations of the external oblique muscle. h. The posterior offsets are distributed to the integuments posterior over the latissimns dorsi muscle and the back of the scapula. The branch of the second intercostal nerve is larger than One or more the rest, and, perforating the fascia of the axilla, supplies ?each\h? the integument of the arm (p. 289), from which circum- a^ni- stance it is named intercosto-humeral. As it crosses the axilla it is divided into two or more pieces, and is connected to the nerve of Wrisberg by a filament of variable size. The branch of the third intercostal gives filaments likewise to the arm-pit and the inner part of the arm. The MAMMA, or the breast, is the gland for the secretion office of the of the milk, and is situate on the front of the chest, though ^^^^s*- somewhat towards the lateral aspect. ^ The gland is hemispherical in form, and is placed over Form and the great pectoral muscle, but it is rather most prominent » at the inner and lower parts. Its dimensions and weight with its di- vary greatly. In a breast that is not enlarged by lactation the v/idth is commonly about four inches ; and it extends longitudinally from the third to the sixth or seventh rib, and transversely from the side of the sternum to the axilla. Its depth is about one inch and a half. The weight of and weight, the breast ranges from six to eight ounces. Nearly in the centre of the gland (rather to the inner Position and side of the centre) is the conical or cylindrical projection of nippie^ the nipple or mamilla. This prominence is about half an inch or rather more in length, is slightly turned outwards, and presents in the centre a shallow depression, where it * If the student Las a male body, lie may disregard the description of the breast; and if the body is a female, lie may set aside the breast for a more convenient examination of its structure. s 2