DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 580 They form the lobes. Number of lobes. Shape. Tubes in them, and arrange- ment. Tubes next become straight (tubuli recti); afterwards join to- gether (rete testis), and leave become convoluted, and are called coni vasculosi, or vasa efferentia. The lobes of the testis (fig. 89, a) are formed by bimdles of the seminiferal tubes ; and they are situate in the inter- vals between the processes sent inwards from the tunica albuginea. Their number is difi'erently stated :—according to one authority (Berres) they are 250 ; but according to another (Krause), 400 or more. They are conical in form, with the base of each at the circumference, and the apex at the mediastinum testis. Each is made up of one, two or more tor- tuous seminal tubules ; and the mi- nute tubes in one lobe are united sometimes with those in the neigh- bouring lobes. Towards the apex of each lobe the tubules become less bent, and are united together ; and the tubuli of the several lobes are further joined at the same spot into larger canals that form the tubuli recti. Tubuli recti.—The seminal tubes issuing from the several lobes unite together, becoming larger in size and straighter in direction, and are named tubuli recti or vasa recta (fig. 89, b) : they are about twenty in number, and piercing the fibrous mediastinum enter into its interior. JRete testis.—In the mediastinum the excretory tubes are situate in the anterior part in front of the bloodvessels, and communicate freely so as to form a network, the rete testis (fig. 89, c). Vasa efferentia.—About twelve or twenty seminal tubes the top of the rete testis, and leave the upper part of the testicle as the vasa efferentia (fig. 89, d). These are larger than the tubes with which they are continuous, and end in the common excretory duct. Though straight at first they soon become convoluted, and have been named coni vasculosi. When they are unravelled they are from six the gland as igg^e from vasa efferen- * Plan of the testicle as seen on a vertical section.—■/. Fibrous coat of tbe testicle, s. Mediastinum, iy i. Processes of external coat, con- tinued between the lobes, a, a. Lobes of the testis, h. Tubuli recti. c. Eete testis, d. Vasa efferentia. /, e, g. Ooils of the tube forming the epididymis, h. Vas deferens. j