DISSECTIOIT OF THE BACK. 434 Connections. They are interspinals. Obliquus inferior, to first two vertebr£8. Obliquus superior extends from atlas to occiput. Connec- tions. Semi- spiualis is divided into semi-spma- lis dorsi, and semi-spma- lis colli. Connec- tions. Inter-spinal muscles in pairs in the neck occipital bone, and between this and the foramen magnum. Tliis small muscle is fan-shaped, and is deeper than the rectus major : it covers the ligament between the atlas and the occipital bone. The two small recti muscles correspond with the inter- spinales between the other vertebrje. The OBLIQUUS INFERIOR lies obliquely between the first two vertebrse. It arises from the spinous process of the axis, external to the rectus major muscle, and is inserted into the posterior transverse process (diapophysis) of the atlas. The OBLIQUUS SUPERIOR takes origin from the upper part of the transverse process of the atlas, where the preceding muscle terminates ; and it is directed inwards to be inserted between the curved lines of the occipital bone, near the mastoid process. This muscle is concealed by the complexus and trachelo-mastoideus, and crosses the vertebral artery. Its insertion is beneath the splenius, but above the rectus major muscle. The SEMisPiNALis occupies the vertebral groove in the dorsal and cervical regions, and extends from the transverse and articular processes to the spines of the vertebrae. The lower part of the muscle is called semispinalis dorsi, and the upper part semispinalis colli. The semispinalis dorsi arises from the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrse, from the tenth to the sixth ; and it is inserted into the spinous processes of the upper four dorsal and the last two cervical vertebra. The semispinalis colli arises from the transverse processes of the upper five or six dorsal vertebrae, and from the arti- cular processes of the cervical vertebrse except the first three : it is inserted into the spines of the cervical vertebrse above the attachment of the semispinalis dorsi, the atlas not receiving any slip. The semispinalis muscle is covered by the complexus, and by the deep cervical artery and some cervical nerves. To its inner side is the multifidus spinae muscle. The INTERSPINAL MUSCLES are placed as their name expresses : they are arranged in pairs, a muscle being on each side of the interspinons ligament, and are best seen in the neck and loins. In the cervical region the muscles are situate between the spinous processes, but they are absent from the interval between the first two vertebrse. They are small round bundles, and are attached above and below to the bifurcated apices of the spines.