STERNO-CLAYICULAE ARTICULATIOIT 189 Fis:. 29. " ments have become dry, they ought to be moistened for a short time. The several ligaments will appear after the removal of some fibrous tissue. Capsular ligament.—This is a thin membranous expansion (fig. 29, which encases the articular ends of the bones and the fibro-cartilage. It is attached near the articular surface of each bone, and is thinner before than behind. Sometimes the stronger fibres in front and at the back are described as separate ligaments. The interclavicular ligament (fig. 29, extends above the sternum, between the ends of the clavicles. The fibres do not cross in a straight line, but dip into the hollow between the clavicular bones, and are connected with the upper part of the sternum. The costo-clavicular ligament (fig. 29, ^), is a strong short band of oblique fibres between the first rib and the clavicle. Inferiorly it is fixed to the upper surface of the cartilage of the first rib, and superiorly to a tubercle on the under sur- face of the clavicle near the sternal end. The subclavius muscle is in front of the ligament. Sometimes the clavicle touches the rib, and is provided with an articular surface and a synovial membrane. The inter articular fibro-cartilage (fig. 29, will come into view by cutting the ligaments before described, and raising the clavicle. It is flat and almost circular in form, but is thicker at the circumference than the centre. By its upper surface and margin the cartilage is united to the head of the clavicle which is imbedded in it; and by the opposite surface and margin it is inserted into the cartilage of the first rib. At its circumference it joins the capsule of the joint. Sometimes there is an aperture in the centre of the cartilage. Two synovial membranes are present in the articulation, one being on each side of the fibro-cartilage. The sac in contact with the sternum is looser than that touching the clavicle. Capsular ligament. and costo- clavicular ligament. Fibro-carti- lage. Two sy- novial mem- branes. * Ligaments of tlie inner end of the clavicle. 1. Capsule. 2. Inter- clavicular ligament. 3. Costo-clavicular ligament. 4. Interarticular fibro-cartilage. 6. Ligaments of the second rib with the sternum.