DISSECTION" OF THE ABDOMEK 480 From Branches of the femoral artery. —Three cutaneous oflsets Ste?y^tliree ascend from the thigh between the layers of the superficial branches, fascia, and ramify in the integuments of the genital organs and lower part of the abdomen. The greater portion of these vessels appears in the dissection of the thigh. External a. The external pudic branch (superficial) crosses the sper- pudic. matic cord, to which it gives ofi'sets, and ends in the integu- ments of the under part of the penis. Superficial The superficial epigastric branch ascends over Poupart's epigastric, ligament, near the centre, and is distributed in the super- ficial fascia nearly as high as the umbilicus. Its size varies very much. Circumflex c. The circumflex iliac branch lies usually below the level iliac. Qf the iliac crest, and sends only a few ofisets upwards to the abdomen. Veins. Small 'veins accompany the arteries, and join the internal saphenous vein of the thigh. Inguinal The glands of the groin are three or four in number, and glands. ^^^^ ^-j^^ j-^^ ^£ pQ-^pa^j-j^'g ligament. They are placed between the strata of the superficial fascia, and receive the lymphatics from the abdomen, from the ujDper and outer part of the thigh, and from the superficial parts of the genital Ducts enter Organs. Their efferent ducts pass downwards to the saphe- thigh. nous opening in the thigh to enter the abdomen. Dissection Dissection.—After the examination of the superficial of penis."^^ fascia with its vessels and nerves on the abdomen, the student may make the dissection of the cutaneous coverings of the penis and scrotum. The skin may be divided along the dorsum of the penis, and thrown to each side ; and the skin of the scrotum is to be reflected afterwards, by means of a vertical incision on the left side. Tegumen- Cutaneous coverings of the penis and scrotum.—The penis ingof^penis is attached to the front of the pubes by a suspensory liga- ment, and is provided with a tegumentary covering with vessels and nerves, is thin, and On the penis the tegumentary covering is continuous with without fat; ^^^^ abdomen, but the superficial fascia loses the fat it possesses in most other parts of the body, and acquires special characters. Around the end of the penis it forms the loose sheath of the prepuce in the following way :—When the skin has reached the extremity, it is reflected backwards as far as the base of the glans, constituting thus a double forms sheath—the prepuce ; it is afterwards continued over the prepuce glans, and joins the mucous membrane of the urethra at the orifice on the surface. At the under part of the glans, and