DJSSECTION OF THE LEG. 758 brevisis and is connected witli the metatarsal bone of the little toe. fibula?^ ° It is smaller than the preceding muscle, and inferior to it in position. The muscle arises from the outer surface of the shaft of the fibula for about the lower two thirds, extending upwards internal to the other peroneus ; and from the inter- muscular septa. Its tendon passes with that of the peroneus longus beneath the external annular ligament, and is placed next the fibula as it turns below this bone. Escaped from the ligament, the tendon enters a distinct fibrous sheath, thf Uttie^ which conducts it along the tarsus to its insertion into the toe. projection of the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. tions^^ In the leg the muscle projects in front of the peroneus longus. On the outer side of the os calcis it is contained in a sheath above the tendon of the former muscle ; and each sheath is lined by a prolongation from the common synovial membrane behind the outer ankle. Section VII. LIGAMENTS OP THE KNEE, ANKLE, AND FOOT. Examine Directions.—In examining the remaining articulations of kneVjohit. limb, the student may take first the knee joint, unless this has become dry ; in that case the ankle joint and the ligaments of the foot may be dissected whilst the other is being moistened. Dissection Dissection.—For the preparation of the ligaments of each articulation, it is sufficient to detach the muscles and tendons from around it, and to remove the fibrous structure that may obscure or conceal the ligamentous bands, a capsule In the knee joint a kind of capsule is to be defined around t^rnaUila- the articular surfaces of the bones ; and there are four other ments. ligaments, anterior and posterior, internal and external, which are thickened bands at the respective parts of the articulation. Some tendons, namely, those of the biceps, popliteus, adductor magnus, and semimembranosus, are to be followed to their insertion, and a part of each is to be left. Bones in the The ARTrouLATiON" OF THE KNEE.—The knee is the larsfcst kneejomt. . hinge joint in the body, and is formed by the contiguous ends of the tibia and femur with the patella. The articular surfaces of the bones are covered with cartilage, and are maintained in apposition by the following ligaments.