676 DISSECTIOlSr OF THE THIGH. from it over tliG surface of the fascia, higher than the trunk from which the patella forms a plexus with others. Clean the surface of the fascia lata, and define saphenous opeuing. Fascia lata surrounds limb: strength varies. Apertures in it. Processes between the under muscles, Connected with bone at upper I)arL of thigh. it springs. It is soon joined by the internal cutaneous ' nerve, and ends in many branches over the patella ; its ramifications communicate with offsets from the trunk of the saphenous nerve and the external and middle cutaneous, and form an interlacement—plexus patellce—over the joint. When this branch is small its place is taken by the internal cutaneous nerve. Dissection.—Let the fat and the inguinal glands be now removed from the surface of the fascia lata, the cutaneous nerves being thrown aside to be traced afterwards to their trunks. At the upper part of the thigh the student is to define the inner margin of the saphenous opening by detaching the superficial fascia. The outer border is blended with the subjacent crural sheath as well as with the superficial fascia; and it is only after the uniting fibrous bands are broken or cut through, that the outer semilunar margin of the saphenous opening comes into view. The student must not expect to find it so defined as it is represented in drawings. The fascia lata is the deep aponeurosis of the thigh. It surrounds the limb with a firm sheath and sends inwards septa between the diff'erent muscles. This membranous investment is of a bluish white colour. It is stronger on the outer than on the inner aspect of the limb, in conse- quence of the insertion into it of the tensor vaginse femoris and gluteus maximus muscles. In fat bodies it is sometimes so slight as to be taken away with the subcutaneous fat. Numerous apertures exist in the fascia for the trans- mission of the cutaneous nerves and vessels; and the largest of these is near Poupart's ligament, for the passage of the internal saphenous vein. Processes prolonged from the surface form septa between, and fibrous sheaths around the several muscles. Some of the processes are larger than the rest, and are named specially the intermus- cular septa of the thigh :—Thus two, outer and inner, are fixed to the femur, so as to limit on the sides the extensors of the knee ; and a third piece intervenes between the adductors of the thigh and the flexors of the knee. The position of these partitions is marked on the surface by white lines. At the upper part of the thigh the fascia is fixed to the prominent borders of the pelvis. Externally it is connected with the iliac crest ; and internally with the pubes and the pubic arch. In the middle line behind it is joined to the lower end of the sacrum and the coccyx ; and in front to