TYMPANIC CAVITY. 801 cavity. It communicates with tlie pharynx by a tube (Eus- tachian), through which the mucous membrane and the air have access to it; and it is traversed by a chain of small bones, with which special muscles and ligaments are con- nected. JSTumerous and minute vessels and nerves are con- tained in the space. JDissection.—The tympanic cavity is to be opened in both a dried and a recent bone. On the dry temporal bone, after removing most of the Open it ia squamous portion by means of a vertical cut of the saw ^on^^ through the root of the zygoma and the Glasserian fissure, the tympanum will be brought into view by cutting away with the bone forceps the anterior part of the meatus audi- torius, and the projecting bone above that forms the roof of the cavity. In the recent bone, in addition to the preparation al- and in the ready made of the meatus auditorius, only the roof of the ^^^^^^ tympanum should be taken away as far as may be neces- sary, and without doing injury to the membrana tympani, the chorda tympani nerve, and the chain of bones with its muscles. Form.—The cavity of the tympanum has the form of a Form and small, round, flat box, placed on the edge ;—the outer and inner boundaries being flattened and the circumference cir- cular. Its size is greater from point to point of the circum- dimensions, ference than across the space or from without inwards ; in the former direction it is about half an inch, but in the latter not more than half that measurement. The inner boundary is of greater extent than the outer, inner wall and on it the following objects are to be noticed. Occupy- by^pJoSon- ing nearly the whole surface is the large projection of the ^^^J a^^^ promontory which becomes pointed posteriorly, and is marked ^ ^ S^^^^^^- by two or three minute grooves that lodge the nerves form- ing the anastomosis of Jacobson. Above and below the posterior or narrowed part of the promontory is a large aperture, and both lead into the labyrinthic spaces. The upper opening resembles in shape the half segment of a circle, with the convexity placed upwards, and is named fenestra ovalis: towards the inner or vestibular cavity (part Fenestra of the labyrinth) it has a sharp, prominent margin ; and over it, in the recent state, the inner bone (stapes) of the osseous chain is fixed. The lower aperture, named fenestra Fenestra rotunda, is rather irregular or triangular in shape, and leads into the cochlea: it is situate within a funnel-shaped hollow, somewhat oval in form on the surface. In the recent state 3 p