DISSECTION OF THE EAR. 800 extremity is continuous witli a hollow (conclia) of the ex- ternal ear, and the inner is closed by the membrana tympani. Cartilagi- The cartilaginous is the largest part. It is about half an nous part -^^,1^ length, and is formed chiefly by that portion of the pinna of the outer ear which is attached to the margin of the meatus ; but at the upper and posterior aspect the cartilage is deficient is deficient, and the tube is closed by fibrous tissue. Two or three fissures (fissures of Santorini) are found in the piece of cartilage. Osseous The osseous part is about three quarters of an inch long P^^'^- in the adult, and is rather constricted about the middle, near Outer end; which it may be bent as before said. Its outer extremity is dilated, and the posterior projects further than the anterior wall; the greater part of the margin is rough, and gives inne end. attachment to the cartilage of the pinna. The inner end is less dilated, and is marked in the dry bone, except at the upper part, by a groove for the insertion of the membrane of the tympanum ; it is so sloped that the anterior wall juts beyond the posterior by about two lines. Condition in In the fetus the osseous part of the meatus is absent, e ub. ^fiQj. "birth it grows out of the osseous ring (tympanic bone) which supports the membrana tympani, and joins the rest of the temporal bone. Lining Lining of the meatus. —A prolongation of the integument is dciived° ^^^^^ '^^^ auditory passage, and is continued over the mem- from the brane of the tympanum in the form of a thin pellicle. At the entrance of the meatus ai'e a few hairs. In the sub- cutaneous tissue of the cartilaginous part of the meatus are Ceruminous some ceruminous glands, resembling in form and arrange- glands. ment the sweat glands of the skin, which secrete the ear wax, and open on the surface by separate orifices ; these are most abundant in that portion of the tube which is formed by fibrous tissue. Vessels. Vessels and nerves.—The meatus receives its arteries from the posterior auricular, the internal maxillary, and the tem- Nerves. poral branch of the external carotid trunk. Its nerves are derived from the auriculo-temporal branch of the fifth nerve, and enter the auditory passage between the bone and the cartilage (p. 97). Internal set The internal constituents of the auditory apparatus are tory parts!" enclosed withiu the temporal bone, and consist of two large spaces, named tympanum and labyrinth, with their accessory parts. Tympanum. The TYMPANUM, or drum of the ear, is a hollow interposed between the meatus auditorius and the deeper labyrinthic