173 BLOOD YESSELS OF THE LAEYN'X. otlier in the mucous membrane of the pharynx. An artery accompanies each nerve, and is to be dissected at the same time. ISTerves.—The nerves that supply branches to the larynx. Nerves arc are the superior and inferior laryngeal branches of the ^^'^^^ vagus, pneumo-gastric nerve (p. 118) ; the former is distributed to the mucous membrane, and the latter to the muscles. 1. The inferior laryngeal nerve (recurrent), when about to Recurrent enter the larynx, furnishes backwards an offset to the mucous membrane of the pharynx, which joins with filaments from the upper laryngeal nerve. The nerve then passes g^PJ^^j^^ beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and ends in branches muscles ex- for all the special muscles of the larynx, except the crico- thyroideus. Its small muscular branches are easily followed, but that to the arytsenoid muscle passes beneath the crico- arytsenoideus posticus. Beneath the thyroid cartilage this nerve is joined by a long offset of the upper laryngeal nerve. 2. The superior laryngeal nerve pierces the thyro-hyoid Superior ligament, and gives offsets to the mucous membrane covering JSve^^^^ the back of the larynx ; it furnishes also a long branch beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage to communicate with the recurrent nerve. The trunk of the nerve then terminates joins recur- in many branches for the supply of the mucous membrane : —Some of these ascend in the arytseno-epiglottidean fold of and ends in the membrane to the epiglottis, and the root of the tongue, ^g^^^^f^^^g The others, which are the largest, descend on the inner side of the ventricular pouch, and supply the lining membrane of the larynx as low as the vocal cords. One nerve of this set pierces the arytsenoid muscle, and appears (?) to supply it. Vessels.—The arteries of the interior of the larynx are Arteries furnished from the superior and inferior thyroid branches (pp. 75, 84). 1. The laryngeal branch of the superior thyroid artery enters the larynx with the superior laryngeal nerve, and divides like rior thyroid; it into ascending and descending branches ; some of these enter the muscles, but the rest supply the mucous membrane of the epiglottis, and that of the root of the tongue and interior of the larynx. It anastomoses with the following artery both beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and in the mucous membrane of the pharynx. >. 2. The laryngeal branch of the inferior thyroid artery from inferior ascends on the back of the cricoid cartilage, and supplies the thyroid mucous membrane of the pharynx and the posterior muscles of the larynx.