DISSECTIO^T OF THE ABDOMEK 486 Outer margin is the strongest (fig. 73, and is not straight like margin. ^-^^^ inner, but is bent around the spermatic cord, so as to form a kind of groove for it : this margin is continuous with Poupart's ligament, and is attached below to the pubic spine ^nged^from tuberosity. A thin membrane (intercolumnar or sper- the opening, matic fascia) covers the sides of the opening, and is derived from some intercolumnar or intermarginal fibres on the surface of the aponeurosis. The cord in The ring gives passage in the male to the spermatic cord, ' and in the female to the round ligament ; and in each sex the transmitted part lies on the outer or lower margin or and hernial pillar as it passes through, and obtains a covering from the pas^^^^^^^ intercolumnar fibres. Through the same aperture the inguinal through it. iiernia protrudes from the wall of the abdomen, intercoium- The inUrColumnar fibres (fig. 73, ^) form a layer over the nar fibres, aponeurosis, and bind together its parallel fibres, so as to con- Attachment struct a resisting membrane. Inferiorly they are strongest; mferiorly. there a bundle of the fibres is connected with the outer third of Poupart's ligament, and is continued back to the They cross crista ilii. At the external abdominal ring they stretch oTrfng^^^* from side to side (hence the origin of the name), and, becoming stronger and aggregated together, close the upper and produce part of that Opening. Moreover they are prolonged on the intercoium- cord from the margin of the ring, and give rise to the nar fascia, membrane named intercolumnar fascia. On the left side, where the fascia is entire, this thin covering will be manifest on the surface of the cord, or on the round ligament in the female. To see Disscction.—To see the attachments and connections of PoupartV^ Poupart's ligament, it will be necessary to reflect, on both ligament. sides of the body, the lower part of the aponeurosis towards the thigh, as in fig. 7 4. For this purpose an incision is to be carried through the aponeurosis from the front of the Throw down iliac crest nearly to the linea alba. The aponeurosis is to Sfternal ^® detached from the subjacent parts with the handle of oblique, the scalpel ; and when it cannot be separated farther from the tendons beneath, near the middle line, it is to be cut in the direction of a vertical line to the symphysis pubis. and seek After the triangular piece of the aponeurosis has been ligamen^r ^^^^^n towards the thigh, the spermatic cord is to be dislodged from the surface of Poupart's ligament, to see the insertion of this band into the pubes, and to lay bare the fibres which ascend therefrom to the Hnea alba with the name of triangular ligament.