DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. 362 The left. Dissect coronary vessels and and coro- nary sinus. Two arte- ries of the heart, viz. right coro- nary, left coro- nary artery. into the pulmonary artery. The left ventricle enters alone into the apex, and constructs the left border, and most of the posterior surface of the heart : with its cavity the aorta is connected. Dissection.—Before opening the heart the vessels for the nutrition of its substance (coronary arteries) are to be dis- sected on the surface, together with the small nerves and veins that accompany them. The two arteries appear on the sides of the pulmonary artery, and occupy the grooves on the surface of the heart, where they are surrounded by fat. One branches over the right, and the other over the left side. With the anterior artery is a plexus of nerves, which is to be followed upwards to the superficial cardiac plexus ; and with the remaining artery is another plexus. In the groove at the back of the heart between the auricles and ventricles, the student will find the large coro- nary vein, and the dilated coronary sinus in which it ends : the last should be defined and followed to its ending in the right auricle. The coronary arteries are two small vessels which are so named from their course around the heart ; they are the first branches of the aorta, and arise close above the semi- lunar valves. One is distributed on the right and the other on the left side of the heart. a. The right coronary branch appears on the right side of the pulmonary artery, and is directed onwards in the depres- sion between the right auricle and ventricle to the posterior aspect of the heart, where it anastomoses with a similar circular ofiset from the left coronary artery. In this course branches are distributed upwards and downwards to the right half of the heart. Two of these are of larger size than the rest :—one runs on the anterior aspect of the right ventricle towards the free margin ; the other descends on the back of the heart, along the septum between the ventricles, and anastomoses towards the apex with the left coronary artery. h. The left coronary branch is inclined first behind the pulmonary artery to the left side of the vessel, then in the groove between the left auricle and ventricle to the back of the heart, where it anastomoses with the right coronary branch. Like the preceding artery, it furnishes ofi'sets to the substance of the auricle and ventricle of its side. The largest of these descends in the anterior sulcus over the partition of the ventricles towards the apex, and communi- cates with the descending branch of the right coronary artery at the back of the heart*