HOLLOW m FEOOT OF THE ELBOW. 807 arm, in order that the denuded parts may not become dry. Beginning with the dissection of the anterior surface of the limb,—let the student divide the aponeurosis along the front as far as the wrist, and take it away with the cutaneous vessels and nerves, except the small palmar cutaneous offsets of the median and ulnar nerves near the wrist. In cleaning the muscles it will be impossible to remove the aponeurosis from them at the upper part of the forearm without detach- ing the muscular fibres. After the aponeurosis has been taken off, the termination Vessels then of the brachial artery will be observed to lie with some fat in a hollow in front of the elbow, between two masses of muscles,—one arising from the inner, and the other from the outer condyle of the humerus. Two large arteries are in part laid bare ; one (radial) lies along the radial border, the other (ulnar) is superficial only in the lower part of the forearm, and at the ulnar side. These vessels and their branches should be carefully cleaned. The anterior annular ligament of the wrist, which arches Define over the tendons passing to the hand, is next to be defined, ^^^^i^r This structure is at some depth from the surface ; and whilst ligament, the student attempts to make it apparent by removing the fibrous tissue superficial to it, he must take care of the small branches of the median and ulnar nerves to the palm of the hand. The ulnar artery and nerve pass over the ligament, and will serve as a guide to it. Holloiu in front of the elhoiv (fig. 45).—The hollow in front Hollow in of the elbow joint corresponds with the popliteal space at elbow, the knee, and is situate between the inner and the outer mass of the muscles of the forearm. This interval is some- what triangular in shape, and the wider part is towards the humerus. It is bounded on the outer side by the supinator ^o^^^lanes. longus muscle, and on the inner side by the pronator teres. The aponeurosis of the limb is stretched over the space ; and the bones covered by the brachialis anticus and supinator brevis muscles, form the deep boundary. Contents.—-In this hollow are lodged the termination of^^^^entsof the brachial artery with its veins, and the median nerve ; ° ^^'^^^ the musculo-spiral nerve; and the tendon of the biceps muscle, with some fat; these several parts have the follow- ing relative position in the space :—The tendon of the biceps and their is directed towards the outer boundary to reach the radius, one^anoth.er into which it is inserted. Close to the outer side is the musculo-spiral nerve, which is partly concealed by the supi- nator longus muscle. Nearly in the centre of the space are