42 DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. be now tilted forwards, but is not to be taken away. Afterwards all the rest of the roof of tbe orbit, which is formed by the small wing of the sphenoid bone, is to be cut away with the bone forceps, except a ring around the optic foramen ; and any overhanging bone on the outer side, which may interfere with the dissection, may be likewise got rid of. The dissector should take care that all the wadding is removed from the eyelids, and that the eye is pulled gently forwards. The periosteum, detached from the bone in the dissection, surrounds the contents of the orbital cavity. Periosteum The periosteum of the orbit is continuous with the dura of orbit. mater of the brain through the sphenoidal fissure. It incases the contents of the orbit like a sac, and adheres but Apertures in loosely to the bones. Apertures exist posteriorly in the membrane for the entrance of the different nerves and vessels ; and on the sides prolongations of the membrane accompany the vessels and nerves that leave the cavity. Open Dissection,—The periosteum is next to be divided along periobteum. middle of the orbit, and to be cut away. After the removal of a little fat, the following nerves, vessels, and muscles come into view :— Position of The frontal nerve and vessels lie in the centre, the lachry- cavity.^ mal nerve and vessels close to the outer wall of the cavity ; and the small fourth nerve at the back of the orbit : all these nerves enter the orbit above the muscles. The superior oblique muscle is recognised by the fourth nerve entering it: the levator palpebrae and superior rectus are beneath the frontal nerve ; and the external rectus is partly seen below the lachrymal nerve. In the outer part of the orbit, near the front, is the lachrymal gland. Trace super- The frontal and lachrymal nerves should be followed for- cia nerves. ^^^^^ their exit from the orbit, and backwards with the fourth through the sphenoidal fissure to the wall of the cavernous sinus. In tracing them back, it will be expedient to remove the projecting clinoid process, should this still remain ; and some care and trouble will be necessary to follow the lachrymal nerve to its commencement. Takeaway The muscles and vessels, referred to above, are to be some a . cleaned, but it is not requisite to take all the fat from the orbit in this stage of the dissection. In the orbit Contents of the orbit. —Besides the eyeball and the lachry- with^e^Jen ^^-^ gland, there is a great quantity of granular fat in the muscles, orbit. Connected with the eye are six muscles—four straight several era- and two oblique ; and there is also an elevator of the upper mal nerves; eyelid in the cavity. The nerves in this small space are