DISSECTIO^T OF THE EAE. 806 ovalis ; the surface that is turned to the vestibule is convex, head; whilst the opposite is excavated. The head (^) is marked by a superficial depression which receives the orbicular pro- cess of the incus ; and below it is a constricted part, the crura. neck of the bone. The crura extend from the base to the neck, and are grooved on the inner surface like the base : the anterior crus Q is shorter and straighter than the other. Position of Position of the ossicles (fig. 127, d).—The rrtalleus is placed vertically in the tympanum, with the head upwards, and the articular surface turned backwards to its articulation with the incus : its handle is attached externally to the membrana tympani ; and its long process is directed for- oftlie incus, wards into the Glasserian fissure. The incus is so placed that the long process is vertical, and the short one horizontal. Externally it is united with the malleus, and its processes are thus disposed :—the short one is received into the aper- ture of the mastoid cells ; and the long process descends, like the handle of the malleus, but rather posterior to it and nearer the inner wall of the cavity, to join inferiorly with stapef the stapes. The stirrup bone has a horizontal position, with the crura directed forwards and backwards : its base is fixed over the fenestra ovalis, and its head is united with the long process of the incus. The bones Ligaments of the ossicles. —The small bones of the tym- setToniga P^^ic cavity are united into one chain by articular ligaments, ments; and are further kept in position by ligaments that fix them to the surrounding wall, either to join From otie bone to another.—The ossicles are connected anotiier together at the points where they touch by articulations cor- responding with the joints of larger bones ; for the osseous surfaces are covered with cartilage, and are surrounded by a capsular ligament of fibrous tissue, whilst a synovial sac is by joints, present in the joint. One articulation of the nature above described exists between the heads of the malleus and incus, and a second between the extremity of the long process of the incus and the head of the stapes, or to fix Between the hones and the wall.—The bones are kept tympanic^^ in place by the reflection of the mucous membrane, and by wall. special ligaments. From the head of the malleus a short suspensory band of fibres is directed upwards to the roof of the tympanum. Another ligamentous band passes back- wards from the incus, near the end of its short process, to the posterior part of the containing cavity. And the base of the stapes is connected to the margin of the fenestra ovalis by fibres that constitute an orbicular ligament.