THE DIAPHRAGM. 583 on the fine septa between the lobes to the seminal tubules, on wliich they are distributed in plexuses. The spermatic vein begins in the plexuses around the Spermatic seminal tubes, and issues from the gland at the posterior part. As it ascends along the cord, its branches form the spermatic plexus, and end in one trunk, which joins the vena cava on the right side, and the renal vein on the left (p. 592). The lymphatics ascend on the bloodvessels, and join the Lymphatics lumbar glands. The nerves are derived from the sympathetic, and accom- and ne pany the arteries to the testis. Vessels of the vas deferens.—A special bloodvessel, the Vessels of artery of the vas deferens^ is furnished from the upper vesical artery; and some veins from the epididymis enter the spermatic vein. Section V. AORTA AND VENA CAVA, AND THE DEEP MUSCLES. Directions.—After the body is replaced in its former Dissect position on the back, the student should prepare first the aud^mlisdS diaphragm, next the large vessels and their branches, and then the deep muscles of the abdomen. Dissection.—For the dissection of the diaphragm it will see the be necessary to remove the peritoneum from its under sur- ^ ^ i"agm. face, defining especially the central tendinous part, and the fleshy processes or pillars which are fixed to the lumbar vertebrae. Whilst cleaning the surface the student should be careful of the vessels and the nerves on it and near the pillars. On the right side two aponeurotic bands or arches, which give attachment to the muscular fibres, should be dissected out :—one curves over the psoas muscle ; and the other extends over the quadratus muscle from the trans- verse process of the first lumbar vertebra to the last rib. The DIAPHRAGM (fig. 90) forms the vaulted moveable Diaphragm, partition between the thorax and the abdomen. It is fleshy f^j!^ externally, where it is attached to the surrounding ribs and the spinal column, and has its tendon in the centre. The origin of the muscle is at the circumference, and is similar origin at on each side of the middle line. Thus, beginning in front fg^g^jf^ and passing backwards, the diaphragm is connected by fleshy fibres with the posterior part of the xiphoid cartilage, and