STRUCTURE OF THE KIDNEY. 571 Some anatomists describe a strom.a of areolar tissue in the kidney, which supports the secretory tubes and vessels, and is more evident in the pyramidal than the cortical substance. To obtain a knowledge of the anatomy of the secreting tubes, and to make out the disposition of the bloodvessels, the dissector will require a microscope and good fine in- jections of the part. Secretory tubules.—The uriniferous tubes (tubuli uriniferi) are the ramified terminations of the excretory duct, which pour out the urine (fig. 87, t). In the cortex of the kidney, where the tubes present closed extremities (tubes of Ferrein), they are innumerable, are very convoluted, and of different sizes, though they average about th of an inch. They are closely surrounded by a plexus of bloodvessels, and communicate freely with one another. In the pyramidal portion of the kidney a certain number of the tubes converge towards the base of each pyramid, and having become straight, are directed downwards as a conical bundle to the apex, where they open by somewhat dilated orifices. In^ the pyramid the tubes lie close together, and have but few vessels between them; they further diminish in number from base to apex by repeated unions, and are enveloped by a uniting or parenchymatous structure. On a section of a pyramid near the lower end, the number of tubes in a square line was estimated by Krause as a hundred. Structure and ending of the tubes.—^The tubes consist of a thin special basement membrane. Lining them is an epithelium of the spheroidal kind, which forms three-fourths of the thickness of the wall, except in the pyramid where it is thinner and the cells smaller and flatter. At the ter- mination in free extremities each tube presents a dilated or saccular part (fig. 87, c), which contains a small vascular Malpighian corpuscle, and is per- Fig. 87 stroma described by some. Uriuiferous tubes. In cortex of kidney ; convoluted, surro\mded by vessels. In pyramid straight, fewer in number with vessels; have open mouths inferiorly. Structiire of the wall of a tubule: special membrane and epithe- lium. * Plan of a urine tube provided with a terminal Malpighian body and capsule (Bowman),—t. The nriniferons tube. c. Dilatation or capsule of the Malpighian body continuous with the tube. p. Plexus of ca- pillary vessels around the urine tube, m. Malpighian body. a. Branch of an artery; and a', an offset from it (afferent vessel) to the Malpighian