696 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. Take next the adduc- tors. Dissection of adductor muscles. Nerves. Eemove veins. Directions.—After the examination of the muscles of the front of the thigh, with the vessels and nerves that are fur- nished to them, the student is to learn the adductor muscles and their vessels and nerves. Dissection.—To prepare the muscles, the investing tissue is to be taken from them, and the superficial adductors are to be separated one from another. Let the student be careful of the branches of the obturator nerve in connection with the muscles, viz., those offsets entering the muscular fibres, and the plexus on the inner side of the thigh. Lastly, should any fat and veins be left with the pro- funda and its branches, they must be cleared away. DEEP PARTS OK THE INN BE, SIDE OP THE THIGH. The adduc- tor muscles and their position. Vessels. Nerve. Gracilis takes origin from the pelvis, is inserted into tibia. Position to other muscles. The muscles in this position are the three adductors,— longus, brevis, and magnus ; with the gracilis and the pec- tineus; these have the under-mentioned position with respect to one another. Internal to all and the longest, is the gra- cilis. Superficial to the others, are the pectineus and the adductor longus ; and beneath them are the short adductor and the adductor magnus. In connection with the muscles, and supplying them are the profunda artery (of the femoral) and its branches, with the accompanying vein. The obturator nerve lies amongst the adductor muscles, and furnishes branches to them. The GRACILIS reaches from the pelvis to the tibia (fig. 103, ), and is fleshy and riband-like above, but tendinous below. The muscle arises by an aponeurosis, two or three inches in depth, from the lower or pubic border of the hip bone close to the margin, viz., from the lower half of the symphysis, and the upper part of the pubic arch. Inferiorly it is inserted by a flat tendon, about half an inch wide, into the inner surface of the tibia, beneath and close to the sar- torius. The muscle is superficial throughout. At the upper part of the thigh it is flattened against the adductors brevis and magnus, so as to have its borders directed forwards and back- wards ; and in the lower third it intervenes between the sar- torius and semimembranosus muscles, and forms part of the inner boundary of the popliteal space. At its insertion the tendon is nearer the knee than that of the semitendinosus, though at the same depth from the surface, and both lie