DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 590 lower limb (external iliac), and the other enters the pelvis (internal iliac). Placed obliquely on the vertebral column, the vessel measures about two inches in length. It is covered by the peritoneum, by branches of the sympathetic nerve, and sometimes by the ureter ; and it is accompanied by a vein of the same name. Usually it does not furnish any named branch, but it may give origin to the ilio-lumbar, or a renal artery. On opposite sides the vessels have some differences. The artery of the right side is rather the longest, in consequence of the position of the aorta on the left side of the spine. To its outer side at first is the vena cava, and near its ter- mination is the psoas muscle. The companion vein is at first beneath, but becomes external to the artery at the upper part, where it enters the vena cava in that situation ; and beneath the right artery also is the left common iliac vein. The left artery is crossed by the continuation of the in- ferior mesenteric artery, and its accompanying vein is situate below it. Peculiarities.—The j^Zace of origin changes with the place of un- usual bifurcation of the aorta. The length ranges from less than half an inch (in one case) to four inches and a half ; but in the majority of instances it varies between one inch and a half and three inches (Quain). place of division ranges between the middle of the last lumbar vertebra, and the upper border of the sacrum ; but occasionally it will be above or below those • points. Generally the left artery divides lower than the right. External The EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY is the first part of the Icad- lower°iimb.^ ing vessel of the lower limb, and is contained in the cavity Extent and abdomen. Its extent is from the bifurcation of the direction. common iliac to the lower border of Ponpart's ligament, where it becomes femoral. And its direction v^^ould be indi- cated, on the surface of the abdomen, by a line from the left of the umbilicus to the middle of the space between the symphysis pubis and the front of the iliac crest. Connections The vessel lies above the brim of the pelvis in its course arounX,^^^ to Poupart's ligament, and is covered closely by the peri- toneum and the subperitoneal layer in all its extent. Near its origin it is crossed sometimes by the ureter ; and near Poupart's ligament the spermatic vessels and part of the genito-crural nerve lie on it for a short distance, whilst the circumflex iliac vein crosses it, and the vas deferens bends down along its inner side. To the outer side of the vessel is the psoas, except at its termination under Poupart's liga- Connec- tions. Branches. Difference between 1 ight and left ves- sel. Place of origin; length ; place of division