129 DISSECTIOlsr OF THE PHARYNX. sequent dissections. Before learning the pliarnyx he should lay bare, on this side, the middle and inferior ganglia of the sympathetic with their branches. Dissection.—For the dissection of the two lov/er ganglia Dissection of the sympathetic and their branches, it will be necessary ^hlti™^'''" to cut across the common carotid artery at the lower part of the neck, and the external and internal carotid where these are crossed by the digastric muscle. In removing the vessels with the internal jugular vein, care must be taken of the sympathetic beneath them. The upper end of the sternum with its attached clavicle is to be taken away next, by cutting through the middle of the first rib ; and the piece of bone thus obtained is to be put aside for the subsequent examination of the stemo-clavicular articulation. The middle viz. middle ganglion must be sought in the fat and areolar tissue near the ganguZ^^ inferior thyroid artery ; and the inferior one will be seen on the neck of the first rib, after a piece of the subclavian artery has been cut out. The upper cardiac nerve will be found descending beneath the carotid sheath. The middle and inferior cervical ganglia of the sympathetic Ganglia of nerve are so similar to the corresponding ganglia of the right ne^e?*^^^*^^ side, that the same description will suffice (p. 123). The cardiac nerves are three in number on the left as on Cardiac the right side, viz. superior, middle, and inferior, but they present some peculiarities. 1. The superior cardiac nerve has a similar course in the Upper, neck on both sides ; but the left in entering the chest is between the carotid and subclavian arteries, and parallel to them. 2. The middle cardiac nerve unites frequently with the Middle, next nerve, and passes beneath the subclavian artery to the deep cardiac plexus. 3. The inferior cardiac nerve is generally a small branch, Lower which enters the thorax conjoined with the preceding, and ends in the cardiac plexus. Section XI. DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. The pharynx, or the commencement of the alimentary passage, can be examined only when it has been separated from the rest of the body ; and it will therefore be necessary to cut through the base of the skull in the manner mentioned K