SUPERFICIAL NERVES AND MUSCLES. 463 The anterior branch, appearing farther forwards than the and anterior other in the fossa, passes either under or over the transverse anatoSy muscle, and accompanies the posterior branch to the scrotum, as posterior; At its origin muscular offsets are furnished to the levator ani muscle. The superficial perinseal branches communicate with one both are another, and the posterior is joined by the inferior pudendal "JiTstribute^ nerve. At the scrotum they are distributed by long to scrotum slender filaments, which reach as far as the under surface P®^i^- of the penis. In the female these nerves supply the labia pudendi. Other muscular branches arise from the pudic nerve at the Muscular same spot as the preceding branch, but these will be after- branches; wards examined. The inferior pudendal nerve is a branch of the small Inferior sciatic. It pierces the fascia lata about one inch in front of nerve^^*^^ the ischial tuberosity, and coursing forwards along the inner part of the thigh, enters beneath the superficial fascia of the perineum ; finally, it passes forwards with the superficial perinseal nerv^es, and ends in the outer and fore parts of the ^^^^ scrotum. A communication takes place between this nerve scrotum, and the posterior of the two superficial perineal branches, supei^icfai In the female the inferior pudendal nerve is distributed to perinseai. the labium. In the fat of the surface of the thigh some other offsets of g^l'g^J^j^^^^^ the small sciatic nerve may be observed. sciatic. Dissection.—For the dissection of the muscles, the super- Dissection ficial fascia, as well as the vessels and nerves that have been of the examined, must be taken away from the anterior half of the ^^^thra and perinseal space. Afterwards a thin subjacent aponeurotic layer is to be removed from the muscles. Along the middle line lies the accelerator urinse ; and in cleaning it the student is to follow two fasciculi of fibres which are pro- longed from it, one in front, the other behind. On the outer side of the space is the erector penis. And behind, passing horizontally between the other two, is the transverse muscle. The student should seek, on the right side, the branches Of nerves, of nerves to the muscles :—to the erector penis there is a separate branch ; and beneath the transversalis is the offset that supplies the other two muscles and the urethra. Muscles.—Superficial to the triangular ligament in the Three anterior half of the perinaeal space, are three muscles, viz. Sian'i-uiar^''* the erector penis, the accelerator urinse, and the transver- ligament, salis perinsei. Other muscles of the urethra are between the