STEUCTUEE OF THE TOITGUE. 159 structed like those of the skin, viz. of a projectiDg cone of of simple, formative membrane, which is covered by epithelium, and filled with a loop of the capillaries, and a nerve. The three Of com- other compound forms of the papillae may be said to be P^^^^* formed by outgrowths from the simple kind. Thus smaller papillary eminences spring from the common cone of limit- ing membrane ; and each has its separate investment of epithelium, by which the brush-like appearance on the surface is produced. From the plexus of capillary vessels in the interior of the papilla a looped offset is furnished to each smaller papillary projection ; whilst the entering nerve sends offsets to the different subdivisions of the papilla, whose mode of ending in each is unknown. Structure.—The tongue consists of two symmetrical P^^^s found halves, and separating them is a fibrous structure in the middle line. Each half is made up of a mass of muscular fibre with interspersed fat ; and entering it are the lingual vessels and nerves. The whole tongue is enveloped by the mucous membrane, and a special fibrous membrane attaches it to the hyoid bone. Dissection. —By the time the student has arrived at this Tongue best stage, the muscular fibres may have lost their colour ; but with fresh^part. a fresh part the facts here stated can be easily ascertained. To define the septum, and the membrane attaching the Define tongue to the hyoid bone, the tongue is to be placed on its ^^P^^^ > dorsum, and, the remains of the mylo and genio-hyoideus having been removed, the genio-hyo-giossi muscles are to be cleaned, and drawn from one another along the middle line. After separating these muscles, except in front, and cutting across their intercommunicating fibres, the edge of the sep- tum will appear ; but it will be more completely denuded nyo-glossai by cutting through the anterior fibres of the left hyo-glossus. By tracing the hinder fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus muscles towards the os hyoides, the hyo-glossal membrane will be arrived at. At the front of the tongue the genio-hyo- glossus will be afterwards followed out. Outside this triangular muscle in the middle line, is the and inferior longitudinal bundle of the inferior lingualis, which may be ^^"^^^^^^s- cleaned on the left side, though it will be better seen sub- sequently on the right half. Fibrous tissue. —Along the middle line of the tongue is a Fibrous thin lamina of this tissue, forming a septum : at the root is tong^eT^ another fibrous structure, named the hyo-glossal membrane; and covering the organ, for the greater part, is a submucous layer of the same tissue.