DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN". 520 opposite umbilicus. Circle from above down forms omentum. bounding the pouch. and de- scends over the intestine to the pelvis. In the pelvic cavity to surround partly the large intestine and to fix it to the abdominal wall. From the colon it may be traced over the kidney as far as the middle line, where it is reflected over the small intestine, and along the front and back of the vessels supplying the gut. Lastly it may be pursued out- wards to the right kidney and the colon which it encircles like the left, and then along the wall of the abdomen to the umbilicus. The membrane fixing the colon on each side to the abdominal wall, is named meso-colon, and that attaching the small intestine is the mesentery. Vertical circle, or from above downwards.—From the liver the peritoneum may be followed along the vessels at the under surface to the upper border of the stomach, one piece before and the other behind them, the two forming the small omentum. At the stomach the two pieces separate, one going before, and the other behind it; but beyond that viscus they are applied to each other to form the great omentum or epiploon. After descending in contact in the omentum to the lower part of the abdomen, they may be traced backwards and upwards, and may be seen to separate to enclose the transverse colon like the stomach ; and then to continue to the spine, giving rise to the transverse meso- colon. At the attachment of the transverse meso-colon to the abdominal wall, the two companion pieces will be found to separate,—one passing upwards, the other downwards:— The ascending piece is continued in front of the pancreas and the pillars of the diaphragm, and blends with the peri- toneum on the under surface of the liver behind the vessels. By its ascent it forms the posterior part of a pouch behind the stomach. The descending piece or layer may be followed from the transverse meso-colon along the middle line of the spine, over the duodenum and the great vessels on the spine (aorta and cava), till it meets with the artery to the small intestine along which it is continued to form the mesentery, as before explained in tracing the peritoneum in a circular direction. From the root of the mesenteric artery the peritoneum descends to the pelvis, and covers partly the viscera in that cavity. Surrounding the upper part of the rectum, it attaches this viscus to the abdominal wall by the meso-rectum; next, it is continued forwards between the rectum and the bladder, or between the rectum and the uterus, where it forms a pouch ; thence it passes from the pelvis over the back and sides of the bladder.