TIBIALIS POSTICUS AISTD PEEOKEUS LOITGUS. 747 lateral surfaces of the two bones between which they lie, and between the are inserted into the side of the metatarsal phalanx of certain toes:—Thus, the internal two muscles are attached to the Attach- second toe, one to each side; the next to the outer side of the third toe, and the remaining one to the outer side of the fourth toe. An expansion is continued from the tendons to the extensors on the dorsum, of the phalanges. The pos- terior perforating arteries pierce the hinder extremities of the muscles. These small muscles will be partly seen on the dorsum of the foot. The attachment of the dorsal muscles to the toes may be Action of remembered by considering them abductors as in the hand (p. 328) from the middle line of the second digit:—the outer two muscles will draw their respective toes from the rest; and the two connected with the second digit will move it to the right or the left of the line referred to. Dissection. —Following the tendon of the tibialis posticus Trace out muscle from its position behind the inner malleolus to its tendons' insertion into the scaphoid bone, trace the numerous pro- cesses that it sends forwards and outwards. Open also the fibrous sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus, which crosses from the outer to the inner side of the foot. The tendon of the tibialis posticus is continued forwards insertion of over the internal lateral ligament of the ankle joint, and over tf^jaiis pos- the articulation between the astragalus and the os scaphoides, ticus to be inserted into the prominence of the latter bone. From its insertion processes are continued to many of the other bones of the foot. One is directed backwards to the margin of the groove into tarsus in the os calcis for the tendon of the flexor longus poUicis. Two offsets are directed forwards:—one is prolonged to the internal cuneiform bone; the other, much the largest, is attached to the middle and outer cuneiform, to the os cuboides, and to the bases of the second, third, and fourth and meta- metatarsal bones. Where the tendon is placed beneath the tarsus, articulation of the astragalus, it contains a sesamoid bone, or fibro-cartilage. The tendon of the peroneus longus muscle winds round insertion of the cuboid bone, and placed in the groove on the under sur- peroneu? face, is continued, inwards to be inserted into the internal longus. cuneiform bone, and into the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe; it sends a process also to the base of the second metatarsal bone. In the sole of the foot (fig. 106) it is contained in a Connection, sheath which is formed, for the most part, by the fibres of