THE CEREBELLUM. ;241 the medullary fibres (tegmentum) of the peduncle of the cerebrum, at the lower and outer parts. Corpus striatum. —By slicing through the corona radiata Section of on the right side, so as to bring into view the extraventri- atuni^from cular part (nucleus lenticularis) of the corpus striatum, the outside, extent and form of that mass, and the situation of the ante- ror commissure will be apparent. Crus cerebri.—By a vertical section through the right Section of peduncle of the cerebrum, the disposition and the thickness ^^^^ cerebri, of the two layers of its longitudinal fibres, and the situation of the locus niger between them may be perceived. Dissection.—The cerebellum is to be detached from the Proceeding remains of the cerebrum, by carrying the knife through the cerebellum optic thalamus so that the cerebellum with the corpora quadrigemina, the crura cerebri, the pons, and the medulla oblongata, may remain united together. When the cerebellum, united with the other parts men- Pcarts to be tioned above, has been detached from the cerebrum, all the froj^'^o^e^ pia mater is to be carefully removed from the fissure on its another, under surface ; and the different bodies in that fissure are to be separated from one another. Lastly the handle of the scalpel should be passed along a sulcus at the circumference of the cerebellum between the upper and under surfaces. Section V. THE CEREBELLUM. The cerebellum, little brain (fig. 39), is flattened from above Form and down, so as to be widest from side to side, and measures about four inches across. This part of the encephalon is position of situate in the posterior foss^ of the base of the skull, ^^^^^eUum. beneath the tentorium cerebelli. Like the cerebrum, it is Divisions, incompletely divided into two hemispheres,—the division being marked by a wide groove along the under surface, and by a notch at the posterior part which receives the falx cerebelli. Upper Surface.—On the upper aspect the cerebellum is No groove raised in the centre, but is sloped towards the circumference, surface^^'^^^ There is not any median sulcus on this surface, and the halves are united by a central constricted part or isthmus,— j'ofned by the superior vermiform process. Separating the upper from median part.