VESSELS OF THE LITER. 565 Fig. 85.* between them ; and it is provided also with a capillary net- work of vessels, and with radicles of an excretory duct. Cells of the lobules.—The hepatic or biliary cells (fig. 85) are irregular in form, being rounded or flattened, elongated or many sided, and possess a bright nu- cleated nucleus, or even more than one. In size they vary from xqVo^^ s'io'^^ an inch. They are of a yellowish colour, and enclose a half fluid substance, probably the elements of the bile, together with fatty and yellow colouring particles. These nu- cleated cells adhere together by their sur- faces so as to form rows, with spaces between them, which radiate from the centre to the circumference of the lobule ; and this linear arrangement is oftentimes less regular at the outer third of the lobule. The cells are concerned in the secretion of the bile. Vessels of the lobule.—The disposition of the several vessels is the following :—The smallest branches of the vena pvrtoe, after uniting in a circle around the lobule where they are named interlobular, enter its substance, and form therein a network of capillaries near the circumference. A small branch of the hepatic vein occupies the centre of the lobule, and its radicles communicate with the portal plexus ; it issues from the base of the lobule as the intralobular vein. The radicles of the bile duct are supposed to communicate with the intercellular spaces in the lobule (Beale) : they leave the lobules at the circumference, and are joined to- gether but sparingly outside them. From the facts above stated respecting the arrangement of the vessels, it would appear that the portal vein conducts the blood from which bile is secreted ; that the hepatic vein carries away the superfluous blood ; and that the secreted bile is received by the branches of the biliary duct. Vessels of the Liveh.—-Two sets of vessels ramify in the liver :—One set concerned in the secretion and the nutrition of the organ, enters the transverse fissure, and is directed transversely in spaces named portal canals, where it is enveloped by areolar tissue. The other set consisting of the hepatic veins is without a sheath, and runs from the anterior to the posterior border of the liver. The ramifi- cations of these difi"erent vessels are to be traced in the liver. Biliary ceils of the lobule. Situation and form; size and contents; connection with ducts. Arrange- ment of its vessels, viz. vena porta3, hepatic vein. and bile duct. Use of the Arrange- ment of vessels in the liver. Hepatic cells of the lobules of the human liver (Baly).