CORDS AND FOSS^ OF THE WAXL. 507 and this covering becomes blended with the other contiguous structures. Seat of stricture.—The stricture on the intestine is stricture, generally found at the margin of the tendinous opening in J^l^ the abdominal wall; and it may be either in or outside the neck of the sac, as in the other kinds of hernia. It should be remembered that the narrowed neck is at the upper part, and not in the centre of the swelling. The constriction may be removed by cutting the parts around the neck. Or if the sac is opened the knife may be carried upwards, but there is not any vessel to be injured in the operation. Other Forms of HEnmA.—At each of the other aper- other tures in the parietes of the abdomen, a piece of intestine ^erni^^are may be protruded, so as to form a hernial tumour. For instance there may be femoral hernia below Poupart's femoral, ligament, with the femoral vessels ; obturator hernia through the thyroid foramen, with the . artery of the obturator, same name; and ischiatic hernia through the ischiatic iscMatic. notch. The femoral hernia, as the most important, will be noticed presently ; but the student must refer to some special treatise for his information respecting the other abdominal hernise. Dissection.—The abdomen may be now opened to see the Dissection, cords and the depressions on the posterior surface of the abdominal wall. For that purpose a transverse cut is to be made through the umbilicus across the front of the abdomen. On holding up the lower part of the abdominal wall the cords will be seen ascending to the umbilicus from the pelvis. Cords of the abdominal wall.—In the middle line of the Cords inside abdominal wall, at its posterior aspect, is the prominence of ' the remains of the urachus, which reaches from the summit of the bladder to the umbilicus. On each side is another one in cord, formed by the obliterated hypogastric artery ; this is ' directed from the side of the pelvis to the umbilicus, and g^^^^^g®^^^^ lies usually behind or close to the epigastric artery, near ' Poupart's ligament. FosscB. —When the disposition of the cords is such as forming two above mentioned, two fossse are seen near Poupart's liga- ment, one on each side of the obliterated hypogastric artery, which correspond with the situation of the internal and external abdominal rings, and with the places where the external and internal (common kind) hernise occur. But occasionally the cord of the obliterated hypogastric Sometimes