DISSECTIOlSr OF THE ABDOMEIT; 578 Suspended obliquely. Dimensions and weight. A dense tunic con- tains small secreting tubes. How to see the struc- ture of the testis. Fibrous coat; characters : use. Sends inwards processes, as the me- diastinum The testis is suspended obliquely, so that the upper part is directed forwards and somewhat outwards, and the lower end backwards and rather inwards. Size mid weight.—In length the testis is an inch and a half or two inches ; from before backwards it measures rather more than an inch ; and from side to side rather less than an inch. Its weight is nearly an ounce, and the left is frequently larger than the other. Structure.—The substance of the testicle is composed of a mass of minute secerning tubes, around which the blood- vessels are disposed in plexuses. Surrounding and support- ing the delicate seminiferal tubes is a dense covering—the tunica albuginea. Its excretory or efferent duct is named vas deferens. Dissection.—With the view of examining the investing fibrous coat, let the testis be placed on its outer side, viz. that on which the epididymis lies, and let it be fixed in that position with pins. The fibrous coat may be cut through along the anterior part, and thrown backwards as far as the entrance of the bloodvessels. Whilst raising this membrane a number of fine bands will be seen traversing the substance of the tesfcicle, and a short septal joiece (mediastinum) will be observed at the back of the viscus, where the vessels enter. It will be necessary to remove part of the mass of tubes in the interior, to bring into view the mediastinum, and to trace back some of the finer septa to it. The tunica alhuginea, or the fibrous coat of the testicle, is of a bluish-white colour, and resembles in appearance the sclerotic coat of the eyeball. This membrane supports the soft secreting part of the testicle, and maintains the shape of the organ by its dense and unyielding structure. Besides determining the general form, it sends inwards pro- cesses to support and separate the seminal tubes. These several offsets of the membrane are seen in the dissection that has been made ; and one of them, which is larger than the rest, is placed at the back of the testicle, and is named mediastinum. The mediastinum testis (corpus Highmorianum) projects into the gland for the distance of a few lines with the blood- vessels. It is situate at the back of the testis, extendiag from the upper nearly to the lower part, and is larger and deeper above than below. When cut across it will be seen to be formed of two lateral pieces, which are united ante- riorly at an acute angle. To its front and sides the finer septal processes are connected ; and in its interior are con-