DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 372 named mitral. Mitral valve. Attachment of cords. Aortic open- ing; position and form. Is guarded by three sigmoid valves. ■Relative position of the aper- tures ; from before back. directed to the sides, and their surfaces towards the front and back of the cavity. From a fancied resemblance of it to a mitre it has been called the mitral valve. The anterior tongue of the valve intervenes between the auricular and aortic openings, and is attached above to the fibrous band in that position ; it is larger and looser than the posterior segment. The mitral resembles the tricuspid valve in its structure and office. Its segments consist of thicker and thinner parts ; and in the notches at the sides there are also secondary pieces between the segments. The strong ten- dinous cords ascend to be attached to the valve in the lateral notches between the tongues ; and each of the large papil- lary muscles acts on both divisions of the valve. The ending of the tendinous cords on the surface of the segments is the same as in the tricuspid valve. The opening of the aorta, anterior to that of the auricle, is next the septum of the ventricles. By slitting up the side of the vessel without cutting the pulmonary artery, its aperture will be found to be round, and rather smaller than that of the pulmonary artery, beneath, and below which it lies. With respect to the wall of the thorax, it is opposite the lower border of the third left costal cartilage, behind the contiguous part of the sternum. In its interior are three semilunar or sigmoid valves, which are larger and stronger than the corresponding parts in the pulmonary artery, but have a like structure, attach- ment, and use. The projection in the centre of each valve, viz. the corpus s. nodulus Arantii, is also better marked. Opposite each valve the coat of the aorta is bulged as in the ]3ulmonary artery, though in a greater degree, and presents a little hollow on the inner side named sinus of Valsalva. Above the free margin of two of the small valves are the apertures of the coronary arteries. Position of the ventricular apertures. Two openings have been seen in each ventricle, one of the auricle of its own side of the heart, and one of an artery. The apertures of the arteries (aorta and pulmonary) are nearest the septum ; and as the two vessels were originally formed from one tube, they are close together, but the pulmonary artery is the more anterior of the two. The aperture of commu- nication with each auricle is nearer the circumference of the heart, and is posterior to the artery issuing from the fore part of the ventricle. The position of the openings to one another from before backwards, has been before referred