DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 796 part is firm and trans- parent. Posterior thin and fibrous. Vessels to it. Open cap- sule of lens. Surfaces are curved un- equally ; dimensions; density. Lines on the surfaces. cliamber of tlie eye, and gives attacliment towards the cir- cumference (-j-^Q th of an inch off) to the suspensory ligament. The anterior part of the capsule is four or five times thicker than the posterior, as far outwards as to the attachment of the suspensory ligament, and supports itself after the removal of the lens ; it is firm and quite transparent, being structureless, and remains clear for some time when immersed in spirit, acids, and boiling water, like the elastic layers of the cornea. The posterior part of the capsule (^) is thin and membranous, and decreases in thickness towards the centre: it is joined by the hyaloid membrane of the vitreous body. In the adult human eye the capsule of the lens is not supplied with bloodvessels ; but in the fetus a branch of the central artery of the retina passes through the vitreous body to supply it on the posterior aspect. * Dissection.—The lens will be obtained by cutting across the thin membranous capsule in which it is enclosed. The lens,—When the lens is removed from its capsule, it is a solid and transparent doubly convex body ; but the curv^es are unequal on Fig. 124.* the two surfaces, the posterior being greater than the anterior. Its margin is somewhat rounded. Its measure- ment from side to side is from one third to half an inch, and from before back about one fourth of an inch. The density increases from the circumference to the centre ; for the superficial part rubs ofi* easily with the finger ; but the deeper portion is hard and firm, and is named the nucleus. On each surface are three lines diverging from the centre, and reaching towards the margin (fig. 124) ; they are the edges of planes or septa, and are so situate that those on one side are intermediate in position to those on the other. * Planes or septa at the pole of the lens, with the attached fibres.— Fibres reaching the centre of the lens between the planes. 2. Fibres joining the extremity of a plane or septum. 4. Fibres uniting with the plane between its extremities.