373 STRUCTURE OF THE HEART. to ;—viz. the right is partly before the left auriculo-ventri- cular ; and the opening of the pulmonary artery is before that of the aorta, and rather higher than it. Structure.—The heart is composed of strata of muscular structure of fibres, and of certain fibrous rings with fibro-cartilage, fibrous^^^* which serve as fixed points for their attachment. These an<i muscu- structures must be studied on a separate heart ; or on that of the ox or sheep, in which the fibres have been hardened and the connective tissue destroyed by boiling, so that the fibres can be separated. The description of the structure of the heart may be omitted therefore till a suitable preparation of the fibres can be made. The fibrous structure forms rings round the auriculo- Fibrous ventricular and arterial orifices, and sends prolongations into the valves connected with those openings. a. The auriculo-ventricular rings give attachment to the form rings muscular fibres both of the auricles and ventricles, as well cuio-ventr? as to the framework of fibrous tissue in the tricuspid and cuiar open- mitral valves. These rings are distinct from the bands encircling the mouths of the arteries, except at the front of the left auriculo-ventricular opening, where the auricular and the arterial circles are blended. h. An arterial ring surrounds each large artery (aorta and and around pulmonary), fixing those vessels, and giving attachment to openings the muscular fibres and semilunar valves. It is a circular band, with an uninterrupted margin towards the ventricle, and a toothed or wavy margin towards the artery. In the To the last margin connected with the vessel there are three notches, yaivyf^^^^^ which are filled by corresponding projections of the artery, and give attachment internally to the sigmoid valves along their semilunar edges. The artery is connected with the band of fibrous tissue in and middle the following manner :—The middle coat presents three ^rtery^are^ j)rojecting convex pieces, which are received into and con- fixed, nected with the notches of the fibrous ring, but most inti- mately with the points ; and the union between the two is strengthened externally by the parts around the vessel, and internally by the endocardium. Behind the aortic aperture is a apiece of fibro-cartilage, Fibro- with which the fibrous rings and the muscular substance are united. The muscular substance forms concentric bands of fibres, Muscular which are arranged mostly in a circular or spiral direction, heart and enclose the difi'erent cardiac cavities. In the auricles is distinct in the fibres are quite distinct from those in the ventricles, ^enteles?'^