802 DISSECTIOI^ OF THE EAR. In outer boundary, membrana tympaui and Glasse- rian fissure. Circum- ference ; and floor. At back, opening- of mastoid cells; pyramid ; aqueduct of Fallopius. In front canals for tensor tym- pani and Eustachian tube. it is closed by a thin membranej the seco7idary memhrane of the tympanum. The outer boundary of the cavity is formed by the mem- brana tympani, and by a small part of the surrounding bone. Above the membrane and in front of it, is the Glasserian or glenoid fissure, which is occupied in the fresh condition of the body by the long process of one of the small bones named malleus and by a small muscle, the laxator tym- pani. Crossing the membrane towards the upper part is the chorda tympani nerve, which passes through an aper- ture internal to or in the Glasserian fissure. The circumference of the tympanum is circular, and in some parts it is rough and uneven on the surface. In pass- ing around the cavity the student may observe the following points in its anatomy. The roof is wide and flattened, and consists of the thin osseous plate between the cranial and tympanic cavities. The floor is narrow, and is curved over the subjacent jugular fossa ; in the dry bone it has more or less of an areolar or spongy texture, as well as some small apertures communi- cating with the fossa beneath. At the posterior part of the circumference, towards the roof, is one large, together with other smaller apertures lead- ing into the mastoid cells. Below this aperture, but near the inner wall and on a level with the narrowed part of the promontory, is a small conical projection named the pyra- mid : this is perforated by an aperture, and contains the stapedius muscle. A minute canal connects the hollow in this projection with the aqueduct of Fallopius. Attaching generally the pyramid to the above-mentioned part of the promontory, is a small round spiculum of bone. In a line with the pyramid, and arching upwards from it above the fenestra ovalis, is a bony ridge marking the situation of the aqueduct of Fallopius. The front of the tympanic cavity corresponds with the carotid canal, only a thin scale of bone intervening. In it are the apertures of two canals that lie on the outer side of the passage for the carotid artery :—the upper one contains the tensor tympani muscle, and the lower one is the Eusta- chian tube. Between the two canals is a thin osseous lamina, which is hollowed above and dilated at the inner end, and is named processus cochlear if or mis. Some parts that have been referred to above, viz. the membrana tympani, the Eustachian tube, and the secondary tympanic membrane, require a separate notice.