DISSECTIO]^ OF THE BRAIK 196 inner end of the fissure of Sylvius (anterior perforated space) : and it distributes some branches to the under part of the anterior lobe. Middle 2. The middle cerebral artery is the largest offset of the artery^^ internal carotid, and supplies the outer side of the hemi- sphere. Passing outwards in the fissure of Sylvius, the artery divides into many large branches, which issue at the ends in outer end of that groove, and spreading over the external hemispheref surface of the hemisphere of the cerebrum, inosculate with the other two cerebral arteries at the front, the back, and the upper part of the brain. Only a few fine offsets require notice : Offsets. a. A set of small branches arises at the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius, and enters the cerebral substance through the part called substantia perforata antica. Posterior 3. The posterior comrrounicating artery is a small twig which catSg"^^" directed backwards parallel to and on the inner side of the third nerve, to join the posterior cerebral artery (of the basilar) near the pons. Choroid 4. The choroid artery (anterior) is small in size, and artery. arises either from the trunk of the carotid, or from the middle cerebral artery. It passes backwards on the outer side of the preceding, and finds its way between the hemi- sphere and the crus cerebri to the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle. Circle of Circle of Willis.—The arteries at the under part or base Willis; ^jjg brain are united freely both on their own side and across the middle line, and give rise to an arterial anasto- mosis, to which the term circle of Willis has been applied, vessels that On each side this circle is formed by the trunk of the ia^t ^ ^^^^^ internal carotid giving forwards the anterior cerebral, and backwards the posterior communicating artery. In front it is constructed by the converging anterior cerebral, and the anterior communicating artery. And behind is the bifurca- tion of the basilar trunk into the two posterior cerebral arteries. In the area of the circle lie the several parts of the brain corresponding with the floor of the third ventricle, and the free The complete inosculation between the cranial vessels in the between circle of Willis allows at all times a free circulation of blood them. through the brain, even though a large vessel on one side should be obstructed. Veins of the The VEINS of the brain enter the sinuses of the dura brain. mater, instead of uniting into trunks as companions to the arteries. Dissection. Dissection.—The pia mater and the vessels are now to be