425 FOURTH LAYER OF MUSCLES. aponeurosis from the spines in the dorsal region, and the areolar tissue is to be cleaned from the surface of the large its"divisK)ns, mass of the erector spinse which now comes into view. ^ Opposite the last rib is the beginning of an inter- Sacro- muscular interval, which divides the erector spinse into an outer piece—the sacro-lumbalis, and an inner piece—the longissimus dorsi. By sinking the knife into this interval the sacro-lumbalis may be turned outwards, so as to uncover the fleshy slips of its accessory muscle, which are fixed to the angles of the ribs. A muscular slip (cervicalis ascendens) offset to the is prolonged from it to the neck. * In preparing the sacro-lumbalis muscle, the external Vessels and branches of the dorsal nerves with their accompanying arteries will be found. Before the longissimus can be displayed, it will be Separate needful to raise towards the spinous processes the thin mus- dorsi.^^^ cular fasciculus of the spinalis dorsi, which lies between that muscle and the spines of the vertebrae in the dorsal region. Then the attachments of the longissimus dorsi are to be Longissimus traced out. Externally it has thin muscular processes of ^^^^^ * insertion into about the eight lower ribs. Internally it is inserted into the transverse processes of the lumbar and dorsal vertebrae by rounded tendons ; and for the purpose of seeing these tendons, the longissimus should be drawn away from the spinous processes, and its superficial aponeu- rosis must be cut through below the ribs, in the line of separation between the muscle and the multifidus spinse on its inner side. From this muscle, as from the sacro-lumbalis, offset to the a fleshy part (transversalis colli and trachelo-mastoid) is con- tinned into the neck. Between the longissimus and the multifidus spinas are the Vessels and internal branches of the dorsal and lumbar nerves, and of the intercostal and lumbar arteries. Fourth Layer. —In this layer are included the spinalis ^^^^Jj^^ dorsi; the erector spinae, with its divisions and its accessory muscles muscles to the neck ; and the complexus muscle. Most of the vessels and nerves of the back are in connection with consists of this layer of muscles. ^ The SPINALIS DORSI is found only by the side of the spinalis spines of the dorsal vertebrae, and is united with the longis- simus dorsi. Inferiorly it arises by tendinous processes from the spines of the last two dorsal and first two lumbar vertebrae, and by fleshy fibres from the contiguous tendon of the longissimus. From this origin the fibres ascend