506 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEK Its division. The taxis. Rarer kind of internal hernia is farther out than the preceding' in the tri- angular space, and is oblique in direction. Coverings are same as in external hernia. Stricture at same spots. Division of it. Umbilical Tiernia. Course. Coverings become united over the tumour. to open the hernial sac to relieve the stricture, after having divided constricting bands external to the neck, the cut is to be made directly upwards as in the external hernia. The position of the openings in the abdominal wall should be kept in mind during attempts to reduce an internal hernia ; and the straightness of the course of the intestine in this kind, in comparison with an external hernia, should be remembered. Variety of internal hernia.—Another kind of internal hernia (superior) projects through that part of the area of the triangular space, which is external to the conjoined tendon. Its existence is determined by the unusual position of the obliterated hypogastric artery behind the wall of the abdomen (p. 507). If this hernia existed, it is evident that it would pierce the abdominal wall close to the epigastric artery, and would descend along nearly the whole of the inguinal canal to reach the external abdominal ring ; consequently the term direct would not apply strictly to the form of internal hernia now under consideration. Coverings.—As this internal hernia traverses nearly the whole of the inguinal canal, it has exactly the same cover- ings as the external hernia, viz., the skin and the superficial fascia, the spermatic and cremasteric fasciae, the fascia trans- versalis, and the subperitoneal fat and the peritoneum. Beat of stricture.—The constriction of the intestine will take place from similar causes, and will be found at the same spots as in the external hernia ; and from the inability always to decide in the living body whether a hernia is internal or external, the rule observed in dividing the in- ternal stricture of the neck of the sac is to cut directly upwards, as in the other kinds of inguinal hernia. Umbilical Hernia, or exomphalos, is a protrusion of the intestine either through or by the side of the umbilicus. It is very variable in size, and its course is straight through the abdominal wall. Coverings.—The coverings of the intestine in a small hernia are thin, and few in number; they are the skin and the superficial fascia ; a prolongation from the tendinous margin of the abdominal opening ; together with the remaining deep coverings of the fascia transversalis, the subperitoneal fat and the peritoneum. If the hernia is suddenly produced, it may want the investment that otherwise is derived from the tendon of the external oblique muscle. Over the end of the tumour the fat in the superficial fascia disappears.