199 ORIGm OF THE CRAITIAL NERVES. band of white fibres connected with a convolution (gyms fornicatiis) to be afterwards examined. And the middle root, continuous with the gray matter of the convolutions, contains white fibres which enter the corpus striatum. The SECOND or optic nerve (fig. 35, ^) is the largest of Optic nerve, the cranial nerves, except the fifth, and appears as a flat band on the crus cerebri. Anteriorly the nerves of oppo- site sides are united in a commissure. The part of the part called nerve posterior to the commissure is named optic tract; but the part beyond the commissural union, which is round and firm and invested by a neurilemmar sheath of dura mater, is called optic nerve. The destination of the nerve is to the part nerve, eyeball. The tract, u, is the flattened part of the nerve winding Tract of the round the peduncle of the cerebrum, which is destitute of neurilemma. In front it ends in the commissure, and behind it splits into two parts at its attachment to the brain. ^' As the tract reaches forwards it crosses the crus cerebri, to which it is attached by its outer or anterior edge ; and in front of the crus it is placed between the substantia per- forata antica on the outside, and the tuber cinereum on the inside, but whether it re- ceives filaments from the lat- ter is uncertain. The commissure (chiasma) of the optic nerves, c, is some- what of a square shape, and lies on the olivary eminence of the sphenoid bone, within the circle of Willis. It is placed in front of the tuber cinereum ; and passing be- neath it (in this position of the brain) is the thin lamina cinerea. In the commissure there is a partial crossing of the fibres of the nerves after Situation this manner :—the outer fibres^of each tract, few in number, tS^L.^^''^^ * The superficial attachment of several of the cranial nerves (Bell).— 1. Spinal nerves. 2. Optic nerve. 3. Third nerve. 4. Fourth nerve. 5. Fifth nerve. 6. Sixth nerve. 7. Seventh nerve. 8. Eighth nerve. 9. Ninth nerve. Its commis- sure.