62 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Superficial The superficial cervical nerve has been traced from its nerve^^ origui in the cervical plexus to its position on the fascia of the neck (p. 60) ; and the nerve may arise from the plexus by two pieces. Beneath the platysma it divides into an ascending and a descending branch, and is distributed on the front of the neck. branches to a. The ascending branch perforates the platysma, and and piatys^^ ends in the integuments over the anterior triangle, about ma of neck, half way down the neck, as well as in the platysma. Whilst this branch is beneath the platysma it joins the facial nerve. h. The descending hra^ich likewise passes through the platysma, and is distributed below the preceding, reaching as low as the sternum. Dissection. Dissection.—Raise the platysma to the base of the jaw, and dissect out the cervical branches of the facial nerve that are beneath it. Clean also the deep fascia of the neck. Branches of The infra-maxillary branches of the facial or seventh to^the^neck ^^^^^^^ nerm (rami subcutanei colli) (p. 41) pierce the deep ' cervical fascia, and pass forwards beneath the platysma, forming arches across the side of the neck, which reach as low as the hyoid bone. Most of the branches end in the platysma, but a few filaments perforate it and supply the integument. Beneath the muscle there is a commuuication established between these branches of the facial and the Cervical offsets of the superficial cervical nerve. frontfo? The part of the deep cervical fascia in front of the sterno- sterno- mastoideus is stronger than it is behind that muscle, and mastoid following disposition. !N"ear the sternum the fascia forms a white firm membrane, which is attached to that bone ; but higher in the neck it becomes thinner, and is fixed above to the lower jaw and the zygoma, covering also the parotid gland. From the angle and ramus of the jaw a piece is prolonged downwards, between the parotid and forms stylo- submaxillary glands, to join the styloid process ; this piece Hgamentf is named stylo-maxillary ligament. Intermuscular partitions and sheath ^-^q gg^-j^ "between the muscles ; and the layer beneath the 01 vessels sterno-mastoid is connected with the sheath of the cervical vessels. One of these strata, viz. that beneath the sterno- thyroid muscle, descends in front of the great vessels at the root of the neck to the arch of the aorta and the pericardium. Dissection of Dissection.—To define the anterior triangular space, take triangle. away the deep fascia of the neck, and clean the surface of the hyoid muscles that appear along the middle line, dissect- ing out at the same time the anterior jugular vein.