DISSECTIO]^ OF THE PERINEUM. 466 Extent and form. Attach- ments. Parts over it. Apertures in it for urethra, for dorsal vein and vessels and nerves. Consists of strata. Parts between. Dissection. Parts in the 1 riangular ligament. form, with its base below ; and it is about one incli and a half in depth. On the sides it is fixed to the pubic arch beneath the crura penis. Its apex is connected with the symphysis pubis. Its base is turned towards the rectum, and is partly attached and partly free :—In the middle line it is connected with the central point of the perinseum, whilst laterally it is sloped towards the bone, so that it is less deep at the centre than at the sides : connected with the lower border, is a thin fascia which covers the surface of the levator ani muscle in the ischio-rectal fossa. Superficial to it are the muscles in the anterior half of the perinseal space, and the superficial fascia is imited to it near the lower border. Perforating the fore part of the ligament about one inch below the symphysis pubis is the canal of the urethra ; but the margin of the opening giving passage to the tube is blended with the tissue of the corpus spongiosum urethrse. About midway between the preceding opening and the symphysis pubis is the aperture for the dorsal vein of the penis ; and external to it, near the bone on each side, the terminal parts of the pudic nerve and artery to the penis perforate the ligament. The triangular ligament is composed of two layers of fibrous membrane (anterior and posterior) which are united below, and protect the membranous part of the urethra. The posterior layer is derived from the pelvic fascia. The anterior is a separate structure, and consists chiefly of transverse fibres, but it is so thin as to allow the vessels and the muscular fibres to be seen through it. Between the layers of the ligament are the membranous part of the urethra, with its muscles, vessels and glands; also the bloodvessels and nerves of the penis, as the subsequent dissection will show. Dissection.—The muscles of the urethra between the layers of the ligament will be reached by cutting through with care, on the left side, the superficial stratum of the liga- ment near its attachment to the bone, and raising and turning inwards that piece of membrane. By a little cautious dissection, and the removal of some veins, the following objects will come into view with the under- mentioned position :— Farts between the layers of the ligament.—!N"ear the base of the ligament is a narrow transverse muscle, which is directed to the bulb of the urethra. Crossing inwards to the urethra, from behind the pubic arch, is the fasciculus of fibres of the compressor urethrse muscle, which surrounds