574 DISSECTIOIT OF THE ABDOMEN. and these are finally blended in the excretory duct or the ureter. Two coats Structure. —Besides an external fibrous layer the ureter m ureter, consists of a Hiuscular and a mucous coat. The muscular STmucous composed of an external or longitudinal, and an ' internal or circular stratum. The mucous coat is thrown into longitudinal folds during the contracted state of the Epithelium ureter. Its epithelium consists of several layers of cells of Syefs difierent shapes ; thus at the free and attached surfaces the cells are rounded, whilst in the intermediate strata they are cylindrical (KoUiker). Thecalices The calices resemble the rest of the duct in having a coats!^° muscular and a mucous coat. Around the pyramid the enveloping tunic of the kidney is continuous with the calyx ; and at its apex the mucous lining is prolonged into the uriniferal tubes through the small openings in the papilla. THE SUPRARBN-AL CAPSULE. Use unknown. No duct. Situation. Form and colour. Size and weight. Connec- tions. Two different structures. This small body, w^hose use is unknown, has received its name from its position to the kidney. Its vessels and nerves are numerous, but it is not provided with any ex- cretory duct. One on each side, it is situate on the upper extremity and the fore part of the kidney ; and without care it may be removed with the surrounding fat, which it is like. Its colour is yellowish. It resembles a cocked hat in form, and the upper part is convex, but the base or lower part where it touches the kidney is hollowed. Its size in the adult is about one inch and a half in depth, and rather less in width; and its weight is between one and two drachms, but the left is commonly larger than the right capsule. Areolar tissue attaches the suprarenal body to the kidney; and large vessels and nerves retain it in situation. The con- nections with the surrounding parts are the same as those of the upper end of the kidney. Thus it rests on the diaphragm on both sides ; whilst above the right body is the liver, and above the left the pancreas and the spleen. On the inner side of the right capsule is the vena cava, with part of the solar plexus ; and internal to the left is the aorta, with the same plexus of nerves. Structure.—By means of a perpendicular section, the suprarenal body will be seen to be formed of a firm external