MEDIAllT AND RADIAL NERVES. 31^ inches above tlie end of the ulna, and passes obliquely back- nerve of wards beneath the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle : it finally perforates the aponeurosis of the limb, and is lost on the back of the hand and fingers (p. 306). The MEDIAN" NERVE Icavcs the hollow of the elbow between Median the heads of origin of the pronator teres, and takes the middle line of the limb in its course to the hand. It is placed lies between beneath the flexor sublimis as low as two inches from the tlie two layers of annular ligament, but it then becomes superficial along the muscles, outer border of the tendons of that muscle. Lastly the nerve dips beneath the annular ligament to enter the palm of the hand, where it is distributed. This nerve supplies the muscles on the front of the forearm, and furnishes cutaneous offsets only to the hand. a. Muscular offsets leave the trunk of the nerve near the supplies the elbow, and are distributed to all the muscles of the super- ^les^except ficial layer except the flexor carpi ulnaris ; in addition, the one and a nerve supplies the deep layer through the following branch (interosseous), except the inner half of the flexor profundus digitorum. b. The anterior interosseous nerve.—By means of this interos- nerve the remaining muscles of the deep layer are supplied, ^^^^^-^ with the exception above specified. It accompanies the anterior interosseous artery, and will be dissected with that vessel. c. The cutaneous palmar branch arises at the lower part of ^ cutaneous the forearm; it pierces the fa scia near the annular ligament, palm of and crosses the ligament to reach the palm of the hand. The RADIAL NERVE is the larger of the two branches into Radial nerve which the musculo-spiral divides in front of the outer con- dyle of the humerus. This nerve is placed along the outer border of the limb, under cover of the supinator longus, and forearm, on the outer side of the radial artery till within three inches of the wrist, where it becomes cutaneous at the posterior border of the tendon of the supinator. On the surface of the ^j^^ limb it divides into two branches, which are distributed on hand, the dorsum of the hand, and on the thumb and the next two fingers (p. 305). No offset is furnished by the part of the nerve beneath the aponeurosis. Dissection. —To examine the deep layer of muscles it will J^^^^^^g be necessary to draw well over to the radial side of the fore- layer of arm the pronator teres and flexor sublimis muscles ; or if ^^^^cies, it is thought necessary, these muscles may be divided. The areolar tissue is to be taken from the muscular fibres ; and the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve, which lie on the