604 DISSECTIOlSr OF THE PELVIS. plied to the fascia. Recto-vesi- cal layer after. How to re- move the iunominate bone. Preparation of the parts. Outlet of pelvis is closed by pyriformis, by coccyge- us, and sacro-sciatic ligaments, with vessels and nerves; by levator ani. the brim to the outlet of the pelvis, but the name obtu- rator" is given to the half of it below the recto-vesical piece. Those who make this distinction describe the pelvic fascia as dividing into obturator and recto-vesical layers at the level of the line mentioned. The recto-vesical fascia may be now seen in part; but it will be better displayed after the hip bone has been taken away for the purpose of giving a side view of the pelvis. Dissection.—To obtain a side view of the pelvis it will be necessary to detach one innominate bone, say the left. The pelvic fascia is first to be separated from the bone and the obturator muscle, but without destroying before and behind the attachments of the white band of the fascia. The innominate bone is then to be sawn through in front rather external to the symphysis ; and the lateral articula- tion with the sacrum is likewise to be sawn through. After the innominate bone has been somewhat separated from the rest of the pelvis, the ischial spine with the pelvic fascia attached to it may be cut off with a bone forceps ; and the rest of the bone may be removed by cutting through the pyriformis muscle, the vessels and nerves passing through the sacro-sciatic notch, and any other structure that may retain it. A small block is afterwards to be placed beneath the pelvis. The bladder is to be moderately distended with air. Some tow is to be introduced into the rectum, also into the vagina if it is a female pelvis ; and a small piece is to be placed in the pouch of the peritoneum between the bladder and the rectum. After the viscera are thus made prominent, the recto-vesical fascia and the ischial spine should be raised with hooks whilst the levator ani and coccygeus muscles are cleaned. Parts closing the outlet of the pelvis.—In addition to the recto-vesical fascia, the following parts fill the large outlet of the dried pelvis. Beginning behind, the student will meet first with the pyriformis passing through the great sacro- sciatic notch, with the gluteal vessels and nerve above it. Next comes the coccygeus muscle, with the small sacro- sciatic ligament stretched between the ischial spine and the coccyx, one border of the muscle reaching towards the pyri- formis, and the other to the levator ani; and between the posterior border and the pyriformis will be the sacral plexus of nerves, and the sciatic and pudic vessels. The greater part of the rest of the space is closed by the levator ani, which extends forwards from the coccygeus to the posterior