628 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. with the first sacral nerve ; it leaves the pelvis with the pudic artery, and winds over the ischial spine of the hip bone and through the small sacro-sciatic notch to enter the muscle on the perinseal surface. The nerves of the pyriformis are commonly two in number, and arise from separate parts of the plexus : they enter the muscle at its visceral aspect. The pudic nerve^ like the artery of the same name, sup- plies the rectum, the perinseum, and the genital organs. The nerve arises at the lower part of the plexus, and accom- panies its artery through the small sacro-sciatic notch to the perinseum. (See p. 470.) The remaining branches of the plexus, viz., the small and great sciatic nerves, with small muscular offsets to the gemelli and quadratus femoris, are described with the lower limb.—See the Dissection of the Buttock. The superior gluteal nerve is a branch of the lumbo-sacral cord, and arises opposite the upper part of the large sacro- sciatic notch. It passes outwards above the pyriformis muscle to the back of the pelvis, where it ends chiefly in branches for the two smaller gluteal muscles. Dissection.—Besides the large plexus of the sympathetic by the side of the bladder, the student will have to dissect the part of the gangliated cord that lies in front of the sacrum : its several ganglia (three or four), and their branches will come into view on the removal of the areolar tissue. Sympathetic JSTerve.—In the pelvis the sympathetic nerve consists of a gangliated cord on each side, and of two lateral plexuses for the supply of the viscera. The Gangliated Cord lies on the front of the sacrum and internal to the series of apertures in that bone. It is continuous superiorly with the lumbar part of the cord by a single or double internodal piece ; whilst inferiorly the cords of opposite sides converge, and are united in front of the coccyx by means of a loop, on which is situate a single median ganglion {gang, impar). Each cord is marked by ganglia at intervals, the number varying from three to five. From the ganglia branches of communication pass to the spinal nerves, and some filaments are directed inwards in front of the sacrum. to the spinal The connecting branches are two to each ganglion, gray and white, and are very short ; and like those of the lumbar ganglia, they may enter two sacral nerves instead of one. The gray connecting cord unites the ganglion and the spinal two to pyri- formis. Pudic nerve now seen at its origin. Branches to the lower limb after. Superior gluteal nerve ends in gluteal muscles. Trace out the sympa- thetic. Sympa- thetic in the pelvis. The gan- gliated cord oins that of opposite side below in a ganglion. Offsets of the ganglia