DEEP CRUEAL ARCH. 497 the coverings of the cord. The genital branch of the genito- crural nerve enters the cord by the internal abdominal ring, and ends in the cremaster muscle. Other vessels and nerves are supplied to the coverings of and others, the cord from the superficial pudic artery and the ilio- inguinal nerve. The vas deferens reaches from the testicle to the urethra, Vas defe- and is placed behind the other constituents of the cord ; it will be easily recognised by its resemblance in feel to a piece Situation of whipcord, when it is taken between the finger and the thumb. As it enters the abdomen through the opening in and course, the fascia transversalis (internal ring), it lies on the inner side of the vessels of the testicle; and as it begins its descent to the pelvis, it winds behind the epigastric artery. Dissection.—A fibrous band below Poupart's ligament. Dissection which has been named the deep crural arch, will be found ^^^"^ ^^^^ by cutting through the cord near the pubes, and raising this towards the inner abdominal ring : the thin band passes inwards to the pubes, and is to be defined with care. The remaining vessels of the abdominal wall, viz., the and of the epigastric and circumflex iliac, and the ending of the internal the wall of mammary artery, are to be next dissected. The epigastric abdomen, and mammary arteries will be seen on turning up the outer edge of the rectus, one above and the other below, ramifying in the muscle ; and the epigastric with its earliest branches may be traced further, by removing the fascia transversalis from it near Poupart's ligament. The circumflex iliac artery lies behind the outer half of Poupart's ligament, and should be pursued along the iliac crest. Deep crural arch.—B^elow the level of Poupart's ligament ^^'"^"^^ is a thin band of transverse fibres, which lies over the femoral vessels, and has received the name deep crural arch from its position and resemblance to Poupart's ligament,— the superficial crural arch. This fasciculus of fibres be- ^ttach- ments. gmnmg about the centre of the ligament, is prolonged inwards to the pubes, where it is widened, and is inserted into the pectineal line at the abdominal aspect of the con- joined tendon of the broad muscles of the abdomen."^ This * Sometimes this structure is a firm distinct hand, and is joined, as it -would seem, by some of the lower fibres of the aponeurosis of the external oblique. At other times, and this is the most common arrange- ment, it is only a thickening of the fascia transversalis with fibres added from the tendon of the transversalis muscle. In six bodies, both male and female, which I examined carefully, I found the deep arch to be formed only by a thickening of the fascia transversalis. K K