669 MARKING OF THE SUEFACE. femur. On the outer side of the thigh, about four inches Position of below the iliac crest and the same distance from its anterior ci^^iiter^ spine, the student will be able to recognise the well-marked projection of the great trochanter of the femur. In a thin Head of the body the head of the femur may be felt by rotating the limb femur, inwards and outwards, whilst the thumb of one hand is placed in the hollow below Poupart's ligament, and the fingers behind the great trochanter. At the knee the outline of the several bones entering into Bouy emi- the formation of the joint may be traced with ease. Thus, ^^^l^ in front of the joint, when it is half bent, the rounded prominent patella may be perceived ; this is firmly fixed Patella, whilst the limb is kept in the same position, but is moved with great freedom when the joint is extended so as to relax the muscles that are inserted into it. On each side of the Condyles of patella is the projection of the condyle of the femur, but femur, that on the iuner side is the largest. If the fingers are passed along the sides of the patella whilst the joint is half bent, they will be conducted by the condyles of the femur to the tuberosities of the head of the tibia, and to a slight Tuberosities hollow between the bones. Behind the joint is a slight depression over the situation of the ham or popliteal space ; The Lam and on its sides are firm boundaries, formed chiefly by the tendons (hamstrings) of the flexor muscles of the leg. Dissection.—With the position of the limb the same as Dissection, before directed, the student begins the dissection with the examination of the subcutaneous fatty tissue with its nerves and vessels. At first the integument is to be reflected only from the Take up the hollow on the front of the thigh close below Poupart's liga- top'^onhe^ ment. To raise the skin from this part an incision about thigh, four inches in length, and only skin deep, is to be made from the pubes along the inner border of the thigh. At the lower end of the first incision, another cut is to be directed outwards across the front of the limb to the outer aspect ; and at its upper end the knife is to be carried along the line of Poupart's ligament as far as the crest of the hip bone. The piece of skin included by these incisions is to be raised and turned outwards, without taking with it the subcuta- neous fat. The subcutaneous fatty tissue, or the superficial fascia, |^^^?^^°^'^^ forms a general investment for the limb, and is constructed ^ of a network of areolar tissue, with fat or adipose substance how amongst the meshes. As a part of the common covering ' of the body, it will be found continuous with that of the