763 SEMILUISUE CAETILAGES. whilst tlie other remains entire, the bone can be brought in front of the articular surface of the tibia. The i7iterarticular or semilunar cartilages (hg. 112) are two Semilunar fibro-cartilaginou.s plates, which partly cover the articular are^two^^ surface of the tibia. They are thickest at the outer margin, where they are united by fibres to the capsule; and are hollowed on the upper surface so as to assist in giving depth to the fossse for the reception of the condyles of the femur. Inserted into the tibia at their extremities, they are coarsely fibrous at their attachments to the bone, like the crucial ligaments ; and they become cartilaginous only where they lie between the articular sur- faces. The synovial membrane is reflected over them. They are provided with two accessory bands :—one is between them at the fore part ; the other ascends from the outer disc to the inner condyle of the femur. The internal cartilage {^) is ovoid in form, and is a seg- internal is ment of a larger circle than the external. In front it is attached by a pointed part to an impression close in front of the inner articular surface of the tibia, and in a line with the anterior margin of the head of the bone. At the back, where it is much wider, it is fixed to the inner lip of the hollow behind the spine of the tibia, between the attachment of the other cartilage and the posterior crucial ligament. The external cartilage (^) is nearly circular in form, and External, is connected to the bone within the points of attachment of cuSimii^^ its fellow. Its anterior part is fixed to the bottom of the ^^^^^ depression in front of the spine of the tibia, and close to that process of bone ; and its posterior extremity is inserted between the two osseous points of the spine. From the lias a band posterior part of this disc a ligamentous fasciculus ascends to the inner condyle of the femur, to be inserted before or behind the posterior crucial ligament. This fibro-cartilage is less closely united to the capsule than the internal, for the tendon of the popliteus muscle separates it behind from that membrane. The transverse ligament is a narrow band of fibres between Transverse the semilunar cartilages at the front of the joint. Sometimes ^^s^™®^^- it is scarcely perceptible. Articular surface of the hones.—The lower end of the Articular femur presents on each side a large convex condyle, with a ?emiir/^^ slightly hollowed part between. The articular surface on the external condyle extends highest and is the widest. Each condyloid half of the bone has the following difi'erences in its surface. Altogether in front is a trochlea or pulley-