266 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. inserted into scapula. Connections with parts around. Costo-cora- coid mem- brane conceals subclavius, and joins a sheath around ves- sels. Sheath of vessels: strongest in front. Dissection of costo-co- racoid fascia. tlieir cartilages ; and between the ribs, with tlie aponeurosis covering the intercostal muscles. The fibres converge to their insertion into the anterior half of the upper surface of the coracoid process of the scapula (Fig. 72, ^). This muscle is placed before the axillary space, and assists the pectoralis major in forming the middle part of the anterior boundary. In that position it conceals the axillary vessels and the accompanying nerves, and two small anterior thoracic nerves. The upper border lies near the clavicle, but between it and that bone is an interval of a somewhat triangular form. The lower border projects beyond the pectoralis major, close to the chest, and along it the long thoracic artery lies. The tendon of insertion is united with that of the short head of the biceps and coraco-brachialis. The costo-coracoid memhfane, or ligament, is a firm mem- branous band, which receives this name from its insertion on the one side into the rib, and on the other into the coracoid process of the scapula. Betv/een those points of attach- ment it is inserted into the clavicle, enclosing the subclavius muscle, and is joined by the piece of fascia that incases the small pectoral muscle* From its strength and position it gives protection to the vessels surrounded by their loose sheath. When traced downwards it is found to descend on the axillary vessels and nerves, joining externally the fascia on the coraco-brachialis muscle, and blending belovf with the sheath on the vessels beneath the small pectoral muscle : its extent is not so great on the inner as on the outer side, for internally it reaches but a very short distance on the axillary vein. The sheath of the axillary vessels and nerves is derived from the deep fascia of the neck, being prolonged from tha on the scaleni muscles, and resembles, in its form and office the funnel-shaped tube of membrane that surrounds th femoral vessels in the upper part of the thigh. It strongest near the subclavius muscle, vdiere the costo-cora coid band is placed ; and it receives below an accession fro" that membrane. The anterior part of the tube is perforate by the acromial thoracic artery and the anterior thoracic nerve. Dissection.—The tube of fascia around the vessels will b demonstrated by making a transverse cut in the costo-cora- coid membrane near the clavicle, so that the handle of the scalpel can be passed beneath it. By raising the lower border of the subclavius this muscle will be seen to be in- cased by fascia, which is attached to the bone both before and behind.