INNOMmATE AETEKY. S79 right instead of the left lung, as in birds; and is directed after- wards to its usual place on the spinal column, without any other change in the position of the viscera of the body. Or, all the viscera of the cavities of the thorax and abdomen being transposed, the arch of the aorta may share the general disturbance in position. Position and arrangement of tranches.—The large branches of the Position of neck may have their usual origin (the highest part of the arch) ^ranches^^*^ moved more to the right; or their distance from one another may be increased or diminished. When there is transposition of the arch there is likewise a change Transposi- in the arrangement of the branches ;—the innominate artery sup- tjo^ of plying the left side, and the carotid and subclavian vessels of the ^^^^ right side having separate attachments to the arch. Occasional branches.—Some smaller or secondary arteries take Number in- origin occasionally from the arch. The left vertebral artery arises creased by most frequently from the arch, and is situate either between the branchesf left carotid and subclavian trunks, or beyond them. Occasionally a thyroid artery (lowest thyroid), or the right internal mammary, or both vertebrals, will be seen to spring from the arch of the aorta. The INNOMINATE ARTERY (brachlo-cephalic) is the largest innominate offset of the transverse part of the arch, and is the first of ^^^^^ the three branches. It is a thick trunk, varying from one ^^^^^Jj inch and a half to two inches in length. Ascending to the subclavian, right beneath the sternum, it divides opposite the sterno- clavicular articulation into right carotid and subclavian arteries. The artery is crossed by the left innominate vein, and is Length and behind the upper piece of the sternum, and the origin of the connections, hyoid and thyroid muscles. At first the innominate artery rests on the trachea, but as it ascends it is placed on the right of the air tube. On its right is the innominate vein of the same side, with the phrenic nerve. Usually no lateral branch arises from the artery. Peculiarities.—The length of the artery may exceed two inches, or Length may it may be only one inch or less : in these different states the place be altered; of bifurcation will be altered, being in the one case beyond, and in the other below the level of the upper border of the clavicle. Branches.—The left carotid is frequently joined with this artery branches at its origin. Or a branch to the thyroid body (art. thyroidea ima), ^odq it. or to the thymic body, or to the root of the lung, may arise from the innominate. Position.—The innominate artery is directed to the left side of Position, the neck in cases of transposition of the arch. Left Common Carotid Artery.—The common carotid Left com- artery of the left side of the neck springs from the arch of SS^sTom"^ the aorta, and is therefore longer than the right by the dis- ^^J^^^^ tance between the arch and the top of the sternum. In the thorax the artery ascends obliquely to the left Connections