572 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Corpuscles in the tubules. Size ; composed of two vessels. Bloodvessels are large, and arteries are peculiar. Branches of the artery- reach exterior. ramify on tubules, and form glome- ruli. Veins begin around tubules; forated by the two vessels connected with that body."^ Into this little sac the epithelial lining extends, and becomes very delicate and translucent. Dila,tations for the lodgement of the Malpighian bodies are connected with the sides, as well as the ends of the tubes. The Malpighian corpuscles (glomeruli of Ruysch) are small, rounded or oblong vascular bodies in the cortical substance, which are contained in the dilated sacs of the uriniferal tubes (fig. 87, m). Each little vascular tuft has commonly a diameter of i^-J-^th of an inch, and is formed by the rami- fications of two small vessels ( a^ and ) that perforate the end of the containing tube. One vessel (afferent) is a small twig (a^) of the renal artery, which forms the exterior of the tuft by its branchings ; the other (efferent) occupies the centre of the tuft (e'), and issuing from the tube ends in a plexus of capillaries on a neighbouring uriniferal tube. The glomerulus is free in the cavity of the tube.f Bloodvessels.—The artery and vein distributed to the kidney are very large in proportion to the size of the organ they nourish ; and some small arterial branches have a pecu- liar disposition in the Malpighian bodies J)efore they become capillary, and end in the veins. Renal artery.—As the artery enters the kidney it divides into four or five branches, which are invested by sheaths of the fibrous capsule, and are transmitted to the cortical sub- stance between the pyramidal masses. Some of the offsets of a chief branch enter the pyramidal mass, and ramify on the tubes, forming anastomotic loops parallel with them, whilst the continuation of the trunk (fig. 8*7, ct), is distributed in the cortex around the pyramid. Some of the terminal twigs of the artery enter the Malpighian bodies before they become capillary, and the rest end in a plexus of capillaries around the uriniferal tubes. Benal vein. —This vein begins in the capillary plexuses on the convoluted urine tubes, and its larger branches are directed to the centre of the kidney, where they commu- nicate around the pyramids, receiving veins from these body. e. Branch of a vein, and e', a radicle of the vein coming from the Malpighian body (efferent vessel), and joining in the plexus, around the urine tube. * See a Paper in the Philosophical Transactions for 1842, Part L, On the Structure and Use of the Malpighian Bodies of the Kidney, by W. Bowman, F.KS. f According to Mr. Bowman this body is naked in the tube, but according to others it is covered with nucleated scales or an epithelium.