DISSECTIOI^ OF THE BRAIK 206 Lateral tract varies in size : not straight. Olivary body does not reach pons. Some arched fibres. Dififerent division of the lateral tract. Kestiform body is the largest piece; of what parts it con' pearing beneath, the transverse fibres, it is somewhat con- stricted and rounded. h. Lateral tract and olivary body.—The lateral tract (funiculus lateralis) (fig. 31, h), continuous with the part of the cord between the attachment of the roots of the nerves (lateral column), fills the interval between the anterior pyramid and the restiform body ; but its width at the surface is not the same throughout. Opposite the lower part of the medulla oblongata, its surface width is equal to that of the other constituent bodies before and behind it ; but near the pons the width is diminished, so that the lateral tract occupies on the surface only the hollow between the outer side of the corpus olivare and the restiform body. Its direction also is not vertical, for it is inclined inwards towards the middle line above, as if it was pushed out of the perpen- dicular by the projecting olivary body. The olivary body (corpus olivare) (fig. 31, c), is the oval projection close to the anterior pyramid. A shallow groove separates it from the pyramid, and a deeper and wider one is between it and the restiform body. This eminence is shorter than the pyramid, and does not reach to the pons. Its upper end is most prominent ; and arching round the lower end and over the surface are some white fibres (fibrse arciformes). The segment here called lateral tract is divided into three parts by Mr. Clarke, which have the following order from before back :—First, the olivary column (fig. 34, 6), which surrounds the corpus olivare ; then the lateral column (fig. 34, c) : and close to the restiform body, the gray cornu or column (^), a streak of gray matter. c. Restiform body and posterior pyramid.-—The restiform body (restis, a rope) (fig. 31, d) forms the largest prominence on the half of the medulla oblongata, and cannot be seen satisfactorily except on a distinct preparation. This body is posterior to the lateral tract, and projects laterally, so as to give the greater width to the upper part of the medulla oblongata. The restiform swelling is continuous inferiorly with the posterior column of the spinal cord ; and superiorly it appears to be continued into the pons, like the other seg- ments of the medulla oblongata, but the disposition of its fibres at this spot will be subsequently referred to. Below , the level of the olivary body it is divided into two parts by a distinct groove behind ; one of these, the smaller and posterior of the two, is the funiculus gracilis, or the posterior pyramid ; and the anterior and larger part has been named