606 DISSECTIOIST OF THE PELYIS. urethra, together with the vagina in the female, to pass from the pelvis. Anterior The anterior part of the muscle which descends by the fibres named ^ ^-^q prostate, and nnites with its fellow below the levator pros- ^ ' . tatse. membranous part of the urethra, thus supporting that canal as in a sling, is named sometimes levator seib compressor prostatce. Dissection Dissection.—The recto-vesical fascia will be seen by de- to-vesicar taching the fleshy fibres of the levator ani at their origin, fascia. and the coccygeus muscle from the ischial spine, and throw- ing both downwards. Below the level at which the fascia reaches the side of the prostate gland and the rectum, it gives sheaths to those viscera ; and to demonstrate these sheaths one incision is to be made along the prostate, and another along the lov/er end of the rectum, below the attach- ment of the fascia. Eecto-vesi- The recto-vesical fascia is derived from the pelvic fascia, cai fascia ^j^^ supports and partly invests the viscera of the pelvis, arises from Arising, as before said, on a level with the band= that extends pelvic fascia, from the pubes to the ischial spine, the fascia is directed inwards on the levator ani, and has the following disposition and is re- ^^^^ viscera :—In the middle line in front it is continued fleeted on to from the back of the pubes to the upper surface of the pros- snpporti^ng tate ; here it closes the pelvis before the levatores ani, and them. forms on each side of the middle line a roundish band, the anterior ligament of the bladder. More to the side the fascia is attached to the lateral part of the prostate and bladder, giving rise to the lateral vesical ligament. And still farther back it reaches the side of the rectum. It gives The fascia does not cease, where it meets the viscera, by tile prostate becoming blended with each, but is continued downwards and rectmiQ, around the prostate and the rectum, so as to form sheaths for those viscera below the level of its attachment to them. The sheath that is prolonged on the gut becomes thin towards the anus ; whilst that on the prostate is separated from its viscus by a plexus of veins (prostatic), and an offset is directed backwards from it to incase the vesiculse seminales. and forms The recto-vesical fascia forms a partition, like that of the ^''^.'ur'oVtlfe lQ^^"^ores ani muscles, across the pelvis, which is perforated pelvis. by the prostate and the rectum ; but in the case of the fascia the viscera receive sheaths as they pass through it. Fascia in In the female the fascia has much the same arrangement t!ie iemaie. ^^le male ; but the vagina, instead of the prostate, per- forates the membrane, and receives a tube from it.