DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 366 Annulus of Vieusseiis. Apertures of cardiac sinus and veins of Thebesius. Apertures of cavse. Valves of chief aper- tures. Inferior cava is pro- vided with Eustachian valve. One to coro- nary sinus. Auriculo- ventricular opening. Course of blood in auricle in adult, and in the fetus. seu isthmiis Yieussenii, which is most prominent above and on the inner side, and gradually subsides inferiorly. Alto- gether at the lower part of the posterior wall, between the opening into the ventricle and that of the inferior cava, is the aperture of the coronary sinus. Small apertures are seen scattered over the surface :—some lead only into depressions; but others are the mouths of veins of the substance of the heart (vense cordis minimse), and are named foramina The- besii. The chief apertures in the auricle are those of the two cavse, of the coronary sinus, and of the ventricle. The position of the openings of the cavjB should be noted specially, because they are so placed as to prevent the mingling to any great extent of the currents of blood issuing from them in the fetus. The opening of the supe- rior cava is in the front and top of the auricle, and its direc- tion is downwards and somewhat forwards ; whilst the inferior cava enters the lowest part of the auricle near the septum, and is directed inwards and backwards to the fossa ovalis. All the openings, except that of the superior cava, have some kind of valve. In front of the inferior cava is a thin fold of the lining membrane of the cavity, the Eustachian valve, but in the adult this is only a remnant of a much larger structure in the fetus. This valve in its perfect state is semilunar in form, with its convex margin attached to the wall of the vein, and the other free in the cavity of the auricle. Its surfaces are directed forwards and backwards. In width the valve surpasses the vein opening, so that its extremities reach the surface of the auricle; and the left end is connected with the annulus, or the rim of the fossa ovalis. The free margin of the valve is often reticular. The aperture of the coronary sinus in the lower part of the auricle is closed by a thin fold of the lining membrane—valve of The- besius. The auriculo-ventricular opening will be seen, in examining the right ventricle, to be provided with valves, which prevent regurgitation into the auricular cavity. In the adult there is but one current of blood in the right auricle towards the ventricle. But in the fetus there are two streams in the cavity of the auricle; one of pure, and the other of impure blood, which cross one another.. The placental or pure blood entering by the inferior cava, is directed by the Eustachian valve chiefly into the left auricle, through an opening (foramen ovale) in the septum; whilst the current of systemic or impure blood, coming in by the