DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 504 if it has left the abdomi- nal wall. Stricture •where situate. To free it, direction of the incision. The taxis. Terms ap- plied to the inguinal hernia from its positiou. Two varieties; congenital hernia, infantile hernia. Internal hernia comes be- hind exter- nal ring. versalis, the subperitoneal fat, and the peritoneum or sac. These different laminae become much thickened in a hernia ■ that has existed for some time. Should a piece of intestine remain in the inguinal canal, the layers investing it will depend upon the spot to which it has extended. Seat of stricture.—The protruded intestine may be con- stricted firstly at the internal abdominal ring by fibrous bands outside, or by a thickening inside the neck of the sac ; secondly in the inguinal canal by the fleshy internal oblique muscle; and thirdly at the external abdominal ring. The stricture is placed usually at one of the abdominal rings, though most commonly at the inner. Supposing the stric- ture to be inside the neck of the sac, so as to render necessary the opening of the sac and the division of the strictured part from within, the incision should be made directly upwards. Whilst eff'orts are being made to force back a piece of protrude intestine during life, the direction of the canal and the situation of the internal abdominal ring should be borne in mind. Other designations,—This kind of hernia has other names applied to it sometimes by surgeons, according as it has passed certain points in the wall of the abdomen. If the protrusion remains in the inguinal canal, the term bubonocele is applied to the swelling ; but if it has extended into the scrotum, the appellation scrotal rupture, or oscheocele, is given to it. Varieties of the external hernia.—There are two varieties of the oblique inguinal hernia, which are distinguished by the condition of the peritoneal covering. a. Congenital hernia.—If the piece of the peritoneum, which accompanies the testicle from the abdomen in the fetus, remains unobliterated, and the intestine descends in it without protruding any fresh piece of the serous membrane, the hernia is called congenital. b. Infantile hernia.—Should the prolongation of the peri- toneum be only partly obliterated, say in the inguinal canal, so that the descending intestine, invested by a separate peri- toneal covering, projects into or behind the unobliterated sac, like a viscus into a serous membrane, the hernia is named infantile. The Internal or Direct Inguinal Hernia escapes on the inner side of the epigastric artery, and has a straight course through the abdominal parietes and the external abdominal