DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGIOK 98 is between pteiygoid muscles. then in the jaw. and supplies also branch to mylo- hyoideus. Dental branches to grinding and cutting teeth. Branch to lower lip. Dental artery has an incisor and labial branch. Gustatory nerve courses to the tongue; directed to the canal in the lower jaw. At first the nerve lies beneath the external pterygoid muscle, where it is external in position to the gustatory ; and it is afterwards placed on the internal pterygoid, near the dental foramen, and on the internal lateral ligament. After the nerve enters the bone, it is continued forwards beneath the teeth to the foramen in the side of the jaw, and ends at that spot by dividing into an incisor, and a labial branch. Only one other muscular branch (mylo-hyoid) is supplied by the dental nerve. Its branches are :— a. The mylo-hyoid hrancJi arises from the trunk of the nerve as this is about to enter its foramen, and is continued along a groove on the inner aspect of the ramus of the jaw, to the cutaneous surface of the mylo-hyoideus and the anterior belly of the digastric muscle. h. The dental branches arise in the bone and supply the molar and bicuspid teeth. If the bone is soft, the canal containing the nerve and artery may be laid open so as to expose these branches. c. The incisor branch continues the trunk of the nerve onwards to the middle line, and furnishes offsets to the canine and incisor teeth, beneath which it lies. d. The labial branch (mental ?) issues on the face beneath the depressor of the angle of the mouth. At first it com- municates with the facial nerve, and gives branches to the muscle covering it, as well as to the orbicularis and the integuments. But the greater part of the nerve is directed upwards beneath the depressor labii inferioris, and is distributed on the inner and outer surfaces of the lower lip. The inferior dental artery, after entering the lower jaw with the nerve, has a similar course and distribution. Thus it supplies dental branches to the molar and bicuspid teeth, and ends anteriorly in an incisor and a labial branch. The incisor branch is continued to the symphysis of the jaw, beneath the canine and incisor teeth which it supplies, and anastomoses with the artery of the opposite side. The labial branch, after it has left the bone, ramifies in the structures covering the lower jaw, and communicates with the branches of the facial artery. The GUSTATORY or LINGUAL NERVE is the remaining trunk of the inferior maxillary, and is concealed at first, like the others, by the external pterygoid muscle. It is then inclined inwards over the internal pterygoid muscle, and under cover of the side of the jaw to the tongue. The remainder of