BRACHIALIS ANTICUS. 297 then directed obliquely to the outer side of the limb be- tween the biceps and brachialis anticus muscles. ]^ear the elbow it has been seen to become a cutaneous nerve of the forearm (fig. 43, Branches.—The nerve furnishes branches to the muscles its muscular in front of the humerus, viz. to the coraco-brachialis as it passes through the fibres, and to the biceps and brachialis anticus muscles where it lies between them. Before perfo- rating the coraco-brachialis the nerve gives usually a separate twig to that mascle and the short head of the biceps ; and sometimes there is a large branch of communication with the median nerve after it has pierced the muscle. Dissection.—The brachialis anticus muscle will be brought Dissection, into view by cutting through the tendon of the biceps near the elbow, and turning upwards the muscle. The fascia and areolar tissue should be taken from the surface ; and the lateral extent of the muscle should be defined, so as to show that the brachialis reaches the intermuscular septum largely on the inner side, but only for a short distance above, on the outer side. The BRACHIi^LIS ANTICUS COVCrS the elbow joint, and the Brachialis lower half of the front of the humerus. It arises from the anterior surface of the humerus below the insertion of Origin, the deltoid muscle ; and from the intermuscular septa on the sides, though in very unequal proportions, viz. from all the inner, but from only the upper part of the outer one. insertion. The fleshy fibres converge to a tendon, which is inserted into the impression on the ulna before the coronoid process. This muscle is concealed by the biceps. On it are the Connec- brachial artery, with the median, and musculo-cutaneous and *^°^^* musculo-spiral nerves. It lies on the humerus and the arti- culation of the elbow. Its origin embraces by two parts the Position attachment of the deltoid, and its insertion is placed between elbow joint, two corresponding fleshy pieces of the flexor profundus digitorum. The inner border touches the intermuscular septum in all its length ; but the outer border is in contact with the external intermuscular septum only about one inch and a half above, and is separated from it lower down by two muscles of the forearm (supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior), which extend upwards on the humerus. The tendon of insertion will be seen in the dissection of the forearm. BACK or THE ARM. Position.—During the examination of the back of the Position of the part.