772 DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. and interos- transverse fibres between the contigTious rough lateral sur- ments/°^' faces, and they maybe afterwards seen by forcibly separating the bones. Lateral Lateral union.—The four outer bones touch one another union, laterally, and the second lies against the internal cuneiform. The surfaces in contact are covered with cartilage ; and the joints are provided with synovial membrane, which is derived Synovial from the sacs serving for the articulation of those metatarsal with the tarsal bones. Articulation The metatarsal bone of the great toe, like that of the thumb, of great toe. united to the others by any intervening bands : it has its own joint with the internal cuneiform bone. Anterior The digital ends of all the metatarsal bones are further -igamen . -^jj^ji^g^j i^y transverse metatarsal ligament; this has been described in page 745. Articulation AUTICULATIONS OF THE TARSAL AND METATARSAL BONES. of the tarsus —rp-j^^ ^^^j^ ^-^q tarsus articulates with the metatarsus, and. meta- ... tarsus. the three cuneiform touching the three inner metatarsal, and the OS cuboides carrying the outer two metatarsal bones. The bones are tipped with cartilage where they are in con- tact, and have longitudinal and oblique dorsal, plantar, and lateral ligaments. Dorsal liga- The dorsal ligaments (fig. 116) are thin bands of fibres, which are either longitudinal or oblique as they extend from the tarsal to the metatarsal bones. Each metatarsal bone receives one ligament, except that of the second toe, to which there are three :—the first has its band from the inner cunei- form bone; the three fasciculi to the second come from all the cuneiform bones, one from each ; the third bone has a ligament from the external cuneiform; and the fourth and fifth have a fasciculus to each from the os cuboides. Plantar are Flantar ligaments.—There is one longitudinal hand from a°nd oMque ^^^^ Cuneiform to its corresponding metatarsal bone ; but between the cuboid and its metatarsal bones there are only some scattered fibres. Oblique plantar ligaments.—A fasciculus of fibres extends from the front of the internal cuneiform to the second and third metatarsal bones; and from the external cuneiform there is a band to the metatarsal bone of the little toe. Lateral liga- The lateral ligaments are longitudinal ; they lie deeply ments. between the bones, and are connected with the second and third metatarsal: they will be better seen by partly cutting the transverse bands joining the bases of the bones. To the bone of the second toe there are two, one on each side ;—the inner is strong and attached to the internal cuneiform, and rnents.