ITEKYES OF THE ARM. 295 at its upper part, like the main vessel in the lower limb. And tlie terminal bifurcation of the vessel may be short of the ordinary spot, or beyond it:—the former condition is much the most frequent; for only in one instance did Mr. Quain find the vessel carried farther into the limb before it bifurcated, and in that example the point of division was "between two and three inches " beyond the elbow joint. The origin of the arteries of the forearm.—The arteries of the fore- In origin of arm, viz. radial, ulnar, and interosseous, may be carried backwards, ^igg^of^foj^'. along the parent trunk, to any point between the axilla and the arm. common origin at the elbow ; but the unusual origin from the humeral trunk is most common in the upper third, and least fre- quent in the middle third of that vessel where a ligature may be applied. When one of the vessels referred to deviates thus from the ordinary condition, there would be two large arteries in the arm in the place of one. Commonly the two lie close together ; though sometimes one of them, viz. the trunk that is to supply the front of the forearm and the palm of the hand, will lie close to the inter- muscular septum, with the median nerve, like the trunk of the brachial artery. In some few cases the brachial artery has been observed to Unusual divide into three (radial, ulnar, and interosseous) at some little branching, distance above the elbow, so that three trunks would be present in the lower part of the arm. In one body the three arteries of the forearm sprang from the end of the brachial below the elbow, in the same way as the three arteries of the leg come occasionally from the end of the popliteal trunk. Alerrant tranches.—Occasional long slender vessels, " vasa aber- in aberrant rantia," connect the brachial or the axillary trunk with one of the branches, arteries of the forearm or with a branch of these. The accessory vessels very rarely end in the ulnar artery. Muscular covering.—In some bodies the humeral artery is covered 1^ muscular by an additional slip of origin of the biceps, or of the brachialis anticus muscle. And sometimes a slip of the brachialis may con- ceal, in cases of high origin of the radial, the remainder of the arterial trunk that continues to the forearm. Nerves of the Ahm.—The nerves on the front of the^^erveson arm are derived from the terminal cords of the brachial arm. plexus. Few of them furnish offsets to the arm, but they are continued, for the most part without branching, to the forearm and the hand. The cutaneous branches of some of them have been referred to (p. 288). The median nerve (fig. 44) arises from the brachial plexus Median by two roots, one from the outer, and the other from the arm^is^witii inner cord (p. 270). Its destination is the palm of the hand, artery; and it accompanies the brachial artery to the forearm. Commencing on the outer side of the artery, the nerve crosses over or under the vessel about the middle of the arm as before said (p. 293), and is found on the inner side a little above the elbow. It does not give any branch in the bas not any arm, but there may be a fasciculus connecting it with the ^j^e arm.