DISSECTIOllT OF THE AEM. -300 Musculo- spiral nerve ■winds be- hind hume- to outer side of tlie arm. Branches. Internal cutaneous branch. Branches to the triceps, brachialis and muscles of forearm. Two exter- nal cuta- neous. Subancon- neal sHp. Attach- ments. profunda and anastomotic (p. 294), as well as with the re- current branches of the arteries of the forearm. One offset deserves especial notice ; it accompanies a distinct branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, and ends in the anconeus muscle in the interval between the olecranon and the outer condyle of the humerus. The musculo-spiral nerve arises from the posterior cord of the brachial plexus, of which it is the largest trunk, and is continued along the back and outer part of the limb to the hand. In the arm the nerve is placed first behind, and close to the axillary and brachial arteries ; but it soon leaves the last vessel, and winds with the profunda artery beneath the triceps muscle from the inner to the outer part of the arm. At the outer aspect of the limb it is continued between the brachialis anticus and supinator longus muscles to the external condyle of the humerus, in front of which it divides into the radial and posterior interosseous nerves. In this extent the nerve gives muscular branches, and cutaneous offsets to both the inner and outer parts of the arm. a. The internal cutaneous branch of the arm (fig. 42, ^) is of small size, and arises in the axillary space in common with the branch to the inner head of the triceps ; it is directed across the posterior boundary of the axilla to the inner side of the arm, where it becomes cuta^neous in the upper third, and is distributed as before said (p. 289). b. The muscular branches to the triceps are numerous and supply all the three heads. One slender offset, which is distributed to the inner head, arises in common with the preceding cutaneous branch, and lies close to the ulnar nerve till it enters the muscular fibres at the lower third of the arm. Another long and slender branch behind the humerus appearing as if it ended in the triceps, can be followed downwards to the anconeus muscle. On the outer part of the limb the musculo-spiral nerve supplies the brachialis anticus, and two muscles of the forearm, viz. supinator longu and extensor carpi radialis iongior. c. The external cutaneous branches are two in number they perforate the outer head of the triceps at its attach- ment to the humerus, and are distributed in the integument of the arm and forearm (p. 288). Suhanconeus muscle.—This is a thin fleshy stratum beneath the triceps near the elbow, which may be seen by cutting through that muscle at the lower part. It consists of two fasciculi, inner and outer : these are attached above the fossa for the olecranon, and end in the synovial sac of the joint