587 THE ABDOMmAL AOETA. the large azygos vein pierces the right pillar instead of passing with the aorta. Dissection.—After the diaphragm has been learnt, the Takeaway ribs that support it on each side may be cut through, and ^^^^^^^^ ^^^^ the pieces of the ribs together with the fore part of the diaphragm, diaphragm may be taken away to make easier the dissection of the deeper vessels and muscles. But the posterior part of the diaphragm, with the pillars and arches, should be left, and its vessels should be traced back to their origin. The large vessels of the abdomen, viz., the aorta and the clean aorta, vena cava, are to be cleaned by removing the fat, with the ^rauches^ remains of the sympathetic and the lymphatic glands ; and their branches are to be followed to the diaphragm, to the kidney and the suprarenal body, to the testicle, and to the lumbar vertebrae and the spinal cord. In like manner the large iliac branches of the aorta and cava are to be laid bare as far as Poupart's ligament. The ureter and the spermatic vessels are to be cleaned as they cross the iliac artery ; and on the artery branches of a small nerve (genito-crural) are to be sought near the thigh. The psoas, quadratus, and iliacus muscles are to be dis- Dissect sected on the right side ; but on the left side the fascia 1^®°^^' covering the muscles is to be shown, and the fat is to be cleared away from about the kidney. The psoas muscle is Nerves o^; the most internal, and lies on the side of the spine : on its ^^^^J surface, and in the fat external to it, branches of the lumbar plexus will be found :—The genito-crural nerve lies on the front; and four other nerves issue at the outer border—the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal near the top, the external cutaneous about the centre, and the large anterior crural at the lower part. Along the inner border of the psoas the gangliated cord of the sympathetic is to be sought with a chain of lumbar lymphatic glands ; and somewhat below the pelvic part of the muscle, the obturator nerve may be re- cognised. External to the psoas is the quadratus lumborum Dissect muscle, and crossing it near the last rib is the last dorsal Smbonim nerve, with an artery. In the hollow of the hip-bone is the and iliacus. iliacus muscle. The ABDOMiN-AL AOETA extends from the last dorsal ver- Extent of tebra to the left side of the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, where it divides into the common iliac arteries. Its commencement is between the pillars of the diaphragm, and its termination is nearly on a level with the highest part of the crest of the hip bone. The connections of the Connections.