intesyes of beachial plexus. 271 The inner cord produces a second anterior thoracic nerve, inner, and the inner head of the median, the internal cutaneous, the nerve of Wrisberg, and the ulnar nerve. The posterior cord furnishes the subscapular branches, posterior and ends in the circumflex and musculo-spiral nerves. gox± Only the thoracic a.nd subscapular nerves are dissected The follow- to their termination at present; the remaining nerves will viz.f^^ be seen in the arm. The anterior thoracic branches are two in number, — *J9 an- outer and inner with respect to the cords of the plexus. racic, a. The outer nerve crosses inwards over the axillary outer artery, to the under surface of the great pectoral muscle in which it ends. On the inner side of the vessel it com- municates v/ith the following branch. h. The inner thoracic branch turns upwards between the and inner, artery and vein, and after receiving the offset from the other, ends in many branches to the under surface of the pectoralis minor. Some twigs enter the great pectoral muscle, after passing either through the pectoralis minor or above its border. The subscapular nerves are three in number. Two enter Three sub- the subscapular muscle, and are named upper and lower ^^^P^^'"^^* from their relative position ; and the third is the long sub- scapular. a. The upper branch is the smallest, and enters the upper, highest part of the subscapularis muscle. 6. The loiver subscapular branch (nerve of the teres lower, and muscle) gives an offset to the inferior part of the subscapular muscle, and ends in the teres major. c. The long subscapidar nerve takes the course of the long sub- artery (subscapular) along the posterior wall of the axilla, and ends in the latissimus dorsi muscle. Another small nerve, nerve to the serratus^ (posterior tho- Posterior racic, external respiratory. Bell), is seen on the surface of the serratus muscle. It arises above the clavicle (p. 78), from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves ;—to reach its des- tination, it descends behind the axillary artery, and enters that surface of the serratus magnus muscle which is to- wards the axilla. The LATISSIMUS DOESi MUSCLE may be examined as far as Latissimus it enters into the posterior fold of the axilla. Arising from of the ° the spine and the back of the trunk, and crossing the lower ^^cilla. angle of the scax^ula, the muscle ascends to be inserted by a tendon into the bottom of the bicipital groove. At its attach- ment to the bone, the tendon is from one inch and a half