MUSCLES m FRONT OF THE THIGH. 691 from the anterior inferior iliac spinous process ; the other which is (to be afterwards seen) is fixed into a depression on the back ' of the hip bone, close above the brim of the acetabulum. Fleshy fibres succeed to tendon ; and they end inferiorly and an in- in another tendon which joins the tendinous parts of the the^head^of muscles beneath, and is inserted with them into the head of the tibia, the tibia. The rectus is larger at the middle than at the ends ; and The muscle its fibres are directed from the centre to the sides, as in a for^n^and quill, and give rise to that condition called penniform. It g^^^^^^^^^' is subcutaneous, except above where it is overlaid by the above, sartorius. It conceals branches of the external circumflex artery and anterior crural nerve, and rests on the mus- cular mass of the vastus and crureus. The upper tendon of the muscle reaches farthest on the anterior surface where the sartorius touches, whilst the lower tendon is most extensive on the posterior aspect, or towards the subjacent muscles. Dissection. —To see the remaining muscles, cut across the Cut the rectus near the lower end, and raise it wdthout injuring the branches of vessels and nerves beneath. The muscular mass on the front, of the femur is to be divided into two along the situation of some descending vessels and nerves. The part external to the vessels is the vastus externus, and arid sepa- the larger mass, internal to them, is composed of the con- parts of the joined vastus internus and crureus. If the student wishes extensor, to make two of the last-mentioned muscle, he may carry the scalpel through the fibres in a line with the inner border of the patella. The VASTUS EXTEHNUS is one of the parts of the strong Vastus ex- extensor muscle of the leg, and its attachment to the femur is very narrow in comparison with its size and thickness. It has a lengthened origin externally, which is from a quarter is thin at to half an inch thick for the most part. Thus, beginning origin \ above, it arises from the root of the neck of the femur, and from the fore part and outer surface of the root of the great trochanter ; from the line connecting the trochanter with the linea aspera, as well as from the outer margin of the linea aspera, and from two-thirds of the line to the outer condyle ; and, lastly, from the external intermuscular septum. Infe- riorly the fibres of the muscle end in an aponeurosis ; and this blends with the tendons of the rectus and vastus internus to form a common tendon. The muscle is pointed at the upper part, but enlarged \^'^J^^^ below where it produces the prominence on the outer side of low, at its the thigh. Its cutaneous surface is aponeurotic above, and insertion.