CAVITY OF LEFT AURICLE. S69 semil-uiiar or sigmoid valves. Each valve is attached to the side of the vessel by its convex border, and is free in the cavity by the opposite border, in which there is a slightly thickened and projecting nodule that has been named the corpus Arantii. The semilunar valves resemble in structure the tricuspid, structure of for they are formed of fibrous tissue with a covering of the lining membrane. In the valves the fibrous tissue has a special arrangement :—There is one band along the attached Arrauge- margin ; a second along the free margin, which is connected fibrous^ with the projecting nodule ; and a third set of fibres is tissue, directed from the nodule across the valve, so as to leave a semilunar interval almost free from fibres near the free edge, which has been named lunula. The use of these little valves is obvious, viz. to give free Their use. passage to fluid in one direction, and to prevent its return by closing the area of the vessel. Whilst the blood is entering the artery the valves are placed against the wall ; but when the vessel acts on the contained blood the valves are thrown towards the centre of the cavity, and arrest the return of the circulating fluid into the ventricle. Dissection.—To open the cavity of the left auricle the To open left apex of the heart is to be raised, and a cut is to be made across the posterior surface of the auricle from the right to the left pulmonary veins. Another incision should be made in the auricula at right angles to the first. The apex of the heart must necessarily be raised during the examination of the auricle. The CAVITY OF THE LEFT AURICLE (fig. 55) is Smaller than Shape of that of the right side.^" Irregularly conical in shape, the auricle?^ ^^^^ wider part is turned towards the spinal column, and receives the pulmonary veins ; and the narrowed part opens inferiorly into the left ventricle. On the left side towards the upper part, is the aperture of on anterior the pouch of the auricula, which is narrower than on the ^/^^.^^^i^^ right side. In the interior of the pouch, as well as around the entrance, are the fleshy fibres or the musculi pectinati, which resemble those before seen in the other auricle. On the part of the wall corresponding with the septum On septum, auricularum, is a superficial fossa of a semilunar form foramen (fig. 65 e), the remains of the oval aperture through that ovale, partition ; this is bounded below by a projecting ridge, con- * The division of the cavity into auricle and sinus venosns may "be made on this as on the other side.