381 VEINS OF THE HEART. reach the inner margin of the first rib of the right side, when it is Its position, last on the arch (most to the left), the artery is directed between the oesophagus and the vertebral column; or it may be, as in one instance, between the trachea and the oesophagus. The right sub- clavian may be also connected w^ith a pouch,—the previous part of the ductus arteriosus, in the same way as the left subclavian. (See the work of Mr. Quain, "The Arteries," &c., p. 159). |l Veins of the Heakt.—These are, as before said, the Veins of the superior and the inferior cava, and the pulmonary veins : the former are the great systemic veins w^hich return impure blood to the right auricle ; and the latter convey pure blood from the lungs into the left auricle. The SUPERIOR or descending cava is formed by the union superior of the right and left innominate veins, and brings to the ' heart the blood of the head, neck, upper limbs, and thorax. ^ Its origin is on the right side of the sternum, opposite by inno- the interval between the cartilasres of the first two ribs. ^V^'^te From that spot the large A^ein descends to the pericardium, perforates the fibrous layer of that bag about one inch and a half above the heart, and ends in the right auricle. On its ends m outer surface the vein is covered by the pleura of the right side, and the phrenic nerve is in contact with it. To the inner side is the ascending part of the arch of the aorta. Behind the vein is the root of the right lung. When the cava is about to perforate the pericardium it is Its joined by the large azygos vein of the thorax ; and higher up it receives small veins from the pericardium, and the parts in the mediastinal space. The innominate veins are united inferiorly in the trunk of Innominate the descending cava. They are two in number, right and Jg-htancl left; and each is formed behind the inner end of the clavicle, left, by the union of the subclavian and internal jugular veins of How the same side of the neck. The trunks difi*er in length and direction, and in their connections with the surrounding parts. The right vein is about one inch and a half long, and P^^^^^' descends vertically, on the right side of the innominate half long; artery, to its junction with the vein of the opposite side. On the outer surface the pleura covers it, and along it the phrenic nerve is placed. The left vein is twice as long as the right, and is directed left, twice obliquely downwards above the level of the arch of the oblique in aorta, to join with its fellow in the superior cava. Between direction, its origin and termination the vein crosses behind the sternum, and the remains of the thymus gland ; and it lies