DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN". 488 Triangular ligament. Dissection to expose internal oblique. Clean the cremaster. Parts covered by external oblique. Internal obliqiie muscle. Origin from pelvis. Insertion into the ribs and linea alba. the subjacent iliac fascia : along the line of union of the two, the other lateral muscles of the abdominal wall are attached. Its inner half is placed over the vessels passing from the abdomen to the thigh, and beneath the spermatic cord. Triangular ligament (fig. 74).—From the insertion of Poupart's ligament into the pectineal line, some fibres are directed upwards and inwards beneath the inner pillar of the ring to the linea alba, where they blend with the other tendons. As the fibres ascend, they diverge and form a thin band, to which the name triangular ligament has been applied. Dissection. —The remnant of the upper part of the external oblique is now to be taken away, on both sides of the body, to see the parts underneath. The muscle may be detached by carrying the scalpel through the digitations on the ribs back to the free border, and then through the attachment to the crista ilii. It may be thrown forwards as far as practicable, after the nerves that cross the iliac crest are dissected out ; but in raising it care must be taken not to detach the rectus muscle from the ribs above, nor to cut through the tendon of the internal oblique above. By the removal of the fatty tissue the underlying internal oblique muscle, with some nerves on its surface below, will be prepared. At the lower border of the internal oblique the cremaster muscle is to be dissected out on the cord. Farts covered by external oblique.—Beneath the external, is the internal oblique muscle, with the ribs and the inter- costal muscles. At the lower part of the abdomen the external muscle conceals the cord, and the branches of nerves of the lumbar plexus in the abdominal wall. The aponeurosis of the external obliqae is placed in front of the sheath of the rectus. The INTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE (fig. 72, ^'^) is fleshy below and aponeurotic above, just the reverse of the preceding muscle ; and its fibres (except the lowest) ascend across the direction of those of the external oblique. The muscle arises along the outer half of Poupart's ligament ; along the anterior two thirds of the crest of the hip bone ; and from the tendon of the transversalis muscle (fascia lumborum) in the interval between that bone and the last rib. The fibres diverge on the abdom( n to their destination:—The posterior fleshy fibres ascend to be inserted into the cartilages of the lower three ribs, and join the internal intercostal muscles of the lowest two spacf;s. The anterior or lower fibres arch