311 RADIAL ARTERY AND BRANCHES. viz. flexor poUicis longus and pronator quadratus, and lastly on the end of the radius. The usual vense comites are found on the sides of the Veins and artery. The radial nerve is on the outer side of, though it/^^ ^ not in contact with the vessel, in the upper two thirds of the forearm, or until it passes backwards beneath the tendon of the supinator longus and becomes cutaneous. Branches.—The radial artery fiu-nishes many unnamed ^J^^^'^^, muscular and nutrient branches to the surrounding parts ; cuiar and and three named branches, viz. recurrent radial, superficial ^q^Ic^' volar, and anterior carpal. 1. The radial recurrent is the first branch of the artery, Radial re- and supplies the muscles of the outer side of the limb. Its course is almost transverse to the supinator longus muscle, beneath which it terminates in muscular ramifications. One offset ascends beneath the supinator, and anastomoses with the superior profunda branch of the brachial artery. 2. The superficial volar branch arises usually near the Superficial lower end of the radius, but its exact place of origin is uncertain. It is directed towards the palm of the hand, across or through the mass of muscles in the ball of the thumb, and it either ends in those muscles, or joins the superficial palmar arch. 3 The anterior carpal branch is very inconsiderable in Anterior size, and will be seen in the examination of the deep layer ^^^p^^- of muscles. Arising rather above the lower end of the radius, it passes transversely beneath the muscles, and anas- tomoses with a similar branch from the ulnar artery: from the arch thus formed at the lower border of the pronator quad- ratus muscle, ofi'sets are given to the carpus. Peculiarities of the radial artery.—The origin of the radial artery Variations may be carried upwards in the arm from the usual place even to in the the axilla. This vessel arises from the humeral much more fre- quently than the other arteries of the forearm, viz. in the propor- tion in a given number of cases of about three to four. In one instance (Quain), it was noticed betv/een two and three inches below the elbow joint, and in that case a vas aberrans connected it with the axillary artery. When the radial artery has a high origin, its course in the arm is and course close to the brachial artery, along the edge of the biceps muscle ; and in passing the bend of the elbow it may be occasionally sub- cutaneous, viz. above the deep fascia, and be liable to injury in venesection. In the forearm it may be likewise subcutaneous, and superficial to the supinator longus muscle. The aberrant arteries, "vasa aberrantia," or the long slender Aberrant branches of the axillary or brachial trunk open commonly into arteries, the radial artery. In some cases of high origin of the radial, there