530 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEIS". Some plexuses of the sympa- thetic to the viscera. Dissection. Aortic plexus. Hypogastric plexus. Superior mesenteric plexus Its secondary plexuses. Aortic plexus is derived from solar plexus. This plexus is best marked on sides of aoita. Sympathetic Nerve.—The plexuses of tlie sjmipatlietic, which are derived from the solar plexus beneath the stomach, viz., superior mesenteric, aortic, spermatic, inferior mesen- teric, and hypogastric, are to be seen with the vessels. The remaining portion of the sympathetic nerve in the abdomen will be subsequently referred to. Dissection.—On the two mesenteric arteries the dissector will have made out already the plexuses of nerves distributed to the intestinal tube beyond the duodenum. He has now to trace on the aorta itself the connecting nerves between the mesenteric plexuses. By taking the peritoneum from the aorta between the mesenteric vessels, the aortic plexus will appear. From the upper part of this plexus an offset is to be followed along the spermatic artery ; this may be done, on the left side, where the vessel is partly laid bare. By removing the serous membrane from the front of the sacrum, and following downwards, over the iliac arteries, the nerves from the aortic plexus and the lumbar ganglia, the dissector will arrive at the hypogastric plexus of the pelvis opposite the top of the sacrum. The superior mesenteric plexus is a large offset on the mesenteric artery and its branches, and is distributed to the same extent of the intestinal tube as the vessel. The nerves surround closely the artery with a sheath, and are covered at first by the pancreas. In the mesentery near the intestine some of the nerves leave the arteries, and divide and communicate with others before entering the gut. Branches.—The secondary plexuses are the same as the offsets of the artery, viz., intestinal nerves to the small in- testine ; and an ileo-colic, a right colic, and a middle coHc plexus to the large intestine. The aortic plexus is the network of nerves covering the aorta below the superior mesenteric artery. Superiorly it is continuous with the solar plexus ; and inferiorly it ends on each side in branches, which cross the common iliac artery, and enter the hypogastric plexus of the pelvis. From it offsets are furnished to the two visceral branches of the aorta below the renal and superior mesenteric trunks, viz., to the spermatic and inferior mesenteric arteries. The aortic plexus is stronger on the sides than on the front of the aorta, in consequence of its receiving accessory ; branches from the lumbar ganglia, especially the left. At the upper part the plexus seems to be derived from an offset,