768 DISSECTIOlSr OF THE LEG. Synovial sac. Articula- tions of the tarsus. Dissection for the joints of the tarsus. Astragalus with OS calcis by- external, and interosseous ligament. Articular surfaces and synovial membranes. Astragalus with scaphoid bone. Dorsal liga- ment. Synovial membrane. The synovial membrane of the joint lines the capsule, and sends a process upwards for a very short distance between the tibia and fibula. Articulations of the astragalus and os calcis.— These two chief bones of the tarsus are united to one another, as well as to the bones in front of them, by separate articu- lations. Dissection.—All the joints of the foot will be demonstrated by removing from both the dorsum and the sole the parts that have been already examined, and then cleaning the ligaments. Between the different tarsal bones bands of ligament extend, which will be defined by removing the areolar tissue from the intervals between them (fig. 116). The ASTRAGALUS WITH THE OS CALCTS.—These bones are kept together by a strong interosseous ligament ; and there is also a thin band on both the outer side and behind. The posterior ligament consists of a few fibres between the bones, where they are grooved by the tendon of the flexor pollicis ; and the external ligament is connected to the sides of the astragalus and os calcis, near the middle piece of the external lateral ligament of the ankle joint. The interosseous ligament consists of strong vertical and oblique fibres, which are attached above and below to the depressions on the contiguous surfaces of the two bones. This band extends across the bones, and its depth is greatest at the outer side. When the astragalus is removed subsequently, articular surfaces with synovial sacs will be seen between the bones. There are articular surfaces where the bones touch, viz. one behind the interosseous ligament, and one or two in front of it. Two synovial membranes exist between the bones, one for each articulation ; and the one in front of the inter- osseous ligament is continued between the head of the astra- galus and the scaphoid bone. The ASTRAGALUS WITH THE SCAPHOID BONE.—The large head of the astragalus is received into the hollow of the scaphoid bone, and is united to it only by a dorsal ligament; for the place of plantar and lateral ligaments is suj^plied by strong bands between the os calcis and the scaphoid bone, which will be noticed below. The dorsal or astragalo-scaphoid ligament (fig. 116) is attached to the astragalus close to the articulation, and to the dorsal surface of the scaphoid bone : its attachments will be better seen when it is cut through. The synovial membrane of the joint is the same as that for the articu-