101 THE HYO-GLOSSTJS MUSCLE. to the septum of the nose; the scalpel should be then passed from below upwards between the sawn surfaces of the jaw, for the purpose of dividing a strong band of the mucous membrane of the mouth ; and it should be carried onwards along the middle line of the tongue to the tip. After these directions have been followed the loose piece of the jaw can be easily turned upwards ; and it is to be fastened in that position with thread. By means of a hook the os hyoides may be drawn down, and nerves, and the muscular fibres made tense. All the fat and areolar tissue are to be removed, and in doing this the student is to take care of the Whartonian duct; of the hypoglossal nerve and its branches that lie on the hyo-glossus muscle ; also of the gustatory nerve, nearer the jaw, with its small ganglion close to the submaxillary gland. The student should endeavour to follow the small chorda tympani nerve, which is applied to the trunk of the gustatory, onwards to the tongue, and to define the offset from it to the submaxillary ganglion. The ranine vessels, and the gustatory and hypo- glossal nerves are then to be found on the under part of the tongue, and to be followed to the tip. Parts beneath mylo-hyoideus.—The following is the posi- Parts be- tion of the objects brought into view by the steps of the {Jy^^^ previous dissection. Extending from the cornu of the hyoid bone to the side of the tongue is the hyo-glossus muscle, whose fibres are crossed superiorly by those of the stylo- glossus. On the hyo-glossus are placed, from below up- on side of wards, the hypoglossal nerve, the Whartonian duct, and the gustatory nerve, the latter crossing the duct ; and near the inner border of that muscle the two nerves are united by branches. Beneath the same muscle is the lingual artery with its vein. Above the hyo-glossus is the mucous mem- brane of the mouth, with the sublingual gland attached to it in front, and some fibres of the superior constrictor muscle covering it behind near the jaw. Between the chin and the os hyoides, along the middle and along line, is the genio-hyoid muscle ; and larger and deeper than ^^^^^^ this is a fan-shaped muscle, the genio-hyo-glossus. Along the outer side of the last muscle lie the ranine vessels ; and a sublingual branch for the gland of the same name springs from the lingual artery at the inner border of the hyo- glossus. On the under surface of the tongue, near the margin, lies the gustatory nerve ; and in the fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus is the hypoglossal nerve. The HYO-GLOSSUS MUSCLE is thin and somewhat square in Hyo-glossus