697 ADDUCTOR MUSCLES. over the internal lateral ligament ; an expansion is continued from it to the fascia of the leg, as in the tendon of the sar- torius. A bursa separates it from the ligament of the joint, and projects above it to the sartorius tendon. The PEOTiNEUS (fig. 103, ^) is the highest of the muscles Pectineus. directed from the pelvis to the inner side of the femur. It has a fleshy origin from the ilio-pectineal line of the hip bone, Origin from and from the triangular smooth surface in front of that line ; P^^^®^' and it is inserted inferiorly by a tendon, about two inches in inserted width, into the femur behind the small trochanter, and into ^^^^ femur, the upper part of the line which extends from that process to the linea aspera. The muscle is twisted, so that the surfaces which are Muscle is directed forwards and backwards near the pelvis are turned inwards and outwards at the femur. One surface is in con- Siirfaces. tact with the fascia lata ; and the opposite touches the obturator muscle and nerve, and the adductor brevis. The pectineus lies between the psoas and the adductor longus ; Parts on the and the internal circumflex vessels pass between its outer border and the former muscle. The ADDUCTOR LONGUS lies below the pectineus (fig. 103,^^), ^^^JJ^^g^ and is triangular in form, with the apex at the pelvis and tends from the base at the femur. It arises by a narrow tendon from P'^^^^s ^ temur. the front of the pubes near the angle of union of the crest and the symphysis ; and it is inserted into the inner margin of the linea aspera. This muscle is situate between the gracilis and the pecti- its connec- neus, and forms part of the inner boundary of the triangular muscles and space containing the femoral vessels. Its anterior surface is "vessels, covered near the femur by the femoral vessels and the sar- torius. The posterior rests on the other two adductors, on part of the obturator nerve, and on the deep femoral artery. Aponeurotic bands connect the tendon of the muscle at its insertion with the tendons of the adductor magnus and vas- tus internus. Disseetion,—^omQ of the deeper muscles, with the obtu- dissection rat or nerve and the profunda vessels, will be arrived at by reflecting the two last muscles. On cutting through the pectineus near the pubes, and accessory throwing it down, the dissector may find occasionally the small accessory nerve of the obturator which turns beneath the outer border ; if this is present, its branches to the hip joint and the obturator nerve are to be traced out. The adductor longus is then to be divided near its origin, and raised with care, so as not to destroy the branches of the