356 DISSECTION OF THE THOKAX. apex, with two borders and two surfaces ; it is divided also into lobes by fissures, and has a root formed out of the vessels and nerves entering its inner surface. Base The base of the lung is hollowed, and fits on the convexity phragm. " of the diaphragm ; but at its circumference is a thinned part, which projects into the narrow space between the Shape and muscle and the thoracic wall. Following the shape of that level. muscle, it is sloped obliquely from before backwards, and reaches in consequence much lower at the posterior than at the anterior edge. Its position with respect to the wall of the thorax may be ascertained externally by taking the level of the diaphragm as a guide (p. 352) ; and it must be remembered that the lung will be a rib's breadth lower in tiie^necfk ^ front on the left, than on the right side. The apex is rounded, and projects an inch to an inch and a half above the first rib, where it lies beneath the clavicle, the anterior scalenus muscle, and the subclavian artery, ^d^e isThiu "^^^ anterior edge or border is thin, and overlays in part pj^.^. ' the pericardium. On the right side it lies along the middle right of the sternum as low as the sixth costal cartilage. On the and left left side it reaches its fellow, only pleura being between, as low as the fourth costal cartilage ; but below that spot it presents a Y-shaped notch, whose apex is opposite the outer part of the cartilage of the fifth rib, and whose base is turned to the middle line. Two fissures are seen in this border of the right lung, but only one in that of the left lung. The Posterior posterior border is as long again as the anterior, and projects thick. inferiorly between the lower ribs and the diaphragm ; it is thick and vertical, and is received into the hollow by the side of the spinal column, ^^ternal On the outer aspect the lung is convex, and is in contact with the wall of the thorax. A large cleft divides this surface into two pieces (lobes of the lung), and on the right Internal side there is a second smaller fissure. The inner surface is surface flat when compared with the outer, and is marked by the following inequalities :—Altogether in front, is the hollow^ corresponding with the heart and its large vessels, which is gives at- greatest on the left lung. Behind this, but nearer the pos- theroot. terior than the anterior border, is a fissure about three inches long, Mlum pulmonis, which receives the vessels forming the root of the lung. Division Each luiig is divided incompletely into two parts or lobes by an oblique fissure, which begins near the apex, and ends in the anterior border near the base. From the form of the into lobes. Left has two. lung and the direction of the fissure, the lower lobe is neces-