BEAIl^CHES OF THE INTERNAL ILIAC. 621 and then upwards along the side of that viscus to the apex. Beyond the bladder the vessel ascends along the posterior aspect of the abdominal wall with the urachus, converging to its fellow. Finally at the umbilicus the vessels of opposite sides come into contact with the umbilical vein, and, passing from the abdomen through the aperture at that spot, enter into the placental cord, and receive the name umbilical. In the foetus, as in the adult, similar branches are furnished by the artery, though their relative size at the two periods is very different. Change to adult state. —When uterine life has ceased the and its hypogastric artery diminishes in consequence of the arrest of tion into the current of blood through it, and finally becomes obli- ^^(^^\^*^^ terated more or less completely as far back as an inch and a half of its commencement, only a cord remaining in the position of the former vessel. The part that is unobliterated becomes the internal iliac ; and commonly the cord remains pervious by means of a very small canal as far as the upper part of the bladder, and gives origin to the vesical arteries. Peculiarities.—The length of the internal iliac artery varies from Trunk half an inch to three inches, its extreme measm-ements; but in two vanes in thirds of a certain number of bodies (Quain) it ranged from an inch ' to an inch and a half. The increased and diminished extent of the internal, is dependent upon the shortening and lengthening of the common iliac artery. The ending of the vessel may be at any spot between the usual and in place of origin and termination. ending. The branches arising from the posterior portion of the Branches of internal iliac, are, ilio-lumbar, lateral sacral, and gluteal. rioVtrunk. 1. The ilio-lumbar branch passes outwards beneath the ilio lumbar psoas muscle and the obturator nerve, but in front of the lumbo-sacral nerve, and divides into an ascending and a transverse branch in the iliac fossa. a. The ascending or lumbar ofi*set, which is beneath the ascending psoas, supplies that muscle and the quadratus lumborum, and anastomoses with the last lumbar artery : it sends a small spinal branch through the foramen between the sacrum and the last lumbar vertebra. b. The transverse or iliac part divides into branches that ^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ramify in the iliacus muscle, some running over and some beneath it. At the iliac crest these branches anastomose with the lumbar and circumflex iliac arteries ; and some twigs from the deep branches communicate with the obtu- rator artery, and enter the innominate bone. 2. The lateral sacral branches are two in number, superior Lateral