142 DISSECTION" OF THE ITOSE. Division into two. Form. Openings. Roof. Floor. Inner boundary partly osseous. partly carti- laginous. Outer boundary, formed of many bones, bones. This space is divided into two parts—nasal fossae, by a vertical partition. Each fossa is larger below than above ; and is flattened in form, so that the measurement from before back or above down exceeds much that from within out. It communicates with both the face and the pharynx by apertures named nares, and has also apertures of communication with the sinuses in the surrounding bones, viz. frontal, ethmoid, sphenoid, and superior maxillary. In each fossa are a roof and floor, an inner and an outer wall, and an anterior and a posterior opening, which are to be examined. The roof is somewhat arched, and is formed by the cribri- form plate of the ethmoid bone in the centre ; by the frontal and nasal bones and the cartilages in front ; and by the body of the sphenoid, the sphenoidal spongy bone, and part of the palate bone at the posterior part. Many apertures exist in the ethmoid bone for the passage of the olfactory nerves ; and in the front of the body of the sphenoid is the opening of its sinus. The floor is slightly hollowed from side to side, and in it are found the palate and superior maxillary bones—their palate processes. Near the front is the incisor foramen leading to the anterior palatine fossa. The inner boundary (septum nasi) is partly osseous and partly cartilaginous, and will be seen when the lining mem- brane has been removed. The osseous part is constructed by the vomer, by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone, and by those parts of the frontal and nasal with which this last bone articulates above. The irregular space in front in the prepared skull is filled by the triangular cartilage of the septum, which forms part of the partition between the nostrils, and supports the cartilages of the anterior aperture. Fixed between the vomer, the ethmoid plate, and the nasal bones, the cartilage rests anteriorly on the median ridge between the superior maxillae, and projects even between the cartilages of each nostril. The septum nasi is commonly bent to one side. The outer boundary has the greatest extent and the most irregular surface. Six bones enter into the formation of this wall, and they come in the following order, when enumerated from before backwards :—the nasal and superior maxillary ; the small os unguis with the lateral mass of the ethmoid bone ; and posteriorly the ascending part of the palate bone, with the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone : of these, the nasal, ungual, and ethmoidal reach only