DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 418 Spinal accessory nerve in trapezius. Dissection to reflect trapezius; to prepare parts in the neck; clean the scapular muscles. Parts covered by trapezius. Ligamen- tum nuchse. Latissimus dorsi is named from its width. Origin is tendinous except from some ribs. The spinal accessory nerve, one of the trunks of the eight pair of cranial nerves (p. 119), having crossed the posterior triangle of the neck, enters beneath the trapezius, and forms a plexiform arrangement with branches of the third and fourth nerves of the cervical plexus. The nerve is distributed to the muscle, and its filaments reach nearly to the lower border. Dissection.—To see the parts covered by the trapezius, this muscle is to be divided longitudinally, internal to the position of the spinal accessory nerve, and its pieces are to be thrown inwards and outwards. The dissector of the neck should define the parts beneath the clavicle, viz., the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle with the suprascapular nerve and artery ; the trans- verse cervical vessels ; and the small branches of nerves to the levator anguli scapulas, and the rhomboid muscles. If the trapezius be detached along the middle line, the liga- mentum nuchse, from which it takes origin, will be brought into view. ^ The dissector of the upper limb should clean the fibres of the rhomboidei and levator anguli scapuloe muscles, which are fixed to the base of the scapula ; and whilst this is being done, the scapula is to be drawn away from the trunk to make tense the fibres. * Farts covered by the trapezius.—The trapezius conceals in the neck the splenius and a small part of the complexus, with the levator anguli scapulae ; and in the dorsal region it covers the following muscles,—the rhomboidei, the erector spinse, and the latissimus dorsi. Near the scapula it lies over the supraspinatus muscle. The ligamentum nuclide is a narrow fibrous band, which extends from the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra to the occipital protuberance. This structure serves as a partition between the muscles of opposite sides of the neck ; and from the under part processes are sent down to be attached to the spines of the six lower cervical vertebrae. In man it is not formed of elastic tissue. * The LATISSIMUS DORSI is thin, and is the widest muscle in the back (fig. 66, ^) ; it is pointed and fleshy towards the humerus, but aponeurotic at its inner attachment or origin. It arises along the middle line from the spinous processes of the six lower dorsal, from the spines of all the lumbar and the upper two sacral vertebrae, as well as from the supra- spinous ligament. Along the outer side it arises by an aponeurosis from the outer edge of the posterior half of the