729 SUPERFICIAL LAYER OF MUSCLES. it is fixed to the edge of the tibia. Veins are transmitted through it from the deep to the superficial vessels. Dissection. —The fascia is to be divided along the centre Take away of the leg as far as the heel, and is to be taken from the fascia, surface of the gastrocnemius muscle. By fixing with a stitch the inner cut head of the gastrocnemius, the cleaning the fibres of the muscle will be facilitated. Superficial Layer of Muscles.—In the calf of the leg Muscles in there are three muscles, gastrocnemius, soleus, and plantaris, ia/er\^^^^^ which extend the ankle : the first two are large, and give rise to the prominence on the surface, but the last is incon- siderable in size and is chiefly tendinous. The GASTROCNEMIUS is the most superficial muscle. United Gastrocnc- below in the common tendon, it has above two distinct pieces or heads, which connect it with the condyles of the femur. The inner head of origin is attached by a large arises by tendon to an impression at the posterior aspect of the inner from the condyle, behind the insertion of the adductor magnus, and femur, by fleshy fibres to the line above the condyle. The outer head is fixed by tendon chiefly to a pit on the outer surface of the corresponding condyle, above the attachment of the popliteus muscle, and also to the upper and back part of the same condyle. These pieces or heads are united along the ends below middle line by a narrow thin aponeurosis, and terminate Achiilis. inferiorly with the soleus in the common tendon of insertion. One surface is covered by the fascia. The other is in Parts contact with the soleus and plantaris, and with the popliteal j^^^^®'^^^ vessels and the internal popliteal nerve. The heads, by which the muscle arises, assist to form the lateral boundaries of the popliteal space : and the fleshy inner head descends lower than the outer. In the tendon attached to the outer condyle may be fibro-cartilage, or a sesamoid bone. Dissectio7i. —To see the soleus, the gastrocnemius is to be Detach reflected by cutting across the remaining head, as well as the Sus.°*^^^ vessels and nerves it receives. After the muscle has been thrown down, the soleus and the plantaris must be cleaned. The SOLEUS is a large flat muscle, which is attached to Soleus both bones of the leg, and terminates, like the gastrocnemius, lo the^bmfes in the strong common tendon. It arises from the head, and of the leg, the upper third or half of the posterior surface of the shaft of the fibula ; from the oblique line across the tibia, and from the posterior edge of this bone in the middle third ; and between the bones from an aponeurotic arch over the ^^f^^^^^^g large bloodvessels. Its fibres are directed downwards to the tendon, lower tendon.