31 THE PAROTID GLAND. beneath the mastoid process and sterno-mastoid muscle, whilst it reaches also the deep vessels and nerves of the neck. The other piece is situate in front of the styloid process ; it passes into the glenoid hollow behind the articu- lation of the lower jaw, and beneath the ramus of that bone along the internal maxillary artery. Passing through the middle of the gland is the external Vessels and carotid artery, which ascends behind the ramus of the jaw, giand!^^ ^ and furnishes the auricular, superficial temporal, and inter- nal maxillary branches. Superficial to the artery is the trunk formed by the junction of the temporal and internal maxillary veins, from which the external jugular vein springs ; and opening into this common trunk are some veins from the parotid, whilst a branch through the gland connects it with the internal jugular vein."^ Crossing the gland from behind forwards is the trunk of the facial nerve, which passes over the artery, and distributes its branches through the parotid. The superficial temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve likewise lies above the upper part of the glandular mass ; and ofi'sets of the great auricular nerve pierce the gland at the lower part, and join the facial. The structure of the parotid resembles that of the other The gland salivary glands. The glandular mass is divided into termination numerous small lobules by intervening processes of fascia; of the ducts, and each lobule consists of a set of the closed saccular extremities of the excretory duct, which are lined by flat- tened and nucleated epithelium, and surrounded by capillary vessels. The size of these little sacs, which by their aggre- gation form 1 in diameter. From the lobules issue small ducts, which unite to form larger tubes, and finally all the ducts of the gland are collected into one. An examination of the common duct and the duct (duct of Stenson) will show it to be composed of an external coats!^^ thick fibrous coat, and of an internal mucous coat which is covered with columnar epithelium. The parotid receives its arteries from the external carotid; Vessels and and its nerves from the sympathetic, auriculo-temporal of^®^^^^- * Oftentimes a diflferent arrangement of these veins will be found. In such case tlie external jugular is continued from the occipital (half or all) and posterior auricular veins ; whilst the temporal and internal maxillary veins unite to form a trunk (temporo-maxillary), which re- ceives the facial below the jaw, and opens into the internal jugular vein opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. When this con- dition exists, the temporo-maxillary trunk accompanies the external carotid artery.