DISSECTIOlSr OF THE NECK. 118 and join glosso- pharyngeal and pharyn- geal plexus, To enter larynx. and supply it and a branch outside larynx to cricothy- roid and pharynx. Branches to the heart at upper and lower part of neck. Another branch to larynx, ends in muscles in interior. terminates, as the name expresses, in tlie pharynx. The nerve is directed inwards over the internal carotid artery, and joins the branches of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve on that vessel. Finally it courses to the side of the middle constrictor muscle, and communicates with branches of the glosso-pharyngeal, superior laryngeal, and sympathetic nerves, to form the pharyngeal plexus of the same side. This plexus is opposite the middle constrictor, and branches are furnished by it to the muscles, and to the pharyngeal mucous membrane between the tongue and the hyoid bone. 2. The superior laryngeal nerve, 14, is much larger than the preceding branch, and arises from the middle of the ganglion of the trunk of the vagus. From this spot the nerve inclines obliquely inwards beneath the internal carotid artery, and reaches the larynx opposite the interval between the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage. The nerve then perforates the thyro-hyoid membrane, and is distributed to the mucous membrane of the larynx. (See " Larvn^x.^') In the neck it furnishes branches to the thyroid body, and the following offset to one laryngeal muscle and the pharynx. a. The external laryngeal branch arises in the neck beneath the internal carotid artery. Taking a course similar to that of the superior laryngeal nerve, but below it, this branch reaches the side of the larynx, and gives offsets to the pharyngeal plexus. Finally, the nerve is continued beneath, the sterno-thyroideus, to supply the crico-thyroid muscle and the thj^roid body. Near its origin this branch communicates with the sympathetic nerve (superficial cardiac branch). 3. Cardiac branches.—Some small cardiac nerves arise from the pneumo-gastric at the upper part of the neck, and join cardiac branches of the sympathetic. At the lower part of the neck, on each, side, there is a single cardiac nerve :—that of the right side enters the chest, and joins one of the deep nerves to the heart from the sympathetic ; and on the left side the corresponding nerve terminates in the superficial cardiac plexus of the thorax. 4. The inferior laryngeal or recurrent nerve of the right side leaves the pneumo-gastric trunk opposite the subclavian artery, and winding round that vessel, takes an upward course in the neck to the larynx. To reach its destination, the nerve ascends beneath the common carotid and inferior thyroid arteries, and then between the trachea and the oesophagus. At the larynx it enters beneath the ala of the