INTERNAL JUGULAR YEIN. llS The 'yem accompanying the pharyngeal artery receives its veiu. branches from the cranium and the pharynx, and ends in the internal jugular vein. Dissection of the eighth nerve.—By the time the student Directions has arrived at this stage of the dissection, it will not be eighth"^'^^ possible for him to trace the very minute filaments of the nerve, eighth nerve in the foramen jugulare of the skull. The student is recommended therefore to omit, for the present, all the paragraphs marked with an asterisk. Afterwards, if a fresh piece of the skull can be obtained, in which the nerves have been hardened by spirit, and the bone softened by acid, he may return to the examination of the parts that are now passed over. In the foramen lacerum.—Supposing the dissection ^^^^^ the internal carotid to be made as it is described at page 110, jugular let the student cut across with care the jugular vein near foramen, the skull, and the internal carotid, if it is necessary. Let him then remove, bit by bit, with the bone forceps, or with a scalpel if the part has been softened, the ring of bone that bounds externally the jugular foramen, proceeding as far forwards as the crest of bone between the foramen and the aperture of the carotid canal. Between the ring of bone and the coat of the jugular vein, is the small auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric nerve, which is directed backwards to an aperture near the styloid process. First trace the pneumo-gastric and spinal accessory Follow nerves through the canal, by opening the fibrous sheath that gastric and' surrounds them. On the pneumo-gastric is a small ganglion, spinal acces- from which filaments are to be sought passing to the smaller then- portion of the spinal accessory nerve, and to the ascending branches ; branch of the upper cervical ganglion of the sympathetic ; the auricular branch, before referred to, also takes origin from this ganglion. Two parts, large and small, of the spinal accessory nerve should be defined : the latter is to be shown joining the ganglion of the vagus, and then applying itself to the trunk of that nerve. A communication also exists between the two parts of the spinal accessory. * Next follow the glosso-pharyngeal nerve through the ^f^gg^^^jj^ foramen, and take away any bone that overhangs it. This ryngeal nerve presents two ganglia as it passes from the skull : one (jugular), which is scarcely to be perceived, near the upper part of the tube of membrane that contains it; the other, much larger (petrous), is placed at the lower border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. From the lower one, and its seek a filament of communication with the sympathetic in