818 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. A cochlear branch. whose fila- ments end in the sep- tum. Vestibular branch divides into three; and a posterior for the membranous labyrinth. In the trunk and in both branches there are nerve cells contained : in the nerve to the labyrinth they form a reddish swelling, which was named intitmescentia ganglioformis by Scarpa. The cochlear branch divides at the base of the modiolus into twigs that enter the apertures in the bone. These small offsets of the nerve are directed outwards with the vessels in the canals in the lamina spiralis, but nearest the tympanic scala, where they form a plexiform arrangement, with lengthened interspaces and ganglion cells. At the edge of the bone the nerve tubules reach a short distance into the membranous part of the septum scalarum, where they are arranged in conical sets parallel with one another, and end on or in the inner transparent glassy part of the septum cochleae. The nerve fibres do not lose the white substance of Schwann at their termination, but retain it in the minutest tubules (Bowman). Professor Kolliker states that the nerves end on the vesti- bular surface of the mem- Fig. 130.* branous part of the septum, after passing through aper- tures in the glassy or basilar layer of the septum cochleae, and he supposes that they are connected in some way with the bodies described by M. Corti. The vestibular branch ends in three nerves for the mem- branous labyrinth : these pierce the cribriform plate in the bottom of the meatus, and are thus distributed : — One appertains to the utricle, and to the enlargements on the tubes contained in the superior ver- tical and horizontal semicircular canals (fig. 130, ; a second (^) ends in the saccule ; and the third belongs to the ampuUary swelling on the tube in the posterior vertical semi- circular canal (^°). * Membranous labyrinth separated from the hone ; and the primary branching of the nerve (Breschet).—1. Facial nerve. 2, 3. Vestibular branches ; and 4, cochlear branch of the auditory nerve. 5. Utricle. 6. Saccule. 7. Common opening of the tubes of the two vertical semicircular canals. 8. Ampulla of the tube of the superior vertical; 9. Ampulla of the tube of the horizontal; and 10, ampulla of the tube of the posterior vertical semicircular canal : distributed to the last ampulla is the third branch of the auditory nerve. 11. Undi- lated end of the tube of the horizontal canal.