BISSECTIO^T OF THE BEAIK 192 Vessels and nerves. Dissection of the ves- sels. Outline ot cranial mass. Upper part of spinal cord. Pons Varolii and its crura. Cerebellum. Cerebrum and its great divisions. membrane. From the tinder surface of the pia mater pro- ceed numerous fine vessels for the nutrition of the brain. Vessels and nerves.—The arachnoid membrane has but few vessels, whilst the pia mater is composed almost entirely of vessels and nerves. The arachnoid is considered to be nerve- less ; but the pia mater is largely supplied by offsets of the sympathetic, which accompany the bloodvessels at the base of the brain (p. 21). Bochdalek has also described offsets to the arachnoid from some cranial nerves. Dissection.—To follow out the arteries, let the brain remain upside down, and let the arachnoid membrane be removed from the vessels seen on the surface. First, the two arteries lying in the median fissure of the great brain may be defined ; next, the artery that passes outwards transversely between the two lobes of the large brain ; and, lastly, a vessel bending backwards along the inner part of the great brain (cerebrum). One artery may be seen ramifying on the upper (in the present position) surface of the little brain, and another is to be followed on the opposite surface. Subdivisions of the encephalon.—Before entering on the description of the arteries, the chief subdivisions of the encephalon will be shortly mentioned. The cranial or encephalic mass of the nervous system con- sists of cerebrum or great brain, cerebellum or small brain, and pons and medulla oblongata. Each of these parts has the following situation and subdivisions :— The medulla oblongata, or the upper end of the spinal cord, lies in the groove between the halves of the small brain, and is divided into two symmetrical parts by a median fissure. To each half some of the cranial nerves are united. The pons Varolii is situate in front of the medulla ob- longata, and is marked along the middle by a groove, which indicates its separation into two halves. In front of it are two large processes (crura cerebri) that pass to the great brain ; on each side it is united to the small brain by a similar white mass (crus cerebelli) ; and behind it is the enlarged upper part of the cord. The cerebellum, or the small brain, is divided into two halves by a median fissure, and each half will be subsequently seen to be subdivided into lobes. The cerebrum, or the large brain, is also divided into two halves by a longitudinal fissure in the middle line. Each half is further subdivided into anterior, middle, and posterior lobes. Between the anterior and the middle lobe is a