712 DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. descending ; mlerior pudendal branch. Great sci- atic nerve ; outline of, and ending Course in the but - tock. No branch in this part. Pudic nerve. Nerve to obturator. Other branches of the plexus. Nerves to the hip ; to superior gemellus. Nerve to gemellus and qu adra- tus. h. The descending set supply the integument of the inner side of the thigh at the posterior aspect. One of these branches, which is larger than the others, is distributed to the genital organs, and is named inferior ^pudendal (p. 463) ; as it courses to the perinseum, it turns below the ischial tuberosity, and perforates the fascia lata at the inner part of the thigh to end in the perinseal space. Sometimes the inferior pudendal is a distinct branch of the plexus. The great sciatic is the largest nerve in the body. It is the source of all the muscular, and of most of the cutaneous branches distributed to the limb beyond the knee, as well as of the muscular branches at the back of the thigh. At its origin it appears to be a prolongation of the inter- lacement of the nerves of the sacral plexus. After leaving the pelvis it is directed through the buttock to the posterior part of the thigh, where it divides into two branches for the leg. In the part of its course now dissected, viz., to the lower border of the gluteus maximus, it lies in the hollow between the tuber ischii and the great trochanter, and rests on the external rotator muscles below the pyriformis. Commonly it does not supply any branch to the buttock, but it may give origin to one or two filaments to the hip joint. Frequently the nerve is divided into two large trunks at its origin, and one of them pierces the fibres of the pyriformis muscle. The pudic nerve winds over the ischial spine of the hip bone with its companion artery, and is distributed with it to the perinseum and the genital organs (p. 4*70). No branch is supplied to the buttock. The nerve to the obturator internus arises from the upper part of the plexus, and is directed to its muscle through the small sacro-sciatic notch with the pudic nerve : its ter- mination is seen in the dissection of the pelvis (p. 658). The remaining muscular and articular branches are derived from the lower part of the sacral plexus. Some nerves to the hip joint perforate the back of the cap- sular ligament. The nerve to the superior gemellus is a very small twig, and arises separately from the following : The nerve to the inferior gemellus and the quadratus is a slender branch. It passes with a companion artery beneath the gemelli and the obturator internus, and ends in the two muscles from which it receives its designation. This nerve will be seen more fully in a subsequent dissection, when articular filaments from it to the hip joint may be recognised.