DISSECTIOIT OF THE EYE. 792 Layers in Structure (fig. 122).—In the retina are tliree layers or the retina, strata of different materials, together with bloodvessels: viz., an inner (^), composed of nerve elements; an outer (Jacob's membrane), formed of peculiar bodies (^); and an interme- diate or granular layer ("). Passing vertically through all the layers of the retina are other fine threads—fibres of Miiller. „ „ a. The layer of nerve substance (^) is made up of the same One of nerve j j \ / x elements as the gray matter of the encephalon, viz., of a mole- cular matrix containing difi'erent- sized nerve cells, with nerve fibres instead of nerve tubes \ these constituents have the following arrangement :—The tubules of the optic nerve (/c), having become solid in texture, and gray in colour from, the absence of the white substance of Schwann, radiate from the end of the optic trunk, and com- municate together to construct a thin stratum at the inner aspect of the nervous layer; this delicate lamina diminishes in strength as it is followed forwards. Out- side the nerve fibres is a stratum of the molecular material ((/) with large pale pyriform and roundish nucleated stellate nerve cells {]%) : this begins around the entrance of the optic nerve, and becomes thinner, like the fibrous layer, as it extends forwards. Offsets of the cells are said to join internally the nerve fibres, and to enter the granular layer ((i) externally. Biood-ves- In the nervous layer is a plexus of bloodvessels, which is. * Magnified vertical section, a, of the retina (KolUker).—1. Columnar layer with rods, a, and cones, b. 2. Granular layer with outer layer, c, and inner layer of granules, d, and intermediate non-granular part, /. 3. Nervous layer with h, nerve cells, and Jc, nerve fibres : outside the cells is a finely granular part, g, and inside the fibres a limiting membrane, e. B. Cones of the outer layer, 1, connected with fibres (fibres of Miiller), and passing through the retina. c. Rods of the outer layer, 1, united with fibres of Miiller, like the cones.