INTEKl^AL OR DIRECT HERNIA. 505 ring. Its situation and coverings, and the seat of stricture, will be better comprehended after the examination of the part of the abdominal wall through which it passes. Anatomy of the internal hernia.—At the lower part of the abdominal wall is a triangular space between the epigas- it passes trie artery on one side, the outer edge of the rectus muscle triangular on the other, and the inner half of Poupart's ligament «pace, below. Over the inner two thirds of the area of the space which is the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transver- enedfi?part salis is stretched, as it descends to its insertion into the by conjoined pectineal line ; but at the outer third there exists only fascia transversalis. Any intestine protruding in this spot must rupture or elongate the different structures, because there is not any aperture or tube by which it can descend, as in the external hernia. Further, the coverings of the hernia, and its extent and direction in the lower part of the inguinal canal, must Hernia in vary according as the gut is forced through the portion of two kmds.^ the space covered by the conjoined tendon, or through the part external to that tendon. Course and coverings of the hernia.—The common kind of Coverings of the internal hernia (inferior) does not accompany the cord commoi? along the inguinal passage, but passes through the inner part i^iad are of the triangular space which is covered by the con- joined tendon, and straight through the external abdominal ring. The intestine in protruding carries before it the peritoneum, peritoneum the subperitoneal fatty membrane, and the fascia transver- j%^cen?fat, salis ; next it either elongates the conjoined tendon, or, as tascia^ trans- is the case in a sudden rupture, separates the fibres, and conjoined escapes between them. Then the intestine advances into tendon, the lower part of the inguinal canal, where it is opposite the external abdominal ring ; and it passes outwards through spermatic the ring, lying on the inner side of the cord, and receiving s^^pe^ficiai at the same time the covering of the fascia spermatica. fascia, and Lastly it is invested by the superficial fascia and the ^ skin. In number the coverings of the internal hernia are the same as those of the external ; and in kind they are the same, with this exception, viz., that the conjoined tendon is substituted for the cremasteric fascia. Seat of stricture.—The stricture in this form of hernia stricture, occurs most frequently around or in the neck of the sac ; next in frequency at the margin of the fissured tendon ; and Situation, lastly at the external abdominal ring. Where it is necessary