96 DISSECTION" OF THE PTERYGOID REGIOIS". Muscular A. The SMALLER PART receives nearly all the fibres of the ^^^^^ motor root of the uerve, and ends in branches for the muscles of the jaw, viz. temporal, masseteric, and one pterygoid : and for one muscle of the cheek, the buccinator. Directions. —Should the internal maxillary artery obstruct the view of the branches, it may be taken away, supplies two 1. The deep temporal branches are furnished to the branches- "^^cler surface of the temporal muscle. Like the arteries, they are two in number, anterior and posterior. From their origin these nerves course upwards along the outer surface of the skull, and pass beneath the external ptery- goid muscle. posterior The posterior branch is the smallest, and is often derived and from the masseteric nerve ; it is near the back of the temporal fossa. anterior. The anterior branch supplies the greater part of the muscle, and communicates sometimes with the buccal nerve. Masseteric. 2. The masseteric branch takes at first a backward course above the external pterygoid muscle, and then a horizontal one, behind the temporal muscle and through the sigmoid notch, to the under surface of the masseter muscle. In the masseter the nerve can be followed to near the anterior border. As this branch passes by the articulation of the jaw it gives one or more twigs to that joint. Branches to 3. The pterygoid branches are supplied to the muscles of miiscST.*^ that name, and come from both ^Darts of the inferior maxillary nerve. The branch or branches to the external pterygoid arise from the small part, or from the buccal nerve, and enter its under surface. But the nerve to the internal pterygoid passes from the large part of the max- illary trunk beneath the upper border of its muscle, to the deep surface of which it is distributed ; it will be learnt in the dissection of the otic ganglion (Section 14). Buccinator 4. The buccal branch is longer than the others, and perforates the inner attachment of the external pterygoid ; afterwards it is directed inwards, beneath the coronoid process and the temporal muscle, to the surface of the This branch buccinator, wliere it ends in two terminal branches. As part\^^ "tlie nerve perforates the pterygoid muscle filaments are given to the fleshy substance ; and after it has passed through the fibres it furnishes a branch to the temporal muscle, which frequently joins the anterior deep temporal nerve. Some olfsets are distributed likewise to the upper part of the buccinator muscle and to the lining mucous membrane. upper and The upper branch resulting from the division reaches the e