DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 614 Connections, appears to measure less than the upper. Surrounding it are the muscular fibres of the constrictor urethrse ; and close below it are Cowper's glands with the rectum. This division of the urethra is the weakest; but it is supported by the triangular ligament. Spongy. The spongy part is so named from its being surrounded by a cellular and vascular structure. It is applied to and assists to form the body of the penis, and terminates ante- riorly in the orifice named meatus urinarius in the end of the glans. It is the longest part of the urethra, and measures about six inches. At its commencement this division of the excretory canal is surrounded by the ejaculator urinas muscle. Dissection. Dissection.—All the tegumentary covering of the penis may be removed, to see the component parts of that body; and after its removal the spongy part of the urethra will be better seen. Constitu- The PENIS is a cylindrical body, which is attached to the eiits and f^^.^ -^g^j.^ ^^^q pelvis, and hangs in front of the scrotum. situation of . \ n IT the penis. It IS constructed of two firm fibrous bodies named corpora cavernosa, which form the principal part of the organ ; and below these is a soft spongy substance (corpus spongiosum) which surrounds the urethra, and forms the head or the glans penis. A tegumentary investment covers the whole, and is supplied with vessels and nerves ; it is noticed at p. 480. Corpora '^^^ Corpora cavernosa form the bulk of the penis, and cavernosa are two dense, fibrous, almost cylindrical tubes, which are pSiiSj^^*^^ filled with a vascular texture. Each is fixed posteriorly to the upper part of the pubic arch for about an inch by a thick pointed process, the cms penis (fig. 92, d) ; and after a distance of an inch and a half it is blended with its fellow but each is body of the penis. ISTear its junction with its fellow i md^'^^^ there is a slight swelling on the cms—the bulb of the corpus cavernosum (Kobelt). Form and The body of the penis, formed by the union of the corpora attachment cavernosa, is grooved above and below along the middle line, of penis 70 o ^ and presents anteriorly a narrowed but truncated extremity that is covered by the glans penis ; along its under surface the urethra is conducted. Besides the attachment of the corpora cavernosa by the crura, the body of the penis is con- nected with the front of the symphysis pubis by the suspen- sory ligament. The corpus spongiosum urethrce encloses the urethral canal, and forms the head of the penis. It is a vascular and