508 DISSECTIOlSr OF THE ABDOMEIST. last cord is moved inwards from the epigastric artery, to the line of inwards junction of the outer with the inner two thirds of the triangular space through which the direct hernia comes, causing In this condition of the cord there would be a hollow or three fossEe. f^ggg^ q^q]^ gi(je of it at the lower part of the abdomen, corresponding with the spots at which the two kinds of internal hernia escape. When the hypogastric cord has the unusual position mentioned, there may be three fosses at each side, on the lower part of the abdominal wall ; viz. one between it and the urachus, another between it and the epigastric vessels, and a third outside the epigastric Number of artery. And there may be one, two, or three kinds of protrusions i^g^i^^^ hernia on each side, according to the number of the fossae. Situation of Femoral Hernia.—In this hernia the intestine leaves hernia^°^^^ the abdomen below Poupart's ligament, and descends in the loose membranous sheath around the femoral vessels. The course that the intestine takes, and the coverings that it receives, will be readily understood after the anatomy of the parts among which it passes has been learnt. Only so much of the structures will be described here as can be now seen, the rest are noticed fully in the dissection of the thigh. Dissection.—The examination of the parts concerned in the femoral hernia is to be made on the left side of the body. l^^issection The lower portion of the abdominal wall is to be divided concerned!^ from the umbilicus to the pubes. The peritoneum is to be detached from the inner surface of the wall and the iliac fossa ; and the layer of the subperitoneal fat is to be separated in the same way, but before doing this it will be necessary to cut through the cord at the abdominal ring. As the last layer is raised, one or more lymphatic glands will be seen by the side of the iliac vessels. Any loose tissue that remains is to be taken away to show the upper opening of the membranous sheath which contains the femoral vessels. In this dissection the genito-crural nerve is seen on the iliac artery. Afterwards the iliac fascia and the fascia transversalis are to be traced to Poupart's ligament, to see the part that each takes in the production of the crural sheath. Anatomy Anatomy of femoral hernia.—The structures concerned structures. femoral hernia are severally to be examined, viz. the subperitoneal fat ; the membranes (transversalis and iliac fascia) lining the interior of the abdominal cavity near