SUB-SCAPULAR MUSCLE. 277 On the angles of tlie scapula the fibres of the serratus !^^^*^lQ^g^Qf ^^^^ magnus are collected in this way :—the highest fibres are iDoiie; fixed to the under surface of the upper angle, and the lowest fibres are inserted into an impression on the same aspect of the lower angle. On the outer surface of the inferior angle is the teres major, which will be subsequently seen. The insertion of the small pectoral muscle into the front into cora- of the upper4)art of the coracoid process may be ascertained ^^^^ P^o'^^ss- at this stage of the dissection. Dissection.—By the separation of the serratus from the Dissection, subscapularis a thin fascia comes into view, which belongs to the last muscle, and is fixed to the bone around its margins. After the fascia has been observed, it may be removed ; and the muscle is to be followed forwards to its insertion into the humerus. iN'ext, the axillary vessels and nerves, and the offsets of these to the muscles, should be well cleaned. The SUBSCAPULARIS MUSCLE occupies the under surface of the scapula, and is concealed by that bone when the limb is in its natural position. The muscle arises from the concave fills the surface on the ventral aspect of the scapula, except at the scapula ; angles, and this attachment reaches forwards nearly to the neck of the bone ; it is attached also to the ridges of the is inserted bone by tendinous processes. Externally it is inserted by a rus. tendon into the small tuberosity of the humerus and by fleshy fibres into the neck of the bone for nearly an inch below that process. By one surface the muscle bounds the axilla, and is in ^^^^g®^" contact with the axillary vessels and nerves and the serratus magnus. By the other, it rests against the scapula and the shoulder joint ; and between its tendon and the root of the coracoid process is a bursa, which communicates generally with the synovial membrane of the shoulder joint. The lower border projects much beyond the bone: it is contiguous to the teres major, and comes into contact with the latis- simus dorsi and the long head of the triceps : along this border is the subscapular artery, which here gives backwards its dorsal branch. Dissection.—The subscapular muscle is to be separated Dissection, next from the bone ; and at the same time its tendinous processes of origin, the connection between its tendon of insertion and the capsule of the shoulder joint, as well as the bursa, are to be observed. A small arterial anastomosis on the ventral surface of the bone is to be dissected out as the muscle is raised. The infrascapular artery ramifies on the ventral surface Small infra-