THE GUSTATORY OR LIJs^GUAL NERVE. 103 The lingual artery is one of the anterior branches of the Linguai external carotid, and arises between the superior thyroid ^I'^^^T and facial branches. At first it is directed inwards above ascends to the OS hyoides, but is afterwards inclined slightly upwards beueati?^^^ beneath the hyo-glossus to the under part of the tongue, iiyo-giossus. and ends at the anterior border of that muscle in the sublingual and ranine branches. Before reaching the hyo- glossus the artery is comparatively superficial, though it is crossed near that muscle by the ninth nerve, and by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles. Beneath the hyo-glossus, the vessel rests on the middle constrictor and genio-hyo- glossus muscles, and is situate below the level of the glosso- its brandies pharyngeal nerve. Its branches are these :— a. A small hyoid branch is distributed on the upper to hyoid border of the os hyoides, where it anastomoses with the one ' of the opposite side, and with the hyoid branch of the superior thyroid artery. b. A branch to the dorsum of the tongue arises beneath the to back of hyo-glossus muscle, and ascends to supply the substance of ^ons,^i<3; that organ. The fibres of the hyo-glossus must be divided to see it. c. The sublingual branch springs from the final division of to the sub- the artery at the edge of the hyo-glossus, and is then gJanT; directed, outwards to the gland from which it takes its name. Some offsets supply the gums and the mylo-hyoid muscle, and one continues behind the incisor teeth to join a similar artery from the other side. d. The ranine branch is the terminal part of the lingual to the sub- artery, and extends forwards along the outer side of the toniu^e°^ genio-hyo-glossus to the tip of the tongue where it ends : it anastomoses with the artery of the other side of the body. Muscular offsets are furnished to the substance of the Ranine is tongue. This artery lies along the frsenum linguae near the ^^^^ tip of the tongue, but is close to the muscular fibres. The lingual vein commences on both the upper and under Lingual surfaces of the tongue. It lies with its companion artery, and ends in the internal jugular vein. The GUSTATORY or LINGUAL NERVE liaS been followed in Lingual the examination of the pterygo-maxiilary region to its passage between the ramus of the lower jaw and the internal pterygoid muscle. In this dissection the nerve is ^aiong side of seen to be inclined forwards to the side of the tongue, over ^^^^^^'^^ the mucous membrane of the mouth and the origin of the superior constrictor muscle, and above the deep part of the submaxillary gland. Lastly, the nerve is directed across