DISSECTION" OF THE SUBMAXILLARY REGIOIT. ;104 brandies to the gan- glion, to ninth, nerve. to mucous membrane, to the papillae. Submaxil- lary gan- glion ; nature ; joins gusta- tory, facial, and sym- pathetic nerves. Branches. Nintli nerve, be- tween the chin and hyoid bone, is lost in the Whartonian duct, and along the side to the apex of the tongue. In this region the gustatory nerve is separated altogether from the cavity of the mouth by the mucous membrane. Branches are furnished to the surrounding parts, thus :— a. Two or more branches connect it with, the submax- illary ganglion, near the gland of that name. b. Farther forwards branches descend on the hyo-glossus to unite in a kind of plexus with twigs of the hypoglossal nerve. c. Other filaments are supplied to the mucous membrane of the mouth and the gums, and to the sublingual gland. d. Lastly the branches for the tongue ascend through the muscular substance, and are distributed as well to the conical and fungiform papillse. Submaxillary ganglion,—Closely connected with the gustatory nerve is this little ganglion, which resembles the other ganglia connected with the three trunks of the fifth nerve, since it communicates with sensory, motory, and sympathetic nerves. It is a small reddish body, less in size than the lenticular ganglion, and is placed above the deep process of the submaxillary gland. Ofisets proceed up- wards to connect it with other nerves, and from the lower part arise the branches that are distributed to the adjacent structures. Connection with nerves—roots,—Two or three branches, in the form of loops, pass from the ganglion to the gustatory nerve. At the posterior part, the ganglion is further joined by an ofiset from the chorda tympani (of the facial nerve) which lies in contact with the gustatory. And its sympathetic branch comes from the nerves around the facial artery. Branches.—From the lower part of the ganglion five or six branches descend to the substance of the submaxillary gland; and from the anterior part other filaments are furnished to the mucous membrane of the mouth and to the Whartonian duct. The HYPO-GLOSSAL or NINTH NERVE, after crossing the side of the neck and the anterior triangle (p. 82), enters between the small muscles of the submaxillary region. Here the nerve lies on the hyo-glossus muscle, being con- cealed by the mylo-hyoideus: but at the inner border of the hyo-glossus it enters the fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus, and is continued along the middle line of the tongue to the apex. The position of the ninth nerve is in the centre of