378 DISSECTIO^T OF THE THORAX. there is sometimes another dilatation along the right side, which is named the great sinus of the aorta. The two coronary arteries arise close to the swellings first alluded to. The second or transverse portion recedes from the sternum, and reaches from the second right costal cartilage to the left side of the body of the second dorsal vertebra. It rests upon the trachea above its bifurcation, as well as over the oesophagus and the thoracic duct. Lying in front of this part of the artery are the pneumo-gastric, phrenic, and superficial cardiac nerves of the left side ; and the first nerve sends backwards its recurrent branch beneath the vessel. Along the upper border is the left innominate vein ; and to the lower border, near its termination, the remnant of the arterial duct is attached. From this part arise the three great vessels of the head and the upper limbs. The third or descending part of the arch is very short, extending only from the second to the lower part of the third dorsal vertebra. It lies against the third dorsal vertebra, and the fibro-cartilage between this and the second ; and it is covered by the pleura of the left side of the chest. In the concavity of the arch of the aorta are contained the left auricle of the heart, the root of the left lung, the branching of the pulmonary artery with its arterial duct, and the left recurrent nerve. Deeper than these parts will be found the oesophagus and the thoracic duct, with some lymphatic glands. The branches of the arch of the aorta are five in number ; two come from the ascending, and three from the transverse part. The first two are the coronary arteries of the heart, which have been already noticed (p. 362). The other three are much larger in size, and supply the neck, the head, and the upper limbs. First on the right is the large trunk of the innominate artery ; close to it is the left carotid ; and last of all is the left subclavian, which is distant a short space from the preceding vessel. Feculiarities,—The exceptions to the usual condition of the arch of the aorta, which the student may expect to find, concern the height and direction of the arch, and the position and number of its branches :— Height and Height.—The arch reaches commonly to about an inch from the upper part of the sternum, but it may ascend nearly to the top of that bone, or stop an inch and a half or more from it. direction of Direction.—Sometimes the aorta is arched over the root of the the arch. Gives origin to coronary arteries. Second part is trans- verse. Connec- tions. Gives origin to large vessels. Third part is without branches. Parts con- tained in the arch. Five branches of the arch: two coro- nary. carotid, subclavian. Peculiari- ties.