DISSECTIOK OF THE SUBMAXILLAKY REGIOK 102 named from attachment; in contact with many parts. Stylo-glos- sus comes to side of tongue. Genio- hyoideus along middle line of neck. Genio-hyo- glossus connected with chin, hyoid bone, and tongue. Contiguous parts. The muscle arises from the lateral part of the body of the OS hyoides (basio-glossus), from all the great cornn of the same bone (cerato-glossus), and separately from the small cornu (chondro-glossus). The two first parts form a thin sheet, and enter the back part ands ide of the tongue; they will be seen afterwards to mingle with fibres of the palato- and stylo-glossus. The parts in contact with one surface of the hyo-glossus have been already enumerated; and those beneath the muscle are portions of both the genio-hyo- glossus, and the middle constrictor, together with the lingual vessels. Along the anterior border is the genio-hyo-glossus muscle ; and beneath the posterior pass the lingual artery, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and the stylo-hyoid ligament. The STYLO-GLOSSUS is a slender muscle, whose attachments are expressed by its name. Arising from the styloid process near the apex, and from the stylo-maxillary ligament, the muscle is continued forwards to the side of the tongue. Here it gives fibres to the dorsum, and crossing the pre- ceding turns to the under surface, and extends to the tip of the tongue. Beneath the jaw this muscle is crossed by the gustatory nerve. The GENio-HYOiD MUSCLE arises from the lower of the two lateral tubercles on the inner aspect of the symphysis of the jaw, and is inserted into the middle of the hyoid bone. Covered by the mylo-hyoideus, this muscle rests on the genio-hyo-glossus. The inner border is close to its fellow of the opposite side, and the two are often united. The GENIO-HYO-GLOSSUS is the largest muscle of this region ; it has a triangular form, the apex being at the jaw, and the base at the middle line of the tongue. It takes origin from the upper tubercle behind the symphysis of the jaw. From this spot the fibres radiate, the posterior passing downwards to their insertion into the body of the hyoid bone, the anterior forwards to the tip of the tongue, and the intermediate to the whole length of the tongue from root to point. Lying along the middle of the tongue, it is in contact with its fellow ; whilst the lower border of the muscle corresponds with the genio-hyoideus, and the upper with the frsenum linguae. On its outer side are the ranine vessels, and the hyo-glossus muscle ; and the hypoglossal nerve perforates the posterior fibres. * The third part (chondro-glossus) is distinct from the others, and ends on the upper surface of the tongue near the root ; but for further details respecting the anatomy of this and the other lingual muscles, reference is to be made to the dissection of the tongue, Section 15.