THE SUPEEIOR MAXILLARY ISTERYE. 107 Tlie SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE COmmences in the Upper max- Gasserian ganglion (p> 19), and leaves the cranium by the ^^^^^'^ foramen rotundum. The course of the nerve is then passes to almost straight to the face, along the orbital plate of the superior maxilla. Outside the cranium the nerve is placed first across the spheno-maxillary fossa, and it enters after- wards the infraorbital canal. Issuing from the canal by the fhrough infraorbital foramen, the nerve is concealed by the elevator canar^^*'^^ of the upper lip, and ends in branches to the eyelid, nose, where it and upper lip. It furnishes the following branches :— 1. The orbital branch arises in the spheno-maxillary fossa, its branches and enters the orbit through the fissure of the same name ; ' it divides into a malar and a temporal branch (see p. 51). 2. The spheyio-palatine branches descend from the nerve to the nose in the fossa, and supply the nose and palate ; these are P^i^^e > connected with Meckel's ganglion, and will be dissected with it. 3. Two posterior dental branches leave the trunk of the to the teeth nerve near the upper jaw. One is distributed to the gums nafor^^^^ and the buccinator muscle. The other enters a canal in the upper maxill^i, and supplies branches to the molar teeth and the lining membrane of the antrum ; it joins the anterior dental branch soon after entering the bone, and again near the teeth. 4. The anterior dental branch quits the trunk of the to anterior nerve in the floor of the orbit, and descends to the anterior teeth in a special canal in front of the antrum. It is distributed by two branches. One (the inner) gives filaments to the incisor and canine teeth, and furnishes, moreover, one or two filaments to the lower meatus of the nose ; the other (outer) ends by supplying the bicuspid teeth. 5. Before the nerve ends in the facial branches, it supplies Branch of a small palpebral branch to the lower eyelid ; this is directed upwards to the lid in a groove in the margin of the orbit. 6. Infraorbital or facial branches.—These are larger than infraorbital the other offsets of the nerve, and form its terminal ramifica- tions. Some incline inwards to the side of the nose, and the rest descend to the upper lip. These branches are crossed join facial near the orbit by branches of the facial nerve, with which supply the they communicate, the whole forming the infraorbital plexus (p. 40). a. The branches to the side of the nose supply the muscular nose and tegumentary structures. b. The branches to the upper lip are three or four in npper