560 DISSECTION" OF THE ABDOMEN. Cells of The special cells are -anited by a reddish-yellow fluid, and spleen-pulp, form the half of the pulpy substance : they are of different sizes, apparently as if in different stages of growth, the smallest being nucleus-like bodies, and the largest are pale one or two nucleated, and granular cells. Malpighian The MalpigMan corpuscles are best seen in the human bodies; body after sudden death, or in children. They are small size; vesicular bodies, averaging g^'^th of an inch in diameter, and are appended, mostly without pedicles, to the sheaths of the smallest branches of the arteries ; they project into the pulp attachment; of the spleen, and are surrounded by it except at the attached side. Each is a closed sac, having a membranous case with contents. consti- The coat of the corpuscle is transparent, and is said to tuents. consist of the same tissue as the sheaths of the small arteries, with the exception of muscular fibre (Kolliker). In the interior is a tenacious whitish albuminous mass, with different sized pale cells, granular as well as nucleated, of the same nature as those in the spleen-pulp. Splenic Bloodvessels.—The branches of the splenic artery are artery surrounded by sheaths of fibrous tissue, even to the terminal corpuSes ^^^S^- The chief branches are said not to join together; of spleen. and they accompany the veins till they have a diameter of y-J-^th to -^Q^h. of an inch. They then leave the veins, and, still surrounded by sheaths, end in the smallest branches. End in The terminal branches of the artery pass by the Malpighian bodies in the splenic pulp, supplying fine twigs to them which ramify in their interior, and end by means of tufts of offsets in the capillaries. Vein begins The splenic vein begins in a mesh work of capillaries in lariesr^" '^^^ splenic pulp of the intertrabecular spaces, and without dilatations (Kolliker). The branches of veins are much larger than the arteries which they accompany to the fissure of the spleen ; and in their course they receive accessory branches, some joining at a right angle. Lymphatics. Nerves and lymphatics.—The lymphatics are superficial and deep, and enter the glands in the gastro-splenic omentum ; their arrangement in the spleen is unknown. Nerves. The nerves come from the solar plexus, and surround the artery and its branches ; according to Ecker they end in free dichotomous points by the sides of the arterial tufts. THE LIVER. u^r^^^^^ The liver secretes the bile, and is the largest gland in the