THE DEEP MUSCLES. 593 In the female this vein (ovarian) has the same ending as Vein in the in the male, and it forms a plexus in the broad ligament of the uterus. The renal or emulgent vein is of large size and joins the Renal vein; vena cava at a right angle. It commences by many branches in the kidney ; and the trunk resulting from their union is artery r superficial to the renal artery. The right is the shortest, and joins the cava higher up difference on than the other. The left vein crosses the aorta close to the origin of the superior mesenteric artery : it receives sepa- rate branches from the spermatic and suprarenal veins of the same side. The suprarenal vein is of considerable size when it is Suprarenal compared with the body from which it comes. On the right ^^^^ly on side it opens into the cava, and on the left side into the renal each side, vein. The diaphragmatic veins (inferior), two for each artery, Phrenic spring from the under surface of the diaphragm. They join the cava either as one trunk or two. The hepatic veins enter the cava where it is in contact Hepatic with the liver. These veins are described in the dissection noticed.^ of the liver (p. 566). Peculiarities of the vena cava.—In position.—When transposition Venacava of the viscera exists, the vena cava is found on the left of the spine. '"Jf fg^\i^e*^ But without that transposition the vein may begin on the left side part,' of the spine, and remain on the left of the aorta as high as the renal vein before it crosses that vessel to take its usual place. In ending.—Instead of opening into the heart, the lower cava "J^y ^'^^ may be found entering the upper cava ; and in these rare instances vein^" it lies in the situation of the intercostal or azygos vein. In this . condition the inferior cava is wanting at the heart, and the blood from the low^r part of the body is transmitted to the heart by the superior cava. When this deviation exists, the hepatic veins form a separate trunk, and open into the right auricle in the situation of the inferior cava. DEEP MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. The deep muscles in the interior of the abdomen are the psoas, iliacus, and quadratus lumborum. Some fascise are to be seen in connection with the muscles. The PSOAS MAGNUS reaches from the lumbar vertebrj© to Psoas the femur, and is situate partly in the abdomen and partly ™tSix in the thigh. The muscle arises from the front of the trans- origin, verse processes (parapophyses) of the lumbar vertebrse ; from the bodies of the last dorsal and all the lumbar vertebrse by five processes—each process being connected with the inter- Q Q