DISSECTIO^T OF THE EYE. 790 Ciliary nerves end in iris and ciliary muscle. Space con- tains aque- ous humour is partly divided into two by the iris. Anterior part. Posterior; its bound- aries. Aqueous humour. Ketina con- tinuous with optic nerve. Dissection to see the retina. cornea and the optic nerve, and end in tlie ophthalmic vein. The ciliary nerves (fig. 121) are derived from the lenticular ganglion, and from the nasal nerve (p. 47). Entering the back of the eyeball with the arteries, they are continued forwards with the vessels between the sclerotic and choroid coats nearly as far as the ciliary muscle : at this spot the nerves send offsets to the cornea, and pierce the fibres of the ciliary muscle to enter the iris, but their manner of ending is unknown. Offsets from the nerves supply the ciliary muscle. Chamber of the Aqueous Humour (fig. 117).—The space betv/een the cornea in front and the lens behind, in which the iris is .suspended, contains a clear fluid named the aqueous humour. In the fetus this interval is separated into two distinct parts by the iris and the pupillary mem- brane, but in the adult it is only partly divided, for the two communicate through the pupil. The boundaries of the two chambers may be seen in the eye on which a, vertical section has been made. The anterior chamber is the larger part of the space before mentioned ; it is limited in front by the cornea, and behind by the iris and the ciliary ligament. The posterior chamber is less than half the size of the anterior. In front it is bounded by the iris ; behind by the lens and a piece of the membrane (suspensory ligament of the lens) on the front of the vitreous humour ; and at the circumference by the ciliary processes. The aqueous Jiur/iour is quite transparent, and consists nearly of pure water. A small quantity of chloride of sodium, with some extractive matter, is in solution in it. It has been supposed that this fluid is secreted by a special membrane lining the cavity, but evidence of the existence of such a structure is wanting. The Nervous Tunic or Eetina.—This coat (tunica nervea) is continuous with the optic nerve, and is the most delicate of all the structures of the eyeball. On it the image of objects is produced by the rays of light being brought to a focus in the bottom of the eye. Dissection.—The retina can be satisfactorily examined only on an eye that is used before forty-eight hours have expired after death. To bring it into view on the eyeball on which the choroid coat was dissected, the choroidal covering must be torn away carefully with two pair of forceps whilst the eye is immersed in water or spirit. If an entire eye is used for the purpose, a thread may be