649 THE VAGINA. and the anterior and posterior surfaces of the tube are not curved . course. equal in length, for the former measures about four inches, and the latter is about five or six in extent. In the body the vagina is flattened from above down- Form wards, so that the opposite surfaces may be in contact, but the upper end is rounded where it is joined to the uterus. Its size varies at different spots :—thus the external orifice which is surrounded by the constrictor vaginse muscle is the narrowest part ; the middle portion is the largest ; and the upper end is intermediate in dimensions between the other two. After the vagina has been laid open by an incision along Interior the upper wall, the position of the uterus in that wall in- stead of the extremity may be remarked ; and further, the tube may be seen to extend higher on the posterior than the anterior aspect of the cervix uteri. On the inner surface, towards the lower part, is a slight longitudinal ridge both in front and behind, named columns of the vagina. Before the tissue of the vagina has been distended, other transverse ^^s^- ridges or rugse may be seen passing between the columns. The wall of the vagina is thicker anteriorly, where the Wall, urethra is situate, than at any other part of the canal. Structure.—The vaginal wall is formed by a sponejy erec- An erectile ,., T . , . ° T n 1 T 1 structure m tile tissue, which is covered externally by a muscular layer, the wall, and lined by mucous membrane. At its lower end the tube is surrounded by a band of the fibres of the sphincter vaginse muscle (p. 473). The erectile tissue is more abundant at the ends than the Erectile middle of the vagina, and is greatest in quantity below where it gives increased thickness to the wall. Two masses of the erectile tissue, one on each side of the ^^^^ opening of the vagina, have been described as the semi-bulbs by Taylor, and as the bulbi-vestibuli by Kobelt (fig. 98, a). These are elongated masses of plexiform veins, enclosed in fibrous membrane ; they are about an inch in length, and are situate -one on each side of the vestibule, where they are covered on the outer side by the constrictor vagin{3e (6). At its upper part each is pointed, and communicates with the I vessels of the clitoris : whilst at the posterior rounded part it joins the venous plexus of the vagina. These bodies are ^^^d toThe supposed by Kobelt to be the homologue of the bulb of the bulb of the I corpus spongiosum urethrse in the male ; but the answering ^' I part is split in the female, instead of forming one piece in 1 the middle line, and each lateral half is thrust aside towards the crus clitoridis by the large aperture of the vagina.