287 YEINS AT THE ELBOW. small offsets from that nerve are directed. This vein is altogether removed from the brachial artery, and is gene- rally smaller than the median basilic vein. If opened with a lancet, it does not generally yield much blood, in conse- quence of its position in a hollow between muscles rendering compression of it very uncertain and difficult. b. The median basilic vein (fig. 41, ^) is usually more hori- and of the zontal in direction than the preceding, and crosses the bra- Siic^^Sn*^" chial artery as it tends to the inner side of the limb. It is larger than the corresponding vein of the outer side of the arm, and is firmly supported by the fascia beneath,—the aponeurosis of the arm, strengthened by fibres from the tendon of the biceps, intervening between it and the brachial vessels. Branches of the internal cutaneous nerve lie be- neath it, and some twigs of the same nerve are placed over it. The median basilic is the vein on which the operation of Venesection bloodletting is commonly practised. It is selected in conse- this^^^"^ quence of its usually larger size and more superficial position, branch, and the ease with which it may be compressed; but from the close proximity of the vein to the brachial vessels, the spot chosen for the venesection should not be immediately over the trunk of the artery. 2. The basilic vein (fig. 41, commencing near the Basilic-vein inner condyle of the humerus in the manner before said, si^J^oTthe ascends near the inner border of the biceps muscle to arm. the middle of the arm, where it passes beneath the deep fascia, and is continuous with the axillary vein. In this course it lies over, or to the inner side of the brachial artery. 3. The cephalic vein (fig. 41, ^) is derived chiefly from Cephalic the external branch of the median, for the radial vein is vein at . . . ' _ T T 1 T 1 outer side of oitentimes very small. It is continued to the shoulder along the arm. the outer side of the biceps, and sinks between the deltoid and pectoral muscles, near the clavicle, to open into the axillary vein. The superficial lymphatics of the arm lie for the most part Superficial along the basilic vein, and enter into the glands of the axilla. A few lymphatics accompany the cephalic vein, and passing between the pectoral and deltoid muscles, end as the others in the axillary glands. A superficial lymphatic gland is cutaneous nerve is by the side of it. 6. Basilic vein; with the large internal cutaneous nerve by its side. 6. Brachial artery, with its companion veins (one cut). 7. Radial vein.