DISSECTION OF THE BRAIX. 248 calamus scriptorius. Lateral boundary. Roof. Floor. Parts in it are, median fissure, and central canal. Fasciculus teres. Fossae, posterior, anterior. Locus caeruleus. White strise. and pons ; and a transverse line in this situation would divide the hollow into two triangular jDortions—upper and lower. The lower half has been named calamus scriptorius from its resemblance to a writing pen. The lateral boundaries are more marked at the upper than at the lower part. For about half way down, the cavity is limited on each side by the superior peduncle of the cere- bellum, which projecting over it forms part of the roof; and along the lower half lies the eminence of the restiform body. The roof of the space is somewhat arched, and is formed above by the valve of Yieussens, and the under part of the vermiform process; and below, by the reflection of the pia mater from the spinal cord to the surface of the vermi- form process, as well as by the thin nervous stratum of the ligula (p. 207). The ^oor of the ventricle corresponds v/ith the posterior surfaces of the medulla oblongata and pons, and is grayish in colour. Along its centre is a median groove, which ends below, at the point of the calamus and within the swollen part of the posterior pyramid, in a minute hole,—the aperture of the canal of the cord. On each side of the groove is a spindle-shaped elevation, the fasciculus s. er/iinentia teres. This eminence reaches the whole length of the floor, and is pointed and little marked inferiorly, where it is covered by gray substance ; but it becomes whiter and more prominent superiorly, and its widest point is opposite the attachment of the crus cerebelli. It is formed by the fibres of the medulla oblongata derived from the lateral tract and the restiform body, which ascend to the cerebrum. The outer border of the eminence is limited externally by a slight groove, which (in some bodies well marked) will point out the position of two fossse (fovea anterior et poste- rior). The posterior fossa is below near the beginning of the groove, and the anterior is opposite the crus cerebelli. At the top of the anterior fossa is a collection of very dark gray substance, which has a bluish appearance as it is seen through the thin stratum covering it, and is named locus ccBruleus ; ^ from it a bluish streak (tsenia violacea) is con- tinued upwards, at the outer edge of the eminentia teres, to the opening in the top of the fourth ventricle. Crossing the floor on each side, opposite the lower border * The term locus caeruleus seems to be applied to the spot, for the dark vesicular matter in it has been named substantia ferruginea.