140 DISSECTION" OF THE MOUTH. floor, cheek, and lips. Epithelium. Cheek; extent and struc- ture. Lips, formed by orbicularis ; contains coronary- artery. Teeth, number and arrange- ment in jaw; different kinds. Use in mas- tication. front in a small papilla. In the floor of the mouth the membrane forms the frsenum linguse beneath the tip of the tongue, and sends tubes into the openings of the Whartonian and sublingual ducts ; whilst on each side of the frsenum it is raised into a ridge by the subjacent sublingual gland. On the interior of the cheek and lips the mucous lining is smooth, and is separated from the muscles by small buccal and labial glands in addition to the ordinary submucous tissue. Over the whole oral cavity, but especially on the lips, are found papillae for the purpose of touch. The epithelium covering the membrane is of the scaly nucleated variety. The CHEEK extends from the commissure of the lips to the ramus of the lower jaw, and is attached above and below to the alveolar process of the jaws on the outer aspect. The chief constituent of the cheek is the fleshy part of the buc- cinator muscle : on the inner surface of this is the mucous membrane ; and on the outer the integuments, with some muscles, vessels, and nerves. The parotid duct perforates the cheek near the second molar tooth of the upper jaw, and receives a lining of the mucous membrane. The LIPS surround the opening of the mouth ; they consist of the fleshy part of the orbicularis oris muscle, covered externally by integument, and internally by mucous mem- brane. The lower lip is the larger and more moveable of the two. Between the muscular structure and the mucous covering are the labial glands ; and in the substance of the lip, nearer the inner than the outer surface, and at the line of junction of the two parts of the orbicularis, is the arch of the coronary artery. Teeth.—In the adult there are sixteen teeth in each jaw, which are set in the alveolar border of the maxillae in the form of an arch, and are surrounded by the gums. Each dental arch has its convexity turned forwards ; and, com- monly, the arch in the upper overhangs that in the lower, maxilla when the jaws are in contact. The teeth are similar in the half of each jaw, and have received the following names :—the most anterior two are incisors, and the one next behind is the canine tooth ; two, still farther back, are the bicuspids ; and the last three are molar teeth. More- over, the last molar tooth has been called also dens sapientiae," from the late period of its appearance. The names applied to the teeth indicate very nearly the part they perform in mastication ; thus the incisor and canine teeth act as dividers of the food, whilst the bicuspid and molar teeth serve to grind the aliment.