318 DISSECTIOJT OF THE HAIsTD. and expose digital sheaths. Some unnamed. and two named twigs. One of median. other of ul- nar nerve. Pal maris brevis is subcutane- ous. and ends in the skin. Palmar fascia. Its central part ends in a piece for each finger, and in the skin nerves, and must be especially careful of two,—viz., those of the inner side of the little finger and outer side of the index finger, which appear farther back than the rest, and are most likely to be injured. Lastly, the skin and the fat may be reflected from the thumb and the fingers by an incision along each, so that the sheaths of the tendons with the collateral vessels and nerves may be laid bare. Cutaneous palmar nerves. —Some unnamed twigs are fur- nished to the integument from both the median and ulnar nerves in the hand; and two named cutaneous nerves ramify in the palm, a. One is an offset of the median nerve (p. 315), and crosses the annular ligament: it extends to about the middle of the palm, and is connected with the palmar branch of the ulnar nerve. A few filaments of this nerve are furnished to the ball of the thumb. h. The other palmar branch is derived from the ulnar nerve (p. 314) ; it has been traced already on the ulnar artery to the hand, and its distribution in the palm may be now observed. The PALMARis BREVIS (fig. 45, is a small subcutaneous muscle, about an inch and a half wide, whose fibres are collected into separate bundles. It is attached on the outer side to the palmar aponeurosis, and its fibres are directed inwards to join the skin at the inner border of the hand. This muscle lies over the ulnar artery and nerve. After it has been examined it may be thrown inwards. The palmar fascia or aponeurosis consists of a central and two lateral parts ; but the lateral, which cover the muscles of the thumb and little finger, are so thin as not to require a separate notice. The central part is a strong, white, shining layer, which is pointed at the wrist; but it is expanded towards the fingers, where it covers nearly the width of the hand. Posteriorly the fascia receives the tendon of the palmaris longus, and is connected to the annular ligament; and anteriorly it ends in four processes, which are continued forwards, one for each finger, and form part of the sheaths of the tendons. At the point of separation of the processes one from another some transverse fibres are placed, which arch over the lumbricalis muscle and the digital artery and nerve that appear at this spot. From the four pieces into which the fascia divides, a few superficial longitudinal fibres are prolonged to the integument near the cleft of the fingers.