THE UTERUS. 651 Glands of Bartholine.—On the outer part of the vagina, Two glands near the aperture at the lower end, are two small yellowish bowper's. glandular bodies, one on each side, which represent Cowper's glands in the male. Each is a branched mucous gland, about as large as a small bean. Its duct is directed forwards to open on the inner aspect of the nympha of the same side. The duct resembles that of Cowper's gland in its ramifica- tions and structure (p 468). THE UTEEUS. The uterus or womb is formed chiefly of unstriped mus- Uterus, cular fibres. Its ofiice is to receive the ovum and retain for a fixed period the developing fetus. This viscus in the virgin state is pear-shaped, or rather Form ; triangular in consequence of the body being flattened (fig. 99), and presents inferiorly a rounded narrow part or neck. Deviations from the standard shape are seen in the infant, how where the neck is larger than the body ; and in the aged female, in whom there is little separation between the same two parts. Commonly the uterus measures about three inches in Dimensions, length, two in breadth at the upper part, and an inch in greatest thickness. Its weight varies from an ounce to an ounce and a half. But after gestation its size and volume exceed always the measurement here given. The upper end is convex (fig. 99, a), and is covered by Upper end. peritoneum : the term fundus is applied to the part of the organ above the attachment of the Fallopian tubes. The lower end is small and rounded, and in it is a trans- The lower verse aperture of communication between the uterus and the ^nd is ..... small; vagina (d), named os uteri (os tincce) : its margins or lips (labia) are smooth, and anterior and posterior in situation, opening, but the hinder one is the longest. Towards the lower part the uterus is constricted (fig. 99, c), and this diminished por- Neck, tion is called the neck of the uterus (cervix uteri) ; it is sur- rounded by the vagina, and is covered by this tube to a greater extent behind than in front. The neck is about half an inch in length, and gradually tapers towards the extremity. The body, or the intervening part of the uterus, is more Body, convex posteriorly than anteriorly, and decreases in size down to the neck. It is covered on both aspects by the peritoneum, except about half an inch at the lower part in front, where it is connected to the bladder. To each side, Sides and n , attached wliich is straight, the parts contained in the broad fold of parts.