400 DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. Eight duct is in tlie neck. It receives lymphatics of the arm and of the thorax. Their struc- ture hke the blood-ves- sels. Thoracic cord of the sympathetic nerve has twelve ganglia, and is covered by pleura. Branches to join the spinal nerves to supply viscera. the sternal and intercostal glands; also the lymphatics of the left lung, of the left side of the heart, and of the trachea and oesophagus. The right lymphatic duct, though not in the thorax, is formed mainly by the large branches received from the viscera in that cavity. It is a short trunk at the lower part of the neck, about half an inch in length, and opens into the angle of union of the subclavian and jugular veins of the same side (p. 76). Its opening is guarded by valves. Branches.—Into this trunk the lymphatics of the right upper limb, and of the right side of the head and neck pour their contents. In addition, the lymphatics of the right side of the chest, of the right lung and right side of the heart, and some from the right lobe of the liver, after passing through their respective glands, unite into a few large trunks, which ascend beneath the innominate vein to reach the duct in the neck. Structure of the ducts.—The wall of these tubes resembles that of the bloodvessels in structure (see p. 126). It has an external stratum of fibrous tissue ; an inner coat of elastic fibres covered by epithelium ; and a middle coat of circular fibres as in the arteries. Cord of the Sympathetic ISTerve.—The thoracic part of each gangliated cord of the sympathetic nerve lies on the side of the spinal column, and is placed over the heads of the ribs and the intercostal vessels. The ganglia on it are usually twelve, one being opposite each dorsal nerve, but this number varies much. The upper ganglion is the largest ; and the last two are rather anterior to the line of the others, being situate on the side of the bodies of the corresponding vertebrae. In the chest the sympathetic nerve is covered by the pleura ; and it is continuous above and below with the cord in the neck and the abdomen. Each ganglion furnishes external branches to communicate with the spinal nerves, and internal branches for the supply of the viscera. External or connectinghranches.—Two oflTsets pass outwards from each ganglion to join a spinal nerve (intercostal). In the branches of communication both spinal and sympathetic nerve fibres are combined ; but one consists almost entirely of white, and the other nearly altogether of sympathetic nerve fibres. The internal or visceral branches difier in size and distri- bution, according as they are derived from the upper or the lower six ganglia.