DISSECTION OF THE BEAHST. 226 Under part. Use. Dissection. Five ven- tricles are in the brain. Lateral ven- tricle. Shape and position; three cornua. centre, in consequence of a greater number of fibres being collected from the cerebrum ; and the posterior part is the thickest of all. Connected with the under surface is the septum lucidum or partition between the ventricles (fig. 37, s.), and still posterior to that is the fornix. This body is the chief commissural part of the halves of the brain, and reaches laterally even to the convolutions, but its fibres are not distinct far in the hemisphere. Dissection.—The lateral ventricle is to be dissected in the opposite hemisphere ; and to prepare it for examination, as much of the corpus callosum and white substance of the brain, as forms the roof of the cavity, is to be removed. A part of the ventricular space dips down in the middle lobe of the cerebrum towards the base of the brain, and to open it, a cut is to be carried outwards through the substance of the left hemisphere, and then downwards, also through the hemisphere, along the course of the hollow. (See fig. 36). Ybntricles of the brain.—The ventricular spaces in the interior of the cerebrum are derived, as before explained, from the subdivision of a large central space, and are four in number. One extends into both halves of the brain ; but the part in each hemisphere is described commonly as a separate ventricle (the lateral), so that these constitute the first and second. Another (third) occupies the middle line of the brain near the under surface ; and another small one (fifth) is included in the partition between the large ventricles of the hemispheres. The fourth ventricle is situate between the cerebellum and the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata and pons. The lateral ventricles (fig. 36) are two in number, one occupying each hemisphere ; they are separated incompletely in the middle line by a septum, for they communicate by an aperture below that partition. The interior is lined by a thin stratum of nucleated epithelium, with cilia in some spots ; and at places there is a subjacent stratum of con- nective tissue. Each is a narrow interval, which extends into the anterior, posterior, and middle lobes of the corresponding hemisphere. Its central part (body) is almost straight, but the points (cornua) by which it reaches into the difi'erent lobes are curved. Thus there are three cornua in each, which have the following disposition :—The anterior (fig. 36, g) is directed outwards from its fellow in the other hemisphere. The posterior or the digital cavity Qi) is much smaller in