40 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Brancli to digastric. Brancli to stylo-hyoi- deus. The upper part of the trunk has three sets of branches. Temporal branches pass to side of head. Malar branches goto eyelids. Branches are lost between eye and mouth. gastric (eightli) nerve, and ends in auricular and mastoid offsets (p. 8). h. The branch to the digastric muscle generally arises in common with the next. It is distributed by many offsets to the posterior belly of the muscle near the origin. Some- times one of these offsets passes through the fleshy fibres, and descends to join the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. c. The branch to the stylo-hyoideus is a long slender nerve, which is directed inwards to its muscle, and enters it about the middle. This branch communicates with the sympa- thetic nerve on the external carotid artery. As soon as the facial nerve has given off those branches, it is directed forwards through the gland, and divides near the ramus of the jaw into two large trunks—^temporo-facial and cervico-facial. The TEMPORO-FACIAL TRUNK fumishcs offsets to the side of the head and face, whose ramifications extend as low as the meatus auditorius. As this trunk crosses over the external carotid artery, it sends downwards branches to join the auriculo-temporal portion of the inferior maxillary nerve ; and in front of the ear it gives some filaments to the tragus of the pinna. Three sets of branches, temporal, malar, and infra-orbital, are derived from the ending of the temporo- facial nerve. The temporal branches ascend obliquely over the zygoma to the orbicular muscle, the corrugator supercilii, and the anterior part of the occipito-frontalis ; in which they are united with offsets of the supra-orbital nerve. The attrahens aurem muscle is supplied by this set ; and a junction takes place above the zygoma with the temporal branch of the superior maxillary nerve. The malar branches are directed to the outer angle of the orbit, and are distributed to the orbicularis muscle and the eyelids. In the eyelids communications take place with the palpebral filaments of the fifth nerve (p. 36) ; and near the outer part of the orbit, with the small subcutaneous malar branch of the superior maxillary nerve. The infra-orbital branches are larger than the rest, and are furnished to the muscles and the integument between the eye and mouth. Close to the orbit, and beneath the elevator of the upper lip, a remarkable communication,— infra-orbital plexus, is formed between these nerves and the infra-orbital branches of the superior maxillary. After crossing the branches of the fifth nerve, some small offsets of the facial nerve pass inwards to the side of the nose, and