SPERMATIC CORD. Dissection.—The prolongation of the fascia transversalis Dissection on the cord may be traced by cutting the fascia horizontally procesTon above the opening of the ring, and then longitudinally over cord, the cord. With the handle of the scalpel the thin mem- brane may be reflected to each side from the subperito- neal fat. After the subperitoneal fat has been seen, let it be re- and remains fleeted to trace the remains of a tube of peritoneum along neum^*^ the cord, in the form of a fibrous thread. The subperitoneal fat forms a layer between the fascia Subperi- transversalis and the peritoneum. Its depth varies much in the^groin. diff'erent bodies, but the stratum is thicker at the lower part of the abdomen than higher up. A prolongation is sent from it along the cord. This structure will be more specially examined in the dissection of the wall of the abdomen from the inside. The peritoneum, or the serous sac of the abdominal cavity, Peritoneum projects forwards slightly opposite the abdominal ring. Con- if p^Songed nected with it at that spot is a fibrous process, the remains on the cord; of a prolongation to the testis in the fetus, which extends a certain distance along the front of the cord. There is great variety in the condition of the process. In one body it can piece may be followed only a very short distance, whilst in another it yfouT,^^^ may be traced as a fine thread to the tunica vaginalis of the testis. In other instances the process may be sacculated at iJted^^"" intervals, or, in rarer cases, it may form only one large bag in front in the cord. The last two conditions can be ex- plained by an arrest in the obliteration usually taking place in the piece of peritoneum prolonged to the testis ; for should the tube be closed only opposite the abdominal ring, one large pouch or sac would be left in front of the cord and testicle; and should it be obliterated here and there, the sacculated state would result. Lastly, as a rare condition, or open, the tube of peritoneum may be found unobliterated, so that a coil of intestine could descend in it from the abdomen. In the female the tube of peritoneum remains sometimes in female, pervious for a short distance in front of the round ligament ; ^^^^^^ ^P®"' the unobliterated passage is named the canal of Nuck. The SPERMATIC CORD exteuds from the internal abdominal Spermatic ring to the testis, and consists of the vessels and the efierent duct of the gland, united together by coverings from the structures by or through which it passes. In the wall of [^g^^jj^Q® the abdomen the cord lies obliquely, because its aperture of minal wal entrance amongst, is not opposite its aperture qf exit from the muscles; but escaped from the abdomen, it descends