513 EEGIONS OF THE ABDOMEK. influenced by tlie varying conditions of the boundaries. Its altered by depth, is diminished by the contraction and descent of the diaphragm diaphragm, and the contraction and ascent of the levatores f'^nd levator ani ; and it is restored to its former dimensions by the relaxation of those muscles. The width is lessened by the Width by contraction of the abdominal muscles ; and it is enlarged, ^^110^ during their relaxation, by the action of the diaphragm and abdomen, levatores ani driving outwards the viscera. The greatest How excreta diminution of the space is effected by the simultaneous contraction of all the muscular boundaries, as in the ex- pulsion of the excreta. Divisions of the space.—An arbitrary division has been Division of made of the space into that of the pelvis and that of the space, abdomen proper. The pelvic portion is situate below the brim of the pelvis, Peivic and contains chiefly the generative and urinary organs. portion. The abdominal i^ortion reaches from the diaphragm to the Abdomen brim of the pelvis, and lodges the alimentary tube and its p^<^p®^- appendages, together with the kidneys—the secretory organs of the urine. A serous membrane, the peritoneum, lines the cavity, and covers the viscera. The following description concerns the part of the cavity Abdomen between the diaphragm and the orim of the pelvis. Towards described?^ the end of the dissection of the abdomen, the pelvic portion Peivis after, will receive a separate notice. Regions. —The large upper part of the abdominal cavity is Abdominal divided artificially into regions by lines extended between ^^^^^^ certain points of the parietes. If two circular lines are carried round the body, so marked out that one shall be opposite the cartilage of the ninth rib, ^^*^^^oioii«- and the other on a level with the most prominent point of the crest of the hip bone, the abdominal cavity will be divided into three circles or zones, upper, middle, and lower. Each of these circles may be further subdivided into Lateral three by two lines, one on each side, from the cartilage of the eighth rib to the centre of Poupart's ligament. The piece marked off on each side from the three circles by the vertical line is named respectively, from above downwards, hypochondriac, lumbar, and iliac (right and left) ; whilst the central part of each circle is designated from above and central, down, epigastric, umbilical, and hypogastric. In addition, the central and lower part of the hypogastric division is named pubic region, whilst its lateral portion is known as the inguinal region.