322 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. fourth, The fourth furnishes a nerve to the second lumbrical muscle, and divides to supply the contiguous sides of the fore and middle fingers, fifth. The fifth, like the fourth, is distributed by two branches to the opposed sides of the middle and ring fingers : it is joined by a branch from the ulnar nerve. Termination The ncTves on the fingers,—On the sides of the fingers the of the^ ^^^^^ nerves are superficial to the arteries, and reach to the last fingers. phalanx, where they end in filaments for the ball at the tip of the finger, and for the pulp beneath the nail. In their Lateral off- course forwards, the nerves supply chiefly tegumentary branches : one of these is directed backwards by the side of the metacarpal phalanx, and after uniting with the digital nerve on the back of the finger (p. 306), is continued to the dorsum of the last phalanx. Dissection Dissection.—The tendons of the flexor muscles may be tendons^^^ followed next to their termination. To expose them the ulnar artery should be cut through below the origin of the profunda branch ; and the small superficial volar branch (of radial) having been divided, the palmar arch is to be thrown forwards to the fingers. The ulnar and median nerves are then to be cut below the annular ligament, and turned for- wards. A longitudinal incision is to be made through the centre of the annular ligament, without injuring the small muscles that arise from it, and the pieces of the ligament are to be thrown to the sides. Finally the sheaths of the fingers may be opened for the purpose of observing the insertion of the tendons. Synovial sac Flexoe- TENDONS. —Beneath the annular ligament the tendons^^ tendons of the deep and superficial flexors are surrounded by a large and loose synovial membrane, which projects upwards into the forearm and downwards into the hand, and sends an offset into the digital sheath of both the thumb and the little finger."^ In the hand the tendons of the deep flexor give attachment to the small lumbrical muscles. Tendons of Tendons of the flexor suUimis.—The tendons of the flexor fiexo?*^^^^ sublimis are superficial to those of the deep flexor beneath the ligament ; and the four tendons are nearly on the same level, instead of being arranged in pairs as in the forearm, in the hand. After crossing the palm of the hand, they enter the sheaths Insertion. of the fingers (fig. 46, ^), and are inserted by two processes into the margins of the middle phalanx, about the centre. When first entering the digital sheath, the tendon of the Theile refers the notice of this fact to M» Maslieurat-Lagemard, in No. 18 of the ''Gazette Medicale" for 1839.