447 DIVISION" OF THE SPmAL CORD. examined, the medulla occupies about two thirds of the Extent, length of the vertebral canal, and is much smaller than the bony case surrounding it. The extent of the cord is from the level of the atlas to the Its extent lower border of the first lumbar vertebra, but its termina- j^^J'^®^ tion inferiorly may be a little higher or lower than that spot. Its length is usually from fifteen to seventeen inches. Supe- Length, riorly the cord joins the medulla oblongata ; and inferiorly Inferior ^ it becomes pointed, being sometimes marked by one or two ia™e^adui^t swellings, and ends in the fibrous prolongation of the pia mater named the central ligament of the cord. In the em- and in the bryo before the third month the medulla reaches all the embryo, length of the spinal canal, but it gradually recedes as the surrounding bones enlarge faster than it, until it takes the position it has in the adult. The size of the spinal cord is much increased where the its size nerves of the limbs are attached. There are therefore two ^^^^reased where enlargements on it :—one is 0]3posite the lower part of the nerves of neck, reaching as high as the third cervical vertebra ; the auached^ other is smaller, and is on a level with the last dorsal ver- tebra. In the cervical enlargement the greatest thickness is from side to side ; but in the lower swelling the measure- ment of the cord is greatest from before back. Whilst the pia mater remains on the cord, the anterior Anterior surface is distinguished from the jDOsterior by the central ^JJ^^^^gi^^^" fibrous band and the anterior spinal artery ; and by the from^poste- irregular line of the anterior roots, which approaches the centre towards the lower end. Dissection. —For the examination of the structure the Dissection student should possess a piece of the medulla which has stituents of been hardened in spirit, for the cord which is obtained from cord, the spinal canal at this period, is not fitted for the purpose of dissection. Supposing the pia mater removed from the surface, without the roots of the nerves being detached, the student will be able to observe the following divisions in the cord :— Fissures of the Corb (fig. 67).—On the anterior and Fissm-es of posterior aspects of the cord is a median longitudinal cleft— ^"^'"^ the anterior and posterior median fissures, which mark its division into halves ; and along the line of the posterior roots of the nerves, in each half, is another slit—the lateral fissure. The anterior median fissure (fig. 68, a) is wider than the anterior posterior, and penetrates about one third of the thickness of the medulla. It is lined by a piece of the pia mater, and