688 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. Connections of the first or oblique part ; of the middle part; and of Ihe lower jjart. Divide the sartorius, and dissect the uevves and vessels. Aponeurosis over the femoral artery; ends below by a defined border. Deep part of oblique, * and forms the outer boundary of the triangular spa3e containing the femoral artery : it rests on the iliacus, rectus, and adductor longus muscles, as v/ell as on the anterior crural nerve and the femoral vessels. The middle part is vertical : it lies at first in a hollow between the vastus internus and the adductor muscles, this connection continuing as low as the opening for the femoral artery ; but beyond that aperture, where it bounds the popliteal space at the inner side, the sartorius lies between the vastus and great adductor and the inner hamstring muscles. The femoral vessels and their accompanying nerves are concealed by this portion of the muscle. The lower or tendinous part lies on the internal lateral ligament of the knee joint, super- ficial to the tendons of the gracilis and semitendinosus, and separated from them by a prolongation of their synovial bursa : from its upper border there is an aponeurotic expan- sion which joins that from the extensors over the knee : and from its lower border is another which blends with the fascia of the leg. Below the tendon the great saphenous nerve appears with an artery ; and piercing it is the branch of the same nerve. Dissection.—The sartorius is to be turned aside, or cut through if it is necessary, to follow the remaining part of the femoral artery. Beneath the muscle is an aponeurosis between the adductor and extensor muscles ; when this is divided the internal saphenous nerve will come into view. Parallel to the upper part of the saphenous nerve but out- side it, is the nerve to the vastus internus muscle, which sends an ofi'set to the knee joint. The plexus of nerves on the inner side of the thigh may be more completely dissected in this stage. The femoral vessels and their branches are to be nicely cleaned. Where the femoral artery passes to the back of the limb its small anastomotic branch arises. This branch is to be pursued through the fibres of the vastus internus, and in front of the adductor magnus tendon to the knee ; a branch of it is to be followed with the saphenous nerve. The apone.urotic covering over the femoral vessels exists only where these are covered by the sartorius. It is formed of strong fibres, which are directed transversely between the vastus internus and the tendons of the adductor muscles. Inferiorly the membranous structure ceases at the opening in the adductor magnus by a defined border, beneath which the saphenous nerve and its artery escape. Femoral apvTERy in the middle of the thigh.—In