279 THE DELTOID MUSCLE. bones of the shoulder ; the insertion is united with the tendon of the pectoralis major, and has a fasciculus of the brachialis anticus on each side of it. Dissection.—The deltoid is to be divided near its origin, Dissection and to be thrown down as much as the circumflex vessels deitoid?^^ and nerve will permit without cutting them. As the muscle is raised a large thick bursa between it and the head of the humerus comes into sight. The loose tissue and fat are to be taken away from the circumflex vessels and nerve, and the remains of the bursa are to be removed. The in- sertion of the muscle should be also examined. Farts covered hy deltoid.—The deltoid conceals the head Parts and the upper part of the humerus, and those parts of the the^dehoid dorsal scapular muscles that are fixed to its great tuberosity. Below the head of the bone are the circumflex vessels and nerve, and the upper part of the biceps muscle. In front of the humerus is the coracoid process with its muscles. A large bursa, sometimes divided into several sacs, intervenes between the convex head of the humerus and the under surface of the deltoid muscle and the acromion process. Dissection.—By following back the circumflex vessels and J^^^^^^^^^^ nerve through a space between the humerus and the long flex vessels, head of the triceps, their origin from the axillary trunks will be arrived at. In clearing the fat from the space care must be taken of a branch of nerve to the teres minor muscle. Arching backwards in front of the neck of the humerus, is the small anterior circumflex arterj'-. The circumflex arteries are the last branches of the axil- Two circiim- lary trunk, and arise near its termination (p, 269). They are two in number, and are named anterior and posterior from their position on the neck of the humerus. a. The anterior branch is a small artery which courses anterior and transversely outwards, beneath the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles, and anastomoses in front of the humerus with branches of the posterior circumflex. As it crosses the bicipital groove it sends upwards a branch to the articu- lation and the head of the humerus. 6. The posterior circumflex artery is larger in size, and posterior, arises opposite the border of the subscapular muscle. It winds backwards through a space between the humerus and the long head of the triceps, and is distributed chiefly to the deltoid muscle, in which it anastomoses with the acromial thoracic artery. Branches are given from it to the head of the humerus its offsets, and the shoulder joint, and to anastomose with the anterior