DISSECTION OF THE PELYIS. 622 sacral arteries supply spinal branch. Gluteal artery. Small offsets. Branches of anterior trunk. Vesical arteries; three or four upper, and a lower, ■with an offset to the rectum. Obturator artery courses across pel- vis ; and inferior, but the upper is the largest. They correspond in situation with the lumbar arteries, and form a chain of anastomoses by the side of the apertures in the front of the sacrum. These branches supply the pyriformis and coccygeus muscles, and anastomose with the foregoing, as well as with the middle sacral branch. A small spinal branch enters the spinal canal through each aj^erture in the sacrum. 3. The gluteal artery is a short thick trunk, which appears to be the continuation of the posterior division of the internal iliac. Its destination is to the gluteal muscles on the dorsum of the innominate bone; and it is transmitted from the pelvis above the border of the pyriformis muscle, with its accompanying vein and the superior gluteal nerve. In the pelvis this artery gives small hroMches to the con- tiguous muscles, viz., the iliacus, pyriformis, and obturator, and a nutritious artery to the hip bone. The branches from the anterior portion of the internal iliac artery are the following :— 1. The vesical arteries, superior and inferior, are dis- tributed to the upper and lower parts of the bladder. a. The upper vesical, three or four in number, arise at intervals from the partly obliterated hypogastric trunk ; the lowest is sometimes called middle vesical branch. Offsets are furnished from these branches to all the body and the upper part of the bladder. b. The lower vesical artery arises from the front of the internal iliac in common with a branch to the rectum, or with one to the vagina in the female. It is distributed to the base of the bladder, the vesiculee seminales, and the prostate. A small offset from this artery, or from the upper vesical set, is furnished to the vas deferens, and ascends on it as far as the inguinal canal. 2. The branch to the rectum ('middle hsemorrhoidal) is commonly supplied by the inferior vesical, as before said, or by the pudic. It ramifies on the anterior and lower part of the rectum, and on the vagina in the female, and anasto- moses with the superior and inferior hsBmorrhoidal arteries. 3. The obturator artery is distributed outside the pelvis, and merely crosses this cavity to reach the aperture of exit. The branch springs usually from the anterior trunk resulting from the division of the internal iliac artery, and is directed forwards below the brim of the pelvis to the aperture in the upper part of the thyroid foramen. Passing from the pelvis by that opening the artery ends in two branches, which join on the membrane closing the thyroid