175 CARTILAGES OF THE LAEY^TX. cornu with the body, and is joined by the stylo-hyoid ligament. It is seldom wholly ossified. Cartilages of the Larynx.—There are four large J^Jj,^^'^^^^ cartilages in the larynx, which are concerned in the produc- four large tion of the voice, viz. the thyroid, the cricoid, and the two arytsenoid. In addition there are some fibro-cartilaginous and some structures called yellow cartilage, viz. the epiglottis, a capi- i^gf^^ tulum to each arytaenoid cartilage, and on each side a small roundish piece (cuneiform) in the arytseno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane. The thyroid cartilage is the largest of all: it forms the Thyroid upper part of the larynx, and protects the vocal apparatus as with a shield. The upper part of this cartilage is consi- is c^^^^^x in derably wider than the lower, and in consequence of this the ' form of the larynx somewhat resembles a funnel. The ante- rior part is prominent in the middle line, forming the sub- cutaneous swelling named pomiim Adami ; but the cartilage concave is concave behind at the same spot, and gives attachment to behind, the epiglottis and the thyro-arytsenoid muscles and ligaments. The upper border is notched in the centre. The cartilage consists of two square parts or halves, which Formed of two IlillvCS are united in the middle line. Posteriorly each half of the cartilage has a thick border, which terminates upwards and each having downwards in a rounded projection or cornu, both of which cornua! are bent slightly inwards : of the tvf o, the upper cornu is the longest; but the lower cornu is thicker than the other, and articulates with the cricoid cartilage. The inner surface of each half is smooth ; but the outer is marked by an oblique line, which extends from a tubercle near the root of the upper cornu, almost to the middle of the lower border., The cricoid cartilage is stronger though smaller than the Cricoid thyroid ; it is partly concealed by the shield-like cartilage, ^^^^^^^f?®- below which it is placed, and encircles the cavity of the larynx. It is very unequal in depth before and behind, the Form, posterior part being three times deeper than the anterior, something like a signet ring. The outer surface is rough, and gives attachment to Surfoces. muscles. At the back of the cartilage there is a flat and rather square surface, which is marked by a median ridge between two contiguous muscular depressions ; and on each side immediately in front of the square surface, is a slight , articular mark, which receives the lower cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The inner surface is smooth, and is covered by mucous membrane. The lower border is almost straight, and is united to the Borders,