498 DISSECTIO^T OF THE ABDOMEN. Vessels in abdominal wall. Intercostal arteries. Lumbar. Internal mammary. Musculo- phrenic. Epigastric anastomoses with inter- nal mam- mary. Connections in wall of abdomen. Branches. Pubic joins obturator by an offset. structure is closely connected with the front of the crural sheath, and is arched down on the inner side of that tube to be fixed to the bone. Vessels in the Wall of the Abdomen.—On the side of the abdomen are the intercostal and lumbar arteries with the intercostal nerves. In the sheath of the rectus are the epigastric and internal mammary vessels. And around the crest of the hip bone is the circumflex iliac branch. The intercostal arteries issue from the spaces between the ribs, and enter the abdominal wall between the fcransversalis and internal oblique muscles : they extend forwards with the nerves, supplying the contiguous muscles, and anasto- mose in front with the internal mammary and epigastric, and behind with the lumbar arteries. Liimhar artery.—The vessel accompanying the last dorsal nerve is furnished by the first lumbar artery. The internal mammary artery.—The abdominal branch of this vessel (p. 274) enters the wall of the abdomen beneath the cartilage of the seventh rib. Descending for a short distance in the sheath of the rectus, the vessel enters the substance of that muscle, and anastomoses in it with the epigastric artery. The musculo-phrenic part of the same artery passes out- wards along the margin of the thorax to the last intercostal space. It appears on the under surface of the diaphragm at the ninth rib, and gives off'sets to that muscle and the lower intercostal spaces. The epigastric artery arises from the external iliac about a quarter of an inch above Poupart's ligament ; it ascends in the sheath of the rectus above the umbilicus, and divides into branches which enter the muscle, and anastomose with the internal mammary. As it courses to the rectus, the artery passes beneath the cord and on the inner side of the internal abdominal ring ; and it is directed obliquely inwards across the lower part of the abdomen, where it forms the outer boundary of a triangular space close to the edge of the rectus. In this course the vessel lies at first beneath the fascia transversalis ; but it soon perforates the fascia, and enters the sheath of the rectus over the defined border at the posterior aspect. The branches of the artery are numerous but incon- siderable in size :— a. The pubic branch is a small transverse artery, which runs behind Poupart's ligament to the posterior aspect of the pubes, and anastomoses with a similar branch from the