DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. 404 The centre of the muscle is tendinous, and the sides are Parts in fleshy. In contact v/ith the upper surface are the lungs on with it. the sides, and the pericardium in the middle. In the Apertures diaphragm are the following apertures :—one for the oeso- in it. phagus and the pneumogastric nerves, another for the vena cava, and a third for the aorta with the thoracic duct and the vena azygos. The phrenic vessels and nerves enter the upper surface, external to the pericardium; and the splanchnic nerves are transmitted to the abdomen through the posterior part, whilst the sympathetic passes beneath it. The dissec- Directions.—The dissector of the thorax now waits while back^is now "the dissection of the back is made. Afterwards he is to made. examine the ligaments of the ribs and spine : a notice of these will be found in the following section. Section II. LIGAMENTS OF THE TRUNK. Enumera- tion of the ligaments. A rib is united with the verte- brae and the sternum. To see liga- ments to the verte- brse. To rib and sternum. Ligaments of head of rib are The ligaments of the vertebrae, of the ribs, and of the sternum, are described in this section. Articulation of the Hibs.—Each sternal rib is united to the vertebra on the one side, and to the sternum on the other, by three sets of ligaments, viz., one between the head of the bone and the bodies of the vertebrse ; a second from the neck and tubercle to the transverse processes of the vertebrae ; and a third between the cartilage and the sternum. The asternal ribs will want the last articulation. Dissection.—For the purpose of examining the ligaments between the head and neck of the rib and the vertebrae, take a piece of the spinal column with three or four ribs attached. After removing the intercostal muscles and the loose tissue from the surface of the bones, the student will be able to define the following undermentioned ligaments passing from the head and neck of the rib to the spinal column and the transverse processes. The ligaments attaching the costal cartilage to the rib and sternum are to be dissected on the part of the anterior wall of the thorax that was removed in opening the thoracic cavity. A. Ligaments from the head of the rib.—The head of the rib is received into a hollow on the side of the bodies of two contiguous vertebrae, except in the first, eleventh, and twelfth