ARTICULATIONS OF OS CALCIS. 769 lation between the astragalus and the anterior part of the OS calcis. The OS calcis with the scaphoid bone.—These bones Os calcis are not in contact, but ligamentous bands extend between p^oid^^V them both below and on the outer side of the head of the astragalus, which serve as inferior and lateral ligaments to the astragalo-scaphoid articulation, and make more com- plete the socket for the reception of the fore part of the astragalus. The inferior ligament (calcaneo-scaphoid) will be defined inferior and in the sole of the foot by removing some fibro-cartilaginous substance from it (fig. 113, ^) ; and its upper surface, toge- ther with the outer ligament, will be brought into view by sawing off the part of the astragalus in front of the inter- osseous ligament. It is attached by one extremity to the fore part of the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis, and by the other to a groove on the under surface of the scaphoid bone. In the upright posture of the body the tendon of the tibialis posticus is beneath the ligament in the sole of the foot, and on it the head of the astragalus rests. The external calcaneo-scaphoid (fig. 114,is placed outside external the head of the astragalus, and serves as a lateral ligament ^^^^^^^^^s- to the astragalo-scaphoid articulation ; it is about three quarters of an inch deep, except at the centre, where it is narrowed. Behind, it is fixed to the fore part of the os calcis, between the articular surfaces for the cuboid bone and astragalus ; and in front it is attached to the outer side of the OS scaphoides. The OS calcis with the cuboid bone.—The ligaments Os calcis in this articulation are plantar and dorsal, the former being cuboid much the strongest ; and there is also an internal or inter- ' osseous band. The dorsal ligament (superior calcaneo-cuboid) is a thin dorsal, fasciculus of fibres (fig. 116), which is attached to the upper surfaces of the contiguous ends of the os calcis and the cuboid bone; it may be divided into two parts. At the inner side of the os cuboides is a rather strong luteruai, internal or interosseous hand from the os calcis : this is attached behind to the upper part of the os calcis, external to the outer band to the scaphoid bone ; and in front it joins the contiguous inner part of the os cuboides. The inferior calcaneo-cuboid ligament in the sole of the ^'^^ inferior foot (fig. 115) is the strongest, and is divided into a super- ficial and deep part :—The superficial portion, named liga- mentum longum plantx (^), is attached to the under surface