DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Si cliaiige in origin and in number. Branches now seen are Superior thyroid, has offsets to the hyoid bone, sterno-mas- toid muscle, to larynx. to crico- thyroid membrane. mg vem. Facial artery. include the ascending pharyngeal, temporal, and internal maxillary arteries. Besides these, the carotid gives other branches to the sterno-mastoid muscle and the parotid gland. The regular origin of the branches, as this will be, described below, may be departed from by means of the closer aggregation of the branches on the trunk of the carotid. And further, the usual number may be diminished by two or more-taking origin in common ; or the number may be increased by some of the secondary offsets being transferred to the parent trunk. All the branches, except . the ascending pharyngeal, lingual, and internal maxillary, may be now examined ; but those three will be described afterwards with the regions they occupy. The superior thyroid artery arises near the cornu of the OS hyoides, and runs downwards on the inner side of the common carotid artery, passing beneath the omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, to the thyroid body, to which it is distributed on the anterior aspect. T^his branch is superficial in the anterior triangle, and furnishes offsets to the lowest constrictor as well as to the muscles beneath which it lies, in addition to the following named branches :— a. The hyoid branch is very inconsiderable in size, and runs inwards below the hyoid bone : it supplies the parts attached to that bone, and anastomoses with the vessel of the o]Dposite side. h. A branch for the sterno-mastoid muscle lies in front of the sheath of the common carotid artery, and is distributed chiefly to the muscle from which it takes its name. c. The laryngeal hrafich pierces the membrane between the hyoid bone and thyroid cartilage, with the superior laryngeal nerve, and ends in the interior of the larynx. d. A small crico-thyroid branch is placed on the membrane betweeen the cricoid and thyroid cartilages, and communi- cates with the corresponding artery of the opposite side, forming an arch. The superior thyroid vein commences in the larynx and^ the thyroid body, and crosses the end of the common carotid artery to open into the internal jugular vein. The facial artery arises above the lingual, and is directed upwards over the lower jaw to the face. In the neck the artery passes beneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and is afterwards received on the submaxillary gland, on