ANTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. 63 Next, the parts that occupy the anterior triangle, (fig. 9), are to be brought into view by taking away the fat and fascia, but without displacing or injuring them. In Seek a small removing the sheath from the cervical vessels, as these appear from beneath the muscles at the lower part of the neck, the dissector should be careful of the small descending branch of the hypo-glossal nerve in front of it. In the sheath between the vessels (carotid artery and jugular vein) will be found the pneumo-gastric nerve, and behind the sheath is the sympathetic nerve. The trunks into which Trace the artery bifurcates are to be followed upwards, especially the more superficial one (external carotid), whose numerous branches are to be traced as far as they lie in the space. Crossing the space, in the direction of a line from the and nerves, mastoid process to the hyoid bone, are the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles ; and lying below them is the hypo- glossal nerve, which gives one branch (descendens noni) in front of the sheath, and another to the thyro-hyoid muscle. Directed downwards and backwards from beneath the same muscles to the sterno-mastoideus, is the spinal accessory nerve. On the inner side of the vessels, between the hyoid Laryngeal . . nerves. bone and the thyroid cartilage, the dissector will find the superior laryngeal nerve ; and with the descending part of the superior thyroid artery, its small external laryngeal branch. Lastly, clean the submaxillary gland close to the base of clean gland, the jaw ; and on partly displacing it from the surface of the H^^yiJ"^^ mylo-hyoid muscle, the student will expose the small branch hyoid. of nerve to that muscle with the submental artery. The interval between the jaw and the mastoid process is supposed to be already cleaned by the removal of the parotid gland in • the dissection of the facial nerve. ANTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. This space (fig. 9) contains the carotid vessels and their Triangular branches, with many nerves, and corresponds with the frjlit of hollow on the surface of the neck in front of the sterno- neck, mastoid muscle. Its limits are the following :—Behind is Boundaries, the sterno-mastoid muscle, 1 ; and in front a line from the chin to the sternum, along the middle of the neck. Above, at the base of the space, would be the lower jaw, with a line prolonged from it to the sterno-mastoideus ; and below, at the apex, is the sternum. Over this space are placed the skin and superficial fascia, the platysma, the deep fascia, and the ramifications of the facial and superficial cervical nerves.