442 DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL COED. Fibrous bands are connected ■with it. And ends inferiorly in a fibrous piece. ^srhich is called central ligament. The dentate ligament, is fixed on one side to cord. and on other to dura mater by points. Number and attach- ment of these. Vessels and nerves of dura mater. of arach- noid ; of pia mater. front is a central, anterior fibrous band (linea splendens, Haller) ; and on each side another fibrous band, the liga- mentum denticulatum, is attached to it. Scattered through the membrane are branched pigment cells, which give fre- quently a darkish appearance in the cervical region where they most abound. Where the medulla spinalis ceases, viz. about the lower part of the body of the first lumbar vertebra, the investing tube of the pia mater is suddenly reduced in size, and has the appearance of a round fibrous cord. This cord-like part reaches towards the end of the spinal canal. It is unpro- vided with nervous substance, except for a short distance, and is blended with the central impervious prolongation of the dura mater on a level with the upper part of the sacrum. It serves to fix the lower end of the medulla, and has been named, from that circumstance, the central ligament of the cord. A vein and artery accompany this fibrous piece, and mark it out from the surrounding nerves. The ligamentum denticulatum is the white fibrous band on each side of the spinal cord. It is named from its serrated appearance ; and it has the same structure as the dura mater, except that it wants an epithelial covering. Situate between the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves, the band reaches upwards to the medulla oblongata, and ends inferiorly on the lower pointed extremity of the cord. Internally it is united to the pia mater. Externally it ends in a series of triangular or tooth-like projections, which are fixed at intervals along the dura mater, each being about midway from above down between the apertures of the roots of two spinal nerves. There are twenty or twenty- one denticulations, of which the first is attached to the dura mater opposite the margin of the occipital foramen, between the vertebral artery and the hypoglossal nerve ; and the last is inserted opposite the last dorsal or the first lumbar vertebra. This fibrous band supports the spinal cord, and has been called a ligament from that circumstance. Vessels and nerves of the membranes.—The dura mater of the cord has but few vessels in comparison with that in the skull, for its ofiice is difierent. Nerves have not yet been traced into it, though they have been found on the vessels supplying the cord and its membranes. The arachnoid is sparingly supplied with vessels like serous membranes in general, and proof of its containing nerves is yet wanting. The pia mater has a network of vessels in its substance,