534 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEK part is the longest, and is moveable. Parts around it. Form and situation of the pan- creas. Its connec- tions by the surfaces, borders, and extremities. and is continued across the spinal column to end in the jejunal portion of the small intestine. As it crosses the spine, it ascends from the third to the level of the second lumbar vertebra, and lies between the layers of the trans- verse meso-colic fold of the peritoneum. It has the follow- ing connections with parts around :—In front of it are the superior mesenteric vessels with their plexus of nerves. Beneath it lie the aorta and the vena cava, with the pillars of the diaphragm ; and sometimes the left renal vein is between it and the aorta. Above it is the pancreas. Pancreas (fig. 84, i).—The pancreas is situate behind the stomach, and has numerous and complicated connections. Of an elongated form, it extends across the spine from the spleen to the duodenum, and occupies the left hypochon- driac, the umbilical, and the right lumbar region of the abdomen. The gland is covered anteriorly by the ascending layer of the transverse meso-colon. It is in contact posteriorly with the aorta, the vena cava, and the pillars of the diaphragm; and it conceals likewise the splenic vein and the commence- ment of the vena portse. Projecting above the upper border, near the centre, is the arterial trunk of the coeliac axis ; to the left of that vessel, along the same border, is the splenic artery, whilst to the right of it are the hepatic artery and the first part of the duodenum. At the lower border, the superior mesen- teric vessels emerge opposite the coeliac axis ; to the right of that spot lies the third part of the duodenum, and to the left of it is the inferior mesenteric ascending to join the splenic vein. The left end or the tail of the pancreas (t) touches the spleen, and is placed over the left kidney. The right ex- tremity or the head Qi) is received into the concavity of the duodenum, the two being partly separated behind by the common bile duct, and in front by the pancreatico-duodenal artery ; this part projects above and below the body of the gland, like the head of a hammer beyond the handle ; and the lower projecting piece is directed to the left along the duodenum as far as the superior mesenteric vessels, beneath which it passes. VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE CHYLO-POIETIC VISCERA. Vessels and X short branch from the aorta, viz., the coeliac axis, fur- nerves of . - . ,-,11 jl T chyio-poietic nislies arteries to the stomach and duodenum, the liver, viscera.