662 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. attachments and connec- tions. Apertures formed by them. Special hg; ments of hip bones. Ilio-lumbar fixes the bone be- hind. Obturator membrane closes an aperture in front. Union at the pubes. Anterior band. fibres are directed outwards to the ischial spine of the hip bone, and are inserted into it by a narrowed part. Its pelvic surface is covered by the coccygeus muscle, and its opposite surface is in contact with the great sacro-sciatic ligament. Above this ligament, between it and the bone, is the large sacro-sciatic foramen ; and below it is the small foramen of the same name. By their position these ligaments convert into two apertures or foramina (sacro-sciatic), the large sacro-sciatic excavation in the dried bones : these openings, and the parts they give passage to, are described in the dissection of the buttock. Ligaments of the Innominate Bones.—The innominate bones are united in front, at the pubic symphysis, by an interposed cartilage and special ligaments ; and behind, each is connected with the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra by a special band (ilio-lumbar). In the centre of the bone is a membranous structure closing the thyroid aperture. The ilio-lumbar or ilio-vertehral ligament is triangular in form (fig. 100, ^), and is divided into fasciculi. Internally it is attached to the tip of the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra ; externally the fibres spread out, and are inserted into the iliac crest, opposite the posterior part of the iliac fossa on the inner aspect of the hip bone. To the upper border of this ligament the fascia lumboram is attached. Its posterior surface is covered by the quadratus lumborum, and its anterior by the iliacus muscle. The obturator membrane closes almost entirely the thyroid foramen (fig. 100, ^^), and is composed of fibres crossing in diflerent directions. It is attached at the outer and upper part to the bony margin of the foramen, except above where the obturator vessels lie ; and it is connected towards the inner part to the pelvic surface of the bone. The surfaces of the ligament give attachment to the obturator muscles. Branches of the obturator artery and nerve perforate it. Pubic Articulation (symphysis pubis).—The oval pubic surfaces of the hip bones are united by cartilage, and by fibres in front of, and above the bones. They are also con- nected by a strong subpubic ligament. The anterior pubic ligament (fig. 800, ^) is very strong and is formed of different layers of fibres. The superficial are oblique, and cross one another, uniting with the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen ; but the deeper fibres are transverse between the surfaces of the bones. Some of the deeper fibres contain cartilage cells. There is not any posterior band ; but beneath the periosteum.