DISSECTIO^T OF THE ABDOMEl^. 582 Two coats form the duct; a muscular and a mucous. Vasaben^ans like the duct. Organ of Giraldfes. Remains of Wolf&an body. Consti- tuents. Structure. Contents. Spermatic artery. but it may not exceed an incL. and a lialf in length. Its capacity is greatest at the free end. Its use is unknown. The vas aberrans may be found divided or doubled. Structure.—The excretory duct of the testis is formed chiefly by a thick muscular coat, which is covered ex- ternally by fibrous tissue, and lined internally by mucous membrane. To the feel the duct is firm and wiry, like whip-cord. On a section its wall is dense and of a rather yellow colour, but it is thinnest at the head of the epi- didymis. The muscular coat is composed of longitudinal and circular fibres arranged in strata, so that both externally and internally is a longitudinal layer, the latter being very thin ; and between them is the layer of circular fibres. The mucous membrane is marked by longitudinal ridges in the straight part of the canal, and by irregular ones in the sacculated portion. A pavement epithelium, with brown pigment granules in the cells (Kolliker), covers the inner surface, but in the epididymis and the vasa efi'erentia the epithelium is said to be cylindrical and ciliated. (Becker.) The canal of the vas deferens is larger than that of the epididymis, as before stated. The vas aberrans resembles the vas deferens in structure. Organ of Giraldes,"^—In the spermatic cord, close above the epididymis, is a small whitish granular looking body ('^ Corps Innomine," Girald^s), about half an inch long, which is considered by its discoverer to be the remains of the Wolffian body of the embryo. With magnifying power its component white granules or specks are resolved into small vesicles, and convoluted tubes of varying shape, with plexuses of bloodvessels ramifying on the exterior. The wall of both vesicles and tubes consists of a thin fibrous membrane, lined by flattened epithelium. In the interior is a clear and thick fluid with transparent granules in it. After about the sixth year this body begins to diminish. Bloodvessels and nerves of the testicle.—The branches of the spermatic artery pierce the back of the testis, and enter the posterior part of the mediastinum behind the rete testis. Leaving the mediastinum, the vessels are finely divided in the vascular membrane lining the interior of the tunica albuginea. After being thus divided ofisets are continued Sur un Organe place dans le Cordon Spermatique, et dont I'exist- ence n'a pas ete signalee par les Anatomistes—Par F. Griraldes. Pro- ceedings of the Eoyal Society for May, 1858.