338 DISSECTIOlSr OF THE UPPER LIMB. The liga- ments are External lateral. ingthe ^ lower end of the humerus is received into the hollow of elbow joint. ^^^^ ^^^^^ produce a hinge-like arrangement ; and the upper end of the radius assists to form part of the joint. Where the bones touch the surfaces are Fig. 49.* covered with cartilage, and their articular ends are kept in place by the following ligaments :— The external lateral ligament is a roundish fasciculus, which is attached by one end to the outer condyle of the humerus, and by the other to the orbicular ligament around the head of the radius. A few of the pos- terior fibres pass backwards to the external margin of the ulna. The internal lateral ligament is triangular in shape. It is pointed at its upper ex- tremity, and is connected to the inner condyle of the humerus. The fibres di- verge as they descend, and are inserted in this way :—The anterior which are the strongest, are fixed to the inner edge of the coronoid process ; the posterior are at- tached to the inner side of the olecranon ; whilst the middle fibres join a transverse ligamentous band over the notch between the olecranon and the coronoid process. The ulnar nerve is in contact with this liga- 'SiSliiil ment; and a vessel enters the joint by an aperture beneath the transverse band. The anterior ligament is thin, and its fibres are separated by intervals in which masses of fat are lodged. By its upper margin the ligament is inserted into the front of the humerus, and by its lower margin into the anterior part of the coronoid process and the orbicular ligament. The brachialis anticus muscle covers it. The posterior ligament is much thinner than the anterior, and is covered completely by the triceps muscle. Superiorly it is attached to the humerus above the fossa for the ole- cranon ; and inferiorly it is inserted into the olecranon. Internal lateral is wide. Inferior attach- ment. A notch on inner side of the joint. Anterior ligament is thin. Posterior ligament is weakest. * The ligaments of the elbow joint, and of the shafts of the radius and ulna (Bourgery and Jacob).—1. Capsule of the elbow joint. 2. Oblique ligament. 3. Interosseous ligament. 4. Aperture for blood- 5. Tendon of the biceps.