FOURTH VENTRICLE. 249 of tlie pons, are some white lines, which vary much in their arrangement, and sometimes are not to be recognised : they issue from the central median fissure, and enter the auditory nerve (p. 202) ; but one may be seen sometimes to enter the locus cseruleus. Besides the objects above mentioned, there are other Eminences eminences in the floor of the ventricle indicating the position ^ucSI^ of the nuclei of origin of certain nerves. In the lower half of the ventricle—the part called cala- in lower mus scriptorius—are three slight eminences on each side for the ninth, eighth, and auditory nerves :—One of these, viz., nuclei of the that for the ninth nerve, is close to the middle line below, and corresponds with the lower pointed part of the fasciculus teres. The other two are outside the fasciculus, and are placed in a line one above another, but separated by a well- marked groove (fovea posterior) ; the lower of the two is giosso- * the nucleus of the vagus and the glosso-pharyngeal, and the pharyngeal, upper is the nucleus of the auditory nerve. Runninsr into ^nditory . ° nucleus, and the lower part of the vagus nucleus, is the nucleus of the that for the accessory portion of the spinal accessory nerve. (See p. 203.) l^^^^ In the upper half of the space some other nerves take in upper their origin from nuclei, but there is only one projection. This is situate over the common nucleus of the sixth and the nucleus the facial nerve : it is a half globular elevation on the outer and^aclS.^^ part of the eminentia teres, about a line above the white cross strise on the floor, and close behind the fovea anterior. ' The fourth ventricle communicates at the upper part with Openings of the third ventricle through the Sylvian aqueduct ; and with tricle!^' the subarachnoid space of the cord and brain, through an aperture in the pia mater of the roof intervening between the medulla and the cerebellum : laterally, the ventricular space is extended for a short distance between the cerebellum and the side of the medulla oblongata. The lining of the other ventricles is prolonged into this ^^^^j^^^^p^J^g by the aperture of communication with the third. Covering iium. the floor is a columnar epithelium, which is continuous with that in the upper part of the central canal of the spinal cord (Fig 34, n). (Clarke.) In this ventricle is a vascular fold, or a choroid plexus, on Choroid each side, similar to the body of the same name in the other the^cavity. ventricles. It is attached to the inner surface of the mem- brane (pia mater) which closes the ventricle between the medulla and the cerebellum, and it extends upwards on the side. Its vessels are supplied by the inferior cerebellar artery.