DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 482 Dorsal nerve of pudic. Vessels on clitoris. To expose external oblique muscle. To define abdominal On the side are three flat muscles. and their aponeui'oses incase three vertical muscles. External oblique muscle, prostatic plexus of veins. The vein receives branches from the erectile structure of the penis. Each dorsal nerve takes the same course as the artery, and ends like it in numerous branches to the glans penis. It furnishes a large branch to the corpus cavernosum penis, and other offsets to the integuments of the dorsum, the sides, and the prepuce of the penis. In the female these vessels are much smaller than in the male ; they occupy the upper surface of the clitoris—the organ that represents the penis. Dissection of the muscles.—The surface of the external muscle of the abdominal wall is next to be freed from fascia on both sides of the body. It is not advisable to begin cleaning this muscle in front, because there it has only a thin aponeurosis, which is taken away too readily with the fat : behind, however, the muscle is thick and fleshy, and cannot well be injured. Whilst begiiming the dissection at the posterior part, the student is to carry the knife obliquely upwards and downwards in the direction of the fibres. The thin aponeurosis before referred to is in front of a line extended upwards from the anterior part of the iliac crest; and as the dissector approaches that spot, he must be more careful not to injure it, more parti- cularly at the upper part where it lies on the margin of the ribs. On the right side the margin of the external abdominal ring may be defined to show the cord passing through it ; and on the left side a thin fascia (intercolumnar), which is connected with the margin of that opening, is to be pre- served. Lastly, the dissector should make evident the free margin of the external oblique muscle between the last rib and the iliac crest. Muscles of the abdominal wall.—On the side of the abdomen are three large flat muscles, which are named from their position to one another, and from the direction of their fibres. The most superficial muscle is the external oblique, the one underneath the internal oblique, and the deepest is the transversalis. Along the middle line the muscles have a vertical direc- tion. In front are the rectus and pyramidalis, and behind the quadratus lumborum ; these are incased by sheaths de- rived from the aponeuroses of the lateral muscles. The EXTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE (fig. 72^) is flcshy on the side, and aponeurotic on the fore part of the abdomen. It arises by fleshy points or digitations from the eight lower