BISSECTIOIT OF THE LEG. 748 the long plantar ligament prolonged to tlie tarsal ends of tlie , third and fourth metatarsal bones. A separate synovial | membrane lubricates the sheath. Where the tendon turns ; round the cuboid bone it is thickened, and contains fibro- lli cartilage or a sesamoid bone. Section VI. THE FRONT OF THE LEG. Position of the limb. Raise the skin. Seek the cutaneous nerves in the leg; on the foot both vessels and nerves. Clean the fascia. Cutaneous veins. Internal saphenous. Position.—The limb is to be raised to a convenient height by blocks placed beneath the knee, and the foot is to be ex- tended in order that the muscles on the front of the leg may be put on the stretch. Dissection.—To enable the dissector to raise the skin from | the leg and foot, one incision should be made along the ! middle line from the knee to the toes, and this should be ! intersected by cross cuts at the ankle and the web of the ; foot. \ After the flaps of skin are reflected, the cutaneous vessels j and nerves are to be looked for (fig. 108). At the inner < part of the leg are some filaments from the great saphenous \ nerve ; and at the outer side, others from the cutaneous | ramifications of the external popliteal nerve. Perforating the fascia in the lower third, on the anterior aspect, is the f musculo-cutaneous nerve, whose branches should be pursued ( to the toes. I On the dorsum of the foot is a venous arch, which ends | at the sides in the saphenous veins. On the outer side is the short saphenous nerve ; and in the interval between the great toe and the next, is the cutaneous part of the anterior tibial nerve. The nerves should be traced to the ends of the toes by removing the integuments. After the several vessels and nerves are dissected, the fat is to be taken away, in order that the fascia may be seen. The venous arch on the dorsum of the foot has its con- vexity turned forwards, and receives digital branches from the toes ; at its concavity it is joined by small veins from the instep. Internally and externally it unites with the saphenous veins. The internal saphenous vein begins at the inner side of the great toe, and in the arch of veins. It ascends along the inner side of the foot, and in front of the inner ankle to