S37 LIGAMENTS OF THE ELBOW. two radial extensors of the wrist ; and a very small space for the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb follows on the ulnar side. Still to the inner side is the common sheath for the extensor of the fingers, and that of the fore finger; and there is a separate compartment for the extensor of the little finger. Internal to all is the space for the extensor carpi ulnaris. The last muscle grooves the ulna ; Bones but all the others, with the exception of the extensor minimi f^e^^mions digiti which is between the bones, lie in hollows in the radius in the order mentioned above. Dissection.—If the supinator brevis be divided by a ver- Toseesupi- tical incision, and raised from the radius, its attachment to ^^tor brevis, the bone will be better seen. The posterior interosseous nerve, and the offsets from its interosseous gangliform enlargement, may be traced more completely after '^^^^^> the tendons of the extensor of the fingers and indicator muscle have been cut at the wrist. The dorsal surface of the posterior interossei muscles of and inter- the hand may be cleaned, so that their double origin, and cieT their insertion into the side and dorsum of the phalanges may be observed. Appearing between the heads of origin of these muscles are the posterior perforating arteries. Section VII. LIGAMENTS OF THE ELBOW, WRIST, AND HAND. Directions.—The ligaments of the remaining articulations Directions, of the limb which are still moist, may be examined at once, but should any of them have become dry, they should be softened with a wet cloth whilst the student is learning the others. Dissection. —To make the necessary dissection of the liga- iMssection of ments of the elbow, the brachialis anticus must be taken joint, away from the front, and the triceps from the back of the joint; the muscles connected with the outer and inner con- dyles, as well as the supinator brevis and the flexor profundus, are to be removed. With a little cleaning the four ligaments —anterior, posterior, and two lateral—will come into view. The interosseous membrane between the bones of the fore- arm will be prepared by the removal of the muscles on both the anterior and posterior surfaces. The Elbow Joint (fig. 49). —In this articulation the Bones form-