357 EOOT OF THE LUNG. sarily the largest. In the right lung a second horizontal and the fissure is directed forwards from the middle of the oblique lobes. ^^"^^^ one to the anterior border, and cuts off a small triangular piece from the upper lobe : this is the third lobe of the lung. Occasionally there may be a trace of the third lobe in the left lung. Besides the difference in the number of the lobes, the pifferenco •11 -1 11- 1 1 ^'^ form and right lung IS larger and heavier, and is wider and more size of the hollowed out at the base than the left ; it is also shorter by an inch. The increased length and the narrowness of the left lung are due to the absence below of a large projecting body like the liver, and to the direction of the heart to the left more than to the right side. Boot of the lung. —The vessels of the lung entering the i^oo* of the fissure on the inner surface are bound together by the pleura and some areolar tissue ; they form a foot-stalk or the root, which fixes the lung to the heart and the windpipe. The root is situate at the inner surface, about midway between Situation, the base and apex, and about a third of the breadth of that surface from the posterior border of the lung. In Counec- front of the root on both sides, are the phrenic nerve and the anterior pulmonic nerves, the former being at some little distance from it ; and anterior to the right root is the descending cava. Behind on both sides, is the posterior pulmonic plexus ; and on the left side there is, in addition, the descending aorta. Above on the right side is the vena azygos ; and on the left side, the arch of the aorta. Below each root is the fold of pleura called ligameiitum latum pulmonis. In the root of the lung are found the vessels connected poi^sti- . . °. . . tuents of With the function of respiration, viz. a division of the air the root; tube (bronchus), a branch of the pulmonary artery, and two pulmonary veins ; together with small nutritive bronchial arteries and veins, and some nerves and lymphatics. These different parts have the following position to one another :— On both sides the bronchus is most posterior, the pul- their reia- monary veins most anterior, and the pulmonary artery ^Jon.^^^^^ between the other two constituents. In the direction from above downwards the position on the right side is, bronchus, pulmonary artery, and pulmonary veins ; but on the left side the bronchus and artery have changed places, conse- quently the relative position will there be, artery, bronchus, and veins. This difference in the two sides may be accounted for by the left branch of the air tube being at a lower level than the right.