DISSECTION OF THE SPmAL CORD. 450 Substantia gelatinosa. Special tracts of crescent. Posterior vesicular column Construc- tion, size, and extent. Tractus intermedio- lateralis. Cells in it joined by- nerve roots, Fig. 69.^- is rather enlarged, it is cased with a more transparent stratum of small nerve cells, which has been named the substantia gelatinosa (Fig. 69, The anterior extremity or cornu (Fig. 69, ^) is shorter and thicker than the other, and projects to- wards the anterior roots without reaching the surface of the cord. Its end has an irregular or zigzag outline. Mr. Clarke f describes two special tracts in connection with the gray crescent; one on the outer and the other on the inner side, which extend through the cord below the cervical swelling, and with which the roots of the nerves are connected. The inner tract or the posterior vesicular column (Fig. 69, ^) is close behind the gray commissure, and consists of central interlacing fibres (cylinder) derived from the poste- rior roots of the nerves; and of circumferential stellate nerve cells of various sizes, continuous also with the roots. This column is largest at the upper part of the lumbar swelling of the cord ; and at the middle of the cervical enlargement the central part (cjdinder) disappears, and only cells prolong it as far as the first pair of nerves. The outer or intermediate tract (fig. 69, ^) (tractus inter- medio-lateralis) is a collection of small and rather trans- parent but uniformly-sized cells, which is opposite the gray commissure, and projects into the lateral column of the cord. Its cells are reached by ^' both the posterior and anterior roots of the spinal nerves and other fibres are prolonged from it into the crescent, and through the gray commissure to the tract of the other side. * A representation of the gray substance in the interior of the spinal cord, near the middle of the dorsal region (Clarke). Some figures have been inserted to explainMr. Clarke's description of the crescent. 1. Pos- terior cornn (caput cornu, Clarke) of the crescent. 2. Anterior cornu. 3. Casing of the substantia gelatinosa. 4. Central canal of the cord. 5. Transverse commissure : the part in front of the canal is named anterior, and the part behind it posterior commissure by Mr. Clarke. 6. Tractus intermedio-lateralis. 7. Cervix cornu of Clarke, reaching from the anterior points of the substantia gelatinosa to the level of the canal. 8. Posterior vesicular column. t Further researches on the gray substance of the spinal cord. By J. Lockhart Clarke, F.K.S. Philosoph. Trans, of the Royal Society for 1859. Part i.