CUTANEOUS NERVES. 9 soft parts should be divided by an incision carried around the skull, about one inch above the margin of the orbit at the forehead, and as low as the protuberance at the occiput. The cranium is to be sawn in the same line as the Precautions incision through the soft parts, but the saw is to cut only through the through the outer osseous plate, and the inner plate is to be divided with a chisel, in order that the subjacent membrane of the brain (dura mater) may not be injured. The skull cap is next to be forcibly detached by inserting the fingers between the cut surfaces in front, and the dura mater will then come into view. Section II. INTERNAL PARTS OF THE HEAD. Directions. —It will be more advantageous for the student Course to be to proceed at once with the parts described in this Section than to examine the brain at this stage. Directions are given (p. 12) for the preservation of the brain, after its removal, till it can be dissected. The DUUA MA.TEE, is the most external of the membranes Dura mater, investing the brain. It is a strong, fibrous structure, which serves as a periosteum to the bones, and supports the cerebral mass. Its outer surface is rough, and presents, now Appearance it is separated from the bone, numerous small fibrous and ^^^^^^ T in 1 T 1 1 surface, vascular processes ; but these are most marked along the line of the sutures, where the attachment of the dura mater to the bone is much the most intimate. Ramifying on the upper part of the membrane are branches of the middle meningeal vessels, ascending towards the top of the head. Small granular fibrous bodies, glands of Pacchioni, are also seen along the middle line. The number of these bodies is very variable, and is increased with age. Occasionally the surface of the skull is indented by these so-called glands. Dissection, —For the purpose of seeing the interior of the Cut through dura mater, divide this membrane with a scissors close to ^^ter the margin of the skull, except in the middle line before and behind where the superior longitudinal sinus lies. The cut membrane is then to be raised towards the top of the brain ; and on the right side the veins connecting it with the cerebral hemisphere may be broken through. When the dura mater has been cut through, its inner inner surface is seen to present a smooth and polished aspect ; and s^^^'^^®-