THE LABYRIOTH. 809 the lining membrane ; and it terminates in tlie three following and other branches, which are contained in grooves on the promontory, ^1^.: Und connect this nerve with others."^ Branches. — a. One branch is arched forwards and down-one to the wards, and enters the carotid canal to commnnicate with the sympathetic on the artery (p. 122). b. A second is directed upwards to join the large super- ^^"^.^^^[^^ ficial petrosal nerve in the hiatus Fallopii (p. 150). nerve. c. And the third filament has the following course to reach And a third the otic ganglion : it ascends towards the upper surface of ganglion, the petrous part of the temporal bone, passing in front of the fenestra ovalis but beneath the canal for the tensor tym- pani muscle, and near the gangliform enlargement on the facial nerve, to which it is connected by filaments (p. 154). Beyond the imion with the facial, the nerve is named small This called superficial petrosal, and is continued forwards external to the ^^^^^ hiatus Fallopii, but without appearing on the surface of the temporal bone, until it issues from the skull to end in the otic ganglion (p. 155). Nerves to muscles.—The tensor tympani muscle is supplied Nerves for by a branch from the otic ganglion (p. 155) ; the stapedius ® • receives an off'set from the facial trunk ; and the laxator tympani from the chorda tympani nerve (?). The chorda tympani is a branch of the facial nerve, and is Chorda now seen in the part of its course through the tympanum, crosses^^ Entering the cavity behind, it crosses the membrana tympani, cavity, and issues from the space by a special aperture internal to or in the Glasserian fissure, to join the gustatory nerve. Its farther course is described at page 99. The auricular branch of the vagus nerve, though not a Branch of nerve of the tympanum, is an ofi'set to the outer ear, and outer ear.^^^ may be now traced in the softened bone. Arising in the jugular fossa (p. 117), the nerve enters a canal, which con- ducts it across the lower end of the aqueduct of Fallopius, and through the substance of the temporal bone to the back of the pinna of the ear. The labyrinth.—The inner portion of the organ of hear- Labyrinth ing is so named from its complexness. It consists of dense ossSfus and osseous parts ; and of membranous sacs for the expansion of membra- the auditory nerve, which are contained within the former. ^^^^ par.ts. It is divided into an osseous and a membranous labyrinth. * Instead of viewing these filaments as offsets of the nerve of Jacob- son, it may be supposed that they are branches derived from the other nerves to which they are united. According to this view the tympanic plexus would be derived from many sources.