708 DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. The external branches of sacral nerves are united beneath gluteus. Gluteus medms arises from hip bone, and inserted into tro- chanter. Connec- tions. Detach gluteus me- dius to see gluteal ves- and nerve. Gluteal artery is divided into two. Superficial branch. Deep branch : Sacral nerves.—The external offsets of the posterior primary- branches of the first three sacral nerves, after passing out- wards beneath the multifidus spinse (p. 437), are joined by loops on the surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament. Two or three cutaneous offsets are derived from this intercommu- nication, and pierce the fibres of the gluteus maximus to be distributed on the surface (p. 705). The GLUTEUS MEDius is triangular in form, with its base at the innominate bone, and its apex at the femur. It arises chiefly from the outer surface of the hip bone between the crest and the superior curved line, except behind where the gluteus maximus is attached, and where there is a surface of bone free from muscular fibres ; and many fibres arise also from the strong fascia covering the anterior part of the muscle. The fibres of origin converge to a tendon which is inserted into an impression across the outer surface of the great trochanter, extending from the tip behind to the root in front. The superficial surface is concealed in part by the gluteus maximus ; and the deep is in contact with the gluteus mini- mus and the gluteal vessels and nerve. The anterior border lies over the gluteus minimus, and is in contact with the tensor of the fascia lata. The posterior is contiguous to the pyriformis, only the gluteal artery intervening. A small bursa is between the tendon of insertion and the trochanter. Dissection.—When the gluteus medius is detached from the pelvis, and partly separated from the gluteus minimus beneath, the gluteal vessels and nerve will come into view. The two chief branches of the artery,—one being near the iliac crest, and the other lower down,—are to be traced through the fleshy fibres as the reflection of the gluteus is proceeded with ; and the main part of the nerve is to be followed on at the same time to the tensor vaginae femoris muscle. A branch of the artery to the gluteus maximus must be cut in removing that muscle. The gluteal artery is the largest branch of the internal iliac (p. 622), and issues from the pelvis above the pyriformis muscle. On the dorsum of the hip bone it ends in offsets which supply the gluteal muscles and the bone, and anasto- mose with the other branches in this situation. Its named branches are superficial and deep :— a. The superficial branch sends inwards a few twigs over the sacrum, and ends in the gluteus maximus, into which it penetrates on the under surface. h. The deep branch is the continuation of the artery, and