DISSECTIOlSr OF THE LARYNX. 176 the upper most uneven. Avytssnoid cartilages. Situation and form. Base. Apex. Three surfaces. Two carti- lages of Santoriui. Two carti- lages of T/risberg. Epiglottis. Form and position. Surfaces. first ring of the tracliea by fibrous membrane. But the upper border is irregular in its outline : it is nearly straight posteriorly, opposite the deep part of the cartilage, and this portion is limited on each side by an articular mark for the aryteenoid cartilage ; but in front of that spot the border is sloped obliquely downwards to the middle line. At the middle line behind there is a slight excavation in each border. The arytcC'noid cartilages are two in number, one on each side of the middle line, and are placed on the upper border of the cricoid cartilage, at the back of the larynx. Each cartilage, about half an inch in depth, is pyramidal in shajpe, and offers for examination a base and apex, and three surfaces. The base has a slightly hollowed surface behind for articu- lation with the cricoid cartilage, and is elongated in front by means of a process which gives attachment to the vocal cord. The apex is directed backwards and somewhat inwards, and is surmounted by the cartilage of Santorini. The inner sur- face is narrow, especially above, and flat; but the outer is wide and irregular : on this last surface there is a smaller projection at the base which receives the insertion of some of the muscles. At the posterior aspect the cartilage is concave and smooth. Cartilages of Santorini.—Attached to the apex of each arytsenoid cartilage is the small, conical fibro-cartilaginous body of Santorini (corniculum capitulum Santorini), which is bent inwards towards the one of the opposite side. The arytseno-epiglottidean fold is connected with it. Cuneiform cartilages.—Two other small fibro-cartilaginous bodies, one on each side, which are contained in the arytseno- epiglottidean folds, have received this name. Each is some- what elongated and rounded in form, like a grain of rice ; it is situate obliquely in front of the capitulum of the arytse- noid cartilage, and its place in the fold of the mucous mem- brane is marked by a slight whitish projection. The epiglottis (fig. 21, e) is single, and is the largest of the pieces of yellow cartilage. In form it is cordate, and it resembles a leaf, with the stalk below, and the lamina or expanded part above. Its position is behind the tongue, and in front of the orifice of the larynx. During respiration it is placed vertically, but during deglutition it assumes a horizontal direction so as to close the opening of the larynx. The anterior surface is bent forwards to the tongue, to which it is connected by three folds of mucous membrane ;