DISSECTIOK OF THE BEAIK 216 halves, but only at the posterior part, for anteriorly the transverse or commissural fibres of opposite sides are con- tinuous. It consists, like that of the medulla oblongata, of antero-posterior and transverse fibres, ^os^terior antero-postevior fibres are derived partly from the fibres. floor of the fourth ventricle ; and partly from the transverse of the pons, which bend backwards for a certain distance before they cross to the opposite side. Transverse. The transverse fibres of the pons, opposite the septum, are very slender, and are seen only on transverse sections of a hardened pons ; they come from the floor of the fourth ventricle, pierce the longitudinal fibres, and are then con- tinued across the middle line, as in the medulla oblongata. Section IV. DISSECTION OF THE CEREBRUM. Situation of The cerebrum, or the great brain, is the largest of the brum.^^" parts into which the encephalon is subdivided. It may be said to fill that part of the cavity of the skull which is above a circular line on a level with the eyebrows and the occipital protuberance. Form; Taking the general form of the cranium, the cerebrum is convex on the upper aspect, and uneven on the lower aspect, lias two It consists of two hemispheres, which are placed side by nemispheies ^^^^^ partly Separated by a median or longitudinal joined by fissure. Across the middle line the halves are united by parts!^^ certain interior parts (commissures), as well as by several connecting structures at the under surface. Superiorly the surface of the hemisphere is entire, but inferiorly it is divided into lobes. Undes, Surface or Base of the Cehebrum (fig. 35).— At its under part the cerebrum is very irregular, in conse- quence of its fitting into the inequalities of the base of the skiiU ; and on this aspect the separation into hemispheres is not complete, as on the iipper surface, for the median fissure exists only at the fore and hinder parts. The following objects are to be recognised at the base of the brain :— On the under surface of each hemisphere, about one third from its front, is the fissure of Sylvius (s s), which divides it into two. Of these the fore part constitutes the anterior Under sur- face of cere- brum. Division of the hemi- sphere.