231 FLOOR OF THE LATERAL YEOTRICLE. leave untouched, for the present, the membrane on which lateral ven- the fornix rests, and proceed to examine, on the left side, the different bodies that have been enumerated as consti- tuting the floor of the lateral ventricle. The corpus striatum (superior ganglion of the cerebrum) striate body (fig. 36, h), is the large gray body in the anterior part of the lateral ventricle. It is placed opposite the island of 'Reil in the fissure of Sylvius ; and it has received its name from the striated appearance of a vertical section. Dissection.—To see the structure of the corpus striatum. Dissection the student should make a cut in it from before backwards, until certain white fibres crossing it obliquely from within outwards are reached. The knife should then be carried through this layer of white fibres until another mass of gray substance, similar to the first, is arrived at. The striate body appears to be a pyriform mass of gray form, matter of considerable thickness, which is surrounded by the white substance of the hemisphere, except where it projects into the lateral ventricle. Its position is oblique with respect ^03^^^^^ • to the middle line of the brain, for the anterior part is near * the septum of the ventricles, whilst the posterior part is external to the optic thalamus. By means of the incision is divided that has been made into the corpus striatum, white fibres parts by can be seen to be directed through it in such a way as to white fibres, divide the mass of gray matter into two parts,—one being situate in the ventricle (intraventricular) above the white fibres, and the other outside the ventricular space, below those fibres (extraventricular). a. The intraventricular part (nucleus caudatus) of the One part in striate body is pear-shaped, and projects into the floor of the tricie, ventricle. The end, directed forwards, is large and rounded ; whilst the opposite end is thin and pointed, and is continued backwards, outside the optic thalamus, to the roof of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. Numerous veins cover this part of the corpus striatum. h. The extraventricular part (nucleus lenticularis) will be the other best seen, afterwards, by sections made from the outer side cavity, or from below. It is oval in form, but does not reach so far back as the other, and is bounded inferiorly by a white capsule ; through it the anterior commissure of the brain passes very obliquely, as a subsequent dissection will show. The tcenia semicircularis (fig. 36, s,) is a thin white band ^^^^f^ris^^" longitudinal fibres, which lies between the corpus striatum and the optic thalamus. In front this band becomes broad, and joins the pillar of the fornix ; and behind it is continued.