INTERIOR OF THE PHARYN^X. jaw, and with the mucous membrane of the mouth and the side of the tongue. The fleshy fibres pass backwards, and insertion are inserted on the aponeurosis of the pharynx, as well as the others into the raphe along the middle line. The parts in contact, externally, with this muscle are all the deep vessels and contiguous nerves of the neck ; and internally it is lined by the apo- P^^^ts. neurosis and the mucous membrane. The upper border consists of the arched fibres which are directed backwards from the pterygoid plate, and above it the levator and tensor palati muscles are seen. The lower border is overlaid by the middle constrictor muscle. The attachment to the pterygo-maxillary ligament corresponds with the origin of the buccinator muscle. Dissection.—Open the pharynx by an incision along its Dissection, middle, and, after removing the tow from the interior, keep it open with hooks. A better view of the cavity will be obtained by partly dividing the occipital attachment on each side. The mucous membrane is to be carefully removed from the dilated extremity of the Eustachian tube by the side of the opening into the nose, for the purpose of finding some pale muscular fibres, with the name salpingo-pharyn- geus, which descend from it. Salpingo-pharyngeus muscle.—This little band is fixed by Salpingo- tendon to the lower border of the cartilage of the Eustachian P^^^^""^^^^- tube near the orifice. The fleshy fibres that succeed end j^^^^^-^ below by joining those of the palato-pharyngeus. It is often- ments. times not seen. The Ulterior of the pharynx is wider from side to side interior of than from before back, and its greatest width is opposite the P^*"^^^^* hyoid bone ; from this spot it diminishes both upwards and downwards, but much more rapidly in the latter than in the former direction. In it the following objects are to be Objects to noticed :—At the top are the posterior apertures of the nasal cavity, which are separated by the septum nasi; and below them is the soft palate, partly closing the cavity of the mouth. By the side of each nasal aperture is the trumpet- shaped end of the Eustachian tube. Below the soft palate is the opening into the mouth—isthmus faucium ; and on each side of this is the tonsil, which is placed in a hollow between two prominences named pillars of the soft palate,— the one proceeding from the front of the soft palate to the side of the tongue, and the other from the same part to the side of the pharynx. Next in order, below the mouth, is the aperture of the larynx : and close in front of it is the epiglottis, or the valve which assists to close that opening