CONNECTIONS OF THE VISCERA IN THE MALE. 607 The true ligaments of the bladder are two on eacii side, Pieces of anterior and lateral, and are derived from tlie recto-vesical fascia. The anterior reaches from the posterior part of the pubes form the to the upper surface of the prostate, and the neck of the Hgauients, bladder ; it is a narrow white band, and encloses some muscular fibres of the bladder. Between the ligaments of opposite sides, the recto-vesical fascia dips down to reach the apex of the prostate. The lateral ligament is a piece of the same fascia, which and lateral is fixed to the lateral part of the prostate gland, at the bladder, upper border, and to the side of the bladder on the same level. There are other ligaments of the bladder (false ligaments), •^^^^^g^'J^' which are derived from the peritoneum investing it, and bladder, will be described in the following section. Section II. CONNECTIONS OF THE VISCERA IN THE MALE. Directions. —If the student should be dissecting a female pelvis, he will find the description of it at page 615. Contents d^ndi position.—The viscera in the cavity of the Contents of male pelvis are the lower end of the large intestine (rectum); P^^^^^- the bladder with its excretory tube—the urethra ; together with some generative organs, viz. the seminal canals and vesicles. These have the following relative situation :— The rectum is behind all, and takes a curved course, with Outline of the convexity backwards, along the front of the sacrum and the coccyx. The bladder is placed in the concavity of the rectum, its neck being surrounded by the prostate gland ; and the urethra curves forwards from it above the tube of the intestine. Beneath the bladder—between it and the rectum—are the little seminal sacs with the vasa deferentia. Some of these organs are partly surrounded by the peri- toneum. Dissection. —All the recto-vesical fascia, except the ante- Take away rior ligament of the bladder (fig. 92, ^) may be taken from some v^es- the viscera. The obliterated remnant of the internal iliac seis. artery (hypogastric) should be next followed forwards along the bladder from the back of the pelvis ; but the other