510 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEK Iliac fascia. Sheath on femoral vessels formed by offsets of preceding. A space on inner side of the vessels is the crural ring. Size and boundaries. Usual ves- sels around ring. ment, it may be seen to join the iliac fascia external to the situation of the large iliac artery; but internal to that spot it is continued downwards to the thigh in front of the femoral vessels, and forms the anterior part of the crural sheath. The iliac fascia (fig. 76, ^) covers the iliacus muscle, and lies beneath the iliac vessels. At Poupart's ligament its disposition is similar to that of the transversalis fascia ; for external to the iliac vessels it joins the fascia transversalis along the line of the ligament ; but, internal to the spot mentioned, it is prolonged behind the vessels into the pos- terior part of the crural sheath. The crural sheath is the loose membrane that encloses the femoral vessels as they enter the thigh. It is obtained from the membranes that line the abdomen. Its anterior half is continuous with the fascia transversalis, and its posterior half is derived from the fascia iliaca. The whole of the upper part of the sheath is not filled by the vessels, for a space (crural ring) exists on the inner side of the vein (fig. 7 6), which contains a gland, and through which the intestine descends in femoral hernia. The crural ring is described partly in the dissection of the thigh, but its boundaries are better seen now in the examination of the abdomen. It is the interval in the sheath, at the inner side of the femoral vein (fig. 76) ; it is about half an inch wide, and is filled by a lymphatic gland. Bounding it internally, are the crural sheath, Gimbernat^s ligament, and the conjoined tendon ; and limiting it ex- ternally is the femoral vein without the intervention of the sheath. In front of the crural sheath and ring is Poupart's ligament with the deep arch, and behind is the pubes. Along the front of the space, but outside the tube of fascia, lies the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. Fosition of vessels around the ring (fig. 76).—Commonly the crural ring is almost surrounded by vessels. Thus, on the outer side is the femoral vein ; and above it, on the outer side, are the epigastric vessels. In front is a small branch (pubic) from the epigastric artery to the back of the pubes ; and the vessels of the spermatic cord fascia covering the iliacus muscle. 9. Psoas magnus muscle cut. 10. Iliac artery. 11. Iliac vein : the dark interval on its inner side indicates the crural ring. 12. Epigastric artery and its two veins. 13. Parts of the spermatic cord lying in the internal abdominal ring. 14. Obturator vessels with the unusual arrangement.