471 PAETS CONCERNED IN LITHOTOMY. pudic artery, nearly to the base of tlie triangular ligament, ^^^J^^j^^^^® where it ends in offsets to the muscles, and to the bulb of the urethra. h. Muscular branches.—One turns outwards to enter the Muscular under surface of the erector penis ; others pass beneath the transversalis, supplying it and the accelerator urinse ; and one or two other slender filaments pierce the triangular ligament, and supply the muscles beneath it. c. The nerve of the bulb is a long slender branch which Nerve of the supplies, like the artery, the spongy structure investing the canal of the urethra. Some of its filaments reach some way on the surface before entering the corpus spongiosum urethrse. Farts cut in the lateral operation of lithotomy. —In making Superficial the external incision the knife is entered in the middle line litholomy^^ of the perinseum, one inch in front of the anus, and is drawn backwards on the left side to midway between the ischial tuberosity and the anus. The skin and the superficial fascia, and the inferior hsemorrhoidal vessels and nerve lying across the ischio-rectal fossa would be cut in the first step of the operation ; and the transverse perinjjeal muscle and artery, and, possibly, the superficial perinseal vessels and nerves may be divided at the same time. In the subsequent attempt to reach the stafi", when the ^^J|x^^"^^ knife is introduced into the anterior part of the wound, the lower part of the triangular ligament, the deep transverse urethral muscle, and the fore part of the levator ani will be divided ; and when the knife is placed within the groove of the stafi", the membranous part of the urethra will be cut, with the muscular fibre about it. Lastly, as the knife is pushed along the staff into the "^^g" bladder, it incises in its progress the membranous division along s^aff. of the urethra, and part of the prostate with the large veins around it. Parts to be avoided.—In the first incisions in the ischio- Parts to be rectal fossa, the rectum may be cut if the knife is turned avoided are Ti 1 rectum, mwards across the mtestme, instead of bemg kept parallel "with it, and if the gut is not kept out of the way with the fore finger of the left hand. The pudic vessels on the outer P^^^ic wall of the ischio-rectal fossa may be wounded near the antenor part of the hollow, where they approach the margin of the triangular ligament; but, posteriorly, they are very securely lodged inside the projection of the tuber ischii. Whilst making the deeper incisions to reach the staff, the artery bulb and its artery lie immediately in front of the knife, and will be wounded if the incisions are made too far