VELUM PENDULUM PALATL 135 The opening into fJie oesophagus is the narrowest part of Beginning of the pharynx, and is opposite the cricoid cartilage, or the <^sopiiagus. fifth cervical vertebra. Internally the mucous membrane in the oesophagus is paler than in the pharynx ; and exter- nally the point at which the pharynx ends is marked by a slight contraction, and by a change in the direction of the muscular fibres. The SOFT PALATE (vclum pendulum palati) is a moveable Soft palate structure between the mouth and the pharynx, which can mouth; either close the isthmus of the fauces, or cut off the passage to the nose, according as it is depressed or elevated. In the usual position of the soft palate (the state of relaxation) the anterior surface is somewhat curved, and is continuous with surfaces, the roof of the mouth, whilst the opposite surface is convex and turned to the pharynx. The upper border is fixed to borders; the posterior margin of the hard palate ; and each lateral part joins the pharynx. The lower border is free, and pre- from it sents in the centre a conical pendulous part—the uvula, i^^^g^^^^^^- Along the middle line is a slight prominence, indicative of the original separation into two halves. Springing from the lower part of the soft palate, near to Arciies or the uvula, are two folds on each side, containing muscular ' fibres, which are directed downwards on the sides of the isthmus faucium. These are named arches or pillars of the palate, and are distinguished from one another by their relative position. The anterior one reaches the side of the anterior, tongue near its root; and the posterior, longer than the posterior, other, is continued to the side of the pharynx. As they diverge from their origin to their termination, they limit a triangular space, in which the tonsil lies. The velum consists of an aponeurosis, together with Constituent muscles, vessels and nerves, and mucous glands ; and the whole is enveloped by the mucous membrane. Dissection. — Some of the muscles of the palate are readily ^^^^^^^^^^ displayed, but others require great care in their dissection. muscles. On the right side the two principal muscles of the soft Levator and palate—the elevator and tensor, are to be seen. These have r^ghrhaif. been partly dissected on the outside of the pharynx, but to follow them to their termination, let the upper attachment of the pharynx on the same side, and the part of the superior constrictor which arises from the internal pterygoid plate, be cut through. The levator will be fully laid bare by the removal of the mucous membrane and the muscular fibres covering its lower part; and the tendon of the tensor palati should be followed round the hamular process of the ptery-