245 PEDU^TCLES OF THE CEREBELLUM. tatum, may be seen on the right side by removing all the laminae from the upper surface. This dissection may be accomplished by placing the scalpel in the horizontal fissure at the circumference, and then carrying it inwards as far as the upper vermiform process, so as to detach the cortical stratum. If the corpus dentatum does not at first appear, J^^^^^J^p^^-^ thin slices may be made till it is reached. Structure of the lamincB.—Each lamina consists of aAlamiiia white internal, and a gray external substance (fig. 37). The insl^^f^ white part is derived from the central medullary mass ; and dividing, like the branching of a tree, it ends in small lateral offsets which enter the subdivisions of the laminse. Besides the white stalk of the lamina, derived from the collateral central mass, there are other white fibres which pass from fibres; one lamina to another. The stratum of gray matter enveloping the white sub- and gray stance resembles somewhat the cortical covering of the con- volutions of the cerebrum. It is constructed of two strata, inner and outer, which can be distinguished by a diflerence in their colour. The superficial stratum is gray, and about equal to the other in thickness ; but the deeper one is of a rust-colour, and is generally thickest in the hollows between the laminse. Medullary Centre.—In the centre of each cerebellar White hemisphere is a large white mass, containing in its substance cerebellum, a dentate body. From its surface offsets are furnished to Gives offsets, the different laminse. And from the anterior part jjroceeds a large stalk-like process : this is divided into three pieces or peduncles, which connect the cerebellum with other parts, viz., an upper offset to the cerebrum, a middle piece to the pons, and a lower one to the medulla oblongata. a. The superior peduncle (processus ad cerebrum) is superior pe- directed forwards towards one (testis) of the corpora quadri- gemina (fig. 38, /). It is rather flattened in shape, and forms part of the roof of the fourth ventricle : between the processes of opposite sides the valve of Yieussens is situate. Continuous behind with the inferior vermiform process (fig. fo^^j^^^^^^^g^ 33, r), its fibres receive an offset from the interior of the tricie. corpus dentatum, and pass beneath the band of the fillet, and beneath the pair of the corpora quadrigemina of the same side, to enter the optic thalamus. Beneath the corpora quadrigemina the internal fibres of its fibres this peduncle are directed inwards, through the bundle of cuss!Xe^^' the fasciculus teres, and cross the corresponding fibres of the