FOLDS OF THE PEEITOITEUM. 523 nected to the wall of the abdomen by folds of the peri- attaching toneum (meso-colic), which are formed of two pieces like tiLe^forms' the other processes. Each part of the colon has a separate meso-colon attaching it : thus there is an ascending, a transverse, a descending, and a sigmoid meso-colon. The caecum is fixed also by a meso-caecum, and the rectum by a meso-rectum. The meso-ccecum attaches the caput caecum coli to the right meso- iliac fossa. Usually the peritoneum does not surround the gut so as to form a fold behind it, but in some bodies the serous membrane does give a suspensory process to this part of the intestine. By the ascending and the descending meso-colon the as- Ascending, cending and the descending part of the colon are kept in ^^^cendrng, place. In these folds, as in that of the caecum, the perito- neum does not commonly surround the intestine, though it may meet behind and form processes. The transverse meso-colon is a more perfect fold than transverse either of the others connected with the large intestine, and serves as a partition between the small intestine and the stomach, liver, and spleen. By one side it is fixed to the colon, and by the other side to the abdominal wall below the pancreas. It is formed of two layers of peritoneum, as be- fore said, which enclose the vessels of the colon. The sigmoid meso-colon is a long process of the serous and sigmoid membrane, and attaches the sigmoid flexure of the colon to the left iliac fossa. The meso-rectum contains the haemorrhoidal vessels, and Meso- connects the rectum to the front of the sacrum. rectum. Small processes of the peritoneum are attached along the Appendices tube of the great intestine, chiefly to the transverse colon ; they are the appendices epiploicce, and contain fat. Folds of the small intestine.—The small intestine is not Pei-itoneal enveloped by the peritoneum after the same manner through smaU intes- all its extent. For whilst the jejunum and ileum are ^ii^e. attached to the abdominal wall by one fold (mesentery), the duodenum has special connections with the serous membrane. Serous covering of the duodenum.—The first part of the Peritoneum -IT . Til . Ti 1 1 on duode- duodenum is surrounded by peritoneum, like the stomach, num. The second part is covered only in front. And the last part, which crosses the aorta, is but slightly in contact with the serous membrane, for it lies at first between the strata of the transverse meso-colon, and then beneath the upper part of the superior mesenteric artery.