DISSECTIOlSr OF THE ARM. 298 arm the limb is to be turned over, and raised into a semi- flexed position by means of a block of moderate thickness beneath the elbow. The scapula is to be drawn away till it is nearly in a line with the humerus, so as to tighten the muscular fibres ; and it is then to be fastened with hooks in that position. How to lay DissecUon.—On the back of the arm there is only one triceps!'^ muscle, the triceps (fig. 44, ^) with the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda artery beneath it. The muscle will be laid bare readily, for it is covered only by fascia^—the skin having been reflected already, if the directions before given have been followed by the dissector. To take away the fascia, an incision is to be carried along the limb to a little below the elbow ; and in reflecting it the subaponeu- rotic loose tissue should be removed at the same time. TricepsThe TRICEPS MUSCLE is divided superiorly into three parts; three heads, and three heads of origin to it,—inner, outer, and middle, have been described. Two of these are attached to the humerus, and one to the scapula. Origin of The middle piece, or head, is the longest, and has a ten- head, dinous origin, about an inch wide, from the inferior costa of the scapula close to the glenoid cavity, where it is connected of outer with the capsule of the shoulder joint. The external head reaches from the outer condyle of the humerus to the inser- tion of the teres minor muscle, and is attached to the poste- rior surface of the bone between the points mentioned, as well as to the intermuscular septum of the same side. The and of inner internal head reaches from the inner condyle to the upper head. border of the tendon of insertion of the teres major, and arises from the contiguous intermuscular septum, and the inner portion of the posterior surface of the humerus. From these processes of origin the fibres are directed to a common tendon of insertion at the lower part, with difi'erent degree the^fibres inclination :—those of the middle head passing vertically, but those of the inner and outer heads obliquely downwards and inwards to the sides and the under part of the tendon Insertion. The muscle is inserted inferiorly into the end of the olecranon process of the ulna, and gives an expansion to the aponeu rosis of the forearm. Between the tip of the olecranon and the tendon is a small bursa, ^onnections The triceps is superficial, except at the upper part where cie. it is overlapped by the deltoid muscle. It lies on the humerus, and conceals the musculo-spiral nerve, the superior profunda vessels, and the articulation of the elbow. On the sides the muscle is united to the intermuscular septa, and the lower