35 STRUCTURE OF THE EYELIDS. attached. In the lower lid the cartilage is a narrow band, about two lines broad, with borders nearly straight. Ligament or tendon of the eyelids (tendo palpebrarum, Ligament of internal tarsal ligament) is a small fibrous band at the inner attaches part of the orbitj, which serves to fix the lids, and is cartilages, attached to the anterior margin of the lachrymal groove. It is about a quarter of an inch long, and divides into two processes, which are united one with each tarsal cartilage. This ligament gives a fibrous expansion over the lachrymal sac, and the fleshy fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum arise from it. The Meibomian glands or follicles are placed in grooves on Follicular the ocular surface of the tarsal cartilages. They extend, beneath parallel to one another, from the thick towards the opposite cartilage, margin of the cartilage ; and their number is about thirty in the upper, and twenty in the lower lid. The apertures of the glands are at the posterior edge of the free border of their the lid. Each gland is a small yellowish tube, closed at one s^^^^^^^'®- end, and having minute lateral appendages connected with it. Each contains a sebaceous secretion, and is lined by scaly epithelium. If the palbebral ligament be cut through in the upper lid, Tendon of the tendon of the levator palpebrse will be seen to be p^pebi-ge. attached to all the fore part of the tarsal cartilage by a wide aponeurotic expansion. The conjunctiva, or mucous membrane, lines the interior of Mucous the eyelids, where it has numerous fine papillse ; and it covers ^^"^^^ ^^^^^ the anterior part of the ball of the eye. At the free margin of the lids this membrane joins the common integument; and. it is further continuous down the lachrymal canals and sac with that of the interior of the nose. At the inner forms commissure of the eyelids the conjunctiva forms a pro- minent, red, fleshy-looking body—caruncula lachrymalis, (fig. 7, °) which contains a group of mucous follicles, and has a few minute hairs on its surface. External to the and the con- caruncle is a small fold of the mucous membrane—plica semilunaris (fig. 7, '*) ; this extends to the ball of the eye, and resembles the membrana nictitans of birds. Bloodvessels of the eyelids. —The arteries of the eyelids are Arteries of furnished by the ophthalmic artery, and consist of the palpebral and lachrymal branches :— The 'palpebral arteries, one for each eyelid, run outwards Palpebral from the inner canthus, lying between the orbicularis muscle and the tarsal cartilage, and anastomose externally with the lachrymal artery. From the arch that each forms, branches d2