DISSECTION" OF THE PEEm^UM. 460 Brancli of sacral nerve supplies sphincter and skin. Offsets of small sciatic. The hcemorrlioidal branch of the fourth sacral nerve reaches the ischio-rectal fossa by piercing the fibres of the coccy- geus, or by passing between that muscle and the levator ani. Appearing in the posterior part of the fossa, close to the coccyx, the nerve ends by supplying the external sphincter, and the integuments behind the anus. One or two cutaneous branches of the small sciatic nerve turn round the lower border of the gluteus, in their course to the teguments on its surface. ANTERIOK HALF OF THE PERIN^.AL SPACE. Contents and general position of parts. Incisions to raise the skin. Blow up superficial fascia, and reflect it. Define par- tition be- tween thigh and perineal space. In the anterior part of the perinseal space the tube of the urethra is lodged, as it courses from the interior of the pelvis to the surface of the body. Placed about midway between the bones, the tube is supported at first by a fibrous struc- ture named the triangular ligament of the urethra, and afterwards by the body of the penis. Muscles are collected around it, to aid in the expulsion of the urine : some of these are superficial to, and some within the triangular ligament mentioned above. The vessels and nerve lie along the outer side, as in the posterior half, and send inwards ofi'sets. Dissection.—To raise the skin from the anterior part of the perinseum, a transverse cut is to be made at the back of the scrotum, and continued for a short distance (two inches) on each thigh. A second incision along the middle line will allow the flaps of skin to be reflected outwards. After the removal of the skin the superficial fascia, which covers the front of the perinseal space, is to be blown up by means of a tube introduced beneath it at the posterior part. Each side is to be inflated to demonstrate one partition along the middle line, and another partition on each side between the perinseal space and the thigh which prevents the air passing to the limb. The student is next to cut through the superficial fascia on the left side from the scrotum to the ischio-rectal fossa ; and after the removal of some loose and fatty tissue, the line of attachment of the fascia to the bones externally, and to the triangular ligament posteriorly, will be brought into view. The septum along the middle line should be also defined. To demonstrate more completely the attachment of the superficial fascia to the pubic arch between the perinceal space and the thigh, it will be necessary to take away on the