DISSECTION OF THE BRAIK 200 Arratige- are continued straight to tlie eyeball of tlie same side ; but fibres. the greater part of the others decussate,—those of the right nerve being continued to the left side, and vice versa, so as to enter the opposite eye. At the front and back of the commissure are some transverse fibres :—the posterior are continued through the optic tracts back to the brain, without entering the eyes ; and the anterior are prolonged to the eyeballs, through the part of the nerve in front of the commissure, but have not any connection with the brain. cerebrum^"^ The origin of the nerve will be afterwards seen to come from two of the corpora quadrigemina (nates and testis of one side), and from the optic thalamus and the corpora geniculata. Origin of The THIRD NERVE (fig. 30, ^), muscular nerve of the eye- third nerve -j^g^^i^ round and firm, and is attached to the inner surface of the cerebral peduncle, near the locus perforatus, and close in front of the pons Varolii. deepincrus Deep origin.—The deep origin is uncertain. According to cerebri. Stilling,* the fibres of the nerve pierce the peduncle, passing through the locus niger, and enter a mass of gray substance in the floor of the aqueduct of Sylvius. Origin of The FOURTH or TROCHLEAR NERVE (fig. 30, cannot be fourth nerve ^ . . . ^ . ^ from cere- followed backwards at present to its origm. It is the behum, smallest of the cranial nerves, and springs from the valve of Vieussens over the fourth ventricle. The nerve appears between the cerebrum and the cerebellum, on the side of the crus cerebri (fig. 35, ''), and is then directed forwards to enter an aperture in the tentorium cerebelli near the posterior clinoid process. and Sylvian Deep origin.—In entering the valve of Yieussens, the nerves of aqueduct. opposite sides cross. Each then divides into two parts : the anterior enters a nucleus of gray matter on the side of the aqueduct of Sylvius ; the posterior joins a nucleus (upper trigeminal) near the top of the fourth ventricle, and in front of the prolongation of the gray matter of the locus cseruleus (Stilling). Fifth nerve The FIFTH or TRIGEMINAL NERVE is the largest cranial roots. nerve, and consists of two parts, lai-ge and small. This nerve resembles a spinal nerve in possessing two roots, ganglionic or sensory, and a ganglionic or motor, which are blended in part beyond the ganglion. Origin from The nerve is attached to the side of the pons Yarolii, pons, ^ ^ * Untersuchungen iiher den JBau des HirnJcnotens.