618 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Surfaces. Extremi- ties. On the side ai'e Fallopian tube. round liga- ment, and the ovary and its liga- ment. Vagina: extent and form: length; Connec- tions. cavity of the pelvis ; and a line through the centre of the organ would correspond with the axis of the inlet of the pelvic cavity, but not with that of the vagina. The anterior surface is covered by peritoneum, except in the lower fourth where it is in contact with the bladder. The posterior surface is invested altogether by the serous membrane. The upper end (fundus vel basis uteri) is the largest part of the organ, and is in contact with the small intestine. The lower end, or the neck (cervix uteri) is received into the vagina. To each side are attached the broad ligament with the Fallopian tube, the round ligament, and the ovary. a. The Fallopian tube is contained in the upper or free border of the ligament ; one end is connected to the upper angle of the uterus, whilst the other is loose in the cavity of the pelvis. At its attachment to the uterus the tube is of small size, but at the opposite extremity it is dilated, like the end of a trumpet, and fringed, forming the corpus fim- briatum. b. The round or suspensory ligament is a fibrous cord, which is directed outwards through the internal abdominal ring and the inguinal canal to the groin. This cord lies over the obliterated hypogastric, and the external iliac artery; and it is surrounded by the peritoneum, which accompanies it a short way into the canal. c. The ovary is placed nearly horizontally, and bulges at the posterior aspect of the broad ligament; it is connected to the uterus at the inner end by a special fibrous band, ligament of the ovary. Its form is oval, and its margins are turned forwards and backwards. Its size is very variable. The Vagina is the tube by which the uterus communicates with the exterior of the body. It is somewhat cylindrical in shape, though flattened on the front and back; and its length is about five inches. The vagina is slightly curved as it follows the bend of the rectum, and its axis therefore cor- responds at first with the centre of the outlet, but higher up with that of the cavity of the pelvis. In front the vagina is in contact with the base of the bladder, and the urethra; and beneath or below it is the rectum. To the side is at- tached the recto-vesical fascia, which sends a sheath along the lower half of the tube. The upper end receives the neck of the uterus by an aperture in the anterior or upper wall; and the lower end is the narrowest part of the canal, and is surrounded by the sphincter vaginae muscle. In children,