DISSECTIOIT OF THE PELYIS. 656 tubes are quite separate from tlie surrounding parts, and are about twelve to twenty in number. Each is a closed fibrous capsule with a clear fluid within, and a lining of one layer of columnar epithelium. Fallopian Tubes.—These tubes convey the ova from the ovaries to the uterus, and correspond in their office with the vasa deferentia in the male. The tubes are two in number, one on each side. Each is about four inches in length. Cord-like at the inner end, where it is attached to the upper part of the uterus, it in- creases in size towards the outer end, and terminates in a It is dilated wide extremity, like the mouth of a trumpet. This dilated externally, ^^^^ fringed and named corpus Jimhriatum; and the serra- tions of its circumference are called fimbrise. When the fim- briated end is floated out in water, one of the processes may be seen to be connected with the outer end of the ovary. In the centre of the fimbrise is a groove leading to the orifice of the Fallopian tube. On opening the tube with care, the size of the contained space, and its small aperture into the uterus can be observed. Its canal varies in size at difl'erent spots ;—the narrowest part is at the orifice into the uterus, where it scarcely gives passage to a fine bristle ; towards the outer end it increases a little, but it is rather diminished in diameter at the outer aperture. Structure.—This excretory tube has the same structure as the uterus with which it is connected, viz. a muscular timic, covered externally by peritoneum, and lined by mu- cous membrane. The muscular coat is formed of an external or longitu- uterus ^^^^^ dinal, and an internal or circular layer ; both these are con- tinuous with similar strata in the wall of the uterus. Mucous coat The mucous membrane forms some longitudinal folds, particularly at the outer end. At the inner extremity of the canal it is continued into the mucous lining of the uterus, is continu- outer end it joins the peritoneal covering. An ous with pe- elonsjated ciliated epithelium covers the surface, as in the ritoneum. , uterus. Vessels. The bloodvessels and nerves are furnished from those sup- plied to the uterus and the ovary. Structure, Fallopian tubes. Length, and form. and fimbri- ated. Size of the tube is least at the ends. A muscular structure. Fibres pro- THE BLADDEK, URETHUA, AND HECTUM. Anatomy Bladder.—The peculiarities in the form and size of the given be- female bladder have been noticed in the description of the