386 DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. Small anterior, Large posterior forms a plexus. (Esophageal branches form a plexus. Sympathetic in thorax consists of a gangliated cord, and a cen- tral cardiac plexus. Dissection of the plexus. To find the right part. for tlie lung, one to the anterior and the other to the poste- rior aspect of the root. a. The anterior branches are two or three in number, and of small size, and communicate with filaments of the sympa- thetic on the pulmonary artery. These nerves are best seen on the left side. h. The posterior branches are the largest and much the most numerous, and are obtained by the splitting of the trunk of the nerve after it has become flattened. Forming a plexiform arrangement (posterior pulmonary i)lexus) behind the root of the lung, these nerves are joined by filaments from the third and fourth ganglia of the knotted cord of the sympathetic, and are conveyed into the interior of the lung on the divisions of the air tube. 4. (Esophageal branches are furnished to the gullet all along the thorax, but in greatest abundance in the lower half. Below the- root of the lung the branches of the pneu- mo-gastric nerves surround the oesophagus with a network, which has been named plexus giilcE. Sympathetic Nerve.—In the thorax the sympathetic nerve consists, as in the abdomen, of a knotted cord along each side of the spinal column, which communicates with the spinal nerves : and of a large prevertebral or cardiac plexus, which distributes branches to the viscera, viz. to the heart and the lungs. The gangliated cord will be seen in a future stage of the dissection, after the heart and the lungs have been removed The CAHDiAC PLEXUS lies at the base of the heart around the great bloodvessels. A part of this network, the super- ficial cardiac plexus, has been already described (p. 364) The remaining part, or the deep cardiac plexus, will be found beneath the arch of the aorta by means of the dissection given below. Directions.—The cardiac xdIcxus has been injured by th previous examination of the heart; but, by following the directions now given, the student will obtain a knowledg of the disposition of the nerves, and viill be able to make complete dissection of them when the opportunity ofi'ers. Dissection. —Th e arch of the aorta is to be cut across with care, close above the pulmonary artery, and to be drawn well over to the left side : next, the descending cava is to be divided above the entrance of the vena azygos, and its lov/er pairt is to be thrown down. By the removal of some fibrous and fatty tissues and lymphatic glands, the right part of the plexus, in which the cervical branches of the sympa