183 COMMON LIGAMEOTS OF VERTEBRA. the cervical nerves, except those of the first and second,— the former of which crosses on its inner, and the latter on its outer side. The vessel is accompanied by a vein and a ^ •E. . nerves are plexus of nerves of the same name. In its course the artery with it. furnishes small twigs to the surrounding muscles, and to the spinal canal and the contained cord. The vertebral mm commences by small radicles in the occi- Vertebral put, and in the muscles of the back of the neck, and enters the aperture of the atlas, where it receives sometimes a vein through the posterior condyloid foramen of the occipital bone. Accompanying the artery, the vein traverses the ciavian. apertures between the transverse processes, and ends in the subclavian vein. In its course it is joined by branches from Brandies, the internal and external spinal veins ; its other branches are described at p. '74. The vertebral plexus of nerves is derived from the inferior Plexus of cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. The plexus surrounds the artery, and communicates with the spinal nerves as high as the third or fourth. I Section XIX. LIGAMENTS OF THE VERTEBRA AND CLAVICLE. Directions.—On the remaining part of the spine, the liga- Directions, ments that connect the cervical vertebrae to each other and to the occipital bone are to be dissected. Dissection.—Separate the cervical from the dorsal ver- Dissection, tebrse by disarticulation. Then remove altogether the muscles, vessels, nerves, and loose areolar tissue and fat from the vertebrae. By sawing through the occipital bone, so as to leave only an osseous ring bounding posteriorly the foramen magnum, the ligaments between the atlas and the occipital bone can be more easily cleaned. The COMMON- LIGAMENTS attaching together the cervical Common f ertebrse are similar to those uniting the vertebrae in other a veTtebra.*^^ parts of the spine, viz. an anterior and a posterior strong ligament; bands between the laminae and spines ; capsular ligaments and. synovial membranes for the articulating pro- cesses ; and an intervertebral ligament between the bodies of the bones. Directions.—These ligaments are first to be learnt; their