484 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEK Insertion into pelvis and linea Aponeurosis Disposition above and below. fibres descend almost vertically to be inserted into the ante- rior half or more of the iliac crest, at the outer margin : and the upper and middle fibres are continued forwards, the one set horizontally, the other obliquely, to the aponeurosis on the front of the belly. The aponeurosis of the muscle (Fig. 72^^) occupies the Sthe^beUy! anterior part of the abdomen, in front of a line from the eighth rib to the fore part of the crista ilii ; and it is rather narrower about the centre, than either above or below. Along the middle line of the body this expansion ends in the linea alba (^^)—the common point of union of the aponeuroses of opposite sides. Above, it is thin, and is continued on the rectus muscle to the pectoralis major and the ribs. Below, the fibres of the aponeurosis are stronger and more separate than above, and are directed obliquely downwards and in- wards to the pelvis : some of them are fixed to the front of the pubes ; and the rest are collected into a firm band between the pubes and the iliac crest, which is named Poupart's ligament. Connections of the muscle.—-The muscle is subcutaneous. Its posterior border is unattached between the last rib and the iliac crest, but it is overlaid commonly by the edge of the latissimus dorsi, except a small part below. Appearing through the aponeurosis, external to the linea alba, is a white line, the linea semilunaris, marking the outer edge of the rectus muscle ; and crossing between the two are three or four whitish marks, the lineae transversse. Numerous small apertures in the tendon give exit to cutaneous vessels and nerves ; and near the pubes is the large opening of the external abdominal ring (^^), which gives passage to the cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. Parts of the apot^eurosis.—Besides the general arrange- ment of the aponeurosis over the front of the abdomen, the student is to examine more minutely the linea alba in the middle line ; the external abdominal ring with the fascia prolonged from its margin ; and the rounded border named Poupart's ligament. Linea alha (fig. 72, ^- ).—This is the central line of union of the aponeuroses of opposite sides on the front of the abdomen. It extends from the xiphoid cartilage to the pubes, and serves as a ligament between the chest and pelvis. Its breadth is wider above than below, and it is perforated here and there by small apertures, which allow In its middle ^aasses of fat to protrude in some bodies. A little below IS umbilicus, the centre is the umbilicus ; this projects now beyond the Connec- tions. Lines on the aponeu- rosis. Apertures in it. xVbdominal ling. In the linea alba the aponeuroses are united.