DISSECTION OF THE HAND. 324 Dissection of muscles of thumb and little finger. Four mus- cles in the ball of the thumb, viz. Abductor. Attach- ments. Is the most superficial. Dissection. Opponens fixed to body of metacarpal bone, beneath former. Flexor brevis arises by- outer and Dissection. —The deep palmar arch of the radial artery and the interossei muscles will come into view if the flexor pro- fundus is cut above the wrist, and thrown with the lumbricales muscles towards the fingers ; but in raising the tendons the student should endeavour to preserve two small nerves that enter the two inner lumbrical muscles. The dissection of the short muscles of the ball of the thumb and the little finger is next to be prepared. Some care is necessary to make a satisfactory separation of the diff'erent small muscles of the thumb : those of the little finger are more easily defined. Short muscles of the thumb.—These are four in num- ber, and are named from their action on the thumb. The most superficial is the abductor pollicis ; beneath it is the opponens pollicis, which will be recognised by its attachment to the whole length of the metacarpal bone. To the inner side of the last is the short flexor. And the wide muscle coming from the third metacarpal bone is the adductor of the thumb. The ABDUCTOR POLLICIS is thin, about an inch wide, and is superficial to the rest. It arises from the upper part of the annular ligament at the radial side, and from the ridge of the OS trapezium; and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. The muscle is subcutaneous, and rests on the opponens pollicis : it is connected oftentimes at its origin with a slip from the tendon of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. Dissection.—The opponens pollicis will be seen on cutting through the abductor. To separate the muscle from the short flexor on the inner side, the student should begin near the farther end of the metacarpal bone, where there is usually a slight interval. The OPPONENS POLLICIS arises from the lower part of the annular ligament beneath the preceding, and from the os trapezium and its ridge ; it is inserted into the front and outer border of the metacarpal bone for the whole length. This muscle is partly concealed by the preceding, though it is larger and projects on each side. Along its inner border is the flexor brevis pollicis. An insertion into the external sesamoid bone is described by M. Theile. The FLEXOR BREVIS POLLICIS is the largest of the short muscles of the thumb : it consists of two pieces (inner and outer) at the insertion, but these are partly united at the origin. The outer head, the smallest, arises partly beneath the