FORM AND SIZE OF THE HEART. 359 envelope of the heart consists of a fibrous structure, wMcL. Fibro- is lined internally by a serous membrane. case. The fibrous part surrounds the heart entirely, and is Fibrous part pierced by the dijfferent vessels entering that organ. It f^g^tbs to gives prolongations around the vessels passing through it, vessels, and the strongest of these sheaths is on the aorta. Inferiorly it is united by fibres to the central tendon of the diaphragm ; p^^gm!^" but on the left side it extends beyond the limit of the tendon, and reaches the fleshy fibres of the muscle. This its struc- membrane is thickest at the upper part, and is formed of fibres crossing in difierent directions, many being longitu- dinal. When the pericardium has been cut open, the serous lining will be discernible. The serous sac lines the interior of the fibrous pericardium. Serous and is reflected over the surface of the heart. Like other fibimis,^^^ serous membranes, the arachnoid for example, it has a parietal and a visceral part. After lining the interior of the fibrous case, to which it gives the shining appearance, the and covers membrane is conducted to the surface of the heart by the ^^^^rT^ different vessels. As it is reflected on the aorta and the pulmonary artery it contains those vessels in one tube, not passing between their contiguous surfaces ; and at the pos- Peculiarities terior part of the pericardium it forms a pouch between the tioLs. pulmonary veins of opposite sides. The cavity of the serous sac is lubricated by a little fluid. The vessels of the pericardium are derived from the aorta. Vessels, the internal mammary, the bronchial, the oesophageal, and the phrenic arteries. THE HEART AND ITS LARGE VESSELS* The heart is a hollow muscular body, and is divided This hollow into four compartments by septa. It is the centre of the c^iitre^of vascular system, and the agent in the propulsion of the circulation, blood through the body. Into it veins enter, and from it the arteries issue. Form.—When the heart is distended, its form is conical. Form. Rather flattened from before backwards, and rounded on the left side, its surfaces and borders have difl'erences which Surfaces serve to distinguish them from each other :—thus the an- ^^^^ i^orders. terior surface is slightly convex, whilst the posterior is nearly flat; the left border is thick and round, but the right is thin, sharp, and less firm. Size.'—The size varies greatly, and in general the heart of Size, the woman is smaller than that of the man. The measure-