DISSECTION OF THE EAE. 812 Size. Resembles a snail-shell in some Parts of the cochlea. A central pillar or axis : Aroimd it is a spiral piece of bone. A spiral tube closed at one end body is turned to the meatus auditorius internus, and is per- forated by small apertures ; whilst the apex is directed to the upper and anterior part of the inner wall of the tympanum, opposite the canal for the tensor tympani muscle. Its length is about a quarter of an inch, and its width at the base is about the same. Resembling a snail-shell in construction, the cochlea consists of a tube wound spirally round a central part or axis ; but it differs fr6m a shell in the fact of the tube being subdivided into two by a partition, and in the cir- cumstance of the central part or axis being much thicker. In the description of the cochlea, it Avill be necessary to notice separately the axis or centre, and the spiral tube with its partition and two passages. The axis or modiolus (columella) consists of the bony sub- stance included within the coils of the spiral tube. Its shape is conical, and it is formed internally of a porous material. Its size diminishes rapidly towards the last half turn of the spiral tube, where it is very thin but not porous, and may be said to end; though it is commonly described as being continued upwards from this spot to the tip of the cochlea. The upper ex- tremity corresponding with the last half turn, is bent, and enlarged after the manner of a funnel with the base uppermost, and presents a free margin.f The axis is per- forated by canals as far as the last half turn, which trans- mit vessels and nerves in the fresh state ; and the central one is larger than the others. Winding around the axis is a thin osseous plate, the lamina spiralis^ which projects a certain distance into the spiral tube, and forms part of the septum. The spiral tube forms two turns and a half around the axis, and terminates above in a closed extremity, named the cupola. * The cochlea laid open to show the two turns and a half of the tube, with its scalse (Arnold).—1. Axis or modiolus of the cochlea. 2. Osseous part (lamina spiralis) of the septum. 3. Scala tympani. 4. Scala vestibuli. + Some Anatomists apply the term infundihulum to the appearance which this bent part of the modiolus (? top of the cochlear tube) pre- sents when it is looked at from the second turn of the cochlea. Others understand by the term the funnel-shaped space enclosed in the terminal half bend of the tube of the cochlea.