DISSECTION" OF THE EAE. 816 The utricle. Situation and form ; contains a fluid and otolith. It gives tabes into the arched canals; they are dilated at one end, and contain a fluid. Smaller sac is befoi-e the other. "Wall of the sac has three strata. Outer. Middle. softened in acid. The previous instructions for the dissection of the osseous labyrinth will guide the student to the situation of the membranous structures within it, but the surrounding- softened material must be removed with great care. A lens and a microscope will be needed for the complete examination of the sacs. For the display of the blood- vessels a minute injection will be necessary. The utricle, or the common sinus (fig. 129, ^) is the larger of the two sacs, and is situate at the posterior and upper part of the vestibule, opposite the fovea semi-elliptica in the roof. It is transversely oval in form, and connected with it posteriorly are three looped tubes, which are prolonged into the semicircular canals. The sac and its offsets are filled with a clear fluid, like water, which is named endolymph ; and in the wall of the sac is a small calcareous deposit (otolith) opposite the entrance of the nerve into it. The prolongations into the semicircular canals are smaller than the osseous tubes, being only one third of their dia- meter ; and the interval between the bone and the membrane is filled by the perilymph. In form they resemble the bony cases, for they are marked at one end by a dilatation corre- sponding with the ampulla of the osseous tube ; and, further, two are blended at one end, like the canals they occupy (fig. 130, ') : they communicate with the utricle by five open- ings, and are filled with the endolymphic fluid of that sac. A.t each ampuUary enlargement there is a transverse pro- jection into the interior of the cavity, and at that spot a branch of the auditory nerve enters the wall. The saccule (fig. 129, ^) is a smaller and a rounder cyst than the utricle, and is placed in front of it in the hollow of" the fovea hemispherica. Like the larger sac it has a trans- lucent wall, in which is an otolith opposite the entrance of the nerve ; it is also filled by endolymph. It is doubtful whether the two sacs communicate. Structure of the sacs.—The wall of the membranous laby- rinth is translucent and firm ; but it is more opaque where the vessels and nerves enter it. Three strata enter into the construction of the membrane, together with bloodvessels and nerves. The outer covering is loose and flocculent, and . easily detached, and contains irregular pigment cells with ramifying bloodvessels. The middle stratum is clear and tough, and appears like cartilage, or, where it is thin, like the hyaloid membrane of the eyeball. It exhibits however an appearance of fibrillation ; and on the addition of acetic acid nuclear looking bodies become visible. (Todd and Bow-