DISSECTION" OF THE THIGH. 694 and branches. Nerve of the front of the thigh is divided.* From its superficial part arise— middle cu- taneous. Internal cutaneous. which has anterior and mner branch. Internal saphenous nerve may spring from one of the two femoral trunks, or may be derived from both trunks—one piece being obtained from each : this last arrangement is most frequently found. The ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE is derived from the lumbar plexus (p. 599), and supplies the muscles and the integu- ments of the front of the thigh, and the integuments of the inner side of the leg. Soon after the trunk of the nerve leaves the abdomen it is flattened, and is divided into a superficial or cutaneous, and a deep or muscular part. A. The superficial part of the nerve ends in three branches: —the internal and the middle cutaneous of the thigh, and the great saphenous. The middle cutaneous nerve perforates the fascia lata, sometimes also the sartorius, about three inches belovr Pou- part's ligament, and extends on the surface of the thigh to the knee. Its cutaneous distribution is described at p. 674. The internal cutaneous nerve sends two or more small twigs through the fascia lata to the integument of the upper third of the thigh, and then divides in front of the femoral artery, or on the inner side, into the two following branches, anterior and inner. Sometimes these branches in which the nerve ends ordinarily, arise from the anterior crural trunk at separate spots. a. The anterior branch is directed to the inner side of the knee joint. As far as the middle of the thigh it lies over the sartorius, but it then pierces the fascia lata, and ramifies in the integuments as before said (p. 675). h. The inner branch is distributed in the integuments of the inner side of the leg, just below the knee, but it remains beneath the fascia lata as far as the knee (p. 675). Whilst underneath the fascia the nerve lies along the inner border of the sartorius, and joins in a plexus, about the middle of the thigh, with offsets of the obturator and internal saphe- nous nerves. When this branch is small it ends in the plexus just mentioned, and in twigs to the inner part of the thigh, instead of being continued onwards to the leg. The internal saphenous nerve is the largest of the three superficial branches. It becomes cutaneous on the inner side of the knee, and accompanies the vein of the same name to the foot (p. 675). In the thigh the nerve takes the course of the deep bloodvessels :—thus, it approaches the femoral artery where this is concealed by the sartorius, and is con- This is the arrangement most commonly met with.—See foot note to the Second Edition, p. 624.