CUTANEOUS VESSELS OF THE GROIN. m fascia nearly to the edge of the rectus muscle, and supply ^^^^^^^^ the integuments on the side of the belly ; they furnish offsets to the digitations of the external oblique muscle. The lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal nerve is Last dorsal larger than the rest, and does not divide like the others, ^^rve. After piercing the fibres of the external oblique muscle, it is directed over the iliac crest to the surface of the gluteal region. The anterior cutaneous nerves of the abdomen reach the Anterior surface by piercing the sheath of the rectus : in the integu- ^erveroT ments they bend outwards towards the lateral cutaneous intercostal, nerves. The number, and the place of exit of these small nerves from the abdominal wall, are very uncertain. The ilio-hypogastric nerve is distributed on the surface by iiio-iiypo- two pieces : one lies over the crista ilii (iliac branch), the f^mbar^^ other ramifies on the lower part of the abdomen (hypogastric plexus, branch). a. The iliac branch is close to the crest of the hip bone Iliacbrancli, behind the last dorsal nerve, and enters the integuments of the gluteal region : its size and its position on the bone are dependent upon the development and the situation of the offset of the last dorsal nerve. b. The hypogastric branch pierces the aponeurosis of the Hypogastric external oblique muscle above the external abdominal ring, and is distributed, as the name expresses, to the integuments of the lower part of the abdominal parietes. The ilio-inguinal nerve becomes cutaneous through the ilio inguinal external abdominal ring, and having perforated the deeper pf^xus^^ layer of the superficial fascia, descends to the integuments of the scrotum and upper and inner part of the thigh. Cutaneous Vessels.—Some cutaneous vessels are found Vessels from with both sets of nerves on the abdomen :—with the lateral sources, cutaneous nerves are branches from the intercostal arteries, and with the anterior cutaneous are offsets from the internal mammary and epigastric vessels. In the groin are three small superficial branches of the femoral artery, viz., pudic, epigastric, and circumflex iliac. The lateral cutaneous arteries have the same distribution Both lateral as the nerves they accompany. The anterior or chief offsets are directed towards the front of the abdomen, and end about the outer edge of the rectus muscle. The anterior cutaneous vessels are irregular in number and and anterior in position, like the nerves. After piercing the sheath of the rectus, they run outwards with the nerves towards the ^ other set of branches.