136 DISSECTIOl^ OF THE PHARYISTX. On left, palato-pha ryngeus, azygos uvulse, and palato- Aponeurosis of palate. Nine muscles. Elevator muscle arises out- side pha- rynx, and is lost in velum. Tensor muscle arises out- side pha- rynx, goid plate. The position of the Eustachian tube with respect to those muscles should be defined. On the left side, the mucous membrane is to be raised with care from the posterior surface of the palate, to obtain a view of the superficial muscular fibres : for immediately beneath the mucous covering are some transverse fibres of the palato-pharyngeus muscle ; and beneath these, in the middle line, are the longitudinal fibres of the azygos uvulae. The student should remove next the mucous membrane from the muscular fibres constituting the arches of the palate, and should follow them upwards and downwards : in order to see those of the anterior fold, it will be necessary to take the membrane from the anterior surface of the palate. If the part is not tolerably fresh, some of the paler fibres will not be visible. Aponeurosis of the soft palate,—Giving strength to the velum is a thin but firm aponeurosis, which is attached to the hard palate. This membrane becomes thinner as it descends in the velum ; and it is joined by the tendon of the tensor palati muscle. The MUSCLES of the soft palate are four on each side,—an elevator and tensor ; together with the palato-glossus and palato-pharyngeus, which act as depressors. In addition there is a small central azygos muscle. The LEVATOR PALATI is a thick, roundish muscle, and is partly situate outside the pharynx. It arises from the under surface of the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and from the inner and under part of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. The fibres descending, enter the pharynx above the superior constrictor, and then spread out in the soft palate, where they join along the middle line with those of the muscle of the opposite side. Outside the pharynx this muscle rests against the Eustachian tube. In the palate it forms a stratum that reaches the whole depth of that structure, and is embraced by the two planes of fibres of the palato-pharyngeus. The TENSOR vel circumflexus palati arises like the pre- ceding outside the palate and pharynx : it is a thin, riband- like band, which is situate between the internal pterygoid plate and the pterygoid muscle. The muscle is about one inch and a half wide at its origin, and is attached to the slight depression (scaphoid fossa) at the root of the internal pterygoid plate, to the outer part of the Eustachian tube, and still farther out to the spinous process of the sphenoid, and to the front of the vaginal (tympanic) process of the