860 DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. Situation in the chest; its axis placed al- most hori- zontally. Limits of base and apex, of upper margin, lower border. Only some parts touch the wall. ments may be said to be, commonly, four inclies and three quarters in length, three inches and a half in width, and two inches and a half in thickness. Fosition and direction.—The heart lies beneath the lower two thirds of the sternum, and projects on each side of it, but more on the left than the right side. Its axis is not parallel to, but is inclined obliquely across that of the body. The heart has not a vertical direction in the chest, with the base upwards and the apex down, but almost a hori- zontal one, with the base directed backwards to the right, and the apex forwards to the left side ; and the left margin of the viscus is undermost, whilst the right is foremost. Limits.—The limits of the whole heart are the follow- ing :— The base is opposite the spinal column, and corresponds with the interval between the fifth and the eighth dorsal vertebrae. The apex strikes the wall of the thorax during life just below the fifth rib, near its junction with the cartilage ; and at a spot on the surface, '' two inches below the nipple and one on the sternal side " (Williams). The upper limit would be a line across the sternum on a level with the upper border of the third costal cartilage. And the lower limit, a line over the junction of the sternum with the xiphoid cartilage, from the articulations of the sixth and seventh cartilages of the right side to the spot where the apex touches. Its lateral limits are the following. On the right it pro- jects from one to one inch and a half beyond the middle line of the sternum, and its increase in this direction is con- stantly varying with the degree of distension of the right half of the heart. On the left side the heart projects three inches to three inches and a half from the centre of the breast bone. Fosition to the wall.—In consequence of the direction of the heart in the thorax, only some parts can be near, or in contact with the parietes in front. Thus the base will be directed away from the sternum and the costal cartilages, and the left half will be undermost and deep in the cavity ; whilst the right half and apex will be directed forwards, and will correspond with the anterior wall, though mostly with lung intervening."^ * If the dissector wishes for farther information respecting the cor- respondence of the different portions of the heart to points of the wall of the thorax, he may refer to the Papers by Dr. Sibson, in vol. xii. of the Trans, of the Provincial Med. and Surg. Association.