DISSECTIOIT OF THE NECK. 110 in the tem- poral bone. Piece of tympanum olDtained. Internal carotid enters the skull. Its course is first through the neck of the vagus crosses beneath the carotid. Between the vein and artery, near the skull, are the vagus, hypoglossal, and sympathetic nerves ; and crossing backwards, over or under the vein, the spinal accessory nerve. External to the position of the vessels will be found a loop of the first and second cervical nerves, over the transverse process of the atlas, which communicates with the large ganglion of the sympathetic beneath the artery, and with the eighth and ninth nerves. Ascending to the cranium, on the inner side of the carotid, is the ascending pharyngeal artery. To open the carotid canal in the temporal bone, and to follow the contained artery into the cranium, make a cut down the side of the skull in the following manner :—the saw being placed behind and below the mastoid process, cut forwards obliquely to the foramen spinosum in the wing of the sphenoid bone (to which spot the side of the skull has been already taken away), and let the instrument be directed through the stylo-mastoid foramen and the root of the styloid process, but rather external to the jugular foramen and the carotid canal. When the piece of detached bone has been taken away, the carotid canal may be opened with the bone forceps. In dissecting the artery in the canal, large and rather red branches of the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic will be found on it; and with care and a fresh part two small filaments may be recognised,—one from Jacobson's nerve, joining the sympa- thetic at the posterior part of the canal; the other from the vidian nerve, at the front of the canal. On the piece of bone that has been cut off, the dissector may prepare very readily the tympanum with its membrane, the chain of bones, and the chorda tympani nerve. The internal carotid artery springs from the bifurcation of the common carotid trunk. It extends from the upper border of the thyroid cartilage to the base of the skull; then through the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; and lastly along the base of the skull to the anterior clinoid process, where it ends in branches for the brain. This winding course of the artery may be divided into three parts :—one part in the neck, another in the temporal bone, and a third in the cranium. Cervical part.—In the neck the artery ascends almost vertically from its origin to the carotid canal, and is in con- tact with the pharynx on the inner side. Its depth from the surface varies like that of the external carotid ; and the line of the disgatric muscle may be taken as the index of