DISSECTION OF THE EXTERIOR OF THE HEAD. 8 Posterior auricular nerve has occipital branch, and auricu- lar. Great auri- cular nerve. Great occipi- tal nerve gives an auricular branch. Small occi- pital nerve has an auricular branch. Dissection to open the skull. ■upwards over the temporal aponeurosis to the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle. They will be described with the dis- section of the trunk of the facial nerve. The posterior auricular nerve lies behind the ear with the artery of the same name. It arises from the facial nerve close to the stylo-mastoid foramen, and ascends in front of the mastoid process. Soon after the nerve becomes super- ficial it communicates with the great auricular nerve, and divides into an occipital and an auricular branch, which are distributed as theil* names express :— The occipital branch is long and slender, and ends in the posterior belly of the occipito-frontalis muscle. It lies near the occipital bone, enveloped in dense fibrous structure, and furnishes offsets to the integuments. The auricular branch ascends to the back of the ear, supplying the retrahent muscle and the posterior surface of the pinna. The great auricular nerve of the cervical plexus is seen to some extent at the lower part of the ear, but its anatomy will be afterwards given with the description of the cervical plexus. The great occipital is the largest cutaneous nerve at the back of the head, and is recognised by its proximity to the occipital artery. Springing from the posterior primary branch of the second cervical nerve, it perforates the muscles of the back of the neck, and divides on the occiput into numerous large ofi"sets ; these spread over the posterior part of the occipito-frontalis muscle, ending mostly in the integument, and one small auricular branch reaches the cranial aspect of the ear. As soon as the nerve pierces the trapezius, it is joined by an ofiset from the third cervical nerve ; and on the back of the head it communicates with the small occipital nerve. The small occipital nerve of the cervical plexus lies mid- way between the ear and the preceding nerve, and is con- tinued upwards in the integuments higher than the level of the ear. It communicates with the nerve on each side, viz. the posterior auricular and great occipital. Usually this nerve furnishes an auricular branch to the upper part of the ear at the cranial aspect, which supplies also the attollens aurem muscle. Dissection.—The skull is now to be opened, but before sawing the bone the dissector should detach on the right side the temporal muscle nearly down to the zygoma, with- out separating the fascia covering it ; and all the remaining