289 CUTANEOUS ^TERYES OF THE ARM. and small. one trunk that divides almost directly afterwards into two. Its external branch lies beneath the median basilic vein, and is directed to the front of the forearm ; but the internal branch winds to the back of the forearm, over the prominence Large of the inner condyle of the humerus. A cutaneous offset of this nerve pierces the fascia near the axilla (fig. 43, and reaches as far, or nearly as far as the elbow : it supplies l^ig- 43.* the integuments over the inner part of the biceps muscle. The small internal cutaneous nerve (Wrisberg), (fig. 43, ^) appears below the preceding, and extends to the in- terval between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the humerus, where it ends in filaments over the back of the olecranon. The nerve gives offsets to the posterior surface of the lower third of the arm (fig. 42, and joins above the elbow the inner branch of the larger internal cutaneous nerve. The internal-cutaneous hra^ich of the musculo-spiral nerve, after it becomes subcutaneous (in the upper third), winds to the back of the arm (fig. 42, and extends nearly as far as the olecranon. The intercosto-humeral branch of the second intercostal nerve (p. 259) per- forates the fascia near the axilla (fig. 42,**), and furnishes filaments to the inner side and the posterior surface of the arm, in the upper half. But the size and even the distribution of the nerve will de- pend upon the development and extent of the small internal cutaneous, and of the offset of the musculo-spiral nerve. The aponeurosis of the arm is a white shining membrane ^^^^J^^ which surrounds the limb, and sends inwards processes be- tween the muscles. Over the biceps muscle it is thinner Cutaneous of muscuio- ^ spiral. Intercosto- liumeral. * Cutaneous nerves of the front of the arm and forearm. (Quain's Anatomy.)—1. Supra acromial nerves. 2. Cutaneous of the circumflex. 3. Upper external cutaneous of the musculo-spiral. 4. Musculo-cuta- neous nerve. 5. Cutaneous of the ulnar to the forearm. 6 and 7. In- ternal cutaneous, with an offset 8, to the arm. 9. Wrisberg's nerve. 10. Intercosto-humeral nerve. Jl