58 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Vessels and nerves in this part. and their relative position. Variations in the size of the space; also in the depth, both natural and artifi- cial. Departure from the ordinary state of the Crossing tlie area of this part of the space, rather above the level of the clavicle, is the trunk of the subclavian artery, 7 (the third part), which issues from beneath the anterior scalenus muscle, and is directed over the first rib to the axilla. In the ordinary disposition of the vessel the companion subclavian vein is seldom seen, owing to its situation being lower down, beneath the clavicle. Above the artery are the large cords of the brachial plexus, 9, which accompany the vessel, and become closely appHed to it beneath the clavicle. Behind the artery and the nerves is the middle scalenus muscle, 5. And below the vessel is the first rib. Along the clavicular side of the space, and rather beneath the clavicle, are the supra-scapular vessels ; and crossing the upper angle, at the meeting of the omo- hyoid and sterno-mastoid muscles, are the transverse cervical vessels. Entering the space from above is the external jugular vein, 8, which descends over or under the omo- hyoideus near the anterior part, and opens into the sub- clavian vein ; in this spot the vein receives the supra-scapular and transverse cervical branches, and sometimes a small vein, over the clavicle, from the cephalic vein of the arm. The size of the clavicular part of the posterior triangular space is influenced by the extent of the attachment of the trapezius and sterno-mastoid muscles along the clavicle. In some bodies these muscles occupy nearly the whole length of the bone, leaving but a small interval between them ; and in others they meet, so as to cover the underlying vessels. The space may be further increased or diminished by the position of the omo-hyoideus in the neck ; for this muscle may lie close to the clavicle, being attached thereto, or it may be distant one inch and a half from that bone. In depth the space varies naturally ; and in a short thick neck vdth a prominent clavicle, the artery is farther from the surface than in the opposite condition of the parts. But the depth is altered much more by the position of the clavicle, according as the limb may be raised or depressed. And lastly, the artery in its usual position may be concealed entirely by forcing upwards the arm and shoulder, as the collar bone is then raised above the level of the omo-hyoid muscle. The situation of the trunk of the subclavian artery may vary much, for it may be one inch and a half above the clavicle, or at any point intermediate between this and its usual level, just above the prominence of that bone. Further, its position to the anterior scalenus may be altered;