DISSECTIO^T OF THE NASAL CAVITY. 144 mentioned. Into it the posterior ethmoidal sinuses open at the front ; and at its posterior part, in the dried bone, is the spheno-palatine foramen by which the nerves and vessels enter the nose. The middle meatus (fig. 15) is longer than the preceding ; it is curved upwards in front, and reaches all across the space referred to on the outer wall. Anteriorly it com- municates by a funnel-shaped passage (infundibulum) with the frontal sinus and the anterior ethmoidal cells ; and near its middle is a small oblique aperture, about the size of a crow-quill, which leads into the cavity of the upper jaw. The inferior meatus (fig. 15) is straighter than the middle one, and occupies the whole width of the included space on the outer wall ; but when the bone is clothed by the mucous membrane the space extends still farther forwards. In its front is the opening of the ductus ad nasum, and nearly on a level with but behind it, the Eustachian tube may be seen. Occasionally there is a small fourth or rudimentary meatus above the rest, which communicates with a posterior ethmoidal cell. The nares. In the recent condition of the nose each fossa has a distinct anterior opening in the face, and another in the pharynx ; but in the skeleton there is only one com- mon opening in front for both sides. These apertures, and the parts bounding them, have been before described (p. 32 and 134). The m.ucGus membrane that lines the nasal fossa is called lining of the the pituitary or Schneiderian membrane. It is continuous with the integument at the nostril, and with the membrane lining the pharynx through the posterior opening: moreover, it is also continuous, by means of the openings into the nasal cavity, with the mucous membrane of the tympanum and eyeball, and with that of the difierent sinuses, viz. frontal, ethmoidal, sphenoidal, and maxillary. Differs on In the lower region of the nose, where the air chiefly boneKnd in P^^^®^ lungs, the membrane is thick, and closely sinuses. United to the subjacent periosteum and perichondrium, and on the margins of the spongy bones it is projected somewhat by the large submucous vessels, so as to increase the extent of surface ; but in the canals and sinuses it is very thin. Near the nostril it is furnished with papillae, and small hairs (vibrissas). Some fora- The foramina in the dry bones, which transmit nerves or mma closed, y^ssels, are entirely closed by the membrane, viz. incisor, spheno-palatine, and the holes in the cribriform plate ; but Middle meatus. Lower meatus. Fourth meatus. Nares. Mucous