286 DISSECTIOI^" OF THE ARM. Superficial fat. The cuta- neous veins are median vein: divides into two foranches. Position and connections of median cephalic, Fig 41.* neous offset from it, which pierces the fascia higher up. Behind the internal cutaneous in the lower third of the arm, is the small nerve of Wrisberg ; and in the upper third at the same aspect, are the small nerves that have been already met with in the dissection of the axilla, viz., the intercosto-humeral, and the internal cutaneous of the musculo-spiral. The superficial fascia forms a continuous investment for the limb, but it is thicker in front of the elbow than in the other parts of the arm. In that spot it encloses the super- ficial vessels and lymphatics, and it may be divided into two layers. CuTAi^EOus Veins.—The position and the connections of the superficial veins in front of the elbow are to be atten- tively noted by the dissector, because the operation of venesection may be practised in them. 1. The median vein of the forearm (fig. 41, ^) divides into two branches, internal and external, rather below the bend of the elbow ; and at its point of division it is joined by an offset from a deep vein. The internal branch (median basilic) crosses to the inner border of the biceps, and unites with the ulnar veins (3) to form the ba- silic vein of the inner side of the arm. The external branch (median cephalic) is usually longer than the other, and by its junction with the radial vein (7) gives rise to the ce- phalic vein of the arm. The connections of the two veins into which the median bi- furcates, are described below.— a. The median cephalic vein (fig. 41) is directed obliquely outwards, and lies over the hollow between the biceps and the outer mass of muscles of the forearm. Beneath it is the trunk of the musculo-cutaneous nerve, and over it some * Cutaneous veins and nerves at the bend of the elbow. (From Quain's " Arteries.")—1. Median basilic vein. 2. Median vein of the forearm bifurcating. 3. Anterior ulnar veins. 4. Cephalic vein formed by radial from behind and the median cephalic in front. The musculo-