THE KIDNEY ATO THE URETER. 569 THE KIDNEY AND THE UHETER. The kidney has a characterisfcic form :—flattened on the Use and sides, it is larger at the upper than at the lower extremity, form, and is hollowed out at one part of its circumference. For the purpose of distinguishing between the right and left kidneys, guish^right let the excavated margin be supposed to be turned to the from left, spinal column, whilst the ureter or the excretory tube is kept behind the other vessels ; and let that end be directed down- wards, towards which the ureter is naturally inclined. With the special form above mentioned, the kidney is of Colour, a deep red colour, and presents an even surface. Its average size, length is about four inches, its breadth two, and its thickness about one inch ; but the left is commonly longer and more slender than the right kidney. Its usual weight is about five wei-^ht. ounces and a half in the male, and rather less in the female. The upper extremity of the kidney is rounded, is thicker Extremi- than the lower, and is surmounted by the suprarenal body. ' The lower end is flat and more pointed. The position with respect to the spinal column has been before detailed (p. 518). On the anterior surface the kidney is rounded, but on the surfaces; opposite surface it is flattened. The outer border is convex; borders, but the inner is excavated, and is marked by a longitudinal fissure,—hilum. Opposite the excavation is a hollow in the interior of the kidney named sinus, into which the hilum leads, and in which the vessels and the duct are contained before they pierce the renal substance. In the fissure of the kidney the several vessels are thus placed Contents of with respect to one another:—The divisions of the renal vein fissure, are in front, the ureter is behind, and the branches of the artery position, lie between the other two. On the vessels the nerves and lym- phatics ramify, and areolar tissue and fat surround the whole. Dissection.—To see the interior it will be necessary to cut Open the through the kidney from the inner to the outer border, and ^Z^^^^' to remove the loose tissue from the vessels, and the divisions vessels, of the excretory duct. The hollow or sinus containing the bloodvessels now comes into view. The interior of the Mdney appears on a section to consist Renal of two different materials, viz., of an external granular or ^M^ed into cortical part; and of internal, darker coloured, pyramidal cortical and masses, which converge towards the centre, and are con- P^^^™^^^^- nected with the divisions of the excretory duct. But it will subsequently appear that these parts are constructed of the same elements, though with a different arrangement. The cortical substance^ or the external part, forms about Extent of