152 DISSECTION" OF THE HEAD. nasal brandies. one to sep- tum nasi, ptei-ygo- palatiuo branch, vidian branch. Other nasal arteries. Veins ; alveolar plexus. Facial nerve. with the contained nerves to the soft palate and tonsil ; and some offsets are furnished to the lining membrane of the nose. In the roof of the mouth the mucous membrane, glands, and gums, receive their vessels from this artery. 2. The nasal or splieno-palatine artery enters the nose through the spheno-palatine foramen, and divides into branches :—Some of these are distributed on the spongy bones and the outer wall of the nasal fossa, and supply ofisets to the membrane lining the posterior ethmoidal cells. One long branch, artery of the septum (art. naso-palatina), runs on the partition between the nasal fossse to the incisor foramen, through which it anastomoses with the superior palatine in the roof of the mouth. This branch accompanies the naso-palatine nerve, and covers the septum with nu- merous ramifications. 3. The pterygo-palatine is a very small branch which, passing backwards through the canal of the same name, is distributed to the Eustachian tube and the lining membrane of the pharynx. 4. The vidian or pterygoid branch is contained in the vidian canal with the nerve of the same name, and ends on the upper part of the Eustachian tube and the pharynx after escaping from its canal. Some small nasal arteries are furnished to the roof of the nasal fossa by the anterior and posterior ethmoidal branches of the ophthalmic (p. 48) ; and others from the facial artery supply the part near the nostril. Veins.—The veins accompanying the terminal branches of the internal maxillary artery unite in the spheno-maxil- lary fossa in the alveolar plexus. Into this plexus offsets are received from the pterygoid plexus and the infraorbital vein ; and from it a large trunk (alveolar, anterior internal maxillary vein) is directed forwards below the malar bone to join the facial vein (p. 29). Beneath the mucous membrane of the nose the veins have a plexiform arrange- ment, which is particularly large over the free margin of the spongy bones. Facial nerve m the temporal bone .—This nerve winds through the petrous part of the temporal bone, and it is followed with difficulty in consequence of the extreme density of the bone, and the absence of marks on the sur- face to indicate its position. To render this dissection easier, the student should be provided with a temporal bone, in which the course of the facial nerve and the cavity of the tympanum are displayed.