DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEK 524 Mesentery. Form. Attach- ments. Parts con- tained'iu it. Peritoneal folds of the liver. Suspensory- ligament. Shape. Attach- ments. Contains round liga- ment. How formed. Coronary ligament gives rise to left and right lateral ligaments. Fold of the. jejunum and ileum.—The mesentery supports the rest of the small intestine, and is stronger than any- other fold of the serous membrane. Its inner end is narrow, and is attached to the spine from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra to the junction of the right hip bone with the sacrum. The other end of the fold is wide, and is con- nected with the intestine. Between its two layers are the superior mesenteric vessels and nerves, with lymphatic glands and lacteals. Ligaments of the liver.—The reflections of the peritoneum between the liver and the wall of the abdominal cavity are named ligaments. Along the upper part is a suspensory fold containing the obliterated umbilical vein ; and there is a coronary ligament along the posterior border. The suspensory or falciform ligament is placed between the upper convex surface of the liver and the parietes of the abdomen. It is falciform in shape ; and in the recumbent position of the body, its base is turned forwards, and apex backwards. The lower border is concave, and is attached to the liver ; whilst the upper border is convex, and is con- nected to the abdominal wall on the right side of the linea alba, and to the under part of the diaphragm. In its base or free part is contained the remnant of the umbilical vein, which is named the round ligament. This fold allows the passage of the umbilical vein to the liver without piercing the bag of the peritoneum ; and with a little care the dissector will be able to detach the serous membrane from the vein, and to trace it continuously upwards on each side into the suspensory ligament. The coronary ligament is a short but wide process of the peritoneum, which connects the hinder part of the liver to the diaphragm. It reaches all across the liver, but at each side it is enlarged, and forms a triangularly shaped piece ; to these larger pieces of it the terms right and left lateral ligaments have been applied. a. The left lateral ligament is attached to the liver above the edge of the left lobe, and is formed by two pieces of peritoneum, which are in contact ; it lies in front of the oesophagean opening in the diaphragm. h. The right lateral ligament lies deeply in the hypo- chondriac region, in front of the vena cava inferior. Its two pieces of peritoneum are widely separated from one another, and between them the kidney touches the liver.