230 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIIT. Fornix : position and form. Posterior and anterior part. Upper sur- face and borders. Under sur- face marked by lines. Fornix formed of two bands. Tliis aper- ture joins lateral ven- tricles. The fornix, or arcli (fig. 36, /), is a thin white horizontal stratum beneath the corpus callosum, which, projecting on each side into the lateral ventricle, forms part of the floor of that cavity. It is triangular in shape, with the base turned backwards ; and it is continuous with the rest of the brain only by its apex and base, where it gives off processes or crura both before and behind. At its posterior part or base, the fornix has the following arrangement :—In the middle line it joins the corpus callo- sum, whilst on each side it sends off a small riband-like band —tsenia hippocampi (fig. 36, -y), along the concave margin of the hippocampus major. At the anterior part, or apex, it is arched over the foramen of Monro, opposite the front of the optic thalamus, and ends likewise in two processes or crura (fig. 37, g), which will be afterwards followed to the corpora albicantia and the optic thalami (p. 236). To the upper surface, along the middle line, the septum lucidum is attached. Each border is free in the corresponding lateral ventricle, where it rests on the optic thalamus, and along it lies the choroid plexus. If the fornix be cut across near its front, the foramen of Monro will be opened, and the descending anterior pillars will be seen. Y/hen the posterior part is raised, the fornix will be found to be supported on a process of the pia mater, named velum interpositum ; and at its base (on the under aspect) between the two ofi'sets, or the tseniae hippocampi, is a triangular surface, which is marked by transverse and some- times by longitudinal lines : the surface which is so defined has been called incorrectly by some the lyra.'^ The fornix may be also described as consisting of two bands, right and left, which are united for a certain distance in the central part or body. According to this view, each band, commencing in the optic thalamus, passes over the foramen of Monro, and after forming the body of the fornix, is continued as a distinct piece to the surface of the hippo- campus major. The Foramen of Monro is the aperture beneath the ante- rior part of the fornix, in which the plexus choroides lies. Through it the lateral ventricles communicate with one another and with the third ventricle. In floor of Flock, of the lateral Ventricle.—The student may * See a foot note by Dr. Sharpey, in Quain's Anatomy, vol. ii. p. 471.