DISSECTIOIT OF THE EYE. 784 To see the interior, and the structure. To make a vertical sec- tion. Form and extent. Anterior termination Opening- Outer sur- face rough; inner smooth. Ciliary pro- cesses. Position, dissection the iris is to be left untouclied, but tlie choroid coat is to be divided around with a scissors a little behind the ring of the ciliary muscle, and is to be taken away with that ligament and the attached iris in one piece. By gently washing the pigment from the back of the iris the small pro- cesses will be made manifest. By means of this dissection the interior of the choroid coat may be seen. The structure of the membrane may be examined on a fragment obtained from the eye destroyed in making the preparation of the sclerotic coat. If a vertical section is made of another eyeball, it will show the ciliary processes in their natural position, and will demonstrate the relative situation of all the parts. This section, which it is difficult to make, should be attempted in water with a sharp, large knife, and on a surface of wax or wood, after the sclerotic coat has been cut with a scissors. When the eye has been divided, the halves should remain in water. The CHOROID COAT (fig. 121) is a thin membrane of a dark colour, and forms a segment of a sphere. Like the sclerotic stratum, it extends from the optic nerve to the fore part of the eyeball. When viev/ed on the eye in which the ciliary ligament is entire, it appears to end at the ligament ; but it may be seen in the other dissections to bend inwards behind that ring, and to end in a series of folds or processes (pars plicata) behind the iris. This covering is thicker and stronger behind than in front. It is supported at the bottom of the eyeball by its close connection to the sclerotic coat, and in front by the ciliary- ligament. Posteriorly it is pierced by a round aperture for the passage of the optic nerve ; and anteriorly it is united with the ciliary ligament and iris. The outer surface is flocculent, and is covered by the remnants of a pigmentary areolar tissue (membrana fusca) between it and the sclerotic coat : on it may be seen small veins (/) arranged in parallel arches as they open into larger trunks, and lying on its surface are the ciliary arteries and nerves (e). The inner surface is smooth, and is lined by a thin pigmentary epithelial layer (membrana pigmenti), though in the eye of the ox it shines through that layer with a metallic lustre. The ciliary processes (fig. 119, ^) or the plaits in front on the inner surface of the choroidal coat, are arranged around the lens, like the many petals of a flower, forming a circle (corpus ciliare). These processes, about 85 in number, lie