NERVES AT THE BASE OF THE SKULL. 21 The INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY appears in the base of internal carotid artery, the skull at the apex of the petrous part of the temporal carotid bone. In its ascent to the brain the vessel lies in the space of the cavernous sinus, along the side of the body of the sphenoid bone, and makes two remarkable bends, so as to look like the letter S reclined. On entering the sinus, the winds artery ascends at first to the posterior clinoid process; it is cavernous then directed forwards to the root of the anterior process of ^i^^^. the same name ; and lastly it turns upwards internal to this point of bone, perforates the dura mater bounding the sinus, and divides into cerebral arteries at the base of the brain. In this course the artery is enveloped by nerves derived from the sympathetic in the neck. The branches of this part of the artery are few. In the The sinus there are some small arteries (arterise receptaculi) for are to dura the supply of the dura mater and the bone, the nerves, and ^^^^ the pituitary body ; and opposite the anterior clinoid process the ophthalmic branch arises. The terminal branches of the carotid will be seen in the dissection of the base of the brain. Sympathetic Nerve.—Around the carotid artery is a Sympathetic prolongation of the sympathetic nerve of the neck, which f^jj.j^s forms the following plexuses :—> The carotid plexus is situate on the outer side of the carotid vessel, at its entrance into the cavernous sinus, and com- P^^^^^' municates with the sixth nerve, and with the Gasserian ganglion. The cavernous plexus is placed below the bend of the cavernous artery, which is close to the rdot of the anterior clinoid P^®^^^- process. This small plexus is more immediately connected with the ofi*set of the upper cervical ganglion of the sym- pathetic, which courses along the inner side of the carotid artery. Filaments are given from this plexus to unite with Union with the third, fourth, and ophthalmic nerves. One filament is Jierves. also furnished to the lenticular ganglion, either separately from, or in conjunction with the nasal nerve. After forming these plexuses, the nerves surround the Distribu- trunk of the carotid, and are lost chiefly in the cerebral membrane named pia mater. Petrosal nerves.—Beneath the Gasserian ganglion is the Three petro- large superficial petrosal nerve, entering the hiatus Fallopii i^erves. to join the facial nerve. External to this is occasionally Two seen in seen another small petrosal nerve (external superficial), which skull, springs from the sympathetic on the middle meningeal artery, and enters the bone to join the facial nerve with the