FISSURES OF THE LIVER. 563 over by the liver. If the cava be opened large hepatic veins will be seen entering it. Fossce.—On the under surface of the right lobe are Fossge three depressions :—one for the gall-bladder to the right beneath, of the square lobe ; another for the colon, near the anterior part ; and a third for the kidney near the pos- terior part. Vessels of the transverse fissure.—The vessels in the Vessels transverse fissure, viz. vena portae, hepatic artery, and transverse duct, have the following position :—the duct is anterior, Assure, the portal vein posterior, and the artery between the other two. Hepatic duct (fig. 84).—The hepatic duct is formed by Hepatic two branches from the liver, one from each lobe, which soon blend in a common tube. After a distance of one inch and a half it is joined by the duct of the gall- bladder ; and the union of the two gives rise to the common bile duct (/). The hepatic artery is divided into two, one for each Hepatic lobe, and its branches are surrounded by nerves and lymph- ^^^^^Y- atics. The vena portm branches, like the artery, into two trunks Vena portaj. for the right and left lobes, and gives an offset to the Spige- lian lobe : its left branch is the longest. Fetal condition of^ the umbilical vein. —In the longitudinal ^J^^^^^^^^^J fissure are the remains of a vessel which has the undermen- longitudinal tioned arrangement in the fetus. Before birth the large ^i^e^e^us umbilical vein occupies the longitudinal fissure, and opens posteriorly into the vena cava. Purified or placental blood circulates through the vessel at that period ; and the part of the vein behind the transverse fissure receives the name ductus venosjis. Branches are supplied from the vein to both lobes of the liver ; and a large one, which is directed to the right lobe, is continuous with the left division of the vena portDS. After birth the part of the umbilical vein in front of the condition transverse fissure is closed, and becomes eventually the round ' ligament. The part behind the transverse fissure, or the ductus venosus, is also obliterated, only a thin cord remaining in its place (the obliterated ductus venosus). ¥*^hilst the lateral branches, which are in the same line as, and con- tinuous with the left branch of the vena portse, remain open, and subsequently form part of the portal system of vessels. Occasionally the ductus venosus is found more or 3 pervious. o 0 2