791 CHARACTERS OF THE RETINA. passed through the cornea, and fastened to a pin fixed in wax ; then on removing in a fluid the sclerotic and choroid coats, the retina will be laid bare. The interior of the retina may be seen in the eye from which the cornea, the iris, and the corpus ciliare have been removed in front. The retina is the most internal of the three concentric situation in strata in the globe of the eye, and is situate between the ^7^^3-11. choroid coat and the transparent mass (vitreous humour) in the interior. It is moulded upon, and supported by the vitreous body; and its form is that of a segment of a sphere, Yorm but its aperture in front is very large. Beginning behind at the optic nerve, this thin layer extends forwards nearly ^^j^^ extent, iis far as the ciliary ligament, viz., to the spot at which the choroid coat becomes folded (outer margin of the corpus ciliare), where it ends in a wavy border—the ora serrata. "Where the retina ceases in front a thin layer of elongated Cells pro- nucleated cells, which are not nerve elements, is continued on to the tips of the ciliary processes (fig. .117,''). This nervous expansion is of a pinkish gray colour, and is Colour ; semitransparent when fresh, so that an image can be seen on it at the bottom of the eye when the two external coats ^ire removed ; but it soon loses this translucency, and is ^ranspa- moreover rendered opaque by the action of water and other rency and substances. Its thickness is greater at the posterior than at the anterior part of the eyeball. On the outer surface are some fine shreds, fragments of a Outer sur- structure (Jacob's membrane) to be noticed presently, which ^^il^l iloat in the fluid in which the preparation may be placed ; and in a fresh eye, on which the coats have been removed from behind, a continuous layer of this membrane may be detached with care. On looking to the inside through the vitreous body, the on the surface will be found covered with folds, but these are j-^J^®^^^^" accidental, in consequence of the membrane having lost its seen proper support ; and at the spot where the optic nerve expands (porus opticus) is the central artery of the retina, p^^^^g op^. In the interior of the human eye, in the axis of the ball, cus, and -i-gth. of an inch outside the entrance of the optic nerve, is a slightly elliptical yellow point, -^-rytli of an inch in diameter, which is named the yellow spot (limbus luteus of yeiiow spot, Sommerring). Almost in the centre of that spot is a minute hollow, the fovea centralis, which appears black in conse- „ lovea cen- quence of the thinness of the wall allowing the dark pigment trails, outside to be seen.