DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. 382 Their branches. Sometimes they open separately into the heart. This usual in fetus. on tlie three large branches of the aortic arch, as well as on the several nerves descending over the arch. The branches of these veins are nearly alike on the two sides. Each receives the internal mammary, the inferior thyroid, and the superior intercostal of its own side ; and the left vein is joined in addition by some small thymic and pericardiac veins. Sometimes the innominate veins are not united in the vena cava, but descend separately to the heart, where both have distinct openings in the right auricle. When such a condi- tion exists, the right vein takes the course of the upper cava ; but the left vein descends in front of the root of the left lung, and turning to the back of the heart, receives the cardiac veins, before it opens into the right auricle. A cross branch is found connecting the two above the heart. This occasional condition in the adult is a regular one in a very early period of the growth of the fetus ; and two vessels are also persistent in some mammalia. How two Change of the two veins into one.—The changes that take place in are changed the veins during the growth of the fetus, to produce the arrange- mto one. naent common in the adult, concern mostly the trunk on the left side. The following concise description may serve as an outline of them. First the cross branch between the two trunks enlarges, and forms the future left innominate vein. Next the left trunk below the cross branch disappears at its middle, and undergoes transfor- mations at each end :—At the upper end it becomes converted into Forms coro- the superior intercostal vein. At the lower part it remains pervious nary sinus, for a short distance as the coronary sinus ; and even the small oblique vein opening into the end of that sinus in the adult (p. 363), is a remnant of the part of the trunk of the vein that lay beneath the heart. Vestige in ]^y. Marshall finds in the adult another vestige of the occluded dium "^^ssel in the form of a fold of the serous membrane of the peri- cardium in front of the root of the left lung: this he names the vestigial fold of the pericardium. Inferior cava. Pour pul- monary veins. The INFEHIOE, or ascending cava enters the right auricle as soon as it has pierced the diaphragm. No branches open into the vein in the thorax. The anatomy of this vein will be given with the vessels of the abdomen. The PULMONARY VEINS are two on each side; they issue from the fissure of the root of the lung, and end in the left An example of two large vessels, ''double vena cava," opening into the heart in the adult, has been given to the College Museum by Dr. Sharpey. The student may consult an excellent treatise by Mr. Marshall on the development of the veins of the neck.—" Philosoph. Trans." for 1850.