MUSCLES OF THE MOUTH. 27 muscle of the opposite side, and its outer is overlapped by middle of tlie depressor anguli oris. The LEVATOR LABII INFERIORIS is a SID all HlUScle on the Elevator of side of the fr{3enum of the lower lip, which is opposite to the depressor of the ala of the nose in the upper lip. When is seen in- the mucous membrane has been removed, this muscle will be seen to arise from a fossa near the symphysis of the lower jaw, and to descend to its insertion into the integu- ment of the chin. Its position is internal to the depressor of the lip, and the attachment of the orbicularis. The LEVATOR ANGULI ORIS has well-marked fibres, and is Elevator of partly concealed by the preceding muscle. Arising from ° the canine fossa, beneath the infra-orbital foramen, its fibres spread out towards the angle of the mouth w^iere they are superficial to the buccinator, and mix with the rest of the mixes witli muscles, but the greater number are continued into the of angle, depressor anguli oris and the lower lip. The DEPRESSOR ANGULI ORIS is triangular in shape, and Depressor of passes from the oblique line on the outer surface of the lower jaw to the angle of the mouth, where its fibres are continued into the elevator of the angle. This muscle conceals the is a strong labial branch of the inferior dental vessels and nerve. At ^^^^ ^' its origin the depressor is united with the platysma myoides, and at its insertion with the risorius muscle. The ZYGOMATIC MUSCLES are directed obliquely from the Zygomatic arch of the same name towards the angle of the mouth. One is longer and larger than the other ; hence the names major and minor. The zygomaticus major arises from the outer part of the large malar bone at the union with the temporal, and is inserted into the angle of the mouth. The zygomaticus minor is attached to the malar bone and small, anterior to the other, and blends with the fibres of the special elevator of the upper lip. The RISORIUS MUSCLE (Santorini) is a thin and narrow Risorius bundle of fibres, sometimes divided into two or more parts, ^^^^^^ which arises externally from the fascia over the masseter is almost muscle, and is connected internally with the apex of the transverse, depressor anguli oris. The BUCCINATOR is a flat and wide muscle (fig. 11, which Buccinator occupies the interval between the jaws, and bounds in this direction the cavity of the mouth. The muscle arises from Origin, the outer surface of the alveolar borders of the upper and lower maxillae, as far forward in each as the first molar tooth; and in the interval between the jaws it is attached