765 ARTICULATIOIN' OF THE A^TKLE. The interosseous ligani.ent is an aponeurotic partition be- Tnterosseous tween the muscles on the front and back of the leg. Its tweeu the fibres are directed downwards for the most part from the bones, outer border of the tibia to the ridge on the anterior or inner surface of the fibula : but some few cross in the oppo- site direction. Both superiorly and inferiorly is an aperture which transmits vessels, viz. the anterior tibial at the one spot, and the anterior peroneal at the other. Some strong irregular bundles of fibres, which constitute inferior the inferior interosseous ligament, extend between the bones ligament, below the aperture for the anterior peroneal artery : these take different directions, like the fibres of the rest of the interosseous membrane. It may be seen after the examina- tion of the ankle joint by separating or sawing longitudinally the lower ends of the bones. Articulation or THE ANKLE.—Like the knee the ankle Bones in is a ginglymoid or hinge joint. In this joint the upper jq^^^"^^^ surface of the astragalus is received into an arch formed by the lower ends of the tibia and fibula, and the four ligaments belonging to this kind of articulation connect together the bones. Dissection.—To make the dissection required for the liga- Dissection ments of the ankle joint, the fibrous tissue and vessels must ^ukie joint be removed from the front and back of the articulation. For the purpose of defining the lateral ligaments, the limb must be placed first on one side and then on the other. The internal ligament is wide and strong, and is beneath the tendon of the tibialis posticus. The external is divided into three separate pieces ; and to find these the peronei muscles, and the remains of the annular ligament below the outer malleolus, should be taken away. The anterior or tibio-tarsal ligament is a thin fibrous Anterior membrane, which is attached to the tibia close to the arti- [hUian^d cular surface, and to the upper part of the astragalus near imperfect, the articulation with the scaphoid bone. The ligament is not usually a continuous membrane, for in it are some rounded intervals and apertures for vessels. On the sides it joins the lateral ligaments. ThQposterior ligament is thinner internally than externally; Posterior and it is inserted into the tibia and the astragalus, close to the articular surfaces of the bones. Towards the outer part is a bundle of transverse fibres which is attached to the hollow on the inner surface of the external malleolus. The internal lateral or deltoid ligament (fig. 113) is internal or attached by its upper or pointed part to the inner malleolus, ^^^^^^'^i