430 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. Suboccipital has different branching; ends in the muscles. Posterior cervical plexus. Dorsal nerves have inner and outer branches. Outer branches of muscles. lower six give cuta- neous off- sets. internal to the great occipital nerve. Usually this nerve joins the preceding both beneath, and superficial to the trapezius. The posterior primary branch of the suboccipital or first spinal nerve, deviates from the others in its course and branching. It is very short, and appears in the interval between the recti and obliqui muscles. In passing from the spinal canal it is placed between the arch of the atlas and the vertebral artery, and below the arched part of the liga- ment between the first cervical vertebra and the occipital bone (fig. 25). The following branches radiate from the extremity of the nerve :— One enters the under surface of the complexus near the cranial attachment. A slender branch is furnished to each of the small muscles bounding the space in which the nerve is contained, viz., the rectus major and minor, and the superior and inferior oblique : the ofiset to the last muscle joins often the inner branch of the second cervical nerve. Occasionally this nerve gives a cutaneous branch to the occiput. Posterior cervical plexus.—'The suboccipital nerve and the internal branches of the next two cervical nerves are con- nected sometimes by ofisets beneath the complexus ; when such an intercommunication exists, it forms the posterior cervical plexus of M. Cruveilhier. * In the dorsal region.—The posterior primary branches of the dorsal nerves are twelve in number, and appear between the transverse processes. Each nerve soon divides into an internal and an external piece, which are distributed after the same plan as those in the neck. Cutaneous ofisets are furnished from the branches, but not commonly from both branches of the same nerve. ^ The external branches increase in size from the first to the last, and are difierently distributed above and below. The upper six or eight pass beneath the longissimus and its cervical prolongation, as far as the interval between the longissimus and the ilio-costalis, and end by supplying these muscles and the levatores costarum. The lower six or four have a similar arrangement and distribution with respect to the muscles ; but, after reaching the interval between the ilio-costalis and the longissimus dorsi, they are continued to the surface through the serratus and latissimus muscles, nearly in a line with the angles of the ribs. * See foot note to p. 139 of the first edition of this work.