DISSECTIOIT OF THE ITECK. 71 tiguous borders of the scalenus and longus colli muscles, this branch enters the aperture between the transverse processes forming the lateral mass of the sixth cervical vertebra, and is continued upwards to the skull through the chain of foramina in the lateral masses of the other cervical vertebrae. Before the artery enters its aperture it is partly concealed by the internal jugular vein, and passes beneath the thyroid artery ; it is accompanied by branches of the sympathetic nerve, and supplies small muscular offsets. Its course and distribution will be given afterwards. On left side. On the left side the commencement of the vertebral artery is crossed by the thoracic duct. The origin of the vertebral may vary in its position along the first part of the trunk of the subclavian. Or it may be transferred to the arch of the aorta, especially on the left side ; or to the right common carotid artery, when the subclavian of the same side arises from the aorta. The course of the artery is not constant through the hole in the sixth vertebra ; it may enter any other as high as the second. Small branches. Difference in place of origin. Vertebral vein, and branches. Internal mammary- artery in the neck. Thyroid axis divides into three. Supra- scapular branch. Transverse The vertebral vein issues with its accompanying artery, to which it is superficial in the neck, and is directed over the subclavian artery to join the subclavian vein ; it receives the deep cervical vein, and the branch that accompanies the ascend- ing cervical artery. 2. The internal mammary branch leaves the lower part of the subclavian artery, and coursing downwards beneath the clavicle and subjacent muscle, and the subclavian vein, enters the thorax between the first rib and the bag of the pleura. As the artery is about to enter the chest, it is crossed (superficially) by the phrenic nerve. The vessel is distributed to the walls of the chest and abdomen ; and its anatomy will be given with the dissection of those parts. 3. Thyroid axis.—This is a short thick trunk (fig. 10), which arises from the front of the artery near the anterior scalenus muscle, and soon divides into three branches :—one to the thyroid body, and two to the scapula that run outwards across the neck. On the left side of the body the thoracic duct lies in front of the thyroid axis. a. The suprascapular branch, courses outwards across the lower part of the posterior triangular space of the neck, behind the clavicle and subclavian muscle, to the superior costa of the scapula, and entering the supraspinal fossa is distributed on the dorsum of that bone. The connections of this artery are seen in the dissection of the back. b. The transverse cervical branch, usually larger than the