620 DISSECTION" OF THE PELYIS. To dissect the vessels of the pelvis. Nerves. Veins. Destina- tion of internal iliac artery. Size and length; termina- tion ; position of vein; Branches. trie artery in the foetus. of the bladder, and this viscns and the rectum, together with the uterus and the vagina in the female, should be drawn from their situation in the centre of the pelvis. Dissection.—The peritoneum and the loose tissue and fat are to be removed from the viscera and the trunks of the vessels, as well as from the branches of the artery that leave the pelvis or supply the viscera ; and the obliterated cord of the hypogastric artery is to be traced on the bladder to the umbilicus. With the vessels are offsets of the hypogastric plexus of nerves, but in the present state of the body these will pro- bably not be seen ; and in dissecting the vessels to the bladder and the rectum, branches of the spinal sacral nerves will come into view. The veins in a general dissection may be removed to make clean the arteries. When the vessels are quite prepared the bladder may be again distended, and the viscera replaced. The INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY is oue of the trunks resulting from the division of the common iliac vessel, and furnishes branches to the viscera and the wall of the pelvis, to the generative organs, and to the thigh. In the adult the vessel is a short trunk, of large capacity, which measures about an inch and a half in length. Directed downwards as far as the sacro-sciatic notch, the artery ter- minates in two large branches, from which the several offsets are furnished. From the extremity a partly obliterated vessel (hypogastric) extends forwards to the bladder. In entering the pelvis the artery lies ia front of the lumbo- sacral nerve and the pyriformis muscle, and is contained in the fold of peritoneum forming the posterior ligament of the bladder. It is accompanied by the internal iliac vein, which is posterior to it, and somewhat on the outer part on the right side. The branches of the artery are numerous, and arise usually in the following manner :—From the posterior division of the trunk arise the ilio-lumbar, lateral sacral, and gluteal branches. And from the anterior portion come the vesical (upper and lower) obturator, sciatic, and pudic ; and in the female, the uterine and vaginal branches. Artery in the fwtus.—In the foetus the hyxoogastric artery takes the place of the internal iliac, and leaves the abdomen by the umbilicus. At that time it is larger than the external iliac artery; and, entering but slightly into the cavity of the pelvis, it is directed forwards to the back of the bladder,