331 MUSCLES OF THE BACK OF THE FOREAEM. the forearm in a tendon, by means of which the muscle is ^'^^^^ inserted into the lower end of the radius close above the radius, styloid process. In the arm the margins of the supinator are directed Connec- towards the surface and the bone, but in the forearm the muscle is flattened over the others, and its edges have an opposite direction, viz. from before backwards. Near its insertion the supinator is covered by two extensors of the thumb. Along its inner border below the elbow is the radial ^^fal artery ; and above the joint it is in contact with the brachi- artery, alis anticus. Beneath this muscle are found the extensors of the wrist, the radial nerve, and the radius. The EXTENSOR CARPI RADIAL IS LONGIOR arisCS from the Extensor lower third of the outer condyloid ridge of the humerus, and ^^^P^^^^^s from the front of the contiguous intermuscular septum. The muscle descends on the short radial extensor ; and its tendon passes beneath the extensors of the thumb, and through the annular ligament, to be inserted into the base of Insertion, the metacarpal bone of the index finger. Along its outer border is the radial nerve. The EXTENSOR CARPI RADIALIS BREVIOR is attached to the Extensor capsular ligament of the elbow joint ; and to the outer con- fs^contafned dyle of the humerus by a tendon common to it and the three in the for«- foUowing muscles, viz. the common extensor of the fingers, the extensor of the little finger and the ulnar extensor of the wrist : it takes origin also from aponeurosis on its under and inner sides. The tendon of the muscle is closely connected with the preceding, and after passing with insertion it through the same compartment of the annular ligament, c^tp^b^one is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. Concealed by the two preceding muscles, this extensor Parts around rests on the radius and on some of the muscles attached to it, that is to say, on the supinator brevis, and the pronator teres. Along the inner side is the common extensor of the fingers ; and the extensors of the thumb come out between the two. Both the radial extensors of the carpus have usually a bursa at the insertion. The EXTENSOR COMMUNIS DIGITORUM is single at its origin, Common but is divided inferiorly into four tendons. It arises from ^^sq}^^^ the common tendon, from aponeurotic septa between it and origin, the muscles around, and from the aponeurosis of the limb. Near the lower part of the forearm the muscle ends in three tendons, which pass through a compartment of the annular ligament with the indicator muscle. Escaping from the