DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 638 Muscular Ending of the ureters. —As soon as tlie ureter pierces the urefers.^ outer and middle coats of the bladder, its longitudinal fibres are thus disposed :—The more internal and strongest are directed transversely, and join with the corresponding fibres of the other urine tube ; whilst the remainder are continued down over the triangular space and join the submucous layer. Arteries • Bloodvessels and nerves. —The source of the vesical arteries, veins; ^^^^ termination of the veins are before detailed (pp. 622, 626). In the bladder the vessels are disposed in greatest nerves of number about the base and neck. Most of the nerves dis- the bladder, tributed to the bladder, though supplied from the pelvic plexus of the sympathetic (p. 629), are derived directly from the spinal nerves. THE URETHRA AND PENIS. Urethra : extent and length; no special coat. Division into parts. How to open the urethra. Prostatic part. Dimensions and diameter. On the floor is a crest. Urethra.—The tube of the urethra extends from the neck of the bladder to the end of the penis, and has an average length of about eight inches and a half. This canal is supported by the prostate, by the spongy structure of the penis, and by muscular fibre, so that it does not require so thick a continuous muscular coat as in many other excretory tubes. The size of the urethra varies at difierent spots, and the tube is divided, as before said (p. 613), into a prostatic, a membranous, and a spongy part. Dissection.—To open the urethra, let the incision through the upper part of the prostate be continued onwards to the extremity of the penis, so as to divide the corpus caverno- sum rather on one side of the middle line, and to leave uncut the septum in it. The prostatic part is nearer the upper than the lower surface of the muscular mass surrounding it. It is about one inch and a quarter in length, and is altogether the widest and most extensible portion of the urethral canal. The form of this part of the tube is spindle-shaped, for it is larger in the middle than at either end. Its transverse measurement at the neck of the bladder, is about a quarter of an inch ; at the centre a line or two more ; and at the front rather less than at the back. On the floor of the passage at the neck of the bladder is * Trans, of Med. Chir. Society, 1856. Sir C. Bell described these fibres as distinct muscles for the purpose of acting on the opening of the ureter. Seethe Med. Chir. Transactions, vol. iii.: " Account of the Muscles of the Ureters."