UPPER SURFACE OF CEREBRUM. 22a may notice tlie following as the most regular :—one on tlie corpus callosum ; another at the margin of the longitudinal fissure ; and some few on the outer surface of the hemi- sphere. The convolution of the Sylvian fissure has been already noticed (p. 219). Dissection.—The upper part of each hemisphere having Dissection, been cut off already as low as the convolution of the corpus callosum, that convolution is to be cut through on the left side, and its ends thrown forwards and backwards ; a white longitudinal band (covered band of Reil) will be seen be- neath it. It is supposed that the top of one hemisphere has been kept for the purpose of examining the convo- lutions. a. The convolution of the corpus callosum (gyrus fornicatus) Convolution extends around the root of the hemisphere, except at the callosum • fissure of Sylvius. It is narrow in front, and begins at the anterior perforated spot (fig. 37, h'); then courses round the corpus callosum and the crus cerebri, and ends at the posterior part of the same spot (fig. 35, h'). Whilst lying on the inner surface of the hemisphere, it is joined by the convolutions of that part. Beneath this convolution is a its fillet or band of fibres—the covered band of Heil, fillet of the corpus callosum, which is connected in front and behind with the anterior perforated spot, and gives offsets to the secondary convolutions in the median longitudinal fissure. h. The convolution of the margin of the longitudinal fissure Convolution (fig. 37, X, x') takes a similar course with the preceding dinal° around the hemisphere, but it lies at the margin of the great Assure, median fissure, instead of being placed deeply in it. Com- mencing at the anterior perforated spot, where it forms the inner part of the anterior lobe (p. 218), it is directed back along the margin of the great fissure, and along the under part of the hemisphere to the front of the middle lobe. This is not so distinct as the preceding convolution. c. The convolutio7is of the outer surface of the hemisphere Convolu- cross, more or less obliquely, from the convolution of the outer part margin of the great median fissure to the convolution of cerebrum, the Sylvian fissure. The posterior are most oblique and become irregular. On opposite sides of the brain these con- volutions are not symmetrical. Structure of the convolutions (fig. 36).—From the section Aconvolu- now made into the brain each convolution may be perceived and ?um-^^^ to be continuous with the interior of the brain on the one ; side (base) ; and to be free on the surface of the brain on the other side, where it presents a summit and lateral parts.