SPHENO-PALATmE GANGLIOK 149 other ganglionic masses in connection with the fifth nerve structure, in having sensory, motor, and sympathetic olfsets or roots connected with it, and in this wise :—its sensory fibres come from the superior maxillary trunk of the fifth nerve, its motor fibres from the facial nerve through the vidian branch, and its sympathetic fibres are continued from the caro- tid plexus through the sheath of the vidian. The Branches of the ganglion are directed up- wards to the orbit; down- wards to the mouth ; in- v\^ards to the nose ; and backwards to the pha- rynx, and to the facial and sympathetic nerves. Branches to the orhit. — These are two or three in number, which ascend through the spheno-maxillary fissure, and end in the perios- teum. It will be necessary to cut through the sphenoid bone to follow these nerves to their termination. Branches to the palate. —The nerves of the palate, though to the connected in part with the ganglionic mass, are the continua- tion of the spheno-palatine branches of the superior maxillary nerve (p. 107). Below the ganglion they are divided into are three, three palatine nerves (large, small, and external), which are distributed to the roof of the mouth, the soft palate and tonsil, and the lining membrane of the nose. 1. The large palatine I'oerve (anterior) (fig. 18, ^) reaches J^^Jg^,.^^^^^^^^^ the roof of the mouth through the largest palatine canal, to nose, and extends forwards nearly to the incisor teeth, where it joins the naso-palatine nerve. Whilst in its canal, the nerve furnishes two or more filaments (inferior nasal) to the membrane on the middle and lower spongy bones ; and, in the roof of the mouth, it supplies the mucous membrane and glands, and gives an ofi'set to the soft palate. 2. The small palatine nerve (posterior), 3, lies in the small, aud * Nerves of the nose and palate (Scarpa), a and b. Soft palate. 1. Olfactory nerve. 2. Nasal nerve of the ophthalmic trunk. '3. Smaller palatine nerve. 4. Meckel's ganglion. 5. Larger palatine nerve. 6. Vidian nerve. 7. External palatine nerve. Fig. 18.*