DISSECTIOl^ OF THE SPINAL CORD. 444 that enter the gan- glion. Anterior root is without ganglion, has a sepa- rate opening in dura mater. and joins posterior root beyond ganglion. Characters of roots. Some sets of fibrils join. Posterior root largest, proportion- ally largest in neck. Roots in- crease above down, except dor- sal and sacral. to an aperture in the dura mater opposite the intervertebral foramen ; as they approach that aperture they are collected into two bundles which, lying side by side, receive a sheath from the dura mater, and enter the inter- vertebral ganglion. The anterior or aganglionic roots arise from the side of the cord by filaments that are attached irre- gularly—not in a straight line (r), and approach nearer the middle line at the lower end of the cord. Taking the same direction as the posterior root to the intervertebral foramen, the fibrils enter a distinct opening in, and have a separate sheath of the dura mater. In their further course to the trunk of the nerve, they pass over the ganglion of the other root, without joining it; and finally the two roots are joined beyond the ganglion to form one trunk. Characters of the roots,— Besides the relative size be- tween the two roots, the following characters are to be noted :— Union of the jibrils.—The fibrils of contiguous anterior and posterior roots in the same line may be united ; but the anterior is never joined by the posterior root, or the opposite. Relative size of the roots.—The posterior root is larger than the anterior, except in the suboccipital nerve ; and the number of the fibrils is also greater. Further, the posterior is proportionally larger in the cervical than in any other set of the nerves. In the dorsal nerves there is but a very slight difference in favour of the hinder root. Size of the roots along the cord.—Both roots are larger where the nerves for the limbs arise, than at other parts of the cord; and they are greater in the nerves to the lower than in those to the upper limbs : so that the nerve roots increase from above down, except at the two following spots, viz., the lower extremity of the cord, and in the dorsal region where they are of much the same size from the second to the last. * A plan of tlie origin of the nerves and the fissures of the spinal cord—r. Anterior, and s. Posterior roots of the nerves. a. Anterior fissure, p. Posterior fissure, and h. Lateral fissure : c. The line of attachment of the anterior roots, e. Central gray sub- stance of the spinal cord.