DISSECTIOIT OF THE THIGH. 702 fibres di- verge to tlieir inser- tion, some being horizontal, others vertical, and form two parts. Connections of the ante- rior and posterior surface. Upper and lower bor- ders. Insertion into femur. Opening for the vessels; boundaries. Psoas and iliacus in the thigh. Insertion into femur. Parts around. and construct almost a distinct part: they are horizontal above, but become more oblique below, and are mserted (from above down) into the lower end of the linea quadrati, and into part of the line continued from the great trochanter to the linea aspera ; into all the linea aspera ; and into a small part of the line leading from that crest of bone to the inner condyle of the femur. The posterior fibres from the ischial tuberosity are vertical in direction, and end about the lower third of the thigh in a tendon, which is inserted into the inner condyle of the femur, and is connected by a fibrous expansion to the line leading upwards from that point of bone to the linea aspera. The muscle consists of the two parts above described, which differ in their characters. The anterior or upper one, thin and fleshy, forms a septum between the other adductors and the muscles on the back of the thigh ; but the inner or posterior piece, partly fleshy and partly tendinous, constitutes the inner thick margin of the muscle. On the anterior sur- face are the other two adductor muscles and the pectineus, with the obturator nerve and the profunda artery. The posterior surface is in connection with the hamstring muscles and the great sciatic nerve. In contact with the upper border are the obturator externus and the quadratus femoris, with the internal circumflex artery ; and along the lower or inner border are the gracilis and the sartorius. At its attachment to the femur the muscle is closely united with the other adductors, particularly the adductor longus, and is there pierced by apertures for the passage of the femoral and perforating arteries. The ojoening in the adductor for the transmission of the femoral vessels into the popliteal space is tendinous at the anterior, but fleshy at the posterior aspect. It is situate at the point of junction of the middle with the lower third of the thigh, and is larger than is necessary for the passage of the vessels. On the outside it is bounded by the vastus internus ; and on the inside by the tendon of the adductor magnus, with some fibres added from the tendon of the long adductor. The PSOAS and iliacus arise separately in the abdomen (p. 593), but are united in the thigh. The conjoined portion of the muscles comes beneath Poupart's ligament, and is inserted by a tendon into the small trochanter of the femur, as well as by fleshy fibres into a special triangular surface of the bone in front of and below that eminence. Beneath the ligament the muscles occupy the interval