THOKACIC DUCT. 399 I enter collections of glands in certain positions, and end in gflands and one or tlie other of the two lymphatic ducts. Besides these, the large thoracic duct traverses the thorax in its course from the abdomen to the neck. Lymphatic glands.—Along the course of the internal several sets mammary artery is a chain of sternal or mediastinal glands, J^nto vvWc'h which receive lymphatics from the front of the chest, the the lymph- thymus gland, the pericardium, and the upper surfaces of collected, the diaphragm and liver. On each side of the spine, near the heads of the ribs as well as between the intercostal muscles, is a set of intercostal glands for the reception of the lymphatics of the posterior wall of the thorax. At the division and along the side of the trachea are numerous bronchial glands, through which the lymphatics of the lung pass. And beneath the arch of the aorta are a few cardiac glands, to which the lymphatics of the heart are directed. Along the side of the aorfca and oesophagus is a chain of (Esophageal glands, which are joined by the lymphatics of the oesophagus, and communicate with those of the lungs. The thoracic duct is the main channel by which the Thoracic lymphatic and lacteal fluid of the lower half of the body, and of the left side of the upper half of the body, is conveyed into the blood. The duct begins in the abdomen Pu^^'l^j^ , / 1 . in- abdo- m an enlargement (chyli receptaculum), and ends m the left men and subclavian vein of the neck. Tt is from eighteen to twenty inches in length, and is contained in the thorax, except at its origin and termination. It has the undermentioned connections :— Entering the cavity on the right side of the aorta, and through the same opening, the duct ascends on the right of thorax. that vessel, between it and the vena azygos as high as the arch. Opposite the second dorsal vertebra it passes beneath the arch of the aorta and the left subclavian artery, and is applied to the left side of the oesophagus, by which it is conducted to the neck. Lastly, at the lower part of the neck the duct arches outwards, as before described (p. 125), to open into the left subclavian vein. In this course the May be tube is oftentimes divided in two, which unite again, or its ^ divisions may even form a plexus ; and near its termination it is generally branched. It is provided with valves at is furnished • . - ., ^ . , , , , with valves, intervals, like a vein, and these are m greatest number at the upper part. Occasionally the duct may be found on the left instead of the right side of the aorta. Branches.—In the thorax the duct receives the lymph- Receives atics of the left half of the wall of the cavity, viz. from ly^P^a^cs.