DISSECTIOIT OF THE PHARYNX. 130 To detach pharynx partly divide base of skull externally, and cut the remainder from inside, and then cut soft parts. Preserve piece of spine. Fasten pharynx in position. Dissect nerves on left side. and muscles below, so as to have the anterior lialf, witli the pharynx connected to it, detached from the posterior half. Dissection.—Preparatory to sawing the sknll certain other steps are needed. In the first place, the block being removed from beneath the neck, the head is to be placed downwards, so that it may stand on the cut surface of the skull. Next the trachea and oesophagus, together with the vagus and sympathetic nerves, are to be cut near the first rib (should these be still uncut), and all are to be separated from the spine as high as the basilar process of the occipital bone, but without disturbing, on the left side, the vessels and nerves near the skull. For the division of the skull, let the dissector chisel through the basilar process of the occipital bone between the attach- ments of the pharynx and the muscles of the spinal column, the cut being directed backwards. Turning upwards next the inner surface of the base of the skull, the dissector will make the following incisions in the posterior fossa. On the right side, a cut with a chisel is to be carried along the line of union of the petrous part of the temporal with the occipital bone, as far inwards as the incision across the basilar pro- cess. On the left side, another cut with the chisel is to be made in the same direction, but through the occipital bone, internal to the foramen jugulare and the inferior petrosal sinus : this is to begin rather behind the foramen, and to end opposite the one on the other side. Lastly, the side of the skull is to be sawn through vertically close behind the mastoid part of the temporal bone, so that the incision shall meet the outer end of the cut made with the chisel. The base of the skull is now divided into two parts, (one having the pharynx attached to it, the other articulat- ing with the spine) which can be readily separated with a scalpel. The spinal column with the piece of the occipital bone connected with it should be set aside and kept for after examination. Dissection of the loharynx.—Let the student take the anterior part of the divided skull, and, after moderately filling the pharynx with tow, fasten it with hooks on a block, so that the oesophagus may be pendent and towards him. On the left side of the pharynx a view may be obtained of the eighth, ninth, and sympathetic nerves near the skull, when some loose areolar tissue, and the styloid process with its muscles have been removed. Afterwards, on one side, say the right, the dissector may