25 MUSCLES OF THE MOUTH. Fig. 2.* inner part of the orbit, the most internal are attached by a narrow slip to the wing of the nose, whilst the rest are blended inferiorly with those of the orbicularis oris. Near its origin the muscle is partly con- cealed by the orbicularis palpebra- rum, but in the rest of its extent it is subcutaneous. Its outer border joins the elevator of the upper lip. Dilatator Naris. — In the dense tissue on the outer side of the nostril, are found a few muscular fibres both at the fore and back part of that aperture (fig. 2, ^, and ^), to wliich the above name has been given by Theile : they are seldom visible with- out a lens. The anterior slip passes from the cartilage of the aperture to the integument of the margin of the nostril ; and the posterior arises from the upper jawbone and the small sesamoid cartilages and ends also in the integuments of the nostril. The DEPRESSOR AL^ NASI (fig. 2, ^) is found beneath the mucous membrane on the side of the frsenum of the upper lip. It arises below the nose from a depression of the upper jawbone before the roots of the se- cond incisor and canine teeth ; and ascends to be inserted into the septum nasi and the posterior part of the ala of the nose. is part elevator of iipper lip. Dilator of nostril; auterior and posterior parts. Depressor of wing is seen from mouth. Muscles of the Mouth.—The muscles acting on the Muscles of aperture of the mouth consist of a sphincter ; an elevator of the upper lip, and of the angle of the mouth ; depressors of the lower lip, and of the angle of the mouth, with an elevator of the lower lip ; together with other small muscles that act on the corner, viz. zygomatici and risorius of Santorini. Lastly, the buccinator muscle may be reckoned in this set, as it acts indirectly on the corner of the mouth. The ORBICULARIS ORIS MUSCLE surrounds the external opening of the mouth, and is constructed for the most part by the fibres of the several muscles acting on that aperture. * Muscles of the nose and mouth. 1. Pyramidalis nasi. 2. Common elevator of the nose and lip. 3. Compressor naris. 4 and 5. The two^ slips of the dilatator naris. 6, Depressor alaj nasi. 7* and 7. Orbicularis palpebrarum.