DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 536 Splenic artery supplies the spleen, the pancreas by large and small twigs. and the stomach by vasa brevia; and left gastro- epiploic. Hepatic artery; courses to the liver, in which it ends. and supplies offsets to the stomach. end communicate with twigs (vasa brevia) of the splenic artery. 2. The splenic artery is the largest branch of the coeliac axis in the adnlt. It is a tortuous artery, and runs almost horizontally to the spleen, along the upper border of the pancreas. Near the spleen it divides into terminal branches (splenic), which are about six in number (from four to ten), and enter the substance of that viscus by the concave surface towards the stomach. In its course the vessel is accompanied by the splenic vein, which is below it, and it distributes branches to the pancreas and the stomach. a. Pancreatic branches.—Numerous small branches are supplied to the gland as the artery lies along it : and one of these, art. pancreatica magna, arises near the left end of the gland, and runs to the right with the duct in the sub- stance of the viscus. b. The branches for the stomach arise from the divisions of the artery near the spleen. Some of these, vasa brevia, turn upwards to the left end of the stomach, beneath or between the layers of the gastro- splenic omentum, and ramify in the coats of that organ. Another branch, art. gastro-epiplo'ica sinistra, which is larger than the others, turns to the right between the layers of the great omentum along the great curvature of the stomach, and inosculates with the right gastro-epiploic branch of the hepatic artery. This artery distributes twigs to both surfaces of the stomach, as well as others between the pieces of peritoneum forming the great omentum. 3. The hepatic artery is the largest in the fetus of the three branches into which the coeliac axis divides ; but in the adult it is intermediate in size between the other two, and is encircled by the largest plexus of nerves. In its course to the liver the vessel is bent first to the right towards the small end of the stomach, where it supplies its principal branches (superior pyloric and gastro-epiploic). It ascends then between the layers of the little omentum, on the left side of the bile duct and vena portse, and divides near the transverse fissure of the liver into two large terminal arteries —the right and left hepatic. Its branches are distributed not only to the liver, but freely to the stomach, the duodenum, and the pancreas. a. The superior pyloric branch descends to the upper border of the stomach, and running from right to left anastomoses with the coronary artery ; it distributes small