SURFACE-MARKmG OF THE FOEEAEM. 303 transverse marking that separates the forearm from the hand. On each side of the palm of the hand is a lateral pro- Surface of jection ; the external of these is formed by muscles of the haiS.^^^^^^ thumb, and the internal by muscles of the little finger. Between the projections is the hollow of the palm, which is pointed towards the wrist. Two transverse lines are seen in the palm, but neither reaches completely across it : the anterior one will direct to the line of the articulations between the metacarpus and the phalanges, and is about a quarter of an inch behind the three inner joints when the fingers are extended. The superficial palmar arch of arteries extends forwards a Palmar little way into the hollow of the hand, and its position may be marked by a line across the palm from the root of the thumb, when that digit is placed at a right angle to the hand. Transverse lines are seen on both aspects of the joints of Surface of the thumb and fingers. The lines on the palmar surface fingers, of the fingers may be used to point out the articulations of the phalanges. Thus the joint between the metacarpal phalanx and the next will be found about a line in front Lines on the of the chief of the transverse grooves near it ; whilst the articulation between the last two phalanges is situate about a line in front of the single groove nearer the tip of the finger. Dissection.—With the position of the limb still the same, Dissection an incision is to be carried through the skin along the the^skinl^ middle of the front of the forearm, as far as an inch beyond the wrist; and at its termination a transverse one is to be united with it. The skin is to be reflected carefully from the front and back of the forearm, without injury to the numerous superficial vessels and nerves beneath ; and it should be taken also from the back of the hand, by pro- longing the ends of the transverse cut along the margins of the hand to a little beyond the knuckles. One finger should have the integument removed from it, in order that the nerves may be traced to the end. The superficial vessels and nerves can be now traced in Seek the the fat. They have the following position:—In front of the ^esseistnd forearm along the inner side are the ulnar veins, with the nerves in continuation of the internal cutaneous nerve ; and near the ^^^^*» wrist there is occasionally a small ofiset from the ulnar nerve. On the outer side are the radial vein, and the super- ficial part of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Close to the