DISSECTIOIT OF THE FOOT. 738 flexor ten- dons. Dissect first layer of muscles. Mnscles in the first layer. Abductor pollicis; Flexor brevis digi- divides into tendons for the toes. the fingers, though not so distinct, and serve to confine the tendons against the grooved bones. The sheath is weak opposite the articulations between the phalanges, but is strengthened by a band opposite the centre of both the metatarsal and the next phalanx. Each is lubricated by a synovial membrane, and contains tendons of the long and short flexor muscles. Dissection.—In the sole of the foot the muscles are nu- merous, and have been arranged in four layers. To pre- pare the first layer all the fascia must be taken away, but this dissection must be made with some care, lest the digital nerves and vessels, which become superficial to the muscles towards the toes, should be injured. The tendons of the short flexor muscle are to be followed to the toes, and the sheaths in which they are contained should be opened. First layer of Muscles.—In the layer first visible are three muscles, viz., the flexor brevis digitorum, the abductor pollicis, and abductor minimi digiti. The short flexor of the toes is in the centre of the foot; and each of the others is in a line with the toe on which it acts. The ABDUCTOR POLLICIS is the most internal of the muscles of the superficial layer. It takes origin from the inner part of the larger tubercle on the under surface of the os calcis ; from the internal annular ligament, and the fibrous structures on the inner side of the foot as far as the internal cuneiform bone ; and from the plantar fascia. In front the muscle ends in a tendon, which is joined by fibres of the short flexor, and is inserted with the flexor into the inner side of the base of the metatarsal phalanx of the great toe. The cutaneous surface of the muscle is in contact with the plantar fascia; and the other touches the plantar vessels and nerves, the tendons of the long flexors of the toes, and the accessory muscle. The FLEXOR BREVIS DIGITORUM (flexor perforatus) arises posteriorly by a pointed tendinous process from the inner part of the larger tubercle of the os calcis, and by fleshy fibres from the plantar fascia and the septa. About the centre of the foot the muscle ends in four small tendons; these are directed forwards over the tendons of the long flexor, and entering the sheaths of the four smaller toes, are inserted into the middle phalanges. In the sheath of the toe, the tendon of this muscle lies at first (in this position of the foot) on the long flexor ; but opposite the middle of the metatarsal phalanx it is slit for the passage of the other,