DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 288 The super- ficial nerves are derived from brach- ial plexus, except one. Two exter- nal cutane- ous of mus- cuio-spiral, and one of musculo-cu- taneous. Two inter- nal cutane- ous of brach- ial ijlexus. Fig. 42.* commonly found as low in the limb as the elbow, where it lies in front of the inner condyle of the humerus. Cutaneous Nerves.—The superficial nerves of the arm appear on the inner and outer sides, and spread so as to cover the surface of the limb. All with one exception (intercosto-humeral) are derived from the brachial plexus, either as distinct branches, or as offsets of other nerves. On the outer side of the limb are branches of the musculo-spiral and musculo-cutaneous nerves. On the inner side are two internal cutaneous nerves direct from the plexus (large and small), a third internal cutaneous from the musculo-spiral, together with the intercosto-humeral nerve. External cutaneous I^erves.—The external cutaneoushranches of the musculo- spiral nerve are two in number, and ap- pear at the outer side of the limb in the spot before mentioned. The upper one (fig. 43, ^) turns forwards with the ce- phalic vein, and reaches the front of the elbow, supplying the anterior part of the arm. The lower (fig. 42, pierces the fascia somewhat farther down, viz., about the middle of the outer surface of the arm, and after supplying some cu- taneous filaments to that part of the limb, is continued to the forearm. The cutaneous part of the musculo- cutaneous 7ierve (fig. 41, pierces the fascia in front of the elbow, and at the outer side of the tendon of the biceps muscle. It lies beneath the median cephalic vein, and divides into branches for the forearm. Internal cutaneous Nerves.—The larger internal cuta- neous nerve (fig. 43, ^) perforates the fascia in two parts, or as * Cutaneous nerves of the back of the arm and forearm. (Quain's Anatomy.) 1. Supra acromial nerves of the cervical plexus. 2. Cuta- neous branch of the circumflex nerve. 3. Internal cutaneous of the musculo-spiral trunk. 4. Intercosto-humeral nerve. 5. A lower ex- ternal cutaneous of the musculo-spiral. 6. Nerve of Wrisberg. 7. Pos- terior branch of the internal cutaneous. 8. Dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. 9. Radial nerve. 10. Posterior branch of the musculo-cuta- neous.