THE PUDIC ARTERY. 469 inch in front of the triangular ligament. Its aperture in the ordinary state of the parts does not admit a bristle. In the wall of the duct are unstriated muscular fibres ; and the interior is lined by a columnar epithelium. The secre- tion of the duct is ordinary mucus."—(KoUiker.) These bodies are sometimes so small as to escape detection, They vary and they appear to decrease in size with advancing age. Dissection.—The student may complete the examination Dissection of the perinseum by tracing out the pudic vessels and nerve, vessSs^and^ and their remaining branches. From the point of its divi- nerve, sion into two branches (dorsal branch of the penis, and branch of the corpus cavernosum) beneath the crus, the artery is to be followed backwards, along the outer wall of the right ischio-rectal fossa. The pudic nerve will be exposed at the same time, and should any of the branches be cut away, the corresponding ones may be sought on the opposite side. The PUDIC ARTERY is a branch of the internal iliac. It Pudic enters the perinatal space through the small sacro-ischiatic ^^^^^^ notch ; and distributing offsets to the perinseum, it ends in the genital organs. Entering the posterior part of the ischio- courses rectal fossa, the artery extends forwards along the outer ^^^^^^ wall about one inch and a half above the ischial tuberosity, and is contained in an aponeurotic canal which attaches it to the fascia covering the obturator muscle; but towards the base of the triangular ligament the vessel is placed much nearer the margin of the pubic arch. It then ascends between the layers of the triangular ligament and along the pubic arch nearly to the subpubic ligament, where it and ends on perforates the superficial part of the triangular ligament, and divides into the arteries of the body and dorsum of the penis. The branches of the vessel in the perinseal space are nume- Branches rous. The superficial offsets, viz. inferior hsemorrhoidal, transverse perinyeal, and superficial perinseal, have been examined (p. 462) ; the remaining, for the supply of the penis and the urethra, are subjoined :— a. The artery of the bulb of the urethra is a branch of Artery of considerable size, and arises near the base of the triangular triangular^ ligament. Passing almost transversely inwards between the ligament, layers of the ligament, and about half an inch from its base, the artery reaches the bulb of the urethra, and enters the spongy structure. Near the urethra it furnishes a small branch to Cowper's gland. The distance of this branch from the base of the ligament its situation