DISSECTIO^T OF THE BEAIN. 222 and^extends corpus callosum readies into the anterior lobe, and bounds into hemi- the lateral ventricle in the same direction, so that an incision sphere. through it would open that cavity. In contact with this Its convolu- now denuded surface of the corpus callosum is the convolu- tion. ^jQj^ named gyrus fornicatus (h, h') which may be seen to begin by a narrow part in front of the anterior perforated spot. Substantia Anterior perforated spot (substantia perforata antica) is a antica^^^ space (p) near the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius, which is situate between the anterior and middle lobes of the cere- brum, and in front of the optic tract. On the inner side it is continuous with the lamina cinerea ; and crossing it, from wdthin outwards, is the fillet of the corpus callosum. This space is gray on the surface ; it corresponds with the corpus striatum in the interior of the brain, and is perforated by numerous vessels for that body. Position of Fosition of the part—JSTow the base of the cerebrum has bram to heen dissected, the brain should be turned over for the ex- examme . ' upper part, amination of the upper part. After the brain has been turned something should be placed beneath the anterior lobes, in order that they may be raised to the same level as the posterior ; and a roUed-up cloth should encircle the w^hole, to support the hemispheres. Cerebrum is IJPPER SuRFACE OF THE CeREBRUM. — On the Upper SUrface above^and Cerebrum, taken as a whole, is oval in form, with the divided into larger end backwards ; and is convex in its outline, in ac- cordance with the shape of the skull. The cerebral mass is only partly separated into two portions or hemispheres by a median longitudinal fissure; for the corpus callosum extends from one hemisphere to another, and interrupts the depth of the fissure at the middle part, but before and behind that connecting piece its separation into two halves is com- plete. Each half, Each hemisphere is smaller in front than behind. Its outer surface is convex ; but the inner is flat, and in contact with the opposite hemisphere at the fore part. On the upper aspect the surface of the hemisphere is not cleft by fissures into lobes, but on the under aspect it is separated is marked into two pieces by the large sulcus before seen. The super- tions and^" ficies of the hemisphere is marked by tortuous eminences, sulci. i{-^Q a convoluted intestine ; the projections on it are named convolutions or gyri, and the intervening depressions, sulci or anfractuosities. Chief convo- Convolutions.—Of the numerous convolutions the student lutions.