687 SARTOmUS MUSCLE. Internal to tlie sartorius are some strong musCles (ad- Dissect the ductors) that are inclined outwards from the pelvis to the ^ ' femur. The student is to lay bare these muscles ; and beneath the more superficial muscle (adductor longus), near where this touches the sartorius, he is to seek a branch of the obturator nerve to the plexus before mentioned. On the outer side of the sartorius is the larare extensor of f,^^^ '^^^^^ , , °. , . the extensor the leg. For the dissection of its fleshy parts the knee is to muscles, bo bent to make tense the fibres ; and an expansion below from the common tendon to the fascia lata and the knee joint is to be looked to. One little muscle at the upper and outer part of the thigh, Dissect —tensor of the fascia lata, is to be cleaned ; and a strip of fascia. the fascia, corresponding with its width, should be left along the outer aspect of the thigh. Behind this slip the investing membrane is to be divided by one or two transverse cuts, and is to be followed backwards to its attachment to the lines on the femur. Deep parts on the front of the THTGH. The muscles Muscles on on the front of the thigh are the sartorius, and the extensor Jhe thigh of the leg. Several muscles are combined in the extensor, viz. the rectus, vastus externus, and vastus interims and crureus. At the top of the thigh is the small tensor of the fascia lata. A portion of the femoral artery, viz. the lower half, lies Vessels, amongst the muscles and supplies them with branches. One large nerve, the anterior crural, furnishes ofisets to ^^erves. the muscles on. the front of the thigh, and is to be learnt with them. The SARTORIUS is the longest muscle in the body, and Sartorius extends from the pelvis to the leg. It arches over the front of the thigh, passing from the outer to the inner side of the limb, and lies in a hollow between the extensors on the one side, and the adductors on the other. Its origin is ten- origin: dinous from the upper anterior iliac spinous process of the hip bone, and from about half the interval between this and the inferior process. The fibres constitute a thin, riband- course over like muscle, which ends in a thin tendon below the knee, ^^"^ ' and is inserted into the inner surface of the tibia,—mainly insertion, into a slight depression by the side of the tubercle for an inch and a half, but also by its upper edge as far back as to the internal lateral ligament of the knee joint. The muscle is superficial throughout, and is perforated by some cutaneous nerves and vessels. Its upper part is