714 DISSECTIOTsT OF THE BUTTOCK. and be- neath it, and at lowei border. Dissect cir- cumflex artery. Internal circumflex artery ends in two branches. Obturator externus is inserted into pit of trochanter. Connec- tions. Sacro-sciatic ligaments. Attach- ments of the large one. Form ; gives a pro- longation. Small ligament attach- ments. nerves, and the glutens. By the other surface it rests on the obturator externus, the internal circumflex artery, and the small branches of both the nerve and artery supplying it. Between its lower border and the adductor magnus one of the terminal branches of the internal circumflex artery issues. Between it and the small trochanter is a bursa, which is com- mon also to the upper part of the adductor magnus. Dissection.—The quadratus and the gemelli muscles may be now cut across, in order that their small nerve and artery, the obturator externus, and the ending of the internal cir- cumflex artery, may be dissected out. The internal circumflex branch of the profunda artery (p. 700) divides finally into two parts. One ascends beneath the quadratus, in this position of the body, to the pit of the trochanter, where it anastomoses with the gluteal artery, and supplies the bone. The other passes between the quadratus and adductor magnus to the hamstring muscles, and commu- nicates likewise with the sciatic artery. The OBTURATOR EXTERNUS lias been dissected at its origin in the front of the thigh (p. 703). In the part of its course now laid bare, the muscle winds backwards below the hip joint, and ascends to be inserted into the pit at the root of the great trochanter. On the back of the pelvis the obtu- rator externus is covered by the quadratus, except near the femur, where the upper border is in contact with the inferior gemellus. The SACRO-SCIATIC LIGAMENTS pass from the innominate bone to the sacrum and the coccyx ; they are two in number, and are named large and small. The large or posterior ligament is attached internally to the posterior lower iliac spine, and to the side of the sacrum and coccyx ; and externally it is inserted into an impression on the inner and anterior part of the ischial tuberosity. It is wide next the sacrum, but is contracted towards the middle, and is expanded again at the tuberosity ; from its outer attachment it sends upwards a prolongation along the pubic arch. On the cutaneous surface are the branches of the sacral nerves ; and the gluteus maximus conceals and takes origin from it. The small ligament will be seen on dividing the other near the hip bone. At the sacrum and coccyx it is united with the large ligamentous band, but at the opposite end it is inserted into the ischial spine. It is less strong than the superficial ligament, by which it is concealed ; and it rests on the coccygeus muscle.