321 UmAR AND MEDIAN NERYE3. Palmar Part of the Ulnar Nerve.—The ulnar nerve ulnar nerve divides on the annular ligament or near it, into a superj&cial ^ and a deep branch ; these are distributed to one finger and a half, and to some of the muscles of the hand. The deep branch accompanies the profunda artery to the has a deep muscles, and will be subsequently dissected with that vessel. The superficial branch furnishes an offset to the palmaris superficial brevis muscle, and some filaments to the integument of the inner part of the hand, and then ends in two digital nerves for the supply of both sides of the little finger and half the next:— Digital nerves.—The more internal nerve is undivided, The last like the corresponding artery. The other is directed to the digital^ cleft between the ring and little fingers, and bifurcates for ^^^/^^^'i^ the supply of their opposed sides : in the palm of the hand finger and this last branch is connected with an offset from the median, ^^^^ nerve. Along the sides of the fingers the digital branches have the same arrangement as those of the median nerve. Palmar Part of the Mediaist Nerve.—As soon as the Median median nerve issues from beneath the annular ligament into iiaiK^sup- ^ the palm of the hand, it becomes enlarged and somewhat phes mus- flattened, and divides into two nearly equal parts for the fingers, supply of digital nerves to the thumb and the remaining two fingers and a half. The more external of the two por- tions furnishes likewise a small muscular branch to the ball of the thumb. The trunk of the nerve and its branches are covered by the palmar fascia ; and beneath themx are the tendons of the flexor muscles. a. The branch to the muscles of the thumb supplies the outer Branch to half of the short flexor, and ends in the abductor and oppo- muscles, nens poUicis muscles. b. The digital nerves are five in number. Three of them, Digital nerves ' five, and . supply nished by the external of the two pieces into w^hich the two fingers trunk of the median divides. The other two spring from the ^ inner piece of the nerve, and are bifurcated to supply the opposed sides of the middle and fore, and the middle and ring fingers. The first two nerves belong to the thumb, one being on First two, each side, and the most external communicates with branches of the radial nerve. The third is directed to the radial side of the index finger, and gives a branch to the most external lumbrical muscle. Y