516 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEK Connec- tious. Large intes- tine how dis- tinguished. Course and extent. Divisions. Caecum, or head of colon. Situation and connec- tions. Ascending colon. Parts around. and iliac regions of the abdomen ; and it descends oi en- times, but more especially in the female, into the cavity of the pelvis. In front of the convolutions is the great omentum ; and posteriorly the small intestine (beyond the duodenum) is fixed to the spine by a fold of peritoneum named the mesentery, vi^hich contains the vessels and nerves. Surrounding the jejunum and ileum is the large intestine or colon ; but on the left side of the body the large is con- cealed by the small intestine. The large intestine.—The large gut or the colon is sac- culated, and is less moveable than the small intestine. It begins in the right iliac region in a dilated part or head (caput caecum coli), and ascends to the liver through the right iliac, lumbar, and hypochondriac regions. Crossing then the abdomen below the stomach, it reaches the left hypochondriac region ; and it lies in this transverse part of its course between the epigastric and umbilical regions, or altogether in the latter. Finally, it descends on the left side through the regions corresponding with those it occupied on the right, forms a remarkable bend (sigmoid flexure) in the left iliac fossa, and enters the pelvis to end on the surface of the body. It takes an arched course around the small intestine, and is divided into six parts, viz. caecum, ascending colon, transverse colon, descending colon, sigmoid flexure, and rectum. The ccEcum (caput caecum), or the commencement of the colon (fig. 7*7, ^) is placed in the right iliac fossa, in which it is fixed by the peritoneum being stretched over it. In front usually are the convolutions of the small intestine, but when it is distended it touches the abdominal wall. Behind, it rests on the iliac fascia, only fatty and areolar tissues intervening. On the inner side it is joined by the small intestine ; and it presents inferiorly a worm-like piece —the vermiform appendix. Sometimes the peritoneum surrounds the caecum, and attaches it by a fold to the abdominal wall. The ascending colon (fig. 77, ^) reaches from the caecum to the under surface of the liver, on the right of the gall bladder. It lies against the quadratus lumborum inferiorly, but higher up it is placed in front of the kidney. To its inner side are the convolutions of the small intestine. The peritoneum fixes the colon immovably to the wall of the abdomen, and surrounds commonly about two-thirds of the circumference ; but it may be found to encircle the tube, and form a fold behind, as in the caecum.