407 ARTICULATIOIvr OF THE RIBS. will be best seen by sawing horizontally througli the rib and the transverse process. Its fibres are mixed with reddish areolar tissue. If the posterior ligament is divided, a sy^iovial membrane Synovial will be found in the joint between the tubercle of the rib and the transverse process (fig. 65). In the lowest two ribs which do not touch the transverse processes, the synovial where sac IS absent. C. Ligaments from the cartilages of the ribs.—The costal Union of the cartilages of the true ribs are united to the sternum by a cartilages, fibrous capsule, which covers a synovial membrane ; and they are further joined externally to the bony part of the rib. Some of the lower cartilages touch each other and are connected together by fibrous bands and synovial mem- brane. In the chondrO'Sternal articulation (fig. 29, ^), the car- tilages of the true ribs are received into the depressions on sternum, the side of the sternum, and are fixed in their position by surrounding fibres forming a capsule. In front and behind the capsule are thickened bands, which have been described as an anterior and a posterior ligament. Between the car- tilage and the articular surface of the bone is a synovial membrane. In the joint of the second cartilage there is an inter- second car- articular ligament, as to the head of the rib, which joins the ^o^^^iJjQi^^ cartilage between the pieces of the sternum. A synovial sac exists on each side of the interarticular ligament. A separate band of fibres passes between the cartilage of Costo- the seventh rib and the xiphoid cartilage, and is named costo- J^g^^g^t xiphoid ligament. Costal cartilage with the rib.—The bony part of the rib is Costal hollowed to receive the costal cartilage, and the only invest- ^jj^^riix ing membrane between the two is the periosteum of the rib. One costal cartilage to another.—The contiguous surfaces Cartilages of the costal cartilages from the sixth to the ninth are con- ^^q^^^"® nected by ligamentous fibres ; and the articulations are pro- vided with synovial membranes. Articulatioi^ of the Pieces of the Stern'um.—The Union of upper piece of the sternum is connected to the lower by an sternum, intervening piece of cartilage, and by anterior and pos- terior longitudinal fibres. ARTTCULATioiq- OF THE Yertebr^.—The several vertebras Two sets of 2. The transverse process. 3. The stellate or costo-vertebral ligament. 5. Posterior costo-transverse ligament. 6. Middle costo-transverse or interosseous ligament.