247 FIBRES OF THE CEREBELLUM. the cerebellum are continued to the left half of the cere- brum, and vice versa. The fibres of the lower peduncle enter the medulla ob- and lower, longata (fig. 33, n), and connect the cerebellum with all three portions of the half of the medulla of the same side ; and so, indirectly, with all the corresponding half of the cord, except the small posterior median column : for fibres connect it with the anterior pyramid, with the lateral tract or column, and with the restiform body. The dentate body (corpus dentatum) is contained in the corpus den- white fibres of the cerebellum, and has the same structure t^^^^^™- as the like part in the corpus olivare of the medulla oblon- gata. This body measures three-fourths of an inch from Situation before backwards, and is situate near the inner part of the ^^'^ white centre. • It consists of a small capsule which, when structure, cut across, appears as a thin, wavy grayish-yellow liue ; this bag is open at the anterior part, and encloses a nucleus of whitish substance. Through its anterior aperture issues a band of fibres from the nucleus to join the superior peduncle. Dissection.—One other section must be made to show the Dissection fourth ventricle and the structure of the vermiform process. Let the knife be carried vertically through the centre of the vermiform process (the cerebellum still resting on its under surface), and then, on separating the halves of the cere- bellum, the structure of its central uniting part, as well as the boundaries of the fourth ventricle may be observed. Structure of the vermiform process (fig. 37).—The vermi- Vermiform form processes (upper and lower) of the cerebellum are uke other united in one central part, which connects together the P^i'ts. hemispheres. Internally the structure of this connecting piece is the same as that of the rest of the cerebellum, viz., a central white portion with lateral ofisets for the laminae. Here the branching appearance of a tree (arbor vitse) is best seen, in consequence of the central parts being longer, and the laminae more divided. The FOURTH VENTRICLE (fossa rhomboidalis) is a space Fourth ven- between the cerebellum and the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata and pons (fig. 37). It has the form of a lozenge, with the points placed upwards and downwards. The upper angle reaches as high as the upper border of the Form and pons ; and the lower, to a level with the inferior part of the olivary body. Its greatest breadth is at the spot where the breadth, peduncles of the cerebellum are connected with the medulla