THE PALM OF THE HAND. 817 The anterior interosseous artery (p. 313) is continued on tlie Anterior in- fronfc of tlie interosseous membrane, between or in tbe fibres arter^*^^^ of the deep flexor muscles, till it reaches the aperture below the membrane. At that spot the artery turns from the front to the back of the limb, and descends to the posterior surface of the carpus, where it ends by anastomosing with the posterior interosseous and carpal arteries. Branches.—Numerous ofisets are given to the contiguous Muscular muscles. branches. One long branch, median, accompanies the median nerve. Median: supplying it, and either ends in the flexor sublimis, or extends beneath the annular ligament to the hand. About the middle of the forearm two nutrient vessels of nutrient to the bones the bones arise from the artery. Where it is about to turn backwards, it furnishes twigs and the to the pronator quadratus, and one branch is continued ^^^P"^- beneath the muscle to anastomose with the anterior carpal arteries. The anterior interosseous nerve is derived from the median Anterior (p. 315), and accompanies the artery of the same name to JJ^erve?nds^ the pronator quadratus muscle, on the under surface of which in pronator, it ends. Some lateral branches are distributed by it to the deep flexor muscles. I Section V. THE PALM OF THE HAND. Dissection.—Without siny change in the position of the Dissection, hand, the skin is to be reflected from the palm by means of two incisions. One is to be carried along the centre of the seek the hand from the wrist to the fingers ; and the other is to be cutaneous made from side to side, at the termination of the first. In raising the inner flap, the small palmaris brevis muscle will be recognised at the inner margin of the hand, near the wrist. In the fat the ramifications of the small branches (palmar) of the median and ulnar nerves are to be sought. The student should remove the fat from the palmaris Define the muscle, and from the strong palmar fascia in the centre of ^sda!^ the hand; and he should be careful not to destroy a thin transverse band of tissue (transverse ligament), which lies across the roots of the fingers. When cleaning the fat from the palmar fascia he will recognise the digital vessels and