ORGAIs'S OF GENERATIOK M7 GENITAL ORGANS. The genital organs consist of the following parts :—The External mons Veneris and the external labia, the clitoris and the internal labia, and the vestibule with the meatus urinarius. Within the external labia is the aperture of the vagina, with the hymen or the remnant of it. Sometimes the term vulva or pudendum is applied to these parts as a whole. Mons Veneris and labia pudendi. —In front of the pubes Mong the integument is covered with hair, and is raised into a slight eminence,—mons Veneris, by a layer of subjacent fat. Extending downwards from the prominence mentioned, Labia ma- are two folds of integument, the labia pudendi (labia majora), j'^^^* which correspond with the scrotum in the male. Above and below the labia are united, the points of junction being named commissures, but between them is an interval called rima. The labia decrease in thickness inferiorly ; they are covered externally with a few hairs, but are lined internally with a mucous membrane. In them is a dartoid tissue resembling that in the male scrotum. Within the lower commissure of the labia is a small thin transverse fold of integuments named fourchette, or frsenulum ; and between this fold and Fonrchette the lower commissure is an interval—the fossa navicularis. ^^^^ Clitoris and nymphm.—Beneath the upper commissure of Clitoris; the labia majora is the projection of the clitoris, with the nymphse or smaller labia descending from it. Dissection.—To see the clitoris, the integuments forming dissection the upper commissure must be removed ; and, after the body of the organ has been laid bare, the crura are to be followed outwards one to each side. The clitoris is a small erectile body, and is the representa- It is like tbe tive of the penis. It has the same anatomy as that organ, ^^^^^' with the exception that the urethra and the spongy envelop- ing substance are not continued below it. Its anterior ex- ^^^^pf^^^^ tremity is terminated by a rounded part or glans, and is puce, covered by a fold of the skin corresponding with the prepuce of the male. In its composition this organ resembles the penis in the following particulars :—it consists of corpora corpora cavernosa, which are attached by crura (one on each side) to the pubic arch, and are then blended to form one body with an imperfect pectiniform septum ; and further, it possesses a corpus spongiosum, but this structure is limited to the glans clitoridis. Structure.—The outer casinsc and the septum are alike in and erectile ° tissue.