532 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEIST. Aorta lies in middle of spiue. Parts arouud. Brandies. Vena cava; extent: connec- tions ; is by the side of the aorta. except above. Branches. by the previous dissection. To see the vessel higher up, it will be necessary to detach the great omentum from the stomach, without injuring the gastro-epiploic artery, and after raising the stomach and the spleen, to remove the peritoneum from the surface of the pancreas. A short arterial trunk (coeliac axis) above the pancreas is not to be cleaned now, otherwise the nerves about it would be destroyed. The vena cava may be dissected at the same time as the aorta. The aorta enters the abdomen between the pillars of the diaphragm, and divides into iliac arteries opposite the left side of the fourth lumbar vertebra. At the diaphragm the vessel occupies the middle line of *fche spine, but it gradually inclines to the left as it descends. In the abdomen the aorta is covered at first by the solar plexus, and by the pancreas and the splenic vein ; still lower (beyond the superior mesenteric artery) by the left renal vein and the duodenum ; and thence to its termina- tion by the peritoneum and the aortic plexus. The vessel lies on the lumbar vertebrae ; and to its right side is the vena cava. Its branches are furnished to the viscera and the wall of the abdomen, but these will be enumerated further on. The vena cava inferior commences on the right side of the fifth lumbar vertebra by the union of the common iliac veins, and reaches from that spot to the heart. In the abdomen this venous trunk is placed on the right side of the vertebral column. It lies close to the aorta, and is concealed by the same parts as high as the crus of the diaphragm ; but above that spot it is inclined away from the artery, and ascending on the right of the crus, is im- bedded in the posterior part of the liver. Lastly, it leaves the abdomen by an aperture in the tendinous centre of the diaphragm, on the right of the aortic opening. The vena cava is joined by some branches from the abdominal viscera, and by others corresponding with the branches of the aorta that are supplied to the parietes of the abdomen. CONNECTIONS OF THE DUODENUM AND PANCKEAS. Directions.—The situation, and the connections of the duodenum and pancreas should be looked to next. Remove Dissection.-—To see satisfactorily the duodenum and the mtestme pancreas, the intestinal tube, beyond the duodenum, is to be removed in the following way :—a double ligature is to be