STUTJCTURE OF THE EECTUM. 645 termination in the anus the gut is smaller than in any other part. The longitudinal bands of the colon are absent from this portion of the alimentary canal, and the fibres are spread over the surface. Btriict'ure. —The rectum, like the rest of the large intestine, Same coats contains in its wall a peritoneal, a muscular, a mucous, and ^est^of^the a submucous stratum. In it the muscular and the mucous intestine, layers have certain peculiarities that serve to distinguish this from other parts of the intestinal tube. The ^peritoneum forms but an incomplete covering, and its Peritoneum, arrangement is referred to in the description of the connec- tions of the pelvic viscera (p. 609). The muscular coat consists of two planes of fibres, as in Muscular the oesophagus, viz., a superficial or longitudinal, and a deep ^^^^ or circular : these fibres belong to the pale or unstriated kind. The longitudinal fibres are continuous with those in the has longitu- bands on the colon, but are here difiused to form a stratum ^^^^^ around the gut. The circular fibres describe arches around the intestine, and circular and become thicker and stronger towards the anus, where they are collected into the band of the internal sphincter muscle. The mucous coat is more moveable than that in the colon, Mucous and resembles in this respect the lining of the oesophagus ; it is also thicker and more vascular here than in the rest of thick and the large intestine. vascular. When the bowel is contracted the mucous lining is thrown Folds in it: into numerous accidental folds, some of which near the anus are longitudinal. But there are other three or four perma- some are nent folds, described by Mr. Houston, which are half an permanent, inch or less in depth, and contain some of the circular fibres of the gut.'^ The most constant of these is about three inches from the anus, on the front of the rectum, opposite the base of the bladder ; another is found on the right side of the intestine near the top ; and the third is on the left side, midway between the other two. Occasionally there is a fourth on the back of the rectum, about an inch from the anus. These folds will be seen by laying open the gut along the side, provided it is tolerably fresh. The mucous membrane has the same general structure as Structure, in the colon, but towards the anus the secretory apparatus gradually disappears. * Vol. V. of the Dublin Hospital Eeports, "Observations on the Mucous Membrane of the Rectum."