DISSECTION" OF THE BRAHST. constitute a separate cranial nerve, notwithstanding that it may be combined with, others in its foramen of exit. The several nerves may be designated first, second, third, and so forth : this numerical mode of naming applies to all, and is the one generally used. But a second name has been given to a few nerves from the parts to which they are supplied ; as instances of this the terms hypo-glossal, pneumo-gastric, may be taken. And a different appellation is given to others, in consequence of the function conferred on the part to which they are dis- tributed, as the terms auditory and olfactory express. In this way two names may be employed, almost indifferently, in referring to a nerve :—one being numerical, the other local or functional, as is exemplified below. The FIRST or olfactory nerve (olfactory process) (fig. 35, ^) is very soft and pulpy, being destitute of a neuri- lemma ; and it may be considered an advanced part of the brain, for it has both gray substance and white fibres in its composition, like the cerebrum. The olfactory process is a flat-looking band, wider at each end than in the middle, which is lodged in a sulcus on the under aspect of the anterior lobe of the cerebrum, and is kept in position by the reflection of the arachnoid mem- brane over it. When the so-called nerve is raised from its sulcus, it is seen to be prismatic in form, the apex of the prism being directed downwards (in this position). Anteriorly the nervous substance swells into the olfactory hulb, —a mass of gray matter, which rests on the ethmoid bone, and distributes nerves to the nose. Posteriorly the olfactory process is connected to the cerebrum by three roots of origin, external, internal, and middle. The external or long root is a slender white band, which is directed backwards along the outer part of the anterior perforated space, and across the fissure of Sylvius, and dis- appears by sinking into the substance of the middle lobe of the cerebrum. The internal or short root, not always visible, is also white and delicate, and comes from the inner part of the anterior lobe of the cerebrum. The middle or gray root is connected with the gray matter on the surface of the cerebrum by means of a conical eleva- tion at the posterior part of the sulcus which lodges the nerve. Deep origin.—The external root is said to be connected with one of the convolutions of the island of Reil. The inner root joins a