DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 610 and one tlie bladder, along tlie remains of the obliterated hypogastric superioi. ^ggggj j^-]^Q abdominal wall. Extent of The KECTUM, or the lower part of the great intestine, extends the rectum, f^Qm the articulation between the sacrum and the left hip bone to the anus, and is kept in place by the peritoneum and length, recto-vesical fascia. The intestine is about eight inches long, and has a winding course, for it follows the curve of and divi- sacrum and coccyx : it is divided into three parts—upper, sions. middle, and lower. First piece The ujoper part, longer than the others, extends obliquely from the sacro-iliac articulation to the centre of the third piece of the sacrum. It is surrounded almost entirely bv most cover- ^ i • i n . i i • -i • . ed by peri- the peritoneum which lorms the meso-rectum behind it: it toneum. -j^-gj^ against the sacrum, and on the pyriformis muscle and the sacral plexus of the left side. In contact with its left side are the branches of the internal iliac artery, and the left ureter. In some bodies this part of the intestine is much curved to the right side."^ Middle piece The middle piece lies beneath the bladder, and reaches to the tip of the coccyx : it is about three inches in length, and is covered by peritoneum on the upper aspect for about one only covered third of its extent. Resting on it is the lower or triangular , in front. part of the bladder, with the vesiculse seminales and vasa deferentia ; and behind it are the sacrum and coccyx. On the left side is the coccygeus muscle. Last piece is The lower part is about an inch and a half in length, and uncovered, is curved from the tip of the coccyx to the anus : at first it is much dilated, but at the anus it is contracted. This end of the intestine is without peritoneal covering, and is sup- ported by the lower part of the triangular ligament of the Connections urethra, and by the levatores ani muscles. Above the ex- aiw d^^^^ tremity of the rectum (in this position of the body) are the prostate, the membranous part of the urethra, and the bulb of the corpus spongiosum urethrse ; but as the gut recedes gradually from the urethra there is an angular interval left between the two. The levatores ani muscles descend on its sides, and unite beneath it, supporting it in a sling ; and the sphincter muscles surround the aperture. Sometimes this end In tlie dissecting-room of the College in one Winter (1854—1855) I saw three examples of the rectum being placed on the right side of the sacrum. In two bodies the lower end of the left colon crossed the spine, at the top of the sacrum, and the rectum descended through the pelvis, on the right of the middle line, to the end of the coccyx. In the third it crossed the spine twice, once at the top of the sacrum, aud again about the middle of that bone.