SUBMAXILLARY REGION-. 99 this nerve will be seen in the dissection of the submaxillary region. In this region the nerve does not distribute any branch to no branch the parts around, but the following communicating branch (chorda tympani) is received by it. The chorda tijmpani is a branch of the facial nerve, and but is joined is distributed to the tongue. The origin of this nerve, and tjmpai? its course across the tympanum to its position beneath the external pterygoid, are described in Section" 14. After issuing from the tympanum by an aperture near the Glas- serian fissure, this small nerve is applied to the gustatory nerve at an acute angle. At the point of junction some fibres communicate with the gustatory, but the greater part of the chorda tympani is conducted along that nerve to the lingualis muscle. An offset is furnished from it to the sub- maxillary ganglion : see the following Section. Section VII. SUBMAXILLARY REGION. The term submaxillary region is applied to the part Extent, between the lower jaw and the hyoid bone. In it will be found small muscles acting on the os hyoides, the jaw, and Parts in it. the tongue ; the vessels and nerves of the tongue ; and the sublingual and submaxillary glands. Position.—In this dissection the position of the neck is the ^^^^^^^^^^ same as the examination of the anterior triangle. Dissection.—Directions for the cleaning of this region Dissection, j^ere given with the dissection of the anterior triangular space ; but if any fatty tissue has been left on the sub- maxillary gland, or on the mylo-hyoid muscle, let it be taken away. The submaxillary gland (fig. 10, lies below the jaw in Situation the anterior part of the space limited by that bone and the digastric muscle. Its shape is irregular, and the facial artery winds over the surface. The gland rests on the and connec- mylo-hyoideus, and sends a process round the posterior or free border of that muscle. In front of it is the anterior belly of the digastric ; and behind it is the stylo-maxillary of submax- ligament separating it from the parotid. Occupying a posi- tion somewhat beneath the side of the jaw, the gland is very near the surface, being covered only by the integuments and platysma, and by the deep fascia. H 2