FIBROUS COAT OF THE EYEBALL. 779 parts to bring the rays of light to a focus on it; and in front of these is a moveable curtain (iris), to regulate the admission of light into the interior. To defend such delicate structures, certain denser strata are arranged around them ; and to absorb the superabundant rays of light entering the eyeball, one of them is provided with dark pigment. The coats of the eyeball, forming three strata, are arranged Number of one within another, and are named sclerotic, choroid, and retina. The transparent media in the interior are likewise and central three, viz., the lens, the aqueous humour, and the vitreous body. Dissection.—To obtain a general idea of the structures to Dissection, be dissected, the student may destroy one eyeball for that purpose by cutting through it circularly : he will be then able to recognise generally the arrangement of the parts men- tioned above, and their strength and appearance ; and will be better prepared to follow the directions that are afterwards given. Fibrous coat of the eyeball.—The outer casing of the Fibrous eye consists of an opaque hinder part called sclerotic, and of an anterior transparent part or cornea. The SCLEROTIC COAT (cornea opaca) is the firm, whitish, Sclerotic and opaque part of the external stratum of the eyeball, which supports the more delicate structures within. Dissection.—To examine the inner and outer surfaces of Dissection this coat, and of the cornea, it will be necessary to cut cir- interior, cularly with a blunt-pointed scissors through the sclerotic or outer coat a quarter of an inch from the cornea ; and next to separate the cornea from the front of the eyeball, by break- ing through a structure that fixes it slightly. In raising the cornea, the student may observe the aqueous fluid escape from the containing chamber. The other structures may be then removed from the interior of the sclerotic covering ; and the central parts of the ball may be set aside for subse- quent use. The sclerotic tunic of the eye is bell-shaped, and extends Form and from the entrance of the optic nerve to the margin of the cornea, forming about five sixths of the ball. At its posterior part and a little to the inner side of the Apertures centre (one tenth of an inch), the optic nerve is transmitted through an aperture in it : this opening decreases in size from without inwards, and is cribriform when the nerve is drawn out—the lattice-like condition being due to the union with its margin of the bundles of fibrous tissue between the funi- culi of the nerve. Other smaller apertures for the passage