DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 416 Upper six. Lower six. In the loins. Dissection. Two mus- cles in first layer. Trapezius. Origin aponeurotic. Insertion chiefly Connec- tions. The upper six nerves perforate the trapezius near the spines of the vertebrae ; and the branch of the second, which is larger than the rest, reaches as far as the scapula. The lower six nerves pierce the latissimus dorsi mostly in a line with the angles of the ribs ; they are oftentimes uncertain in number. Lumbar nerves.—In the loins the nerves are derived from the outer parts of the primary branches, and only from the first three ; they perforate the latissimus dorsi muscle in a line with the outer border of the erector spinae, and cross- ing the iliac crest of the innominate bone, are distributed in the integuments of the buttock. Dissed'ion.—The superficial fascia is to be taken from the trapezius and latissimus dorsi in the direction of the fibres of each, viz., from the shoulder to the spinal column ; and the upper limb is to be carried backwards or forwards accord- ing as it may be necessary to put on the stretch the difierent portions of the muscles. Some of the cutaneous nerves may be left, in order that they may be traced afterwards through the muscles to their origin. First Layer of Muscles.—Two muscles, the trapezius and the latissimus dorsi, are included in this layer. The TRAPEZIUS MUSCLE (fig. 66, ^ ) is triangular in shape, with the base towards the spine, but the two muscles have a trapezoid form. The muscle has an extensive aponeurotic origin along the middle line, from the head to the loins, viz. from the spines of the dorsal vertebrae and their supraspinous ligament; from the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra; from the ligamentum nuchae between the last point and the head ; and lastly from the inner third of the superior transverse ridge of the occipital bone. From this origin the fibres are directed outwards, converging to the shoulder, and are inserted into the outer third of the clavicle, at its posterior aspect ; into the posterior or upper border of the acromion ; and into the upper edge of the spine of the scapula as far as to an inch of the root of that process, as well as into a rough impression on the surface of the spine near the hinder part. The muscle is subcutaneous. At the outer side the lowest fleshy fibres end in a small triangular tendon, which glides over the smooth surface at the root of the spine of the scapula. The anterior border bounds behind the posterior triangular space of the side of the neck. By its insertion the trapezius corresponds with the origin of the deltoid muscle.