DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. GOO the plexus, it is directed beneath the psoas to the inner or pelvic border; escaped from beneath the muscle the nerve crosses the pelvic cavity belov^ the external iliac, but above ^^.^s in the the obturator vessels, and enters the thigh through the aper- ture in the upper part of the thyroid foramen. Occasionally the obturator gives origin to the following branch :— its accessory The accessory obturator nerve ("') arises near the beginning of the trunk of the obturator, or from the third and fourth nerves of the plexus. Its course is along the inner border of the psoas beneath the investing fascia, and over the sur- supplios hip face of the hip bone to the thigh, where it ends by joining jomt. ^i^g obturator nerve, and supplying the hip joint. Sympa- GaNGLIATED CORD OF THE SYMPATHETIC. The lumbar in the abdo- V^^^ gangliated cord of the sympathetic in the abdo- men men is placed on the side of the spinal column (fig. 91, and is continuous upwards beneath the inner arch of the dia- phragm with the thoracic part, and downwards with the joins that in pelvic part of the same cord. It lies along the inner border thorax; q£ ^-^^ psoas muscle, nearer the front of the vertebrse than the like part in the thorax, and is somewhat concealed on has four or the right side by the vena cava. The cord presents four or fivegangha; q^^q oblong ganglia opposite the bodies of the vertebr?e ; and connecting branches to the spinal nerves, and visceral branches are supplied from them, tlieij. a. Connecting branches.—From each ganglion two small the s°^na/^ branches are directed backwards, along the centre of the nerves ' body of the vertebra, with the lumbar artery; these unite with a spinal nerve near the intervertebral foramen, or they are often divided between two spinal nerves. The connect- ing branches are longest in the lumbar region in conse- quence of the cord being carried forwards by the psoas muscle to the fore part of the vertebrse. and the b. Branches for distribution. —Most of the internal branches the viscera "^-^^^^ themselves into the aortic and hypogastric plexuses, and so reach the viscera indirectly. Some filaments enter the vertebrae and their connecting ligaments. Last dorsal Last dorsal nerve.—The anterior primary branch of the nerve. j^^^ dorsal nerve resembles the other intercostal nerves in its distribution, but differs from them in not being contained in an intercostal space. Lying below the last rib, the nerve is directed outwards across the upper part of the quad- ratus lumborum, and beneath the fascia covering that muscle, wall of the "^^ outer border of the quadratus it pierces the posterior abdomen, aponeurosis of the transversalis abdominis (fascia lumborum), enters the wall of the abdomen, and ends in an abdominal