376 DISSECTION" OF THE THOEAX. ing fibrous tissue. Vessels of the heart. The pul- monary artery- is a short trunk, and divides into two for the lungs. Connec- tions. Right branch is longest. Left branch. Space at the bifurcation. Condition of the artery in the fetus. ventricle to an artery, it forms duplicatures or valves, in ■which fibrous tissue is enclosed. In the ventricle it covers the tendinous cords of the valves, and the projecting mus- cular bundles. The thickness of the membrane is greater in the auricles than in the ventricles. In its structure it resembles a serous membrane. Great Vessels of the Heart.—The arteries taking origin from the heart are the pulmonary artery and the aorta. The large veins entering the heart, besides the coro- nary, are the superior and the inferior cava, and the pulmo- nary veins. The PULMONARY artery is a short thick trunk, which conveys the dark or impure blood from the right side of the heart to the lungs. From its commencement in the right ventricle the vessel is directed upwards on the left of the aorta ; and at a distance of an inch and a half or two inches from its origin, it divides into two branches of nearly equal size for the lungs. Near the bifurcation of the artery is a small ligamentous cord, the remnant of the arterial duct, which passes from the left branch of the vessel to the arch of the aorta, and is named ligamentum ductlls arteriosi. The trunk of the pulmonary artery is contained in the peri- cardium ; and beneath it is the beginning of the aorta, together wdth the left auricle. On each side are the coro- nary artery and the auricular appendix. The right hranck is longer than the left. In its course to the lung it lies beneath the aorta and the vena cava superior, and rests on the bronchus or piece of the air tube : and as it passes outwards it is above the level of the right auricle of the heart. At the lung the artery divides into three primary branches, one for each lobe, which enter the pul- monic substance. The left branch is rather smaller than the right ; it is directed in front of the descending aorta and the left bronchus to the fissure of the root of the lung, where it divides into two branches, in accordance with the number of the pulmonic lobes. As the right and left branches of the pulmonary artery pass outwards, they cross the tubes resulting from the division of the trachea, and enclose "with them a lozenge- shaped space which contains some bronchial glands. Ductus arteriosus. In the fetus the part of the pulmo- nary artery which is now ligamentous, was the continuation of the trunk of the vessel, and was larger than either branch to the lung. At that period the large vessel receives the