DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 592 Difference in length and connec- tions. Place where the veins join may change. Lower cava is by side of the aorta. Extent and •connections. Branches from abdo- men, €xcept those of digestive apparatus. Lumbar veins. Spermatic vein ends diffe- rently on left and right sides. The riglit vein is the shortest, and is at first behind, but afterwards outside the artery of the same side. The left is altogether below the artery of its own side, and moreover crosses beneath the right common iliac artery. Each vein receives the ilio-Iumbar, and sometimes the lateral sacral branch : and the common iliac of the left side is joined by the middle sacral vein. Instead of the common iliac veins uniting at the spot mentioned, they may be continued upwards, one on each side of the aorta, as high as the kidney, before the left crosses the s^Dine to join the right and give origin to the vena cava. In these cases the left vein receives the renal vein of the same side, and the two common iliacs are con- nected by a small intervening branch at the spot where they are usually united. The VEi^A CAVA iNFEiiioit collects, and conveys to the. heart the blood of the lower half of the body. Taking origin, as before said, on the right side of the fifth lumbar vertebra, rather below the bifurcation of the aorta, this large vein ascends on the right side of the vertebral column, and reaches the heart by perforating the diaphragm. Its connections with the surrounding parts have been already described (p. 532). Braiiclies.—The cava receives parietal branches from the wall of the abdomen and the diaphragm ; and visceral branches from the testicle, the kidney, the suprarenal body, and the liver. The veins belonging to the digestive apparatus, viz. to the intestinal canal, the spleen, and the pancreas, are imited to form the vena portsa (p. 538) ; and the blood circulating in those veins reaches the cava by the vense cavse hepatiese after it has circulated through the liver. The lumbar veins enter the posterior part of the vena cava, and correspond in number and course with the arteries of the same name : they will be dissected with those arteries. The spermatic vein enters the abdomen by the internal abdominal ring, after forming the spermatic plexus in the cord (p. 496). At first the vein consists of two branches in the abdomen, which lie on the sides of the spermatic artery ; but these soon join into one trunk. On the left side the: spermatic vein opens into the renal vein at right angles; and on the right side it pierces obliquely the inferior cava below the renal vein. As the vein ascends to its destination, it receives one or more branches from the wall of the abdo-, men, and from the fat about the kidney. |