501 OBLIQUE maumAL HERNIA. the internal abdominal ring with the cord, or is projected through the part of the abdominal wall between the epi- gastric artery and the edge of the rectus muscle. The hernia of this region is distinguished by the names Two kinds, external and internal, from its position to the epigastric obUqiTe^ artery; and it is called also oblique and direct, from the direction it takes through the abdominal wall. Thus the hernia protruding through the internal abdominal ring with the cord is called external from being outside the artery, and oblique from its slanting course ; whilst the hernia between the edge of the rectus and the epigastric artery is named, in like manner, internal from being inside the artery, internal or and direct from its straight course. direct. External or Oblique Inguinal Hernia leaves the cavity External or of the abdomen with the spermatic cord, and traversing the oblique, inguinal canal, makes its exit from the abdominal wall by the external abdominal ring. Anatomy of the external hernia.—To acquire a knowledge Anatomy of of the anatomy of this hernia it will be necessary to study ^erned^^' the space in which it lies (inguinal canal), the apertures by which it enters and leaves the wall of the abdomen (abdominal rings), and the coverings it receives in its progress to the surface of the body. The inguinal canal (fig. 75) is the interval between the inguinal flat muscles of the abdominal wall, which contains the sper- matic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the Direction, female. Ifcs direction is oblique downwards and inwards, being nearly parallel to Poupart's ligament ; and its length Length, is about one inch and a half. Superiorly it communicates with the cavity of the abdomen by the internal abdominal Openings, ring; and inferiorly it ends at the external abdominal ring. Towards the surface of the body the canal is bounded by Boundaries the two oblique muscles though unequally :—Thus in its f^^^ outer third (half an inch) it is formed by both muscles ; but at the inner or lower two thirds (one inch) it is bounded only by the aponeurosis of the external oblique. Superficial to the muscular parts, are the skin and fat. Towards the cavity of the abdomen the wall of the canal Next the is constructed chiefly by the fascia transversalis, and the cavity.'''''^ conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis in this wise :—The transversalis fascia reaches all the distance, like the external oblique; and the conjoined tendon is placed in front of it for about an inch below. Deeper than the transversalis fascia are the subperitoneal fat and the peri-