511 STRICTUEE OF FEMORAL HERNIA. may be said to be placed along tbe anterior aspect of the ring. The ring is bounded therefore by vessels except internally and behind. But in some bodies the obturator artery takes origin from gtate of the epigastric, and comes to lie along a part of the ring as ^^g^J^g^^ it passes to the pelvis. In that course it may have two positions with respect to the ring :—either it lies close to the iliac vein, and therefore on the outer side of the ring ; or it arches over the ring, descending on the inner side at the base of Gimbernat's ligament. If the artery takes the first-mentioned course, which is the most frequent arrange- ment, the inner side of the ring will be free from vessels ; but in the other condition the ring will have an additional vessel on the inner side, and will be encircled except at the posterior part. Course and coverings of femoral hernia.—The intestine Course and ^ leaves the abdomen by the opening of the crural ring ; and fQ^oml^ it descends in the large crural sheath on the ve?>sels, internal hernia, to the vein, as far as the saphenous opening, where it pro- jects to the surface of the thigh. In its progress the From abdo- intestine will push before it the peritoneum, and the sub- peritoneum peritoneal fat (septum crurale) ; and it will displace, or and subperi- cause to be absorbed the gland that fills the crural ring. Having reached the level of the saphenous opening, the intestine carries before it the inner side of the crural sheath and the cribriform fascia; and, lastly, it receives coverings inner part from the superficial structures of the thigh. The dissection of siieath. of the thigh may be referred to for fuller detail. ^ea^ of stricture.—The stricture of a femoral hernia is stricture placed either around or in the neck of the sac, opposite the neck'^or at base of Gimbernat's ligament ; or it is found lower down saphenous at the margin of the saphenous opening in the thigh. opening. To free the intestine from the constricting fibrous band incision to- arching over it, an incision is to be made down to the neck of the sac at the inner and upper part. And to relieve the deep stricture within the neck of the sac, the knife is to be carried horizontally inwards, or upwards and inwards through the thickened sac and a few fibres of the free edge of Gimbernat's ligament. Danger to vessels. —^When the incision is made upwards Risk of and inwards to loosen the deep constricting band in the neck vessels in of the sac, there will not be any vessel injured unless the I'eg^^lar cut should be made so long as to reach the spermatic cord, or the small pubic branch of the epigastric artery. And when the incision is made directly inwards with the