TEMPORAL MUSCLE. 5 integument is then to be raised from before backwards, but the subcutaneous fat should be left till the nerves are found. Behind the ear the skin should be raised as on the other side, to uncover the posterior auricular vessels and nerves. Along the eyebrow seek the branches of vessels and nerves Seek nerves that come from the orbit, viz. the supra-orbital and frontal q^^^Jq^^®^^ vessels, and the supra-orbital and supra-trochlear nerves, front; They lie at first beneath the muscular fibres, and the student must cut through these to find them : the supra-orbital branches issue opposite the middle, and the supra-trochlear near the inner part of the orbit. On the side of the head, in front of the ear, the super- on the side ficial temporal vessels and nerves are to be found ; and ^^^^' somewhat above the zygoma are branches of the facial and superior maxillary nerves, whose ofi'sets join. Behind the ear and below it, the posterior auricular vessels and nerve, and branches from the great auricular nerve to the tip and back of the ear, are to be seen ; one or more ofisets of the last should be traced to their junction with the posterior auricular nerve. At the back of the head the ramifications of the occipital at the back vessels, with the large and small occipital nerves, should be sought out ; the former nerve lies by the side of the artery, and the latter about midway between this vessel and the ear. Cutaneous Vessels. —The arteries of the scalp are fur- Vessels of nished by the internal and external carotid arteries, and ^^^^P' anastomose freely over the side of the head. Only two small branches, the supra-orbital and frontal come from the former ; whilst several, viz. the temporal, occipital, and posterior auricular arteries belong to the latter. The supra-orhital artery leaves the orbit through the Supra-orbi- notch in the margin of the orbit, and is distributed on the artery, forehead. Some of its branches are superficial to the occipito-frontalis, and ascend towards the top of the head, whilst others remain beneath the muscle, and supply it, the pericranium, and the bone. The frontal branch is close to the inner angle of the orbit. Frontal and is much smaller than the preceding. It soon ends in branches for the supply of the muscles, integuments, and pericranium. The superficial temporal artery is one of the terminal Superficial branches of the external carotid. After ascending over the ^aT^^^^^ zygoma for about two inches, the vessel divides on the temporal fascia into anterior and posterior branches :—