832 DISSECTION OF THE FOREARM. Insertion of the tendons into the phalanges. Connections of the muscle. Bands to the tendons. Extensor of little finger. Common origin and termi- nation. Extensor carpi ulna- Origin. Insertion. Is the most internal muscle. Anconeus has a distinct origin and inser- tion ; ligament, the most internal tendon divides into two, and all four are directed along the back of the hand to their insertion into the last two phalanges of the fingers. On the back of the fingers the tendons have the following disposition :—Opposite the first two phalangeal articulations each tendon sends down lateral bands to join the capsule of the joint ; and on the dorsum of the first phalanx it forms an expansion with the tendons of the lumbricales and inter- ossei muscles (fig. 46). At the anterior part of the first phalanx this tendinous expansion is divided into three parts : —the central one is fixed into the base of the second phalanx, whilst the lateral pieces unite at the front of the same pha- lanx, and are inserted into the base of the last. On the fore and little fingers the expansion is joined by the special tendons of those digits. This muscle is placed between the extensors of the wrist and little finger, and conceals the deep extensors. On the back of the hand the tendons are joined by cross pieces. Between the ring finger tendon and its collateral tendons these connecting bands are the strongest, and prevent the ring finger being raised during life if the other fingers are closed. The EXTENSOR MINIMI DiGiTi is the most slender muscle on the back of the forearm, and appears to be but a part of the common extensor. Its origin is in common with that of the extensor communis, but it passes through a distinct sheath of the annular ligament ; and its tendon, which is split into two directly afterwards, ends by joining the common expansion on the first phalanx of the little finger. The EXTENSOR CARPI ULNARis MUSCLE arises from the common tendon and from the aponeurosis of the forearm ; it is also firmly fixed by the fascia to the posterior border of the ulna below the anconeus muscle (about the middle third). Its tendon becomes free from fleshy fibres near the annular ligament, and passes through a separate sheath in that structure to be inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Beneath this extensor are some of the muscles of the deep layer, with part of the ulna. On the outerside is the extensor of the little finger. The ANCONEUS is a small triangular muscle near the elbow joint. It arises from the outer condyle of the humerus by a tendon distinct from, and on the ulnar side of the common tendon of origin of the other muscles. From this origin the fibres diverge to their insertion into the outer side of the olecranon, and into the impression on the upper third or