VESSELS OF THE LUNG. 393 lium."^ Beneath tlie mucous lining is a network of the pulmonary vessels. Vessels of the Lung.—Two sets of vessels are furnished Vessels of to the lung, one being concerned in its functionj the other functional in its nutrition. The vessels that convey blood to the lung yj^^^^" to be aerated, or that carry the same away after it has been subjected to the respiratory process, are named pulmonary. The vessels connected with the nutrition of the structure are called bronchial. The pulmonary artery divides like the bronchus which it pulmonary accompanies to the lobule. At the lobule the arterial ^^^^^^ branch is minutely subdivided, and its ramifications, enter- ing the interlobular fissures, end in a capillary network in the wall of the air cells, beneath the mucous lining. The vascular circles of several cells (about twelve) communicate with each other. The pulmonary veins begin in the vascular network before and vein, mentioned ; and the twigs issuing from the several lobules are destitute of valves, and are united in larger tubes which course to the root of the lung. Although the small lobular branches of the arteries remain separate from one another, the corresponding veins anastomose together. The bronchial arteries enter the lung on the air tube, and Bronchial supply deep branches to the bronchial tubes and the con- ^^^^^^ tiguous glands, to the large bloodvessels, and to the inter- lobular areolar tissue of the lung, distributing ofi'sets to the surface. On the smallest air tubes minute branches anasto- mose with offsets of the pulmonary arteries. The bronchial vein begins by roots corresponding with the and vein, superficial and deep branches of the artery. Leaving the lung at the root, the vein ends difi"erently on opposite sides of the body (p. 395). Nerves and lymphatics.—The lung receives nerves from Nerves, the vagus and the sympathetic, and the ofisets follow the branches of the air tube. Remak describes small ganglia on the sympathetic filaments. The lymphatics of the lung are Lymphatics, both superficial and deep, and enter the bronchial glands at the root of the lung. PAETS IN ERONT OF THE SPINE AND THE CORD OF THE SYMPATHETIC. In front of the spinal column are several parts enumerated ^ Some good observers deny the existence of an epithelial lining to the cdls.