462 DISSECTION" OF THE PEHmTEUM. Superficial vessels of pudic. Superficial perinseal' ends in scrotum, and supplies the muscles. Muscular branches. Transverse artery. Veins with the arteries. Cutaneous nerves of scrotum. Two super- ficial peri- Posterior crosses fossa to the scrotum, times this artery is divided into two. Two superficial peri- naeal nerves are to be found with the artery ; and the inferior pudendal nerve is to be traced forwards to the scrotum. Communications are to be sought between these nerves anteriorly, and between one of the perinseal and the inferior hsemorrhoidal posteriorly ; and all the nerves are to be followed backwards. Arteries.—The arteries beneath the fascia, viz. super- ficial and transverse perinseal, are branches of the pudic, and are two or three in number. The superficial perinceal branch is given ofi" from the pudic artery in front of the ofiset to the rectum. Perforating usually the base of the triangular ligament, it turns forwards over or under the transverse muscle, and beneath the super- ficial fascia, to the back of the scrotum, w^here it ends in flexuous branches. As the vessel lies beneath the fascia, internal to the pubic arch, it supplies ofi'sets to the muscles beneath : and in front it anastomoses with the external or superficial pudic branches of the femoral artery. Some- times there is a second superficial perinseal branch. Muscular branches.—Near the origin of the superficial perinseal, some other offsets pass inwards to the front of the levator ani (p. 459). The transverse artery of the perinseum arises from the preceding, or near the same spot, and is directed transversely to the middle of the perinseal space, where it is distributed to the integuments and the transverse muscle. It anasto- moses with the one of the opposite side. Branches of veins accompany the arteries, and open into the trunk of the pudic vein. ISTerves.—There are three long cutaneous nerves of the scrotum, viz. the inferior pudendal from the small sciatic, and two superficial perinseal branches from the pudic nerve. The superficial perinceal nerves, two in number, are named anterior and posterior from their relative position at their origin : both arise from the perinseal branch of the pudic nerve. The posterior branch appears near the front of the ischio- rectal fossa, and entering beneath the superficial fascia, is continued forwards with the artery of the same name to the back of the scrotum. Whilst in the fossa the nerve gives inwards an offset to the integuments in front of the anus, and this communicates with the inferior hsemorrhoidal nerve.