DISSECTION OF THE UPPEE LIMB. 346 Joint be- tween car- pal and metacarpal "bones; that of the thumb; those of other fingen through dorsal and palmar bands. Xiateral band. How seen. Dissection. Surfaces of Union" between the Metacarpal and Carpal Bones. —Most of the metacarpal bones of the fingers are articulated with the carpal bones after one plan. But the bone of the thumb has a separate joint with a synovial membrane. a. The metacarpal hone of the thumb articulates with the OS trapezium ; and the ends of the bones are incased in a separate capsular ligament (fig. 53, The joint is supphed with a synovial membrane which is simple in its arrange- ment, Ij. The metacarpal hones of the fingers receive longitudinal bands from the carpal bones on both aspects, thus :— The dorsal ligaments (fig. 53) are two to each, except to the bone of the little finger. The bands of the metacarpal bone of the fore finger come from the os trapezium and os trapezoides ; those of the third bone are attached to the os magnum and os trapezoides ; the bone of the ring finger receives its bands from the os magnum and os unciforme ; and to the fifth metacarpal bone there is but one ligament from the unciform bone. The palmar ligaments (fig. 51) are weaker and less constant than the dorsal. There is one to each metacarpal bone, except that of the little finger. These ligaments may be oblique in direction ; and a band may be divided between two bones, as in the case of the ligament attached to the os trapezium and the second and third metacarpals. Sometimes one or more may be wanting. On the ulnar side of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger is a longitudinal or lateral hand, which is attached above to the os magnum and os unciforme, and below to the rough ulnar side of the base of the above mentioned meta- carpal bone. Sometimes this band isolates the articulation of the last two metacarpals with the unciform bone from the remaining carpo-metacarpal joint ; but more frequently it is divided into two parts, and does not form a complete partition between those joints. This band may be seen by opening the articulation between the unciform and the last two metacarpal bones ; and by cutting through with care the transverse ligaments joining the third and fourth bones, so as to allow the separation o the fourth from the third metacarpal. Dissection. —The articulating surfaces of the bones in the carpo-metacarpal articulation may be seen by cutting through the rest of the ligaments on the posterior aspect o the hand. Articular surfaces. — The metacarpal bone of the fore