FOKM AND POSITION OF THE TESTES. 577 THE TESTES. The testes are the glandular organs for the secretion of Testes the semen. Each is suspended in the scrotum by the thescrotum. spermatic cord and its coverings (p. 495), but the left is usually lower than the right ; and each is provided with an excretory duct named vas deferens. A serous sac surrounds partly each organ. Dissection.—For the purpose of examining the serous To see the covering of the testicle (tunica vaginalis), make an aperture into it and inflate it. The surface of both the sac and the spermatic cord are then to be cleaned, and the vessels of the latter are to be followed to their entrance into the testicle. ' The tunica vaginalis is a serous bag, v^hich is continuous Serous bag- in the fetus with the peritoneal lining of the abdomen, but becomes subsequently a distinct sac in consequence of the obliteration of the tube connecting the two. It invests partly the testicle after the manner of other serous membranes ; ^gj^^^fg*^® for the testicle is placed behind it, so as to be partly en- veloped by it, and not in its cavity. The sac, however, is and lines larger than is necessary for covering the testicle, and projects scrotum, some distance above it. Like other serous membranes, it has an external rough, and an internal secerning smooth surface ; and like them it has a visceral and a parietal part. To examine its disposition the sac should be opened. The visceral layer (tunica vaginalis testis) covers the its visceral testicle except posteriorly where the vessels lie, and is in- P^*"^' separably united with the fibrous coat. On the outer side it extends farther back than on the inner, and passes between the testis and the arched body (epididymis) that lies on this aspect of the organ. The parietal part of the sac (tunic, vagin. scroti) is more and parietal, extensive than the piece covering the testicle, and lines the immediately contiguous layer of the scrotum. Form and position of the testis.—The testicle is oval in Testicle shape, with a smooth surface, and is flattened on the sides. The anterior margin is convex ; and the posterior, which is Margins, flattened, is pierced by the spermatic vessels a.nd nerves. Stretching like an arch along the outer part of the testis IS Bodies on the epididymis, or the convoluted part of the excretory duct, te&ticle, and attached to the upper part of the testis, or of the epidi- dymis, is a very small body, two or three lines in length, whose use is unknown.