SECOND LAYER OF MUSCLES. 741 offsets to the contiguous sides of two toes, and to the cutis jt[J.^Q^gg5;s^" beneath the nail; and articular filaments are distributed to the joints, as in the fingers. The external plantar nerve furnishes the remaining digital External nerves to both sides of the little toe, and the outer side of J^o°eIndV^° the next, and ends in the deep muscles of the sole of the half; foot. This nerve corresponds in its arrangement with the ulnar nerve in the hand. It has the same course as the external plantar artery, and divides at the outer margin of has super- the flexor brevis digitorum into a superficial and a deep ^eeppans. portion :—the former gives origin to two digital nerves'; but the latter accompanies the arch of the plantar artery iato the foot, and will be dissected afterwards. Whilst the external plantar nerve is concealed by the short Branches, flexor of the toes, it gives muscular branches to the abductor minimi digiti and the flexor accessorius. The digital branches of the external plantar nerve are but ^^^^j|g^^^ two, and resemble those of the iilnar nerve in the hand. One nerve is undivided; it is distributed to the outer side One single, of the little toe, and gives branches to the flexor brevis minimi digiti, and the interosseous muscles of the fourth space. The other bifurcates at the cleft between the outer two One divided, toes, and supplies their collateral surfaces: this nerve com- municates in the foot with the last digital branch of the in- ternal plantar nerve. On the sides of the toes the digital nerves have the same Distribution distribution as those from the other plantar trunk. others. Dissection.—To complete the preparation of the second Lay bare layer of muscles, the origin of the abductor pollicis should layer of be detached from the os calcis, and the muscle should be "muscles, turned inwards. The internal plantar nerve and artery, and the superficial portion of the external plantar nerve, are to be cut across and thrown forwards; but the external plantar artery and the nerve with it are not to be injured. All the fat and loose tissue and fascia are to be taken away near the toes. Second layer of muscles. —In this layer are the tendons Second of the two flexor muscles at the back of the leg, viz. flexor longus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis, which cross one another. Connected with the former, soon after it enters the foot, is an accessory muscular slip ; and at its division into pieces are four slender muscles named lumbricales. The tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, whilst Tendon of entering the foot beneath the annular ligament, lies on the toea^ ^