DISSECTION OF THE BEAm. 212 Fibresdecus- lialves of the medulla. As fclie bundles of fibres enter into sate. it their component threads diverge, decussating with their fellows, and some take an antero-posterior direction along the opposite half of the medulla before they disappear in it. At the top of the medulla the antero posterior fibres are most numerous ; and they receive behind an accession from Nerve cells. auditory nucleus. In this plexus of decussating fibres, are branched nerve cells which join with the other fibres (Clarke). Gray matter Gray matter of the medulla oblongata.—In the medulla duila° Oblongata there are the modified remains of the gray matter, in the interior of the spinal cord, and there are in addition from two some Special deposits. Cross sections would be required to sources. ^qq tlie arrangement completely. Changes in -"-^ fourth ventricle the gray matter of the cord is the central laid bare below, in consequence of the restiform and pos- gray mass, j^^^^^^ pyramidal bodies being removed from the middle line. It is subjected further to modification, and disappears above amongst the longitudinal fibres."^ at the lower -^"^ "^^^ lower part of the medulla the central gray mass meclulla^^ resembles that in the spinal cord (See diagram of the spinal cord), but the transverse piece uniting the crescents is larger, and its central canal is closed by granular matter ; whilst the anterior cornu is thick and club-shaped, and the posterior, long and slender, ends in a tuft of fibres. But it undergoes soon the following changes :— In the outer From the whole outer border of the crescent (in each half) crescent^^ a network of fibres with cells, like the gray substance itself, is prolonged outwards through the lateral column, until the outline of the part becomes undistinguishable. In the an- The anterior cornu of the crescent is resolved likewise terior fj^to a network of fibres and cells, which penetrates the cornu. . lateral column, like the network from the outer border. The pos- -^-^^ posterior cornu increases in bulk at the same time ; terior and, as the fibres of the lateral column are directed forwards comu. ^2^^ decussation of the pyramids, it extends tovv^ards the side of the cord, where it appears on the surface, in front of the restiform body, as the gray tubercle of Rolando (tuber- culo cinereo). Finally, in ascending the medulla, it becomes the chief nucleus of the sensory root of the fifth nerve. In the gray From the back of the transverse piece uniting the crescents, commissure; close to the median fissure, another network of cells and fibres projects into the posterior pyramid, and forms in it * This description of the arrangement of the gray matter in the mednlla oblongata is a summary of the facts contained in Mr. Clarke's Paper, in the " Transactions of the Royal Society for 1858." (