326 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. is fixed to metacarpal bone. Dissection carpal bone. Its origin is from the process of the unciform bone, and from the lower part of the annular ligament: its insertion is fixed into the ulnar margin of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. The adductor is partly overlaid by the preceding muscles ; and beneath it the deep branches of the ulnar artery and nerve pass. Dissection.—The radial artery comes into the palm of the and^^^ ^^^^ hand between the first two metacarpal bones ; and to lay bare the vessel, it will be requisite to detach the inner head of the flexor brevis poUicis at the origin. The deep palmar arch, and the branch of the ulnar nerve that accompanies it, together with their offsets, are to be dissected out. A fascia, which covers the interossei muscles, is to be removed, when the dissector has observed its connection with the transverse ligament uniting the heads of the metacarpal bones. Radial Artehy iisr the Hand.—The radial artery enters the palm of the hand at the first interosseous space, between the heads of the abductor indicis muscle : and after furnishing one branch to the thumb, and another to the index finger, turns across the hand towards the ulnar side, and forms thus the deep arch. The deep palmar arch extends from the interosseous space, to the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger, where it joins the communicating branch (profunda) and the digital branch to the little finger from the ulnar artery. Its con- vexity, which is but slight, is directed forwards, and its position is more posterior, or nearer the carpal bones, than that of the superficial arch. The arch has a deep posi- tion in the hand, and lies on the metacarpal bones and and beneath the interossei muscles. It is covered by the long flexor tendons, and in part by the inner head of the flexor brevis poUicis. The branches of the deep palmar arch are the following :— a. Recurrent branches pass from the concavity of the arch to the front of the carpus ; these supply the bones, and anas- tomose with the other carpal arteries. 6. Three perforating arteries pierce the interossei muscles, and communicate with the interosseous arteries on the back of the hand. c. Usually there are three palmar interosseous arteries, which occupy the three inner metacarpal spaces, and terminate by joining the digital branches of the superficial palmar arch at the clefts of the fingers : these branches supply the interosseous muscles, and vary much in their size and dis- tribution. interossei muscles. Radial artery in hand forms deep arch which lies near carpal bones. all muscles. Branches : Recurrent. Perforating. Inter- osseous.