15 SmUSES OF THE DTJKA MATER. internal jugular vein. In this extent the sinus occupies Position to the winding groove in the interior of the skull between the two points of bone before mentioned. Besides small veins sinuses from the brain, it is joined by the superior petrosal sinus J^^^^^^^t^ opposite the upper border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and by the inferior petrosal at the foramen jugulare. Oftentimes it communicates with the occipital vein through the mastoid foramen, and sometimes with the veins of the diploe of the skull. The right sinus is frequently larger than the left. The foramen jugulare is divided into three compartments situation in by bands of the dura mater ; through the posterior interval foranaeu ... jugulare. the lateral sinus passes, through the anterior the inferior petrosal sinus, and through the central one the eighth nerve. Dissection.—To examine the cavernous sinus, say on Dissection, the left side, let the dura mater opposite the body of the sphenoid bone be cut through from the anterior to the posterior clinoid process, and internal to the position of the third nerve. Behind the last-named process, let the knife be directed inwards for about half the width of the basilar part of the occipital bone. By placing the handle of the scalpel in the opening thus made, the extent of the space will be defined. A probe should be passed into the different sinuses that join the cavernous centre. B. The CAVERNOUS sinus, which has been so named from Cavernous the reticulate structure in its interior, is situate on the side ^^^^^ of the body of the sphenoid bone. This space, resulting from the separation of the layers of the dura mater, is of an irregular shape, and extends from the sphenoidal fissure to the tip of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The ^as nerves piece of dura mater bounding the sinus externally is of some ^^JJ^*^®^' thickness, and contains in its substance the third and fourth ^ nerves, with the orbital trunk of the fifth nerve. The cavity of the sinus is larger behind than before, and in it are shreds of fibrous tissue with small vessels. Through the contains space winds the trunk of the internal carotid artery sur- ^Jte^and rounded by the sympathetic, with the sixth nerve on the sixth nerve; outer side of the vessel ; but all these are shut out from the blood in the space by the thin lining membrane. The and is joined cavernous sinus receives the ophthalmic vein of the orbit, J^owiug^^^' some inferior cerebral veins, and twigs from the pterygoid sinuses, viz. veins outside the skull. It communicates with its fellow on the opposite side by the circular and transverse sinuses, and its blood is transmitted to the lateral sinus by the superior and inferior petrosal channels.