FEMOKAL ARTERY. 683 extent is less tlian that of the upper third of the thigh ; extent; but the length varies with the breadth of the sartorius, and the height at which this muscle crosses inwards. The base of the space is at Poupart's ligament; and the apex is at the boundaries. meeting of the sartorius with the adductor longus muscle. Bounding the hollow on the outer side are the conjoined psoas and iliacus for about two inches, and below these is the sartorius; on the inner side lie the pectineus and adductor longus muscles, and between and behind them near the femur is a small part of the adductor brevis. In this space are contained the femoral artery and vein, Contents, and the anterior crural nerve, with some of their branches ; together with a considerable quantity of fat and some lym- phatics. The femoral artery runs through the centre of the Femoral hollow, and supplies small cutaneous offsets, as well as a large ^^^seis, deep branch, the profunda : a small offset (external pudic) and their is directed from it to the pubes across the inner boundary. On the inner side of the artery is the vein which is here joined by the saphenous and profunda branches. From a quarter to half an inch external to the vessel is the large Anterior anterior crural nerve, which lies deeply at first between the ciural ' ^ . nerve. iliacus and psoas, but becomes afterwards more superficial and divides into branches. Femoral Artery.—This vessel is a continuation of the Femoral external iliac artery of the abdomen. It reaches from the '^^^^^y* lower border of Poupart's ligament to the margin of the extent: opening in the adductor magnus muscle, where it turns backwards into the ham, and takes the name popliteal. Occupying two thirds of the thigh, the course of the vessel course, will be indicated, during rotation outwards of the limb with the knee joint half bent, by a line drawn to the inner side of the internal condyle of the femur, from a point midway between the symphysis pubis and the front of the iliac crest. In the upper part of its course the artery lies rather internal to the head of the femur, and is comparatively superficial, Position to being uncovered by muscle ; but, in the lower part, it is ^ ^mur. placed along the inner side of the shaft of the femur, and is beneath the sartorius muscle. This diflerence in its con- Division nections allows of a division of the arterial trunk into two pans*.^^ parts;—viz., one in the upper, and one in the middle third of the thigh. The artery in the upper third of the thigh is contained The upper chiefly in Scarpa's triangular space, where it is enveloped by artery is the crural sheath for about two inches, and is covered onlv "mostly ' " superficial.