128 DISSECTION" OF THE NECK. Jies in neck and thorax^ Form. Cervical part is amongst muscles and vessels. CEsophagus occupies neck and thorax. Position in neck and connec- tions. Muscles and anterior triangle. Pterygo- and sub- maxillary regions to be omitted. the thorax, and ends by dividing into two tubes (bronchi), one for each lung. It occupies the middle line of the body, and extends commonly from the fifth cervical to the third dorsal vertebra, measuring about four inches and a half in length, and nearly one in breadth. The front of the trachea is rounded in consequence of the existence of firm carti- laginous bands in the anterior wall, but at the posterior aspect the cartilages are absent, and the tube is flat and muscular. Its cavity remains pervious in health under all conditions. The cervical part of the trachea is very moveable, and has the following relative position to the surrounding parts. Covering it in front are the small muscles reaching from the sternum to the hyoid bone, with the deep cervical fascia : beneath the muscles is the inferior thyroid plexus of veins ; and near the larynx is the isthmus of the thyroid body. Behind the tube is the oesophagus, with the recurrent nerves. On each side are the common carotid artery and the thyroid body. The structure of the trachea is described in Section VII. The CESOPHAGUS, or gullet, reaches from the pharynx to the stomach. It commences, like the trachea, opposite the fifth cervical vertebra, and ends opposite the tenth dorsal vertebra. In length it measures about nine inches. This tube reaches through part of the neck, and through the whole of the thorax, and occupies for the most part the middle line of the body. In the neck its position is behind the trachea, till near the thorax, where it projects to the left side beyond the air tube, and comes into connection with the thyroid body and the thoracic duct. Behind the oesophagus is the longus colli muscle. On each side is the common carotid artery, the proximity of the left being greatest because of the projection of the oesophagus towards the same side. The structure of the oesophagus will be examined in the dissection of the thorax. Birectioois.—The dissector may learn next the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, with the hypoglossal nerve ; and afterwards, the trunk of the external carotid, with the following branches,—superior thyroid, facial, occipital, pos- terior auricular, and superficial temporal. The description of the right side (p. 81) may be used for these parts. The dissector is not to examine the pterygo-maxillary or submaxillary regions on this (the left) side of the neck, because such a proceeding would interfere with the sub-