DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEK 596 and the vertebrte. Trace tlie lymphatics, and the receptacu- lum, splanchnic nerves. Lumbar lymphatics of the abdo- end in one duct. Lymphatics entering glands. Beginning of the tho- racic duct, at second lumbar vertebra. Large azy- gos vein; entrance into thorax. Small azy- gos vein. its attachment to the vertebras it has the same digitate and arched condition as the psoas. The fascia should be divided over the psoas on the left side, and reflected towards the brim of the pelvis. Dissection.—The student is now to clean the lymphatic glands that lie along the vertebree, and to trace upwards some lymphatic vessels to the thoracic duct. To show the origin of the duct the diaphragm is to be divided over the aorta, and its pillars are to be thrown to the sides ; then a piece may be cut out of the aorta opposite the first lumbar vertebra. The beginning of the duct (chyli receptaculum) and of the vena azygos may be well seen now ; and the two may be followed upwards into the thorax. On the left side the student may trace the splanchnic nerves and the small vena azygos through the pillar of the diaphragm, and show the trunk of the sympathetic nerve entering the abdomen beneath the arch over the psoas muscle. Lymphatic glands.—A chain of glands is placed along the side of the external iliac artery, and along the front and sides of the lumbar vertebrse ; they are connected by short tubes, which increase in size and diminish in number until at the upper part of the lumbar vertebrae only three or four trunks remain to form the thoracic duct. Into these glands the lymphatics of the lower limb, of the viscera and wall of the abdomen, and of the genital organs and testicle are received. Receptaculum chyli.—The thoracic duct begins in the abdomen, by the union of three or four large lymphatic vessels. Its commencement is marked by a considerable dilatation, which is named receptaculum chyli, and is placed on the right side of the aorta, about opposite the second lumbar vertebra. The duct enters the thorax by passing through the diaphragm with the aorta. Beginning of the azygos veins. —The right vein (vena azygos major) begins opposite the first or second lumbar vertebra by a small branch, which is continuous with a lumbar vein, or joins the vena cava or the renal vein. However formed, the vein enters the thorax with the thoracic duct and the aorta, to the right of which it lies ; but it may pierce the crus of the diaphragm as it leaves the abdomen. The left or small azygos vein begins on the left side of the spine, joining one of the lumbar veins or the renal vein, and passes through the pillar of the diaphragm, or through the aortic opening. The anatomy of these veins is given in the description of the thorax, p. 396.