POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. 733 muscle. By one surface it gives origin to tJie flexors of the an aponeu- toes, and by the other to the tibialis. The POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY is One of the branches Posterior resulting from the bifurcation of the popliteal trunk. The artery, artery extends from the lower border of the popliteus muscle Extent, to the lower part of the internal annular ligament, where it ends in two plantar branches for the sole of the foot. At its origin the artery lies midway between the tibia and fibula, Course, but as it approaches the lower part of the leg it gradually inclines inwards ; and at its termination it is placed below the tibia, in the centre of the hollow between the heel and the inner ankle. As far as the middle of the leg (in length) the vessel is Parts cover- concealed by two muscles of the calf, viz. gastrocnemius pg^- and and soleus; but below that spot, as it lies between the tendo ^^^^^ iiaif. Achillis and the inner edge of the tibia, it is covered only by the integuments and the deep fascia. At its termination it is beneath the annular ligament. For the greatest part -^^^^'^^ of its extent the arterial trunk lies over the tibialis posticus, but afterwards on the flexor digitorum, and on the lower end of the tibia and the ankle joint. Vense comites closely surround the vessel. ' The posterior Veins, tibial nerve is at first internal to the artery ; but at the Nerve, distance of one inch and a half it crosses to the outer side, and retains that position throughout. This artery supplies branches to the muscles and the tibia. Branches, and a large peroneal trunk to the outer side of the leg. 1. Muscular branches enter the deep layer of muscles and Muscular, the soleus ; an oflset from a branch to the latter muscle pierces the attachment to the tibia, and ascends to the knee joint. 2. A nutritious artery of the shaft of the tibia is uncertain ^"^^^^^^^^^^^ in its place of origin : piercing the tibialis, it enters the canal on the posterior surface of the bone, and ramifies in the interior. 3. A communicating branch to the peroneal arises opposite Communi- the lower end of the tibia, and passes outwards beneath the flexor pollicis, to unite in an arch with a corresponding oflset of the peroneal artery. The PERONEAL ARTERY is ofteu as large as the posterior Peroneal tibial, and arises from that vessel about one inch and a half from the beginning. It takes the fibula as its guide, and lying close to the bone in the fibres of the flexor pollicis, is contained reaches the lower part of the interosseous membrane. At poiifcij^^ this spot it sends forwards a branch to the front of the leg