47 THE OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. the orbit, where it ends in the upper eyelid, the conjunctiva, and the side of the nose. Before this branch leaves the orbit it receives an offset of communication from the supra- trochlear nerve. In the 7iose. Whilst in the nasal cavity the nerve fur- ^^^^^^^g^® nishes branches to the lining membrane of both the septum narium and the outer wall ; these will be subsequently referred to with the nose. Termination of the nasal nerve.—After the nerve becomes cutaneous on the side of the nose, it descends beneath the compressor naris muscle, and ends in the integuments of the wing and tip of the nose. The OPHTHALMIC Or LENTICULAR GANGLION is a Small Lenticular roundish body, of the size of a pin's head, and of a reddish g'^"^^^^^- colour. It is placed at the back of the orbit between the Situation, optic nerve and the external rectus, and commonly on the outer side of the ophthalmic artery. By its posterior part Connections, the ganglion has branches of communication with other nerves (its roots) ; and from the anterior part proceed the ciliary nerves to the eyeball. In the ganglion, sensory, motory, and sympathetic filaments are combined. The offsets of communication are three in number. One, Three roots: the long root, is the branch of the nasal nerve before noticed, which joins the superior angle. A second branch of con- siderable thickness (short root) passes from the inferior angle short, to join the branch of the third nerve that supplies the inferior oblique muscle. And the third root is derived from and sym- the sympathetic (the cavernous plexus), either as a distinct P^^^®^^*^- branch to the posterior border of the ganglion or in union with the long root. Branches.—The short ciliary nerves are ten or twelve in Ciliary number, and are collected into two bundles, which leave the eyeball!^ upper and lower parts (superior and inferior angles) of the ganglion. In the upper bundle are four or five, and in the lower, six or seven nerves. As they extend along the optic nerve to the eyeball they occupy the outer and under parts, and communicate with the long ciliary branches of the nasal nerve. The OPHTHALMIC ARTERY is a branch of the internal caro- Ophthalmic tid, and enters the orbit through the optic foramen. At first the vessel is outside the nerve, but it then courses inwards, over or under the nerve, to the inner angle of the in the orbit, orbit, where it ends in terminal branches. The branches of the artery are numerous, though incon- Branches, siderable in size, and may be arranged in three sets :—one