CAVITY OF THE EIGHT AURICLE. 365 in which the current of the blood passes through them, viz., l^^^^^ first right auricle and ventricle, and afterwards left auricle and ventricle. Dissection.—In the examination of its cavities the heart Dissection is not to be removed from the body. To open the right ^^gj.?^^ auricle, an incision may be made in it near the free border, auricle, and from the superior cava nearly to the inferior cava ; from . the centre of that incision the knife is to be carried across the anterior wall to the auricula. By means of these cuts an opening will be made of sufiicient size ; and on raising the flaps with hooks or pieces of thread, and removing the coagulated blood, the cavity may be learnt. The CAVITY OF THE RIGHT AURICLE is of an irregular form,* Form of though when seen from the right side, with the flaps held up auride as above directed, it has somewhat the appearance of a cone, with the base to the right and the apex below and to the left. The hase or wider part of the cavity is turned towards the its base ; right side, and at its extremities are the openings of the supe- rior and inferior cavse. Between those vessels the wall of the cavity projects a little, and presents a slight elevation in some bodies (tubercle of Lower). The apex is prolonged apex, downwards towards the junction of the auricle with the ventricle, and in it is the large opening into the right ven- tricular cavity. The anterior wall is thin and loose. Kear its upper part Anterior is an opening leading into the pouch of the appendix or ^^is^^®" auricula, which will admit the tip of the little finger, auricula. Around and in the interior of the appendix, are fleshy bands, named muscuH pectinati, which cross mostly in a transverse direction, and form a network that contrasts with the general smoothness of the auricle. The posterior wall corresponds for the most part with the Posterior septum between the auricles, in consequence of the position marked by of the heart. On it, nearer the inferior than the superior ^^ssa ovali^. cava, is a large oval depression, the fossa ovalis, which is the remains of an opening between the auricles in the fetus. Inferiorly the fossa merges into the opening of the lower cava. A thin semitransparent structure forms the bottom of the fossa, and there is oftentimes a small oblique aperture at its upper part. Around the upper three fourths of that hollow is an elevated band of muscular fibre, called annulus * Sometimes the term cavity of the auricle is applied only to the appendix, and the term sinus venosus to the rest of the space here named auricle.