624 BISSECTIOISr OF THE PELVIS. Some small In the pelvic part of its course the artery gives some unim- offsets. portant branches, and frequently the middle haemorrhoidal branch arises from it. nal iliac. An acces- PemUarUies.—Tlie pudic artery is sometimes smaller than usual, sory brancli and fails to supply some of its ordinary perinseal branches, espe- from inter- ^ially the terminal for the penis. In those cases the deficient branches are derived from an artery, accessory pudic (Quain), which takes origin mostly from the trunk of the pudic inside the pelvis, and courses forwards on the side of the bladder and the upper part of the prostate gland, to leave the pelvis below the pubic arch. It furnishes branches to supply the place of those that are wanting. Branclies in the female. Uterine artery supplies uterus. Offsets to vagina, and the broad liga- ment. Vaginal artery. Branches of the aorta. Ovarian arterj^ The branches of the internal iliac artery that are peculiar to the female are two, the uterine and vaginal. 6. The uteri7te artery passes inw^ards between the layers of the broad ligament to the neck of the uterus. At that part the vessel changes its direction, and ascends along the side of the uterus to the fundus, where it anastomoses with the ovarian artery (spermatic) of the aorta. -Numerous branches enter the substance of the uterus,, ramifying in it, and anastomose with those of the opposite side. This artery and its branches are remarkable for their tortuous condition. a. At the neck of the uterus some small twigs are sup- plied to the vagina and the bladder ; and the special vaginal artery may arise from it at that spot. h, Brmiches in the broad ligament.—One branch accom- panies the round ligament into the inguinal canal, and anastomoses with a branch of the epigastric. Another ex- tends on the Fallopian tube, and divides into long branches that reach the end. And a third offset, according to J. Weber, is distributed to the ovary. 7. The vaginal artery seldom arises separately from the internal iliac : combined with the preceding, or with the branch to the rectum, this artery extends to the vagina, and ramifies in its wall as low as the outer orifice. Other arteries in the pelvis.—The remaining arteries in the pelvis, which are not derived from the internal iliac, are the ovarian, superior hsemorrhoidal, and middle sacral. The ovarian artery has been described in part wibh the branches of the aorta, and has been traced to the pelvis (p. 588). After passing the brim of the pelvis it becomes tortuous, and enters the broad ligament to be distributed to the ovary: in the ligament there is a free anastomosis between the ovarian and uterine arteries.