FASCIA OF THE AEM-PIT. 257 which is formed internally by the clavicle, and externally by the spine and the acromion process of the scapula. Con- tinued downwards from about the middle of the clavicle, intermus- between the pectoral and deltoid muscles, is a slight depres- pressious. sion, in which the coracoid process can be felt near that bone. A second groove is sometimes seen extending outwards from the sternal end of the clavicle ; this corresponds with the interval between the clavicular and sternal origins of the great pectoral muscle. Along the front of the arm is the prominence of the biceps Arm: its muscle ; and on each side of the muscle is a groove, which and^roovcs. subsides inferiorly in a depression in front of the elbow joint. The inner of the two grooves is the most marked, and indicates the position of the brachial vessels. If the elbow joint be semiflexed the prominences of the Promi- outer and inner condyles of the humerus will be rendered ^^e^ces of . . boue around evident, especially that on the inner side of the limb. Below the elbow the outer condyle, and separated from it by a slight interval, is the projection of the head of the radius, which may be recognised by rotating this bone, the fingers at the same time being placed over it. At the back of the articulation is the prominence of the olecranon. Dissection.—The dissection is to be commenced by raising Dissection the skin from the side of the chest and the arm-pit, so as to raise the to lay bare the great pectoral muscle and the hollow of the axilla beneath it. These parts may be denuded by means of the following incisions :—One is to be made along the middle of the sternum (the whole length). Another is to be continued along the clavicle for the inner two-thirds of that bone; thence down the front of the arm rather beyond the anterior fold of the arm-pit ; and lastly it is to be turned across the inner surface of the arm as far as the hinder fold of the axilla. From the xiphoid cartilage another in- cision is to be directed outwards over the side of the chest, as far back as to a level with the posterior fold of the arm-pit. The flap of skin now marked out should be reflected out- wards, but it should be left attached to the body, in order that it may be used afterwards for the preservation of the part. The subcutaneous fascia of the thorax resembles the same p^g^ig^ structure in other parts of the body ; but in this region the superficial superficial layer does not contain much fat. Beneath the subcutaneous layer is a deeper and stronger and deep : special fascia which closely invests the muscles, and is con- tinuous with the deep fascia of the arm. It is thin on the