352 DISSECTIOISr OF THE THORAX. On a cross section. Parts bounding it on sides, in front, behind. The base, its level, formed by- diaphragm. Its surface and height. Its side level. reaches into neck. is bifid. How bounded. above and tlie base downwards ; and it appears, from the collapsed state of the lungs, to be only partly filled by the contained viscera, but during life the whole of the now vacant space is occupied by the expanded lungs. On a hori- zontal section its shape would appear somewhat cordiform ; for the cavity is flattened on the sides, is diminished in the middle line by the prominent spinal column, and is projected backwards on each side of the spine. Boundaries.—The enclosing parts consist of the bones of the trunk, with certain accessory muscles both laterally and above and below, as in the following enumeration. On the sides the ribs with their intercostal muscles form the wall ; whilst in front is the sternum ; and behind is the spine with the muscles contiguous to it. The base is constructed at the circumference by the last dorsal vertebra behind, by the end of the sternum before, and by the ribs on the side ; whilst the space included by the bones is closed by the diaphragm muscle. The base is wider transversely than from front to back, and is on the whole convex towards the chest ; though a closer inspection will show an undulating surface, and a different level at different points. Thus in the centre it is lower than at the sides, and is on a level with the xiphoid cartilage. On the right side it rises to a level with the upper border of the fifth rib near the sternum ; and on the left, only to the corresponding part of the upper border of the sixth rib,"^ From these lateral projections, the diaphragm slopes suddenly towards its attachment to the ribs, but "more behind than before, so as to leave a narrow interval between it and the wall of the chest. The level of this attached part will be marked by an oblique line over the side of the chest from the xiphoid cartilage to the eleventh rib ; but it differs slightly on the two sides, being rather lower on the left. The apex of the space is continued higher than the osseous part of the wall, and reaches into the root of the neck. And the highest point is not in the centre, for there the windpipe, bloodvessels, &c. lie ; but is prolonged on each side for an inch or an inch and a half above the first rib, so that the apex may be said to be bifid. Each point projects between the scaleni muscles, and touches the subclavian bloodvessels. * This is the height in the dead body. The level to which it may reach in great respiratory efforts during life will be stated with the account of the Diaphragm.