704 DISSECTIOIT OF THE THIGH. Section II. Position of the body. Directions. Take up the skin. Cutaneous nerves above. Other nerves of small sciatic below. Sources of the cuta- neous nerves. THE BUTTOCK, OR THE GLUTEAL REGION. Fosition.—During the dissection of the back of the thigh the body is placed with the face down; and the pelvis is to be raised by blocks until the lower limbs hang almost vertically over the end of the dissecting table. Directions.—Both this Section and the following one are to be gone through in the time appointed for the body to lie in its present position. When the body is turned, the student can better recognise the points of bone marking posteriorly the limit between the thigh and the abdomen (p. 668). Dissection.—The integument is to be raised from the but- tock by means of the following incisions:—One is to be made along the iliac crest of the hip bone, and is to be con- tinued in the middle line of the sacrum to the tip of the coccyx. Another is to be begun where the first terminates, and is to be carried outwards and downwards across the thigh till it is about six inches below the great trochanter. The flap of skin thus marked out above and below is to be thrown down. Some of the cutaneous nerves of this region will be found in the fat or beneath it along the line of the iliac crest. Beginning in front, the student will meet first with branches of the external cutaneous rather below the crest, if these have not been cut before. Crossing the crest near the front, is an offset of the last dorsal nerve, and farther back another from the ilio-hypogastric nerve ; whilst in a line with the outer border of the erector spinpe in the back are two or three branches of the lumbar nerves. By the side of the sacrum and coccyx are two or three offsets of the sacral nerves. The remaining cutaneous nerves are derived from the small sciatic, and must be sought beneath the fat along the line of the lower incision, where they come from underneath the gluteus maximus. A few turn upwards over that muscle, and the rest are directed down to the thigh. Cutaneous Nerves.—The nerves distributed in the in- teguments of the buttock are small but numerous, and are derived from the spinal nerves (posterior primary branches), from the branches of the lumbar and sacral plexuses, and from the last dorsal nerve.