DISSECTIOIT OF THE ABDOMEK 558 onwards to the head, of the gland, it receives many branches, and it finally ends by opening into the duodenum, either in union with, or separate from the common bile duct (p. 539). Of the tributary branches the largest is derived from the head of the pancreas. The duct measures from •j5-th to —^^th of an inch in dia- meter near the duodenum. It is formed of a fibrous and a mucous coat : the latter is lined by a cylindrical epithelium^ and is provided with small branched glands in the duct and its largest branches. Occasionally there are two pancreatic ducts. Or the branch from the head of the pancreas may open separately into the duodenum, one inch or more from the chief duct. Vessels, lymphatics and nerves.—The arteries and veins have been described already ; and the lymphatics join the lumbar glands. The nerves are furnished by the solar plexus. THE SPLEEN. Consistence ^he spleeu IS a vascular spongy organ of a bluish or purple ^i^d^colour colour, sometimes approaching to gray. It has but slight spleen. Consistence, so that the texture is friable and easily broken Use. under pressure. The use of the spleen is unknown. Form and The viscus is somewhat elliptical in shape, and is placed position. vertically against the great end of the stomach, as before described (p. 518). Surfaces. -^"^ the Outer aspect it is convex towards the ribs. The inner surface is marked by a longitudinal ridge nearer the posterior than the anterior border, into which the vessels plunge to ramify in the interior. Before and behind the ridge, the surface is flattened or somewhat hollowed. The spot where the vessels enter is named the hilus of the spleen. Borders, The anterior border is thinner than the posterior, and is Ue?^^°^^" ^^^^^ notched. Of the two extremities, the lower is more pointed than the upper. Size The size of the spleen varies much. In the adult it mea- sures commonly about five inches in length, three or four inches in breadth, and one or one inch and a half in thick- and weight, ness. Its weight lies between four and ten ounces, and is rather less in the female than in the male. Sometimes Small masses or accessory spleens (splenculi) are found ^pleens^^ occasionally near the fissure of the spleen in the gastro- splenic omentum, or in the great omentum. "Varying in size from a bean to a moderate sized plum, these bodies are commonly one or two in number ; but they branches; termina- tion. Size and structure. Epithelium and glands. Peculiari- ties : Vessels and nerves.