65 ANTERIOE TRIANGULAR SPACE. The carotid blood-vessels, 6 and 7, occupy the hinder and Carotid ar- deeper part of the space along the side of the sterno-mastoid space!^ muscle, and their course would be marked on the surface by Course, a line from the sterno-clavicular articulation to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. As high as the level of the cricoid cartilage, the Coverings vessels are covered by the depressor muscles of the os hyoides ; but beyond that spot they are concealed by the common coverings of the space, and by the sterno-mastoid muscle which, before the parts are displaced, overhangs or conceals the vessels—in some bodies to a level with the hyoid bone, and in others as far as the parotid gland. For a short distance after its exit from beneath the mus- Bifurcation, cles at the root of the neck, the common carotid artery remains a single trunk, 6, but opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage it divides into two large vessels, external and internal carotid. From the place of division these trunks are continued onwards, beneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, to the interval between the jaw and the mastoid process. At first the trunks lie side by side, the Position of vessel destined for the internal parts of the head being the to one more posterior of the two, but above the digastric muscle another, one becomes superficial to the other. The more superficial artery (external carotid) furnishes many branches to the Branches, neck and the outer part of the head, viz. some forwards to the larynx, tongue, and face; others backwards to the occiput and ear; and others upwards to the head. The deeper trunk (internal carotid) ascends to the head with- out branching, and is distributed in the interior of the skull. But the common carotid does not always divide, as here changes in said, for it sometimes ascends as an undivided trunk (though ^^vj^o^Qf'^ very rarely), furnishing oftsets to the neck and head. Or carotid, the point of branching of the vessel may be moved from the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, either upwards or downwards, so that the trunk of the carotid may remain undivided till it is beyond the os hyoides, or end in branches opposite the cricoid cartilage. The division beyond the usual place is more frequent than the branching short of that spot. In close contact with the outer side of both the common Jugular trunk and the internal carotid artery, is the large internal ^^^^ jugular vein, which receives branches in the neck cor- responding with some of the branches of the superficial artery ; but in some bodies the vein covers the artery, and F