612 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Neck. Position in pelvis varies with age. Ureter in pelvis, and en- trance into bladder. Position of the pros- tate ; form ; Upper sur- face : under sur- face. Apex and It is con- tained in a sheath: size may in- crease. the bladder behind the hypogastric vessel is covered by peritoneum, but the rest is uncovered. The neck (cervix) is the narrow anterior part of the bladder that joins the urethra. It is surrounded by the prostate gland. The position of the bladder in the pelvis is not the same in adult as in early life. For in the child this viscus rises above the brim of the pelvis into the hypogastric region of the abdomen, and the cervix is the lowest part. But in the adult the bladder is contained within the space enclosed by the larger pelvic bones, and the base or fundus projects inferiorly. The ureter enters the posterior ligament of the bladder, after crossing the common or the external iliac artery, and forms an arch below the level of the obliterated hypogastric vessel; it reaches forwards to enter the bladder near the lower part, and somewhat on the side, at the distance of about two inches from the prostate gland. The PROSTATE GLAND (fig. 92, p) surrounds the neck of the bladder. • It is placed below the level of the symphysis pubis, as well as posterior to it, and is supported by the rectum. Its shape is conical with the base turned back- wards, and its size equals nearly that of a large horse chesnut. In the present position of the pelvis, a line from the apex through the middle of the gland would be directed obliquely backwards, though, in the erect state of the body, it would have an opposite direction. The upper surface is about three quarters of an inch below the symphysis pubis, and is connected to it by the anterior ligaments of the bladder. On this surface are branches of the dorsal vein of the penis. The under surface has the greatest extent, and is con- tiguous to the rectum ; this is the part that is felt by the finger introduced into the bowel through the anus. The apex touches the fascia of the pelvis that closes the upper part of the subpubic arch ; and the base sur- rounds the vesiculse seminales with the vasa deferentia, and limits anteriorly with them the triangular space at the base of the bladder. The prostate is enveloped by a sheath obtained from the recto-vesical fascia (p. 606), and a plexus of veins (prostatic) surrounds it. Through the middle of the gland the urethra takes its course to the penis. The size of the prostate alters much with increasing age, and in old people it may acquire a considerable magnitude.