644 DISSECTIOIT OF THE PELVIS. its structure like caver- nous. The fibrous Imperfect septum. Bloodves- Helicine arteries. Source of arteries. Termination of the veins. Nerves. Lym- phatics. Structure.—The tissue of tlie corpus spongiosum is similar to that of the corpus cavernosum : thus it consists of a fibrous tunic enclosing a trabecular structure and bloodvessels. The fibrous covering is less dense and strong than in the corpora cavernosa, and consists only of circular fibres. A piece projects inwards from it in the middle line, opposite the tube of the urethra: this is best marked for a short dis- tance in front of the bulb ; and it assists in dividing the bulb into two lobes. The trabecular bands are much finer, and more uniform in size than in the corpora cavernosa. Bloodvessels.—The arrangement of the bloodvessels in the erectile structure of the corpus spongiosum is similar to that in the corpora cavernosa ; but the helicine terminations of the arteries are absent from the glans penis, where the veins form a very close and regular plexus. The arteries are derived from the pudic on each side:— they are, artery of the bulb and offsets of the dorsal artery; and they enter the spongy structure—the first behind, and the latter in front at the glans where they most abound. Kobelt describes another branch to the bulb at the upper aspect. Most of the veins^ including those of the glans, end in the large dorsal vein of the penis, and some communicate with veins of the cavernous body: others issue from the bulb, and terminate in the pudic vein and the prostatic plexus. Nerves and lymphatics.—The nerves of the penis are large and are supplied by both the spinal and sympathetic nerves. On the bulb of the urethra and the glans penis, they are furnished with Pacinian bodies (Fick). The superficial lym- phatics join the inguinal glands ; the deep accompany the veins beneath the arch of the pubes, to end in the lymphatic glands in the pelvis. Rectum is The lower end of the large intestine, which is contained smooth. pelvis, is not sacculated like the colon, but is smooth on the surface. To prepare Dissection.—'The rectum is to be washed out, and then the gut. distended with air; and the peritoneum and the loose fat are to be removed from it. Length; '^^^ rectum is about eight inches in length, and its average diameter is that of the sigmoid flexure of the colon. Its size dimensions, is uniform till towards the lower extremity, where it is dilated, particularly in old people; but at the aperture of