MUSCLES OF THE PALATE. 137 temporal bone. Inferiorly the fleshy fibres end in a tendon, turns which is reflected round the hamular process, and is inserted ^^^Jnukr into about half an inch of the posterior border of the palate, process, viz. from the central spine to a projecting point ; whilst inferiorly the tendon joins the aponeurosis of the velum. As the tendon winds round the bone, it is thrown into folds ; and ends in and in the soft palate it lies beneath the levator muscle, aponeurosis; The Eustachian tube is directed inwards between this muscle and the preceding. Between the tendon and the hamular other, process is a small bursa. The PALATO-GLOssus MUSCLE (constrictor isthmi faucium) Paiato-glos- is a small, fleshy band of fibres, which is contained in the anterior arch of the soft palate, and reaches to the side of the tongue. The muscles of opposite sides narrow the open- ing between the mouth and fauces, hence the name that has been applied to them. It is connected inferiorly with the Attach- ments lateral surface and the dorsum of the tongue ; from this spot the fibres ascend before the tonsil, to the anterior aspect of the soft palate, where they form a thin muscular stratum, and join those of the fellow muscle along the middle line. At its origin the muscle is blended with the glossal muscles, and at its insertion it is placed before the tensor palati. The PALATO-PHAHYNGEUS is much larger in size than the Palato-pha- preceding muscle ; it gives rise to the eminence of the pos- pTiifr of'soft terior pillar of the soft palate, and bounds the tonsil pos- P^^^*®- teriorly. The muscle is attached below to the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage ; and some fibres blend with the contiguous portion of the pharynx, whilst others decus- sate across the middle line with corresponding fibres of the muscle of the opposite side (Merkel)."^' Ascending thence behind the tonsil, the fibres enter the side of the palate, and Attacii- ments separate mto two fleshy strata. The posterior of the two, thin and in contact with the mucous membrane, joins at the middle line a like offset of its fellow. The deeper or anterior stratum, much the strongest, enters the substance of the palate between the levator and tensor, and joins also, at the middle 'line, the corresponding part of the opposite muscle. In the palate the muscle encloses the levator palati and azygos uvulse between its two strata. The AZYGOS uvuL^ is situate along the middle line of the Azygos * Dr. Merkel, in the elaborate work before referred to, states that this muscle has no firm fixed attachment below, and that it ends alto- gether in the wall of the pharynx, decussating with the muscle of the opposite side. This assertion does not accord with my experience.