DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 698 Adductor brevis : and obtura- tor nerve. Articular nerve to knee joint. Accessory obturator is often ab- sent. Adductor brevis is thin at the origin and wide at the inser- tion. Parts in front, behind, and at upper border. Obturator nerve obturator nerve beneath : its tendon is to be detached also from that of the adductor magnus beneath it, to see the branches of the profunda artery. Now the adductor brevis will be laid bare. A part of the obturator nerve crosses over this muscle to enter the plexus at the inner side of the thigh, and a deeper part of the same nerve lies beneath it. The muscle should be separated from the subjacent adductor magnus, where the lower branch of the nerve and an artery issue. In this last step of the dissection the student should seek a small articular branch of the obturator nerve, which descends on and in the fibres of the adductor magnus to the knee joint. The accessory obturator nervc^ (Schmidt) is derived from the trunk of the obturator near the lumbar plexus (p. 600), and passes from the abdomen over the brim of the pelvis. In the thigh (fig. 91, ^) this branch turns beneath the pectineus and joins the superficial part of the obturator nerve; it supplies an ofiset to the hip joint with the articular artery, and occasionally one to the under surface of the pectineus. When the nerve is small, one or more of these offsets are wanting. The ADDUCTOK, BREVIS has a thin fleshy and aponeurotic attachment about two inches in depth to the front of the hip bone with the gracilis. The muscle arises from the pubic border of the bone close to and outside the gracilis ; but it reaches upwards rather higher than the muscle with which it is conjoined, viz., as high as the adductor longus, and not quite so low as the gracilis. It is inserted behind the pectineus into the whole of the line leading from the linea aspera towards the small trochanter. In front of the muscle are the pectineus and the adductor longus, vrith the suiDerficial piece of the obturator nerve, and the profunda artery. It is gradually uncovered by the adductor longus below, and the contiguous borders of the two are side by side at their insertion into the femur. Behind the muscle is the adductor magnus, with the deep piece of the obturator nerve. In contact with the upper border is the obturator externus, and the internal circumflex artery passes between the two. The OBTURATOR NERVE is a branch of the lumbar plexus This small nerve is often absent ; it was found only four or five times in nine or ten bodies which were examined by its discoverer. The name given to it by Schmidt refers to this irregularity, viz., nerv. ad obturatorem accessorius inconstans. —Commentarius de Nervis Lum- balibus.