182 DISSECTIOIT OF THE KECK. tlie otlier to the posterior tubercles on the tips of the con- joined transverse processes (diapophyses and parapophyses). Between the muscles, except in the first two spaces, is the anterior primary branch of a cervical nerve; and beneath the posterior muscle is the other primary branch of the same nerve. In the upper intertransverse space the posterior muscle is often wanting ; and, in the lowest space, the muscle of the anterior set is smaller than the others, or it may be absent. Cervical nerves at their exit from the spinal canal.—The trunks of the cervical nerves issue from the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramina, with two exceptions, and bifurcate into an interior and a posterior branch. The anterior primary branch passes outwards between the intertransverse muscles, and joins in plexuses in the neck (p. 76). The posterior primary branch turns to the back beneath the posterior intertransverse muscle, and the other muscles attached to the posterior transverse processes (diapophyses) ; it lies close to the bone between the articular processes of the vertebra. Feculiarities in the first tivo.—The first two nerves leave the spinal canal above the neural arches of the first two ver- tehisd, and divide at the back of the neck into anterior and posterior branches. The anterior primary branch of the first or suboccipital anterior and ^^^^^ -^^^ ^^^^ examined (p. 120). The anterior branch of the second nerve, after perforating the membrane between the neural arches of the first and second vertebrae, is directed forwards outside the vertebral artery, and beneath the inter- transverse muscle of the first space, to join the cervical plexus. The posterior primary branches of the first two nerves are described in the dissection of the back. Vertebral The vertebral artery has been seen at its origin in the the foramina ^^^^ (P* ' termination will be described with of cervical the vessels of the brain. Entering the foramen between the transverse processes of the sixth cervical vertebra (usually), the artery ascends vertically through the corresponding fora- mina of the other vertebrse ; and having passed through the aperture of the atlas, the vessel turns backwards on the neural arch of that bone, and enters the skull through the foramen magnum, after passing beneath the ligament joining Position to the atlas and the occipital bone. In its course through the the nerves, foramina, the artery lies in front of the anterior trunks of Peculiari- ties. Cervical mma give anterior and pos- terior branches First two nerves differ in both posterior branches,