DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 630 to the vagina; and to the uterus: no ganglia, except on vessels. Chain of glands in pelvis; lymphatics entering them. Vaginal plexus.—The nerves to the vagina are of large size, and are not plexiform, but consist in greater part of spinal nerve fibres; they end in the lower part of the tube. The uterine nerves are furnished to the uterus without direct admixture with the spinal nerves. The nerves ascend along the side of the uterus, and are, for the most part, long slender filaments, without ganglia or communications as far as their termination in the substance of the viscus. The Fallopian tube receives its branches from the uterine nerves. Some few nerves surrounding the arteries of the uterus are plexiform and ganglionic.—Beck. The lymphatic glands of the pelvis form a chain in front of the sacrum, and along the internal iliac artery. The eiferent ducts of these bodies join the lumbar glands. Into these glands the deep lymphatics of the penis, those of the genital organs in the female, and the lymphatics of the viscera and wall of the pelvis are collected. Section V. ANATOMY OF THE VISCERA OF THE MALE PELVIS. Directions.—The bladder and the parts at its base, viz.,, the vesiculse seminales and the prostate gland, are to be taken first for examination.* , Take out the Dissection,—To study the form and structure of the | viscera. viscera, it will be necessary to remove them from the cavity of the pelvis. For this purpose the student should carry I the scalpel around the pelvic outlet, close to the osseous « boundary, so as to detach the crus of the penis from the i ^ bone, and to divide the parts connected with the end of the rectum. Clean the When the viscera are removed, the rectum is to be sepa- pro^Ste^^^^ rated from the other organs ; but the bladder, the penis, and the urethra are to remain united. After the bladder has been distended with air, the peritoneum and the areolar j tissue are to be dissected from the muscular fibres. The prostate gland and the vesiculse seminales are to be then * The anatomy of the viscera of the female pelvis is described in Section VL p. 646.