306 DISSECTION OF THE FROI^T OF THE FOREARM. •whicli sup- ply tlie fingers. Termina- tion. Branch of ulnar nerve to back of hand and fingers. Deep fascia of the fore- arm. In front. On the back of the limb. Intermus- cular pieces At the wrist: annular ligameat. Take away fascia, nerves, and veins. ring finger ; so that the radial nerve distributes the same number of digital branches to the dorsum as the median nerve furnishes to the palm of the hand. This division of the radial nerve communicates with the musculo-cutaneous and ulnar nerves ; and the offset to the contiguous sides of the ring and middle fingers is joined by a twig from the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. On the sides of the fingers each of these dorsal digital nerves is united with an ofiset from the digital nerve on the palmar surface, and extends to the tip of the digit. The dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve (Fig. 42, ^) furnishes ofi'sets to the rest of the fingers and the back of the hand. ApxDearing by the styloid process of the ulna, it joins in an arch across the back of the hand with the radial nerve, and is distributed to both sides of the little finger, and to the ulnar side of the ring finger : moreover it communicates with the part of the radial nerve that supplies the space between the ring and middle fingers. The ulnar nerve supplies branches to the same number of digits on the palmar surface. The aponeurosis of the forearm is continuous with a similar investment of the arm. It is of a pearly white colour, and is formed of fibres that cross obliquely : it furnishes also the muscles with sheaths, and is thicker behind than before. iN'ear the elbow it is stronger than towards the hand ; and at that j)art it receives fibres from the tendon of the biceps and the brachialis anticus, and gives origin to the muscles attached to the inner condyle of the humerus. On the back of the limb the aponeurosis is connected to the margins of the ulna, so as to leave the upper part of the bone sub- cutaneous ; and it receives some fibres from the tendon of the triceps. Horizontal processes are sent downwards from the aponeurosis to separate the superficial and deep layers of muscles, both on the front and back of the forearm ; and longitudinal white bands indicate the position of the dif- ferent intermuscular processes, which isolate one muscle from another, and give origin to the muscular fibres. At the wrist the fascia joins the anterior annular liga- ment ; and near this band the tendon of the palmaris longus pierces the fascia, and receives a sheath from it. Behind the wrist it is thickened by transverse fibres, and gives rise to the posterior annular ligament ; but on the back of the hand and fingers the fascia becomes very thin. Dissection,—The skin is to be replaced on the back of the forearm and hand, in the same manner as on the back of the