CAEDIAC PLEXUS. tlietic and pneumo-gastric nerves of the right side are united, will be seen in front of the trachea, above the right branch of the pulmonary artery. The offsets to the heart should be followed downwards on the trunk of the pulmonary artery ; and those to the lung should be traced along the right branch of that artery. To lay bare the part of the plexus into which the cervical To expose branches of the sympathetic and vagus nerves of the left pa?t.^^^ side of the body enter, the arch may be cut through a second time, to the left of the junction of the ligamentum arteriosum with it ; and that ligament is to be divided, so as to allow the transverse part of the arch to be turned upwards with the great vessels attached to it. The lymphatic glands and the areolar and fatty tissue are to be cleared away from the nerves, as on the opposite side ; and the nerves are to be followed downwards to the heart, chiefly to the posterior coronary plexus. In the deep cardiac plexus are united the several cardiac Nerves nerves derived from the ganglia of the sympathetic of both deep" ar(^.ac sides of the neck, except the highest nerve of the left side : plexus, and in it are collected also all the cardiac branches of the vagus nerves in both the neck and chest, with the exception of the lowest cervical cardiac branch of the left side. This its situa- large centre is situate between the trachea and the arch of the aorta, above the branches of the pulmonary artery ; and from it nerves are furnished to the heart and the lungs. The several nerves entering the plexus are not intermingled j.^^^^'^^®^^ in a ganglionic mass in front of the trachea ; but those of lighf and' the right side unite together on the corresponding part of the air tube, and those of the left half of the neck have a like disposition on their side. a. The right part of the plexus is above the right branch Right part of the pulmonary artery, and receives the nerves of the right side, viz. the cardiac nerves of the sympathetic in the neck ; the cardiac branches of the trunk of the vagus, both in the neck and chest; and the cardiac offsets of its recurrent branch. The branches of this half of the plexus are distributed mostly Branches to the right side of the heart. From its lower end cardiac butifd^oW nerves pass downwards before and behind the right branch heart of the pulmonary artery. Those in front of the vessel run ^7 the ante- on the trunk of the pulmonary artery to the heart, and end nary plexus, in the anterior coronary plexus (p. 364). The other nerves, those behind the branch of the pulmonary artery, supply the right auricle of the heart. Offsets are also sent laterally on A few go to the branch of the artery to the root of the lung. c c 2