MASSETER MUSCLE. 87 tlie artery ; and finally it ends by uniting with the internal maxillary vein. JDirections.—The lower part of the neck will not be returned to again for some days, so that the dissector may stitch together the flaps of skin, when he has applied a fluid to preserve it. Section VI. PTERYGO-MAXILLAEY REGION. In this region are included the muscles superficial to and Contents of beneath the ramus of the lower jaw, together with the region, articulation of that bone. In contact with the muscles (pterygoid) beneath the ramus of the jaw, are the internal maxillary blood-vessels, and the inferior maxillary trunk of the fifth nerve. Dissection.—The masseter muscle, which is superficial to Dissection, the jaw, comes first from without inwards. To see it the branches of the facial nerve and the transverse facial artery should be cut through, and turned backwards ofi" the face. A little cleaning will suffice to show the fibres, and to define the origin and insertion of the muscle. Should there be in the mouth any of the material that made tense the fibres of the orbicularis, let it be removed. The MASSETER MUSCLE COUCCals the ramus of the lower Masseter jaw, and is divided into two portions, superficial and deep, by means of an aponeurosis which projects at the upper part parts. into the muscular fibres. The superficial part arises from the anterior two thirds of Superficial the outer surface of the zygomatic arch, and its fibres are backwar^cS. directed downwards and backwards to be inserted into the angle, and into the lower half of the ramus of the jaw on the outer aspect. The deeper part takes origin by fleshy fibres Deep part from the remaining third of the outer surface, and from all ^^^wards. the posterior surface of the arch ; and its fibres, taking an opposite direction to those of the superficial part, are inserted into the outer surface of the coronoid process, and into the ramus of the jaw above the attachment of the other portion of the muscle. The lower part of the masseter is subcutaneous, but the Muscle upper is partly concealed by the parotid gland (socia paro- cuSneoi!?; tidis), and is crossed by Stenson's duct, and by the transverse