X X 2 CUTAIs^EOUS NERVES OF THE THIGH. 657 crural, and divides into two branches that may pierce tlie fascia at separate spots. It is transmitted through the fascia lata about three inches from Poupart's ligament, and its branches are continued to the knee, where it commu- nicates with the offset of the great saphenous nerve over the patella. In the fat this nerve is united with the genito- crural and internal cutaneous nerves. In some instances reaches tho the nerve is inclined to the inner side of the knee, and is substituted for a branch (anterior) of the following nerve. Internal cutaneous.—Derived from the anterior crural Internal trunk, like the preceding, this nerve is furnished to all the '^^^^^^^^o^^^- inner side of the thigh. It is divided into two branches (anterior and inner), which perforate the fascia in separate places. a. The anterior branch becomes cutaneous in the lower The anterior third of the thigh in the line of the inner intermuscular septum (fig 102, ^), along or somewhat behind which it is continued to the knee. This branch is distributed in the exterxds to lower third of the thigh at the inner part, as well as over thc^ septum, the patella and the inner side of the knee joint, and is united with the branch of the internal saphenous nerve. Occasionally this part of the nerve is found below the level of the knee joint ; and in that case it is larger than usual, and is joined hy a small offset from the saphenous nerve. h. The inner branch (fig. 105, ^) perforates the fascia at The inner the inner side of the knee behind the internal saphenous ^^pper part nerve, with which it communicates ; it furnishes offsets to of the leg. the lower part of the thigh, and the upper half of the leg on the inner surface. c. Other small offsets for the supply of the inner side other small of the thigh arise from the trunk, or from the two branches J>er%rt o? of the internal cutaneous nerve, and appear by the side of the thigh, the saphenous vein. One or two come into view near the upper part of the vein, and reach as far as the middle of the thigh; and one, larger in size than the rest, appears where the others cease, and extends as far as the knee. These cutaneous offsets usually communicate. Inter^ial saphenous (fig. 102, ^).—A branch of the anterior internal crural, like the two preceding, this nerve is continued to saphenous the foot, but only a little part of it is now visible. The appears by nerve pierces the fascia on the inner side of the knee, and, the knee pj. ^^iid passes alter communicatmg with the inner branch of the internal to the leg. cutaneous, gives forwards some offsets over the knee joint ; finally it accompanies the saphenous vein to the leg and fooi. a. A patellar branch of the saphenous nerve appears on A branch