DISSECTION OF THE FEONT OF THE FOREAEM. 312 Dissection. Superficial flexor of fingers. Origin. Insertion. Connections with parts around. Ulnar artery- ends in palm of hand. is a connecting branch at the bend of the elbow between it and the trunk in the place of the brachial artery. Dissection.—To bring into view the remaining muscle of the superficial layer (flexor sublimis digitorum), the origin of the flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longus must be cut through near the inner condyle of the humerus, and turned to one side. Small branches of the ulnar artery and median nerve may be seen to enter the under surface of those muscles. For the present the pronator teres may be left uncut. The FLEXOE BIGITORUM SUBLIMIS Vel PERFORATUS (fig. 45/) is the largest of the muscles of the superficial layer, and is named from its position to another flexor in the deep layer. It arises from the inner condyle of the humerus, from the internal lateral ligament, and from the intermuscular septa in common with the preceding muscles ; and it takes origin in addition from the bones of the forearm, viz. from the inner pari; of the coronoid process of the ulna ; from the oblique line extending from the tubercle of the radius, and from the anterior border of the bone as far as two inches below the insertion of the pronator teres. Rather below the middle of the forearm the muscle ends in four tendons, which are continued beneath the annular ligament and across the hand, to be inserted into the middle phalanges of the fingers, after being perforated by the tendons of the deep flexor. The flexor sublimis is concealed above by the other muscles of the superficial layer ; and the radial vessels lie on the attachment to the radius. Along the inner border is the flexor carpi ulnaris, with the ulnar vessels and nerve. The tendons of the muscle are arranged in pairs before they pass beneath the annular ligament of the wrist ; the middle and ring finger tendons being anterior, and those of the index and little finger posterior in position. When the coronoid and condyloid attachments are divided, the muscle will be seen to cover two flexors of the deep layer (flexor digitorum profundus and flexor poUicis), the median nerve, and the upper part of the ulnar artery. The ULNAR ARTERY (fig. 45,is the larger of the two branches coming from the bifurcation of the brachial trunk, and is directed along the inner side of the limb to the palm of the hand. At its extremity it forms the superficial palmar arch, and joins the radial artery. * Oftentimes this origin does not extend lower than the attachment of the pronator muscle.