PIA MATER. 191 of that membrane projecting between the diflferent portions of the brain. The visceral part covers the encephalon loosely, especially Visceral part at the under surface, but it is united to the underlying pia io brain mater by fibrous processes ; beneath it there is a considerable interval (subarachnoid space). When it is traced over the brain, the following is the disposition of the serous mem- brane. On the upper or convex surface of the cerebrum the membrane passes from one convolution to another, without dipping into the intervening hollows ; though it lines the great median fissure as low as the extent of the falx. On iioiiow be- the lower or under surface of the cerebral mass the arach- noid covers the anterior lobes, and sinks into the median fissure : but farther back there is a space between it and the Jp^jj®.^^ brain. Still more posteriorly the serous membrane is closely connected to the pons and the under surface of the cere- bellum ; but between the hemispheres of the little brain there is another interval beneath it, similar to that at the imder part of the cerebrum. The subarachnoid space, or the interval between the it is the sub- ,.T ^ ixi'x'i • J arachnoid arachnoid membrane and the pia mater, is larger m one spot space, than another; and it contains more or less fluid, which has been named cerebro-spinal. This space is largest at the under part of the great brain about its middle, and in the fissure between the hemispheres both of the cerebrum and the cerebellum. If the arachnoid covering is removed from the fissure between the halves of the cerebellum, the aperture of the fourth ventricle will be perceived, by which the cavity in the interior of the brain communicates with the subserous space of both the encephalon and the spinal cord. The PIA MATER, or the vascular covering of the brain, Fia mater closely invests the difierent parts of the cranial mass, and dips into the fissures, as well as into the hollows between the surface convolutions and laminae. Besides covering the sends pieces exterior of the brain, it sends processes into the interior to ^J-ah!^^^ supply vessels to the walls of the enclosed spaces : thus, one penetrates into the cerebrum below the corpus callosum, and is named velum interpositum ; and two vascular fringes which project into the fourth ventricle, are known as the choroid plexuses of that cavity. This membrane is a net-work of vessels, and is constructed it is a net- of the minute ramifications of the arteries entering the ^lood-v^es- substance of the brain, and of the veins issuing from the sels. cerebral substance ; whilst the intervals between the vessels are closed by fine areolar tissue, so as to form a continuous