673 SUPERFICIAL VEINS. nerves are to be looked for :—One is a branch of tlie great saphenous, which is directed to the front of the patella. Another is the trunk of the great saphenous nerve, which lies by the side of the vein of the same name, close to the lower part of the surface now dissected. And the third is a terminal branch (inner) of the internal cutaneous nerve, which is close behind the preceding, and communicates with it. Small cutaneous arteries accompany the nerves. Superficial Veins.—All the veins on the anterior and Superficial inner aspects of the thigh are collected into one ; and this trunk is named saphenous from the readiness with which it may be detected on the surface. The internal saphenous vein is the cutaneous vessel of the iiitemai inner side and front of the lower limb ; and it extends from vem hi^^^ the foot to the upper part of the thigh, where it joins the femoral vein. In the part of its course now dissected, the vessel lies somewhat behind the knee joint inferiorly; but as it ascends to its termination, it is directed along the inner side and the front of the thigh. I^ear Poupart's liga- pierces ment it pierces the fascia lata by a special opening named joh^^JiJe^'^^^ saphenous, and enters, as before said, the deep vein of the femoral, limb. Superficial branches join it both externally and internally; Veins join- and near Poupart's ligament the three veins corresponding with the arteries in that situation, viz, superficial pudic, epigastric, and circumflex iliac, terminate in it. Towards the upper part of the limb the veins of the inner side and may form back of the thigh are most frequently united into one at tlfe^top of branch, which enters the trunk near the aperture in the the thigh, fascia lata ; and sometimes those on the outer side of the thigh are collected together in a similar way, so as to produce three large veins on the front of the thigh near the saphenous opening. On the side of the knee the vein receives generally a deep branch from the joint. Some unnamed cutaneous arteries are distributed to the other cuta- integuments along with the nerves ; and the superficial branch of the anastomotic artery (p. 689) accompanies the saphenous nerve near the knee. Cutaneous Nerves.—The cutaneous nerves of the thigh Cutaneous are derived from branches of the lumbar plexus (p. 597), and are distributed in greater abundance on the inner than the outer margin of the limb. Ilio-inguinal.—This nerve (p. 598) is small in size, and Ilio-inguinal reaches the surface by passing through the external abdo- minal ring (fig. 102, -); it supplies the scrotum, and ends IS near scro-