CHAPTEE X. DISSECTION OF THE EYE. Situation of the eyeball. Parts aroimd and in front of it. The dissec- tion to be made on the eye of the ox. Detach the muscles. Form of the ball. Position of optic nerve. Diameter. Outline of the constitu- ents of the organ of vision. The eyeball is the organ of vision. It is lodged in the orbit ; and supported in this hollow on a mass of fat, it is surrounded by muscles which impart movement to it. Two lids or shields protect the eyeball from external injury, and moderate the quantity of light admitted into the interior ; and the anterior or exposed surface is covered by a mucous membrane (conjunctiva). .Directions.—In the absence of specimens of the human eye, the structure must be learnt on the eye of some large animal, as the ox for example. Let the student, therefore, procure half a dozen or more eyes of the ox for the purpose of dissection. One or two shallow basins will be needed, and in the bottom^of one of them, or of a deep plate, there ought to be some wax or tallow. Dissection.—To see the general form of the ball of the eye, and the outer surface of the external coat, the attachment of the different muscles should be taken away ; and the loose mucous membrane should be removed also from around the anterior part. The hall of the eye is roundish in form, and consists of two parts, which differ greatly in appearance, viz., an opaque pos- terior portion, forming four fifths of the whole, and a smaller transparent portion (cornea) in front ; these are segments of different-sized spheres, and the anterior part belongs to the smaller sphere. To the back of the globe the optic nerve is attached, rather to the inner side of the axis of the ball; and around it the nutritive vessels and the nerves are dis- posed. The antero-posterior diameter of the ball amounts to about an inch, and exceeds the transverse by about a line. The organ of vision is composed of certain delicate central parts, and of others requisite for their protection and support. Its fundamental constituent is an expansion of the optic nerve (retina). Within the nervous layer are central transparent