CUTAITEOTJS NEKYES. 749 tlie inner part of the leg, where it has been before seen (p. 727). Branches enter it from the inner side and the sole of the foot. The external saphenous vein begins on the outside of the little toe and the foot, as well as in the venous arch; and it is continued below the outer ankle to the back of the leg (p. 727). CuTAN"EOUS Kerves.—All the superficial nerves on the front of the leg and foot are derived from branches of the popliteal trunks, viz. from the musculo- cutaneous and anterior tibial nerves of Fig. 108.* the external popliteal, and from the ex- ternal saphenous nerve of the internal popliteal. Some inconsiderable offsets to the sides of the leg from the internal saphenous and external popliteal do not require separate notice. The mnsculo-cutaneous nerve (fig. 108, ^) has a cutaneous termination, and its place of destination is the dorsum of the foot and toes. Perforating the fascia in the lower third of the leg, it divides into two principal branches (inner and outer), which give digital nerves to the sides of all the toes, except the outer part of the little toe and the contiguous sides of the great toe and the next. The digital branches may be traced in the integument as far as the end of the last phalanx. a. The inner branch communicates with the internal saphenous nerve, and sup- plies the inner side of the foot and great toe : it joins also the anterior tibial nerve. 1 // h. The outer branch divides into three nerves; these lie over the three outer interosseous spaces, and bifurcate at the web of the foot for the supply of the contiguous sides of the four toes corre- sponding with those spaces: it joins the external saphenous nerve on the outer part of the foot. The anterior tibial nerve (fig. 108, ^) becomes cutaneous in the first interosseous space, and is distributed to the * Cutaneous nerves of the front of the leg and foot.—1. Internal saphenous when superficial. 2. Offsets of the cutaneous branch of the externa] popliteal. 3. Musculo-cutaneous. 4. Anterior tibial. External saphenous. Source of the cutane- ous nerves. Musculo- cutaneous supplies certain toes; W 1 divides into inner and outer branch. Anterior tibial, where found.