DISSECTION OF THE EEONT OF THE FOREARM. 308 the bracliial vessels and the median nerve, the nerve being internal ; but as the artery is inclining to the outer part of the limb, they soon become distant from one another about half an inch. In this space the brachial artery divides into two trunks—radial and ulnar. jSiiperficial MuSCLES ON THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM (fig. 45). fivemuscles. The muscles on the front of the forearm are divided into a superficial and a deep layer. In the superficial layer there are five muscles, which are fixed to the inner condyle of the humerus, mostly by a common tendon, and lie in the under- mentioned order from the middle to the inner side of the limb ; viz. pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flexor carpi ulnaris, which are on the same level ; and deeper and larger than any of these is the flexor sub- limis digitorum. The deep layer will be met with in a future dissection. The PRONATOR RADII TERES (fig. 45, ^) arises from the inner condyle of the humerus by the common tendon, and from the ridge above the condyle by fleshy fibres ; from the inner part of the coronoid process by a second tendinous slip; and from the fascia and the intermuscular septum between it and the next muscle. It is inserted by a rather flat tendon into an impression, an inch in length, on the outer surface of the middle of the radius. The muscle is superficial except at the insertion, where it is covered by the radial artery, and one of the outer set of muscles (supinator longus). The pronator forms the inner boundary of the triangular space in front of the elbow ; and its inner border is contiguous to the flexor carpi radialis By gently separating the muscle from the rest, it will be found to lie on the brachialis anticus, on the flexor sublimis digitorum, and on the ulnar artery and the median nerve. The second small head of origin is directed inwards between the artery and the nerve. The FLEXOR CARPI RADIALIS (fig. 45, ^) takes its origin from the common tendon, from the aponeurosis of the limb, and from the intermuscular septum on each side. The tendon of the muscle, becoming free from fleshy fibres abou the middle of the forearm, passes through a groove in the oB trapezium, outside the arch of the anterior annular ligament and is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bones of the index and middle fingers. This muscle rests chiefly on the flexor sublimis digitorum but near the origin it is in contact with the ulnar artery an the median nerve, and near the wrist it lies over the flexor Pronator teres. Origin. Insertion. Connec- tions. Radial flexor of the . wrist. The muscle