692 DISSECTION" OF THE THIGH. Parts in contact with the surfaces. Vastus in- tern us and crureus. One mass on the front of the femur. Its origin; insertion by a common tendon. Upper part deep, lower superficial. Lay bare the common tendon of the exten- sor. Tendon of the exten- sor; attach- ments. Bursa be- neath. Expansion from it. is covered by the rectus, tensor vaginae femoris, and gluteus muscles. The deep surface touches the vastus internus and crureus, and receives branches of the external circumflex artery and anterior crural nerve. The VASTUS INTERNUS and chureus are inseparably united in one muscle (fig, 103, ^"). The fleshy mass arises from the anterior and lateral surfaces of the femur, except at the ends, and its limits may be thus indicated :—Upwards it reaches as far as the anterior intertrochanteric line; and downwards, to about two inches from the articular end of the femur. Outwards it extends to the vastus externus ; and inwards, to the internal margin of the linea asp era, as well as to the lines continued upwards and downwards from it, some of the lowest fibres taking origin also from the tendon of the ad- ductor magnus. At the lower end of the muscle the fibres terminate in a cutaneous aponeurosis that blends in the common tendon of insertion. The upper part of the muscular mass is buried beneath the sartorius and rectus muscles; but the lower part is super- ficial, and projects more than the vastus externus at the opposite side of the thigh. The adductor muscles are almost inseparably joined with the vastus along the attachment to the linea aspera. Dissection.—The common tendon of the vasti and rectus can be demonstrated, after the expansion from it over the knee joint is divided along the middle of the patella to the head of the tibia. By reflecting inwards and outwards that thin fibrous layer the tendon will be evident. A strong transverse band will be seen likewise on each side of the patella, of which the outer is the strongest. The tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg is common to the rectus, the vastus externus, and the united vastus in- ternus and crureus. It is placed in front of the knee joint, to which it serves the ofiice of an anterior ligament. Wide above where the muscular fibres terminate, it narrows as it descends over the joint, and is inserted inferiorly into the prominence of the tubercle of the tibia and into the bone below it for an inch. Close to its attachment to the tibia a synovial bursa is beneath it ; and in its fibres the patella is situate, like a sesamoid bone in other situations. (See Liga- ment of the Patella.) From the upper part of the tendon an aponeurotic expansion is derived : this prolongation, which is strongest on the inner side, is united with the fascia lata and the other tendinous oflsets to form a capsule around the joint, and is fixed below to the heads of the tibia and fibula.