DISSECTIOlsr OF THE NOSE. 141 The several parts of the teeth, viz. the crown, fang, and Fuller notice neck ; the general and special characters of these parts, and elsewhere, of the different groups of the teeth ; and the structure of the different components of a tooth, must be referred to elsewhere. Section XIII. DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. To obtain a view of the interior of the nose, it will be Directions, necessary to make a longitudinal section through the base of the skull. Whilst the student is examining the boun- daries of the nose he should be provided with a vertical section of a skull. Dissection.—Before making the necessary sawing of the Dissection bone, the loose part of the lower jaw on the right side J^g*^^one^' should be taken away ; further, the tongue, hyoid bone, and larynx, all united, may be detached from the opposite half of the lower jaw, and laid aside till the dissector is ready to use them. The saw being placed on the right side of the crista galli Cut through of the ethmoid bone, is to be carried vertically through the ^ith saw. frontal and nasal bones, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, and part of the body of the sphenoid bone. Now the roof of the mouth is to be turned upwards, and the soft parts are to be divided on the right of the median line, opposite the cut in the roof of the nose ; and the saw is then to be carried through the hard palate on the right side of the septum nasi, and through the body of the sphenoid bone, in such a direction as to make the cut join the incision from above. The piece of the skull is now easily separated into two parts, right and left ; and by proceeding as above directed, the delicate bones of the nose are less injured than they would be by sawing continuously in one direction. The right half will serve for the examination of the meatuses, and the left will show the septum nasi. The CAVITY OF THE NOSE is placed in the centre of the Situation of bones of the face, being situate above the mouth, and between the orbits and the sinuses of the superior maxillary * For this information the student may refer to the account of the teeth that has been given by Dr. Siiarpey, in Quain's Anatomy, vol. iii., p. 87.