403 INTERCOSTAL NERVES. the tubercle of the rib, it does not reach farther forwards than the rib cartilages, as before said (p. 273). Dissection. —In a few spaces the internal intercostal muscle Trace may be cut through, and the intercostal nerve and artery traced outwards. The INTERCOSTAL NERVES are the anterior primary branches Intercostal of the dorsal nerves. In distribution they differ from the not joined other spinal nerves of the body, inasmuch as they course in a plexus, forwards to the middle line without being united in a plexus. Twelve in number, they occupy the intercostal spaces, and the last is placed below the twelfth rib. The following difference obtains between the upper and the lower nerves : Upper six viz., the upper six lie between the ribs in all their extent, yp^cS ; and are confined to the wall of the thorax ; whilst the lower lower six six are prolonged into the abdominal wall where the ribs front, cease in front. At the posterior part of the chest the nerves lie at first Connections between the pleura and the external intercostal muscle, with muscles- an artery and vein ; but they enter soon between the two strata of the intercostal muscles, and extend forwards to the middle line of the body. J^ear the head of the rib each ^^^^ sympa- nerve is joined by filaments from the sympathetic. In its thetic course each supplies branches to the intercostal muscles of the ribs ; as well as cutaneoujs offsets to the surface ; these Offsets, are described in the dissections of the upper limb and wall of the abdomen. There are some deviations in the first and second nerves Exceptions from the general arrangement above specified. The first nerve ascends in front of the neck of the highest rib, and ends in the brachial plexus. Before it leaves the chialplexus, chest it supplies a branch to the first intercostal space ; this extends forwards in the place of the intercostal nerve, furnishing muscular offsets, and becomes cutaneous by the side of the sternum. There is not any lateral cutaneous branch from this nerve, except in those cases in which the cutaneous next nerve is not as large as usual. branch. The second nerve may extend a considerable way on the Second wall of the chest before entering between the intercostal muscles, and may ascend even to the first space. It is remarkable in having a very large lateral cutaneoas branch (p. 259). In front it ends like the others. Upper surface of the diaphragm-.—The anatomy of the ^^^^f^^^^" diaphragm will be described specially with the deep muscles diaphragm, of the abdomen ; and the arch of the muscle towards the thorax has been referred to before (p. 352). D D 2