DISSECTION OF THE UPPEK LIMB. 272 Disposition of its fibres. Dissection of the ser- ratus. Serratus muscle is attached to the ribs and scapula. and its fibres seem to form three parts. Connections of the muscle. Dissection of the inter- to two inches in deptli, and lies in front of the teres ; at its lower border aponeurotic fibres connect it with the tendon of the teres, but a well-marked bursa intervenes between the two near the insertion into the bone. The fibres have a cross arrangement in their course to the ten- don of insertion ; for whilst those that are attached to the lower ribs ascend to the upper edge of the tendon, those from the spines of the dorsal vertebrae descend to the lower edge. Thus the fibres produce a hollow or groove, which lodges the lower border of the scapula and the teres major muscle. Dissection.—To lay bare the serratus muscle which passes from the side of the chest to the base of the scapula, the arm must be drawn from the trunk, so as to separate the scapula from the thorax. The nerves of the brachial plexus may be cut through, if it is necessary, below the second rib ; and the fat and the fascia should be cleaned from the muscular fibres. The SERRATUS MAGNUS MUSCLE (Fig. 7 2, extends between the scapula and the thorax. It arises by nine pointed processes from the outer surface and the borders of the eight upper ribs, about two inches from their cartilages, —the second rib having two pieces ; and between the ribs some fibres take origin from the aponeurosis covering the intercostal muscles. The fibres converge towards the base and the angles of the scapula, but from a difi'erence their direction the muscle ap]3ears to consist of three parts. The upper part is attached internally to the first two ribs and to an aponeurotic arch between them ; and externally, to an impression on the ventral surface of the upper angle of the scapula. A middle part, which is very thin, extends from the next two ribs (third and fourth) ta the base of the shoulder bone. And a lower part, whic is the strongest, is connected on the one side with fou ribs (fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth), where it digitates with like processes of origin of the external obliqu muscle ; and, on the other side, it is fixed into the special- surface on the costal aspect of the lower angle of th scapula. The muscle is applied against the ribs and th intercostal muscles, and is partly concealed by the pectoral muscles and the axillary vessels and nerves: in the ordinary position of the arm, the scapula and the subscapularis- muscle are in contact with it. Dissection.—The intercostal muscles will be brought into view by detaching the processes of origin of the serratus