91 TEMPORO-MAXILLAEY ARTICULATIOISr. than those of the preceding muscle. Arising in the ptery- beneath the goid fossa, and chiefly from the inner surface of the external thejaw?^ pterygoid plate, the muscle is further attached below to the outer surface of the tuberosity of the palate bone, and to the tuberosity of the upper jaw bone. The fibres descend to be inserted into the angle and inner surface of the ramus Attach- of the jaw, as high as the inferior dental foramen. On the muscle are placed the dental and gustatory nerves, the Vessels and dental artery, and the internal lateral ligament of the jaw. around. The deep surface is in connection below with the superior constrictor, and at its origin with the tensor palati muscle. Directions.—Before proceeding further in the dissection, the student may learn the anatomy of the articulation of the lower jaw. Temporo-mAXILLARY ARTICULATION.—In this joint theJomtof condyle of the jaw is received into the anterior part of the hollow of the glenoid fossa of the temporal bone. The bones are retained in contact mostly by the strong muscles of the lower jaw; but the following ligaments are concerned in uniting them. The external lateral is a short ligamentous band, being but External a part of the capsule, which is attached above to the tubercle at the root of the zygoma, and below to the outer side of the neck of the inferior maxilla. The internal lateral ligaraent (fig. 12, ^), is a long, thin, internal internal pterygoid muscle, -^^^^ and its origin is concealed by the external pterygoid muscle. Between the ligament and the jaw is the internal maxillary artery. * Ligaments of the jaw—an inner view (Bourgery and Jacob). 1. Internal lateral Ugament, 2. Stylo-maxillary. membranous band, which is not in contact with the joint. Superiorly it is con- nected by a pointed piece to the spinous process of the sphenoid, and the va- ginal process of the tempo- ral bone ; and inferiorly it is inserted into the orifice of the dental canal in the lower jaw. This ligament lies beneath the ramus of the jaw, between it and the lateral Uga- ment. Fig. 12.*