FIFTH LAYER OF MUSCLES. 435 In the dorsal region the muscles are rudimentary, and the back; exist only between the first, or the first two pairs of the vertebrae ; and between the pair above the lowest dorsal vertebra, as well as between this and the first lumbar vertebra. In the lumbar region, as in the cervical, there is a pair in the loins, in each interspinous space. Here they are thin flat muscles, which reach all along the spines. * The iNTERTfiAisTsVERSE MUSCLES lie between the trans- Inter- verse processes of the vertebrae ; but only those in the loins misSs^^^ and the back are now dissected. In the nech they are double, like the interspinal muscles in the neck, of the same vertebras (p. 181). * In the dorsal region they are single rounded bundles, the dorsni and are found only between the lower processes : their number varies from three to six. Between the upper pro- cesses tendinous bands take their place. ^ In the lumbar region the anterior set are four thin and in the loins, fleshy muscular planes between the bony processes. The posterior set are rounded fasciculi, which are attached to the accessory points at the roots of the transverse processes : they have been named interaccessorii. Dissection.—The multifidus spinse muscle, which fills the Dissection hollow by the side of the spinous processes, may be now g^^g^g^^ip ^ dissected. The upper part of the muscle is to be prepared and learnt by the dissector of the head and neck. It will in the neck, be laid bare by cutting through the insertion of the semi- spinalis muscle. Over the sacrum it will be necessary to rem^ove from it, over^sacrum after examination, the thick aponeurosis covering it and the ribs, erector spinae. In the dorsal region, the muscle will appear on detaching and drawing aside the semispinalis from the spines. ^ The MULTIFIDUS SPiisr^ muscle extends from the sacrum Multifidus to the second vertebra, and is much larsfer towards the pelvis ^p^^^^^ , ' ° ^ an extensive than m the neck. It takes origin inferiorly from the origin. aponeurosis covering its surface; from the back of the sacrum between the central and external row of processes, as low as the fourth aperture ; from the inner surface of the iliac spine (posterior superior) of the hip bone ; and from the ligaments connecting this bone to the sacrum. Along the side of the spine, the muscle arises differently from the vertebrae in the several regions :—Thus in the loins it arises by large fasciculi from the accessory and the articular pro- cesses ; in the dorsal region, from the transverse processes : and in the neck, from the articular processes of the four or F F 2