724 DISSECTIOIsr OF THE THIGH. Hip joint, how formed ; its lign- ments. Lay bare the capsule, Capsule. Attach- Daents above and below. On the front is a band of fibres. Another outside. Muscles around. Cut open the cap- sule. Cotyloid ligament attached around acetabulum. The Hip joint (fig. 100).—This articulation is a ball and socket joint, in which the head of the femur is received into the acetabulum or the cup-shaped cavity of the innominate bone. Connecting the bones are the following ligaments :— one to deepen the receiving cavity, which is named cotyloid; another between the articular surfaces of the bones,—the interarticular ; and a loose capsule surrounds all. Dissection.—The muscles are to be taken away from the back of the hip joint, and the upper and lower attachments of the capsular ligament must be defined. Afterwards the front of the joint should be dissected in the same manner, with the body turned over for a short time, if this change in the position does not interfere with the other dissections. The capsular ligament (fig. 100, is a loose fibrous covering that is fixed by one end around the acetabulum, and by the other to the neck of the femur. Its upper margin is attached to the circumference of the acetabulum at a short distance from the edge, as well as to a transverse ligamentous band over the notch at the inner side of the cavity. Its lower margin is inserted in front into the anterior intertro- chanteric line, and behind, by a very thin attachment, into the neck of the femur about a finger's breadth from the pos- terior intertrochanteric line and the trochanters. The capsule is thinnest below, where it is in contact with the obturator externus. In front it is thickened by a band of fibres—ilio-femoral ligament (fig. 100, crossing from the lower of the two anterior iliac spines to the trochanteric line ; and at the upper and outer part there is another strong band, which is attached externally to the top of the great trochanter in front, and is connected with the tendon of the gluteus minimus. Posteriorly the joint is covered by the external rotator muscles ; and anteriorly by the psoas and iliacus, a bursa being between it and them. Above is the gluteus medius, and below is the obturator externus. Dissection.—The capsular ligament should be divided over the prominence of the head of the femur, and this bone being disarticulated the cotyloid and interarticular ligaments may be seen. The cotyloid ligament is a band of fibro-cartilage, which is fixed to the margin of the acetabulum, and is prolonged across the notch on the inner side, so as to form part of the transverse ligament. It is thickest at its attachment to the bone, and becomes gradually thinner towards the free mar- gin, where it is applied to the head of the femur. This