OTIC GANGLIOK 155 malleus and tlie membrana tympani, to the Glasserian fissure, or an aperture in the bone on the inner side, through which it leaves the tympanum. Outside the skull the chorda tympani joins the gustatory nerve (fig. 20, and con- tinues along it to the submaxillary ganglion and the tongue (p. 99). The AUDITORY NERVE will be learned with the ear. It may Auditory be now seen to divide into two parts, one of which enters the cochlea, and the other the vestibule. Otic ganglion".—At this late period of the dissection, otic there is little to be seen of this ganglion, but the student ganglion, should remember that it is one of the things to be examined in a fresh part. Its situation is on the inner aspect of the inferior maxillary nerve, close to the base of the skull, and it must therefore be arrived at from the inner side. D^ssec^io^,— Putting the part in the same position as for Dissection, the examination of Meckel's ganglion, the dissector should define the Eustachian tube and the muscles of the palate, and then take away the levator palati and that tube, using much care in removing the last. When some loose areolar tissue has been cleared away the internal pterygoid muscle comes into view, with the trunk of the inferior maxillary nerve above it, and a small branch (internal pterygoid) descending from the nerve to the surface of the muscle. If this branch of nerve to the pterygoid muscle be taken as a guide, it will lead to the ganglion. To complete the dissection, saw vertically through the To define petrous part of the temporal bone, a little nearer the middle ^^^^^^^^ line than the inner wall of the tympanum, the bone being supported whilst it is divided. Taking ofi" now some mem- and its brane that covers the ganglion, the student may follow backwards a small branch to the tensor tympani muscle, but he must previously open the small canal that contains the muscle, by entering it from below through the carotid canal. Above this small branch is another minute nerve (small superficial petrosal), which issues from the skull, and joins the back of the ganglion. A small twig is to be sought from the front of the ganglion to the tensor palati muscle, and one, near the same spot, to join the sym- pathetic nerve on the middle meningeal artery. The OTIC ganglion (gang, auriculare, Arnold) (fig. 20,) Otic gang- resembles the other ganglia connected with the fifth nerve. inner\ide of It is a small reddish body, which is situate on the inner j^^^^^^j.^ surface of the inferior maxillary nerve close to the skull, and surrounds the origin of the nerve to the internal ptery-