168 DISSECTION" OF THE LARYNX. Some fibres crico-tliyroid ligament. The fibres are directed backwards tfpf^^ "w^^^ different indications ;—The external ascend somewhat, and are inserted into the upper part of the outer surface of the arytsenoid cartilage, and blend with the depressor of others go to the epis^lottis. The internal and lower fibres are transverse, bfisc of J. c3 .... arytfenoid and form a thick bundle, which is inserted into the fore part cartilage. q£ losise of that Cartilage, as well as into the outer Cornice- surface ; and some fibres are attached to the vocal cord. By its outer surface the muscle is in contact with the thyroid cartilage ; and the inner surface rests on the vocal cords, and on the ventricle of the larynx and its pouch. Depressor of The DEPHESSOR OF THE EPIGLOTTIS (reflcctor epiglottidis, epig o lb thyro-arytseno-epiglottideus) is the thin muscular layer, which is contained in the fold of mucous membrane bounding origin. laterally the upper opening of the larynx. Its fibres arise posteriorly from the front of the arytsenoid cartilage, but some are continuous below with the oblique fibres of the arytsenoid muscle, and others are derived from the thyro- aryta^noid muscle. From this origin the fibres turn upwards with very difi'erent directions, and are inserted into the Insertion, border of the epiglottis of the same side. The strength of this muscle varies much in difierent bodies. Some of the lower fibres of this muscle, which cover the top of the laryngeal pouch, have been described by Mr» Hilton as a separate muscle, and named by him compressor sacculi laryngis. Parts inside Pakts INSIDE THE Lakynx.—The laryngeal cartilages are larynx. arranged as to enclose a space, and defend the parts more immediately concerned in the production of the voice, viz., the vocal cords, the glottis, and the ventricle of the larynx and its pouch. Dissection Dissection.—For the purpose of displaying the vocal appa- the^m^ "^^^ ratus, let the tube of the larynx be divided along the posterior part ; and in cutting through the aryta3noid muscle, let the incision be rather to the right of the middle line, so as to avoid the nerves that enter it. On looking into the larynx a hollow (ventricle) will be seen on each side : and if a probe be passed into the hollow or ventricle, it may be made to enter a small pouch by an aperture in the anterior and upper part. The dissector should fill the pouch on the right side by introducing very small and round bits of cotton wool into it. Bounding the ventricle above and below are the bands of the vocal cords. * See No. 5 of Guy's Hospital Pteports.