390 DISSECTIOIT OF THE THOEAX. Remove the lungs to ex- amine them. Take away the heart and pericar- dium. Surface of lung is smooth; is marked by lobules and small cells. Colour varies with Accidental colour. Consistence. Crepitation, and elasti- city of the pulmonary textiure. Specific gravity, and weight of the lung. Dissection.—The lungs are to be removed next from tlie body in order that their physical characters and their struc- ture may be learnt : they can be detached as soon as the vessels of the root are cut through. The remains of the heart and pericardium are to be taken away afterwards. For their removal the inferior cava is to be divided, and the pericardium to be detached from the surface of the diaphragm ; and in removing the pericardium, some care should be taken by the dissector not to injure the parts contained in the interpleural space in front of the spine. Physical Characters of the Lung.—The surface of the lung is smooth and shining, and is invested by the pleura. Through the serous covering the mass of the lung may be seen to be divided by septa, into small irregularly- sized pieces or lobules. On looking closely at the pulmo nary substance, especially at a thin margin, the texture will be perceived to be spongy, being composed of minute cells. The tint of the lung varies with age. In infancy the colour is a pale red ; but in the adult the texture becomes grayish, and presents here and there dark gray spots or lines of pigment, whose shade deepens with increasing age and becomes even black in old people. From the position of the body after death, the colour of the posterior border may be bluish black. To the touch the lung is soft and yielding, and on a section the pulmonary substance will appear porous and spongy ; but the lung which is deprived of its air by pres sure has a tough leathery feel. In the ordinary condition of the lung, slight pressure with the thumb and finger drives the air from its containing cells through the pulmonary structure, and produces the noise known as crepitation. I the lung contains serum, a frothy red fluid will run out when it is cut. The texture of the lung is very elastic this elasticity causing the organ both to diminish greatly when the thorax is opened, and to expel air that may be blown into it. The specific gravity of the lung varies with the conditions of dilatation and collapse, or of infiltration with fluid. When the pulmonary tissue is free from fluid, and filled with air, it floats in water ; but when it is quite deprived of air it is slightly heavier than wa,ter, and sinks in that fluid. The weight of the lung is influenced greatly by the quantity of fluid or other material contained in its texture ; ordinarily it varies from eighteen to twenty one ounces, and the right