DISSECTION OF THE EXTERIOK OF THE HEAD. 2 Dissection of the upper muscles, of the poste- rior muscle. Attrahens aurem muscle is united with next. Attollens aurem muscle. Ketrahens aurem con- sists of two or three bundles. Dissection.—Wlien the ear has been drawn down by- hooks, the position of the two upper muscles will be indi- cated by a slight prominence between it and the head ; and the muscular fibres will be laid bare by means of the two following incisions, made no deeper than the skin :—One is to be carried upwards along the cutaneous ridge before mentioned and the side of the head, for about three inches ; and the other, about the same length, is to be directed from before backwards close above the ear, so that the two may join at a right angle. On carefully raising the flaps of skin from below upwards, and removing a little subjacent tissue, the thin fan-shaped muscular layer will come into view—the more anterior fibres constituting the attrahens, and the posterior the attollens aurem muscle. On drawing forwards the ear, a ridge marks, in like manner, the situation of the posterior muscle. To remove the integuments, let the scalpel be drawn down, about an inch behind the ear, from the transverse cut above as far as to a level with the lobule of the ear, and then forwards below the lobule. After the piece of skin included by these cuts has been reflected towards the ear, the retrahent muscle will be easily found beneath the subcutaneous tissue, for it consists of rounded bundles of fibres, and is stronger though deeper than the others. The ATTRAHENS AUREM is a Small fan-shaped muscle, and arises from the fore part of the aponeurosis of the occipito- frontalis. Its fibres are directed backwarks, and are inserted into a projection on the front of the rim of the ear. This muscle is united with the following at its origin, but a slight interval exists between them near their insertion. Beneath it are the temporal vessels. The ATTOLLENS AUREM has the same form as the preced- ing, though its fibres are longer and better marked. Arising also from the tendon of the occipito-frontalis, the fibres converge to their insertion into the inner or cranial surface of the pinna of the ear,—into an eminence corresponding with a fossa (that of the anti-helix) on the opposite aspect. The RETRAHENS AUREM (muscuH i^trahcntes, Alb.) con- sists of two or three roundish but separate bundles of fibres, which are stronger than those of the other muscles. The bundles arise from the root of the mastoid process, and pass almost transversely forwards to be inserted by aponeurotic fibres into the lower part of the ear (concha) at its cranial aspect. The posterior auricular artery and nerve are in contact with this muscle.