690 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. may be in- side the artery ; or split; or very small. To expose muscles on front of the femur. Tensor arises from pelvis, ends in fascia lata. Parts around. Cut through the last muscle. Outline of muscles on front of thigh. Eectus has origin at the pelvis, liere, as in the upper part (p. 686), and may be found on the inner side of the artery ; or it may be divided into two trunks, which he on the sides of its companion vessel. Size of the vein.—In some bodies this part of the femoral vein is very small in size, in consequence of the popliteal coursing along the back of the thigh to enter the profunda vein, instead of accom- panying the main artery of the limb through the aperture in the adductor magnus. Dissection.—The femoral artery and vein are to be cut across below the origin of the profunda, and are to be thrown downwards, preparatory to the deeper dissection. Afterwards all the fat and the small veins are to be care- fully removed from amongst the branches of the profunda artery and anterior crural nerve. By this step the upper X^art of the vastus internus and crureus will be prepared for learning. The TENSOE, VAGINA FEMoms occupies the upper third of the thigh, and is the smallest and the most external of the outer set of muscles. It takes origin from the front of the crest of the hip bone at the outer aspect, from the anterior upper iliac spine, and from the part of the notch between this and the inferior spine, viz. as far as the attachment of the sartorius. Its fibres form a fleshy belly about two inches wide, and are inserted into the fascia lata about three inches below the great trochanter of the femur and rather anterior to it. At its origin the muscle is situate between the sartorius and the gluteus medius. Beneath it are the ascending branches of the external circumflex artery, and a branch of the superior gluteal nerve that enters its under surface. A strong sheath of fascia surrounds the muscle. Dissection.—After the muscle has been learnt, the slip of fascia extending from it to the knee may be cut through; and when it is detached from the muscles around the head of the rectus muscle may be followed to the pelvis. The TRICEPS EXTENSOR of the leg consists of three parts, which may be described as three muscles with a common insertion, viz. rectus, vastus externus, and vastus internus and crureus. Or, like the extensor of the arm, the muscle may be considered single below and attached by a common tendon ; but divided above into three heads, which are inserted into separate points of bone. The RECTUS EEMORis forms a fleshy prominence on the front of the thigh (fig. 103, ^^), and reaches from the pelvis to the common insertion. At its origin from the pelvis the muscle has two tendinous processes or heads :—one arises