661 LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. bands will be visible on the removal of some areolar tissue. The great sacro-sciatic ligament is dissected with the lower limb ; and the small ligament will be brought into view by removing the coccygeus. The anterior sacro-iliac ligament (fig. 100, consists of a few thin scattered fi-bres, which are attached to the sacrum and the hip bone near their articular surfaces. The posterior ligaments (sacro-iliac) are much stronger than the anterior, and the fibres are collected into bundles. These ligaments pass from the rough inner surface at the posterior extremity of the innominate bone to the first two pieces of the sacrum. One bundle, which is distinct from the others, a-nd more superficial, is named the oblique or long posterior ligament; it is attached to the posterior upper iliac spinous process, and descends almost vertically to the third piece of the sacrum. Articular cartilage.—Between the irregular surfaces of the bone in this articulation (sacro-iliac symphysis) is a thin uneven layer of cartilage. In it there is sometimes a hollow with irregular surfaces like that in the cartilage of the sym- physis pubis. On separating the bones after the other liga- ments are examined, the cartilage may be detached with a knife. Two sacro-sciatic liga- Fig- 101.* ments pass from the lateral part of the sacrum and coccyx to the ischial spine and tuberosity of the hij) bone, across the space between the bones at the back of the pelvis. The ligaments are named large and small. The large ligament (fixg. 101, ■*) reaches from the back of the hip bone, and from the side of the sacrum and coccyx to the ischial tuberosity ; but it may have been cut in the dissec- tion of the gluteal region, with which it is examined. The small ligament (fig. 101, ^) is attached iDternally by a wide part to the border of the sacrum and coccyx, where it is united with the origin of the preceding ligament. The Anterior ligament. Posterior ligaments; one more distinct than the rest. Articular cartilage. Sacro-sciatic ligaments are two; large; small; * Grreat sacro-sciatic ligaments.- 5. Small or anterior ligament. -4. Large or posterior ligament.