mTRINSIC LINGUAL MUSCLES. 163 The nerves for the supply of the tongue should be traced Trace tiio on the left half as well as the part will admit; but a sepa- ^ rate recent specimen would be required to follow them satis- factorily. The transversalis muscle forms an almost horizontal layer Thisishori- in the substance of the tongue from base to apex. The fibres are attached internally to the side of the septum, and Attach- are thence directed outwards, the posterior being somewhat ^^^^^s. curved, to their insertion into the side of the tongue. Its Fibres, fibres are collected into vertical plates, so as to allow the passage between them of the ascending fibres. The superior lingiialis (noto-glossus of Zaglas) is a thin This is sr.- layer of oblique and longitudinal fibres close beneath the perficial. submucous tissue on the dorsum of the tongue. Its fibres Origin, arise from the fr^num epiglottidis, and from the fascia along the middle line ; from this attachment they are directed Fibres, obliquely outwards, the anterior becoming longitudinal, to the margin of the tongue, at which they end like they began. This is the most superficial lingual muscle, and assists in Ending, forming the cortex. The inferior Ungualis is much stronger than the preceding. Position and is placed below the tongue between the hyo and genio- to^g^g hyo-glossus. The muscle arises posteriorly from the fascia Origin, on the dorsum, near the root of the tongue ; and the fibres are collected into a roundish bundle in the position before noted. From its attached surface fasciculi are continued Ending', vertically through the transverse fibres upwards to the dor- sum ; and at the anterior third of the tongue, where the muscle is overlaid by the stylo-glossus, some of the fibres are applied to that muscle and distributed v/ith it. The mucous membrane is a continuation of that lining the Mucous mouth, and is provided with a laminar epithelium : partly ejiUhc-^' investing the tongue, it is reflected ofi" at different points in li^™- the form of folds (p. 139). At the epiglottis are three small glosso-epiglottid folds, connecting this body to the root of the tongue; the central one of these is called the frsenum of the epiglottis. Like the membrane of the mouth, it is furnished with numerous muciparous glands, and some follicles. The follicles occupy the dorsum of the tongue, especially Follicles, between the papill83 vallatse and the epiglottis, where they form, a continuous stratum, some projecting under the mucous membrane. The glands (lingual) are racemose or compound in structure, ^^^jfj''^^^^^, similar to those of the lips and cheek, and are placed beneath the mucous membrane and follicles, covering chiefly the M 2