COmECTIOI^S OF THE YISCEEA m THE FEMALE. 615 erectile texture, like the corpora cavernosa, but is much Corpus less strong. Commencing posteriorly by a dilated part— spongiosum the bulb, it extends forwards around the urethra to the . . . . snrrouiid.3 extremity of the penis, where it swells out into the conical u.ethra, and glans penis. ssvelis into a. The hulh (fig. 92, e) lies in front of the triangular liga- the bulb, ment of the urethra, and opposite the point of junction of the crura of the corj)ora cavernosa. It is directed back- wards slightly below the membranous part of the urethra, and is fixed by fibrous tissue to the front of the triangular ligament. The accelerator urines muscle covers it. This J^^^J^j^^/^ enlargement presents usually a central depression, with a bulging on each side, and is subdivided into two lobes. h. The glans penis is somewhat conical in form, and covers J^^® the truncated end of the corpora cavernosa. Its base is gians penis, directed backwards, and is marked by a slightly prominent border—the corona glandis ; it is also sloped obliquely along the under aspect, from the apex to the base. In the apex is a vertical slit, in which the urethral canal terminates ; and below that aperture is an excavation which contains the frsenum preputii. Section III. CONNECTIONS OF THE VISCERA IN THE FEMALE. In the pelvis of the female are contained the lower end of Contents^of the intestinal tube, and the bladder and the urethra, as in pelvis, the male ; but there are in addition the generative organs, viz., the uterus with its accessories, and the vagina. Position.—The rectum is posterior to the rest as in the and their male pelvis, and forms a like curve. In the concavity of the bent intestine lie the uterus with its appendages, and the tube of the vagina. And in front of all are the bladder and the urethral canal. In this sex there are three tubes con- nected with the viscera, and all are directed forwards, one above another, to the surface, viz., the tube of the urethra, that of the vagina, and that of the rectum. Directions.—The description in Section I. (p. 602) must Use dcscrip- be used for instructions respecting the removal of the inno- peivi*^^ ^^^^^ minate bone, and for the anatomy of the fasciae, and the muscles of the outlet of the pelvis.