AKTICULATION' OF THE KNEE. 759 Fk. 110.* A capsule surrounds the ends of the bones, and fills the intervals between the stronger special ligaments. The fascia lata is closely united with it. In front it receives accessory fibres from the vasti and crureus, and from the biceps and sartorius ; and behind, from the tendon of the semimem- branosus. It is connected with the interarticular cartilages, and the tendon of the popliteus muscle perforates it. The external lateral ligament (fig. 110, ^) is round and cord-like. It is attached to the outer condyle of the femur below the tendon of the gastrocnemius, and descends vertically between two pieces of the tendon of the biceps to the outer part of the head of the fibula. Beneath the Kgament are the tendon of the popliteus, and the external lower articular vessels and nerve. A second fasciculus, shan't external lateral ligament, is sometimes found behind the other. The tendon of the biceps is inserted into the upper part of the head of the fibula by two processes, and from one of these there is a pro- longation to the head of the tibia. The external lateral ligament passes between the pieces into which the tendon is split. The tendon of the popliteus may be followed to the femur by dividing the external lateral and capsular ligaments. It arises from the fore and upper part of the oblong depression on the outer surface of the external condyle of the femur. In its course to the outside of the joint, it crosses the external semilunar cartilage and the upper tibio-peroneal articulation. When the joint is bent, the tendon lies in the hollow on the condyle. The tendon of the adductor magnus is inserted into a tubercle on the inner surface of the internal condyle above the attachment of the internal lateral ligament. The internal lateral ligament (G.g. Ill, ^) is scarcely dis- tinguishable from the capsule at its attachment to the condyle of the femur ; but it is separate from the capsule opposite Capsule a thiu cover- External lateral liga- ment is small. Occasional band. Tendon of the bicej)s is divided. Tendon ot the popli- teus is _ attache'd to outer con- dyle. Adductor magnus. Internal lateral liga- ment ; * External ligaments of the knee joint (Bonrgery).—1. Anterior ligament. 2. External lateral ligament. 3. Interosseous ligament. 4. Part of the capsule.