51 LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. The TENSOR TARSI MUSCLE aHses from the ridge on the Tensor tarsi OS unguis, and slightly from the bone behind the ridge. Its "^^^cie. fibres are pale, and form a very small flat band, behind the ligamentum palpebrarum, which divides like that structure into a slip for each eyelid. In each eyelid the slip lies on Insertion, the lachrymal canal, and blends with the other muscular fibres at the free margin of the tarsal cartilage. Dissection. —A small nerve, the orbital branch of the Trace offset superior maxillary trunk, lies in some loose fat along the niaxurary"^ outer angle of the floor of the orbit, and may be brought nerve, into view by the removal of the eyeball and its muscles. This nerve is very soft and easily broken. Two branches, temporal and malar, are to be traced forwards from it : and a filament of the lachrymal nerve is to be followed to its junction with the former. The outer wall of the orbit may be cut away, bit by bit, to follow the temporal branch through to the surface of the head. The orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve arises Orbital in the spheno-maxillary fossa, and enters the orbit by the superior^ fissure of the same name. At the back of the orbit the maxillary nerve divides into malar and temporal branches, which ' ramify in the face and the side of the head. a. The malar branch (r. subcutaneus malae) is directed its malar forwards along the floor of the orbit, and through a foramen in the malar bone to the face. After emerging from its foramen, this branch supplies the orbicularis, and com- municates with the facial nerve. b. The temporal branch ascends on the outer wall of the and tempo- orbit, either beneath the periosteum, or in a groove in the ^'^^branches, bone ; and being joined by a filament from the lachrymal nerve, passes into the temporal fossa through a foramen in the malar bone. The nerve is then directed upwards between the temporal muscle and the bone, and perforates the tem- poral fascia near the orbit. Its distribution has been seen in the examination of the cutaneous nerves of the head (p. 7). Lachrymal Apparatus.—The lachrymal gland and ducts. Apparatus with the puncta, canals, and sac, constitute the apparatus by tiie tears, which the tears are formed, and conveyed to the nose. The gland has been already described (see p. 43). Dissection.—Some bristles should be introduced into the Dissection, lachrymal canals through the puncta of the eyelids that still remain in their natural place. The lachrymal sac will appear by removing the tensor tarsi and the areolar tissue from its surface, as it lies on the os unguis. The prolonga- E 2