291 MUSCLES OF THE ARM. sists of two tendinous pieces or lieads of origin of different lengths, which are attached to the scapula. The short head ^^e^g^apui? arises from the apex of the coracoid process in common with the coraco-brachialis muscle ; and the long head is attached to the upper part of the glenoid cavity of the scapula, within the capsule of the shoulder joint. Muscular fibres spring from each tendinous head, and blend about the middle of the arm in one fleshy mass, somewhat flattened from before back,—the belly of the muscle. Inferiorly the biceps ends ^ in a tendon which is inserted into the tubercle of the radius. The muscle is superficial except at the extremities. At cover- its upper part the biceps is concealed by the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles ; and at the lower end the tendon dips into the hollow in front of the elbow, having previously given an offset to the fascia of the arm. Beneath the biceps beneath are the brachialis anticus muscle, the musculo-cutaneous nerve, and the upper part of the humerus. Its inner border is the guide to the brachial artery below the middle of the the artery, humerus, but between it and the vessel above that spot the coraco-brachialis muscle intervenes. The connection of the long head of the biceps with the shoulder joint, and the in- sertion of the muscle into the radius, will be afterwards dissected. The CORACO-BRACHIALTS is a muscle of a roundish form, Coraco- and is named from its bony attachments. Its origin is named from fleshy from the tip of the coracoid process, and from the ^|JJg*^^^^" tendinous short head of the biceps. Its fibres become ten- dinous below, and are inserted, below the level of the deltoid muscle, into a ridge on the inner side of the humerus, which separates the anterior and posterior surfaces: from its tendon of insertion an aponeurotic slip is continued upwards to the head of the humerus. Part of the muscle is beneath the pectoralis major, and s^^^oj^^l forms a prominence in the axilla; but the rest is superficial, iug parts, except at the insertion where it is covered by the brachial vessels and the median nerve. The coraco-brachialis con- ceals the subscapular muscle, the anterior circumflex artery, and the tendons of the latissimus and teres. Along the inner border is the large artery of the limb with its nerves. Perforating it is the musculo-cutaneous nerve. The BRACHIAL ARTERY (fig. 44, ^) is a continuation of Brachial the axillary trunk, and supplies vessels to the upper tendJto^ limb. It begins at the lower border of the teres major muscle, and ends rather below the bend of the elbow, or u 2