302 DISSECTION OF THE FROOT OF THE FOREARM. bones, the glenoid ligament, and tlie tendon, of the biceps will be manifest. Tendon^ of The tendon of the biceps muscle arches over the head of ^ ' the humerus, and serves the purpose of a ligament in re- straining the upward movements of that bone. It is attached to the upper part of the glenoid fossa of the scapula, and is connected on each side with the glenoid ligament. As it is directed outwards it becomes round ; and entering the groove between the tuberosities of the humerus, it is covered by a prolongation from the tendon of the pectoralis major muscle, and is surrounded by the synovial membrane. Glenoid The glenoid ligament is a firm fibrous band, which sur- ligament. rounds the fossa of the same name, deepening it for the reception of the head of the humerus. It is about two lines in depth, and is connected in part with the sides of the tendon of the biceps ; but some of its fibres are fixed separately to the edge of the glenoid fossa. membrane synovial membrane lines the articular surface of the capsule, and is continued beneath the subscapularis muscle through the aperture on the inner side. The membrane is further reflected around the tendon of the biceps, and lines the bicipital groove of the humerus. Section IV. THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. Position of Fosition, —The limb is to be placed with the palm of the the limb. hand uppermost ; and the marking of the surface, and the projections of bone, are first to be noted. Surface of Surface-marhing. —• On the anterior aspect of the fore e oiearm. lateral depressions, corresponding with the position of the main vessels. The external one is placed over the radial artery, and inclines towards the middle of the limb as it approaches the elbow. The internal one is evident only beyond the middle of the forearm, and points out the part of the ulnar artery that is uncovered by muscle Bonyprojec- The bones (radius and ulna) are sufficiently near the ^* surface to be traced in their whole length : each ends below in a point,—the styloid process, and that of the radius is the lowest. Line of the The articulation of the wrist is about an inch above the wrist joint.