DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 648 Labia mi- nora de- scend from prepuce. Vestibule. Opening of the urethra. Aperture of the vagina. Hymen and carunculse. Mucous layer over genitals. Its papillae, epithelium, and glands. both penis and clitoris ; and in the interior of the clitoris is an erectile tissue, like that in the male organ (p. 642). The nymphce (labia minora) are two folds of mucous mem- brane that descend from the end of the clitoris, one on each side of the orifice of the vagina : they are continuous above with the preputial covering of the clitoris, and extend down about one inch and a half. The inner surface is continuous with the lining of the vestibular space and vagina ; and the outer, with the covering of the external labium. Bloodvessels are contained in each fold. Vestibule and orifice of the urethra. —Within the nymphse, between the clitoris above and the vagina below, is an angu- lar interval, about one inch and a half deep, which is called the vestibule. In the middle line of the vestibular space is the round orifice of the urethra, which is placed in an emi- nence about one inch below the clitoris, and near the aperture of the vagina. Orifice of the vagina and the hymen.—The aperture of the vagina is close below the meatus urinarius, and varies much in size. In the child and in the virgin state it is partly closed below by a thin semilunar fold of mucous mem- brane named the hymen. After the destruction of that membrane small irregularly-shaped projections, carunculae myrtiformes, exist around the opening of the vagina. Mucous membrane. —The mucous covering of the external genitals is furnished throughout with papillae, but these are largest on the labia minora and the clitoris. Its epithehum is laminar. Besides sebaceous glands on the labia majora and minora, other branched mucous glands open on the surface. vagina and uterus. GENERATIVE ORGANS. The generative organs are the uterus and the vagina, and the ovaries with the Fallopian tubes. Dissection.—The viscera are now to be separated, so that the bladder and the urethra may be together, and the vagina and the uterus remain united. The bladder is to be set aside for subsequent use, and the other organs are to be learnt first. The surface of the vagina and lower part of the uterus should be cleaned, but the peritoneal investment of the latter is to be left untouched for the present. Vagina: extent THE VAGINA. The vagina is a dilatable tube, which is connected with the uterus at one end, and terminates in the vulva at the other. It has a curved course between the two points mentioned :