657 BLADDEK, UEETHRA, AND RECTUM. connections of the viscera of the female pelvis (p. 619). For a notice of its structure, the anatomy of the male bladder is to be referred to (p. 635). Dissection.—To prepare the bladder, distend it with air, Preparation and remove the peritoneal covering and the loose tissue from the muscular fibres. After the external anatomy of the bladder and urethra have been learnt, both the receptacle for the urine and its excretory tube are to be slit open along the upper part. Urethra. —The length and the connections of this ex- Length of cretory tube are given in page 619. urethra. The average diameter of the tube is rather more than a Size; quarter of an inch, and the canal is enlarged and funnel- shaped towards the neck of the bladder. Neax the external aperture there is a hollov*^ in the floor of the tube. In con- sequence of not being surrounded by resistant structures, the it can be female urethra is much more dilatable than the corresponding dilated, passage in the male. Structure. —This tube, like the urethra of the male, con- Tube like sists of a mucous coat, which is enveloped by a plexus of ^^^le"^ bloodvessels, and by muscular fibre. The muscular coat extends the whole length of the urethra. Muscular Its fibres are circular, and continuous behind with the middle cuiar fibres, layer of the bladder. This covering is placed between the constrictor urethrse and the submucous layer, as in the male (p. 639) ; and the part nearest the bladder will correspond with the prostatic enlargement in the other sex. The mucous coat is pale except near the outer orifice. It Mucous is marked by longitudinal folds ; and one of these, in the floor of the canal, resembles the median crest in the male A fold in urethra (p. 639). Around the outer orifice are some mucous follicles; and towards the inner end are some mucous glands, Follicles whose apertures are arranged in lines between the folds of the membrane, and are turned towards the bladder. A laminar epithelium is spread over the surface, and beneath Epithelium, it are deeper conical cells as in the bladder. A submucous stratum of longitudinal elastic and muscular Submucoua tissues lies close to the mucous membrane as in the male. tissue. Eegtum.—The structure of the rectum is similar in the Rectum like two sexes ; and the student may use the description in the ^^^i^^^^^'"" Section on the anatomy of the viscera of the male pelvis (p. 644). Dissection. —The rectum may be prepared for examination Preparation by distending it with air or tow, and removing the peritoneal o^^'®^^^^"^- covering and the areolar tissue from its surface.