119 HYPOGLOSSAL NEEYE. thyroid cartilage, and it will be afterwards traced into the interior. The following branches arise from it :— a. Some cardiac branches leave this nerve as it turns it has round the subclavian artery; these enter the thorax, and ^eartf join the cardiac nerves of the sympathetic. h. Muscular branches spring from the recurrent nerve to trachea, whilst it lies between the trachea and the oesophagus, and are oesopha- distributed to both those tubes. Near the larynx also some filaments are furnished to the inferior constrictor muscle. On the left side of the body the recurrent nerve arises in Left recur- the thorax, opposite the arch of the aorta, around which it nerve, bends. In the neck its position is between the trachea and the oesophagus, as on the right side. The SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE (fig. 14, ^) paSSCS through Spinal acces- the foramen jugulare with the pneumo-gastric, but is not ^^^^ marked by any ganglion while in the foramen. This nerve has two is constructed of two parts, viz, accessory to the vagus, and spinal, which have different origins and distributions. (See Origin of the cranial nerves.) The part accessory to the vagus, 11, is the smaller of the accessory to two, and finally blends with the vagus beyond the skull. In the foramen of exit from the skull, it lies close to the in foramen, vagus ; and here it joins the upper ganglion of that nerve by one or two filaments. Having passed through the foramen, this part is applied Below to the vagus ; it is then continued over the lower ganglion of that nerve, and blends with the trunk of the vagus only beyond the ganglion, 16. It gives ofi'sets to join the i^o^ ends, pharyngeal and upper laryngeal branches of the vagus ; and according to Bendz, offsets from it may be traced into many other branches of the same nerve. The spinal part (fig. 14, is much larger, is round and Spinal part cord-like, and is connected with the smaller piece whilst it fo^^^^^- is passing through the foramen jugulare. Beyond the foramen the nerve takes a backward course in the neck, through the sterno-mastoid muscle, and across the side of ^^q^^qq to the neck to the trapezius muscle. At first it is somewhat trapezius, concealed by the jugular vein, but it then passes either over or under that vessel, to take the course above indicated. The connections of the nerve beyond the sterno-mastoideus have been already examined (p. 59). This nerve furnishes muscular offsets to the sterno- Supplies mastoideus and the trapezius. The HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE (ninth of Willis), after passing Ninth nerve from the cranium by the anterior condyloid foramen, lies