BRANCHES OF AXILLARY ARTERY. 269 the cephalic vein for a short distance ; and another (inferior offset. acromial) perforates the deltoid muscle, and anastomoses on the acromion process with a branch of the suprascapular artery of the neck. c. One or two small twigs ascend from this branch of the J^^^^g^^^' axillary artery to the subclavius and deltoid muscles. 3. The alar thoracic is very inconstant as a separate branch, ^l^r tbo- and its place is mostly supplied by offsets of the subscapular krJgiTiarf or long thoracic arteries ; it is distributed to the glands of the axillary space. 4. The long thoracic branch (external mammary) is directed Long tlio- along the border of the pectoralis minor to the side of the chest (fig. 44on which it extends to about the sixth intercostal space ; it supplies the pectoral and serratus muscles, and anostomoses, like the other branches, with the intercostal and thoracic arteries. In the fem_ale it gives branches to the mammary gland. A second external mammary artery is not unfrequently second met with, especially in the female ; its position is nearer the middle of the axilla with a companion vein. 5. The subscapular branch (fig. 44 courses with a Subscapular nerve of the same name along the subscapular muscle, as ^^^^ far as the lower angle of the scapula, where it ends in branches for the serratus magnus and the latissimus dor si and teres muscles. Near its origin the artery sends backwards a consider- able branch round the edge of the subscapular muscle : this dorsal branch gives an offset, infrascapular, to the ventral aspect of the scapula, and then turns to the dorsum of that bone, where it will be afterwards dissected. The subscapular artery is frequently combined at its origin yJ^^JJJ^^^" with other branches of the axillary, or with branches of the brachial artery. 6. The circumflex branches (anterior and posterior) arise ^^^^ circum- near the border of the subscapular muscle. One turns in front of, and the other behind the humerus. They will be followed in the examination of the arm. The AXILLARY VEIN continues upwards the basilic vein ^^iiiary ■'• . vem, of the arm, and has the same extent and connections as the axillary artery. It lies to the thoracic side of its artery, extent and and receives thoracic and subscapular branches. Opposite connections. the subscapular muscle it receives externally a large vein, Branches. which is formed by the union of the vense comites of the brachial artery ; and near the clavicle the cephalic vein opens into it.