YAGUS AITD SPLANCHNIC NERYES. 543 rates the crus of the diaphragm, and generally ends altogether of large in the semilunar ganglion, but it may give filaments to the nerve! renal plexus and the suprarenal body. The small nerve comes through the same opening in the small, diaphragm as the preceding, and ends in the coeliac plexus ; but it enters the renal plexus if the smallest splanchnic nerve is absent. The smallest nerve^ after piercing the diaphragm, joins the and , 1 smallest, renal plexus. Ending of the vagus nerve.—In the abdomen the pneumo- gastric nerves end mostly in the stomach. The left nerve divides into branches, which extend over Ending of the front and along the small curvature of the stomach ; ^^^^ ^ag^s these join the sympathetic, and give offsets to the hepatic plexus. The right nerve is distributed to the posterior surface of and right, the stomach near the upper border ; it communicates with its fellow, and with the coeliac and splenic plexuses. Dissection.—The viscera are now to be removed from the ^J^^^^^^j^^ abdomen in order that the body may be turned for the dis- body^by*^^ section of the back, and the lower limbs. removing ' the viscera. The stomach and the spleen with the duodenum and the pancreas are to be taken away together by cutting through the oesophagus near the diaphragm, and by dividing the vessels and nerves they receive. The liver is to be re- moved from the abdomen by cutting across its ligaments, and the vena cava between its posterior border and the diaphragm. At the same time the right kidney is to be taken out with the suprarenal body. And lastly the dissector should separate the left testicle by cutting through the spermatic cord. Directions.—Supposing the body to be now turned for Directions the dissection of the back, and to lie with the face down- dissector, wards for the usual time, the dissector may look first to the disposition of the fascia lumborum, which is described in the Dissection of the Back, p. 420. The rest of the time he should occupy in learning the form and structure of the viscera in the following Section.