DISSECTIOI^ OF THE NECK. 78 Nerve of serratus. Nerves of scaleni and loDgus colli. Suprasca- pular nerve. Offset to the phrenic. Cervical plexus forms a network, Arrange- ment of the nerves. Its offsets are superfi- cial. and deep. Deep beneath the levator anguli scapulfe to its destination. Branches are given usually from this nerve to the levator anguli scapulae. 3. The nerve of the serratus (posterior thoracic nerve : external respiratory nerve of Bell) is contained in the scalenus, like the preceding, and arises from the fifth and sixth nerves, near the intervertebral foramina. Piercing the fibres of the scalenus lower than the preceding branch, the nerve is continued behind the brachial plexus, and enters the serratus magnus muscle on the axillary sur- face. 4. Branches for the scalefii and longus colli muscles.— These are small twigs that are seen when the anterior scalenus is divided ; they arise from the trunks of the nerves as soon as these leave the spinal canal. 5. The suprascapular nerve is larger than either of the others. It arises near the subclavian branch from the same cord of the plexus, viz., that formed by the fifth and sixth nerves. Its destination is the dorsum of the scapula, on which it will be dissected with the arm. Occasionally an offset comes from the trunk of the fifth cervical nerve, and joins the phrenic on the anterior scalenus muscle. The CERVICAL PLEXUS is formed by the anterior primary branches of the first four cervical nerves. Situate at the upper part of the neck, it lies beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, and on the middle scalenus and the levator anguli scapulae. Its appearance diff'ers much from that of the brachial plexus, for it resembles a network more than a bundle of large cords. The following is the general arrange- ment of the nerves in the plexus :—each nerve, except the first, divides into an ascending and descending branch, and these unite with similar parts of the contiguous nerves, so as to give rise to a series of arches. From these loops or arches the different branches arise. Branches.—The branches of the plexus are both super- ficial and deep. The superficial set (fig. 8) are described with the triangular space of the neck, as consisting of ascending and descending nerves (p. 59). In this stage of the dissection the ascending branches are seen to spring from the union of the second and third nerves, and the descending branches to come from the loop between the third and fourth nerves. The deep set of branches remain to be examined. The DEEP BRANCHES OF THE PLEXUS are both muscular and