THE BACK OF THE THIGH. 715 By their attacliments to the bones these ligaments convert They give the large sacro-sciatic notch of the dried pelvis into two notches: apertures or foramina. Between their insertion into the spine and tuberosity of the innominate bone, is the small sacro-sciatic foramen, which contains the internal obturator small, with muscle with its nerve, and the pudic vessels and nerve, contents; And above the smaller ligament is the large sacro-sciatic large, and foramen, which gives passage to the pyriformis muscle, and fjfg*^^ifj,o^ugli several vessels and nerves ; viz., the gluteal vessels, and the it. superior gluteal nerve above the muscle, and the sciatic and pudic vessels and nerves with some muscular branches of the sacral plexus below the muscle. Section III. THE BACK OF THE THIGH. Directions. —The ham or the popliteal space may be taken Directions, after the buttock, in order that it may be seen with its size and boundaries less disturbed than if it was dissected subse- quently to the examination of the muscles at the back of the thigh. When this space has been learnt the student will return to the dissection of the thigh. Position.—The limb is to remain in the same position as Position, in the dissection of the buttock. Dissection.—To remove the skin from the popliteal region, Take the let an incision be made behind the knee joint, beginning it overthe^ about six inches above the knee, and ending it four inches ham. below the joint. At each extremity of the longitudinal cut let a transverse incision be made, so as to allow the skin to be raised in two flaps ; of these one is to be turned outwards, and the other inwards. In the superficial fascia some small cutaneous nerves may Seek the be found, viz., one or two twigs in the middle line of the nerves.°^ limb from the small sciatic nerve beneath the fascia ; and some oJffsets of the internal cutaneous towards the inner part. After the fat is removed, the special fascia of the limb will be brought into view. Fascia lata.—"Where the fascia covers the popliteal space Fascia of the it is strengthened by transverse fibres, particularly on the tiJ!^ ham.^ outer side; and at each side it is connected with the tendons bounding that interval. The short saphenous vein perforates