499 HERNIA OF THE ABDOMEK opposite side. Behind the pubes it communicates with a small offset from the obturator artery : the size of this anastomosis varies much, but its situation is internal to the crural ring. b. A cremasteric branch is furnished to the coverings of Cremas- the cord as before mentioned. c. Muscular branches are given from the outer side of the Muscular, artery to supply the abdominal wall, and to anastomose with the intercostal arteries. Other branches enter the rectus. d. Some cutaneous offsets pierce the rectus, and ramify in Cutaneous, the integument with the anterior cutaneous nerves. Two epigastric veins are found with the artery ; they join Epigastric finally into one, and open into the external iliac vein. ^ems. The circumflex iliac artery arises from the outer side of Circumflex the external iliac, opposite the epigastric, and then courses ^^^^^ outwards around the iliac crest, as the name expresses. Having pierced the tube of membrane around the upper is in wall of part of the femoral vessels, the artery lies at first below abdomen, Poupart's ligament, and passes next beneath the transversalis muscle to the middle of the crest of the hip bone. Here and anasto- the vessel pierces the transversalis, and is continued back- So-hirnbar. wards between this and the internal oblique, to anastomose with the ilio-lumbar branch of the internal iliac artery. Its branches are muscular and anastomotic. Branches.—Near the front of the iliac crest a small branch Muscular ascends between the internal oblique and transversalis muscles (fig. 76), supplying them, and anastomoses with the epigastric and lumbar arteries. As the vessel extends back- wards it gives lateral offsets, which supply the neighbouring muscles, and communicate on the one side with the ilio- lumbar, and on the other with the gluteal artery. The circumflex iliac vein accompanying the artery is formed Circumflex by the junction of two collateral branches, like the epigastric, and crosses the external iliac artery, nearly an inch above Poupart's ligament, to open into the external iliac vein. Section II. HERNIA OF THE ABDOMEN. The lower part of the abdominal wall, which has been inguinal