DISSECTIO]^ OF THE ABDOMEN. 576 Its tissue forms spaces for masses of cells. Medullary part. Thickness. Spaces iu it. Its tissue forms a net- work for cells. Characters of the cells. Size and diameter. Veins. Nerves. which builds up spaces elongated from without inwards, and arranged vertically around the centre. In the spaces or loculi columnar masses of cells are lodged, but slight force readily removes them from their containing hollows. A thin limiting membrane is said to line the S]3aces (Harley"^). The central or^meduUary portion (fig. 88, B) is grayish or rather red in colour, or it may be dark brown or black from the presence of blood. About half as thick as the cortical part, it possesses internally small round or oval spaces (fig. 88, C) (venous spaces, Harley), with sometimes a larger central hole resulting from the laceration of the substance. In it the areolar tissue of the stroma forms a network with small but regular meshes for the lodgement of cells, instead of lengthened intervals as in the cortical part. Large cells, either single or in pairs, fill the meshes. Cells of the suprarenal body.—The cells filling the loculi of the fibroQS stroma are roundish in shape in the medullary part, and are nucleated and granular with some pigment and oil globules ; but in the cortical part where they are packed in masses, they take on a polygonal form. They are rather smaller in the outer than in the inner part of the stroma, and have an average diameter of -j^^-o th of an inch in the cortex, and -xoVo^-'^ inch, in the medullary portion (Harley). Bloodvessels. —Numerous branches of arteries are furnished to the suprarenal body from the diaphragmatic and renal arteries, and from the aorta. In the interior of the body the arteries ramify in the cortical part along the fibrous septa between the cell masses, and frequently anastomosing together, end in a fine capillary network with elongated meshes around the cells. In the medullary part, the fine arteries, after ramifying through the stroma, end in capil- laries with rounded intervals. The veins originate in the capillary plexuses, and the several branches uniting in the medullary part, and commu- nicating with the sinuses in it (Harley), are collected finally into a trunk, which opens on the right side into the vena cava, and on the left, into the renal vein. Other smaller veins pass out through the cortex to the renal vein and the cava. Nerves.—The nerves are very numerous and large. In the medullary substance they form a network in the areolar structure, but their ending is unknown. * The Histology of the Suprarenal Capsules, by George Harley, M.D. Eeprinted from The Lancet, 1858.