DISSECTIOlSr OF THE FOOT. 742 divides into four. These pierce the other tendons. Ligaments to tendons. Four lum- bricales. Attachment to toes and long flexor. Flexor ac- cessorius is joined with flexor longus. Insertion of tendon of flexor pol- licis. Connec- tions. internal lateral ligament of the ankle joint. In tlie foot it is directed obliquely towards the centre, where it is joined by the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis and the accessory muscle, and divides into tendons for the four outer toes. Each tendon enters the sheath of the toe with, and beneath a tendon from the flexor brevis. About the centre of the metatarsal phalanx the long flexor tendon is transmitted through the other, and passes onwards to be inserted into the base of the ungual phalanx. The flexor longus digitorum is sometimes increased in size by its junction with the long flexor of the great toe. In the foot there are ligamentous bands (lig. brevia) to the flexor tendons as in the hand, and the one fixing the flexor perforans is provided also with elastic tissue. See p. 323. The lumhricales are four small muscles between the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum. Each arises from two ten- dons, with the exception of the most internal one which is connected with the inner side of the tendon to the second toe. Each is inserted into the tibial side of the base of the metatarsal phalanx in the four outer toes ; and from the insertion an expansion is prolonged to the dorsum of the phalanx to join the aponeurotic covering on it. These muscles decrease in size from the inner to the outer side of the foot. The accessorius muscle has two heads of origin:—One is tendinous, and is attached to the under or the outer surface of the OS calcis and the ligamentum longum plantse; the other is large and fleshy, and springs from the inner or concave surface of the calcaneum. The fibres end in aponeurotic bands, which join the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum about the centre of the foot, so as to form a kind of groove for it. The muscle is bifurcated behind, and the heads of origin are separated by the long plantar ligament. On it are the external plantar vessels and nerve, and the flexor brevis digitorum conceals it. The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis is deeper in the sole of the foot than the flexor longus digitorum, to which it is united by a strong tendinous process. Finally directed to the root of the great toe, it enters the digital sheath, and is inserted into the base of the ungual phalanx. Between the calcaneum and the internal malleolus this ten- don lies in a groove in the astragalus ; and in the foot it occupies a groove below the inner projection (sustentaculum tali) of the os calcis.