197 Omom OF THE CRANIAL NERYES. stripped from tlie brain, and the origin of the cranial nerves is to be defined. Over the greater part of the cerebrum, the pons, and the medulla, the pia mater can be detached with tolerable facility by using two pairs of forceps ; but over the cerebellum the membrane adheres so closely that it will require some care to remove it without tearing the substance of the brain. In clearing out the fissure between the halves {^^gj^^jj^® of the cerebellum on the under surface, the membrane that moving pia bounds on each side the opening of the fourth ventricle will probably be taken away. The student should therefore observe now the position and size of that opening between the back of the medulla oblongata and the inferior vermi- form process. When the surface has been cleaned, the brain is to be replaced in the spirit till it is hardened. Section II. ORIGIN OF THE CRANIAL NEEVES. The cranial nerves take origin from the encephalon, with Origin one exception (spinal accessory), and pass from it through apertures in the skull. The origin of a nerve is not determined by the place at is apparent which it appears on the surface of the brain, for fibres or ^^^^* roots may be traced deeply into the nervous substance. Each nerve has therefore a superficial or apparent, and a deep or real origin in the encephalon. Respecting the superficial attachment to the brain there cannot be any doubt ; but respecting the deep origin there is much difi'erence of opinion, in consequence of the difficulty of tracing the roots. "When the roots are followed into the Real enters encephalon, they are found to be connected with masses Qf ^^^y^^^^^i gray substance, which are looked upon as nerve nuclei, or ganglia of origin. The cranial nerves may be regarded either as nine or ciassifica- twelve pairs, according to the mode of classifying them. oi^twe^ive^^ pairs. Those anatomists, who take the smaller number after the example of "Willis, include in one nerve all the trunks contained in the same aperture of the skull : as in the case of the eighth nerve, which consists of three trunks in the foramen jugulare. But those who are disposed with Sommerring to enumerate twelve nerves, consider each of the three trunks of the eighth nerve before mentioned, and in like manner all the other trunks issuing from the encephalon, to