GLUTEUS MAXIMUS. 707 insertion, and the sciatic artery and nerves are to be detached from the under surface, though the branches that enter the muscle must be cut. The loose fat is to be taken away from the hollow between Clean parts the pelvis and the trochanter, without injuring the vessels and nerves ; and the several muscles are to be cleaned, the fibres of each being made tense at the time of its dissection by rotating the femur. In removing the areolar tissue from the ischial tuberosity and the great trochanter, the bursa on each prominence of bone should be observed. The vessels, nerves, and muscles of this region which are to be defined are noticed below in the enumeration of the parts beneath the gluteus. Lastly the origin of the muscle is to be removed. And Dissect out the sacral nerves, when dissected out of the gluteus, are to nerves, be followed to the surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, where they are united, and concealed by aponeurotic fibres. Farts beneath the gluteus.—At its origin the gluteus parts maximus rests on the pelvis, and conceals parts of the hip g°^^^eus af bone, sacrum, and coccyx: aboA^e, the muscle covers also the its origin ischial tuberosity with the origin of the hamstring muscles, and the great sacro-sciatic ligament. At its insertion it andinser- covers the upper end of the femur, with the great trochanter ^^^^' and the origin of the vastus externus. Between the muscle and each prominence of bone, viz. the tuberosity and the trochanter, is a large, loose synovial membrane; and between it and the vastus externus is another synovial sac. In the hollow between the pelvis and the femur the and by the muscle conceals, from above downwards, the undermentioned intervening -n- • I T Til part of the parts :—First is a portion of the gluteus medius; and below muscle, it is the pyriformis, with the superficial branch of the gluteal artery between the two. Coming from beneath the pyri- formis are the sciatic vessels, and the large and small sciatic nerves, which descend to the thigh between the great tro- chanter and the ischial tuberosity; and internal to these are the pudic vessels and nerve, and the nerve to the obturator internus muscle, which are directed inwards through the small sacro-sciatic notch. Still lower down is the tendon of the obturator internus muscle, with a fleshy fasciculus—the j gemellus—above and below it. l^ext come the thin quadratus i femoris muscle, and the upper part of the adductor magnus. At the upper border of the quadratus is the tendon of the obturator externus; and at the lower border, between it and the adductor, is one of the terminal branches of the internal circumflex artery.