DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. 90 Position of the parts. Intermaxil- lary band. External pterygoid is horizontal. Attach- ments. Insertion. Contiguous parts. A second head. Internal pterygoid is which, is parallel in direction to the masseter, being inclined to the angle of the jaw. In removing the fatty tissue, the student must be careful not to take away the thin fascia of the internal lateral ligament, which is beneath the ramus. Many vessels and nerves will be found in this region, with the following position to other parts. Crossing inwards over the external pterygoid muscle, is the internal maxillary artery, which distributes offsets upwards and downwards : sometimes this artery will be placed beneath the muscle. Escaping from beneath the lower border of the same muscle are the large dental and gustatory nerves, the latter being the more internal of the two ; and appearing between the upper border of the muscle and the cranium, are the mas- seteric and deep temporal nerves. The buccal branch of nerve perforates the fibres of the external pterygoid near its inner attachment. Branches of the above-mentioned artery accompany these nerves. At the front of the space now dissected, coursing along the posterior part of the upper jaw, is the small posterior dental nerve with an artery. Between the jaws is the whitish narrow band of the pterygo-maxillary ligament, fig. 11, to which the buccinator and superior constrictor muscles are connected. The EXTERNAL PTERYGOID MUSCLE (fig. 11, ") extends almost horizontally from the zygomatic fossa to the condyle of the lower jaw. Its origin is from the outer surface of the great wing of the sphenoid bone below the crest, and from the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate. The fibres are directed outwards and somewhat backwards, those attached to the upper margin of the spheno-maxillary fissure forming at first a separate bundle, and are inserted into the hollow in front of the neck of the lower jaw bone, and into the interarticular fibro-cartilage of the joint. Externally the muscle is concealed by the temporal muscle and the lower jaw, and the internal maxillary artery lies on it. By the deep surface it is in contact with the inferior maxillary nerve, with a plexus of veins, and with the internal lateral ligament of the joint of the jaw. The parts in contact with the borders of the muscle have been enumerated in the dissec- tion of the region. Sometimes the slip of the muscle, attached to the margin of the spheno-maxillary fissure and the root of the external pterygoid plate, is described, as a separate head with an insertion mostly into the interarticular cartilage. The INTERNAL PTERYGOID MUSCLE (fig. 11, ^,) is nearly parallel to the ramus of the jaw, and its fibres are longer