CONNECTIOITS OF THE STOMACH. 515 pushes up the diapliragm, and encroaclies on the space for the heart and the left lung. The right extremity ends in and small. the small intestine, and reaches towards the gall bladder : it is in contact with the under part of the liver. The anterior surface is in contact, from left to right. Surfaces, with the diaphragm, the abdominal wall, and the liver ; and the posterior surface corresponds with the pancreas, the pillars of the diaphragm, the aorta and vena cava, and the solar plexus. The upper border is connected to the liver by a fold of Borders, peritoneum, the small omentum; and the lower border gives attachment to another peritoneal fold, the great omentum or epiploon, which floats freely over the intestine. The form, and the connections of the stomach with the Connections surrounding parts will be influenced by its condition. For ^^g^^sten!^ when the viscus is empty its surfaces look forwards and sion. backwards, and its borders upwards and downwards ; but when distended, it becomes somewhat circular, and makes a rotatory movement, so as to bring forwards the border usually lowest, and to turn upwards that surface which is directed forwards at other times. The position and connections of the stomach may be Alterations changed also by alterations in the size of any of the sur- from dis-^^ rounding organs, or by accumulation of fluid in the chest, or ease, in the belly. The stomach may be dragged down likewise by the great omentum entering a hernial sac, or it may be forced down towards the pelvis by the pressure of tight stays, and other In these difi'erent changes in its position, the right end moves more than the left, because it is attached mostly by peritoneum to the parts around. The small intestine.—The smaller part of the intestinal Smallintes- tube (intestinum tenue) reaches from the stomach to the right iliac region, where it ends in the large intestine. It is divided into three parts, duodenum (twelve fingers intes- Situation tine), jejunum, and ileum : of the last two, one receives its s^ns^^^^" name from its empty condition, and the other from its numerous coils. The duodenum cannot be satisfactorily seen at present. Duodenum, and it will be examined afterwards (p. 533). The jejunum and ileum (fig. 77", ^ ') begin on the left Jejunum side of the second lumbar vertebra, without any distinct mark of separation from the duodenum. Two-fifths of the intestine belong to the jejunum, and the remaining three- fifths to the ileum. This part of the intestinal tube forms Situation, many convolutions in the umbilical, hypogastric, lumbar, L L 2