470 DISSECTION OF THE PERII^^UM. The import- ance of this in htho- tomy. Artery of body of penis. Artery of dorsum of penis. Accessory pudic artery, Pudic vein. Pudic nerve is with the artery and ends like it on penis. Perinseal branch will be influenced by its origin nearer the front or back of the perinseal space. If the vessel arises farther behind than usual, it may be altogether below the base of the ligament, and cross the front of the ischio-rectal fossa; but if it arises more anteriorly, as when it comes from an accessory pudic branch (see below), its position will be higher than the level of the bulb. In the case first mentioned, it would be liable to be cut across, whilst in the last it would be altogether out of the way of the knife. From the size of the vessel its position is important in the operation of lithotomy. h. The artery of the cavernous structure of the penis (art. corporis cavernosi) is one of the terminal branches of the pudic. At first this small vessel lies betwen the crus penis and the bone, but it soon enters the cavernous structure, and ramifies in it. c. The dorsal artery of the penis is in direction and size the continuation of the pudic ; it runs upwards like the preceding between the crus and the bone, and reaches the dorsum of the penis by passing through the suspensory ligament. Its distribution with the accompanying nerve is noticed at page 481. It is much smaller in the female than in the male. Accessory pudic artery.—In some cases the pudic artery is not large enough to supply all the branches above described to the penis and the urethra. One or more offsets will be then contributed by an accessory vessel, which leaves the pelvis in front by piercing the triangular ligament. The source of this accessory artery is the internal iliac. The pudic vein has the same connections as the artery; it has also similar branches, except that the dorsal vein of the penis does not join it. The PUDIC NERVE is derived from the sacral plexus, and distributing ofisets with the branches of the pudic artery, ends in the penis. Accompanying the bloodvessels, the nerve enters the posterior part of the ischio-rectal fossa, and supplies there the inferior hsemorrhoidal (p. 459), and a large perinseal branch. Much diminished in size, it con- tinues with the artery without branching, pierces the triangular ligament of the urethra near the pubes, and is continued onwards to the dorsum of the penis with the dorsal branch of the pudic artery; its termination is described at page 482. The following are its ofisets :— a. The perinmal branch is distributed to the perinseum. It supplies first the superficial perinseal nerves, which have been already seen (p. 462), and extends forwards below the