797 STRUCTURE OF THE LEISTS. In the human eye they are not distinctly seen, becanse they bifurcate repeatedly as they extend outwards. Covering the surface of the lens,^ and connecting it with the capsule, is a layer of very transparent nucleated cells (fig. 125, a), which can be recognised only in a fresh eye. After a little time these cells absorb moisture from the aqueous humour, and breaking down form the fluid that has been called aqua Morgagni; but naturally there is not any fluid between the lens and its capsule. Structure.—After the lens has been hardened by spirit or boiling, it may be demonstrated to consist of a series of layers arranged one within another, like those in an onion. Under the microscope each layer may be seen to be con- structed of minute parallel fibres. No bloodvessels are found in its texture. It consists mostly of albumen. The laminm of each surface have their apices in the centre, where the septa meet, and may be detached from Fig. 125, f one another at that spot, and turned outwards. The constituent fibres of the laminae are about -^-^Qjy^^ of an inch in diameter, solid and rather flat, but most flattened at the margin of the lens ; and the deeper fibres are narrowed and less distinct. J The edges are slightly wavy (fig. 125, 6), and each fibre touches six others ; with one above, and another below therefore dovetailed together, and this interlocking is best seen in the lens of the codfish. They are connected at their extremities to the partitions on the opposite surfaces of the lens in this way:—those that are attached to the pole or the spot where the septa meet on the one aspect, are fixed to the extremity of a septum on A layer of cells joins it to the cap- sule. Lens is laminar. Form of tlie laminse. Fibres viz., two on each side, : contiguous fibres are are wavy at the edge, and six- sided, and attached to the septa by their ends. ^ According to some Anatomists the cells exist only on the anterior surface of the lens. + Cells and fibres of the lens magnified (Bowman).—a. Cells uniting the body of the lens to the capsule. h. Lens-fibres with slightly wavy edges. + The fibres are described by Kolliker as tubes containing a ' ^ clear viscid albuminoid matter," and terminating at the septa in elavate and fusiform enlargements.