654 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. the veins occupy canals in the uterine substance, in which Arteries; they communicate freely together. The arteries are furnished veins ; from the uterine and ovarian branches. The veins correspond nerves. with the arteries. The nerves are derived from the sympa- thetic, and are very small in proportion to the size of the uterus. External to the uterus they are not enlarged in pregnancy. (Beck. )^ Eound liga- Bound ligament of the uterus.—This firm cord supports the i™ groiT^^ uterus, and is contained partly in the broad ligament, and Attachment partly in the inguinal canal (p. 496). It is about four or five to uterus; inches in length, and is attached to the upper part of the uterus close below, and anterior to the Fallopian tube. A process of the peritoneum accompanies the part of the cord in the inguinal canal, and remains pervious sometimes for a short distance. how formed. The ligament is composed of unstriated muscular fibres, derived from the uterus, together with vessels and areolar tissue. It is said to possess some transversely striated muscular fibres. OVARIES AISTD FALLOPIAN TUBES. Ovary: OVARY. —The ovaries are two bodies, corresponding with position. testes of the male. They are contained in the broad Hga- ments of the uterus, one in each, and at the posterior aspect. Form and Each ovary is of an elongated form, and somewhat flat- colour; tened from above down. It is of a whitish colour, with dimensions either a smooth or a scarred surface. Its volume is variable; but in the virgin state it is about one inch and a half in length, half that size in width, and a third in thickness, and weight. Its weight is nearly a quarter of an ounce. Connec- The ovary is connected with the broad ligament by its anterior margin, where the vessels enter the stroma. Its outer end is rounded and is connected with one of the fim- briae at the mouth of the Fallopian tube. The inner ex- tremity is narrowed, and is attached to the side of the uterus by a fibrous cord,—the ligament of the ovary, which is placed below the level of the Fallopian tube and the round ligament. Glandular Structure.—The ovary consists of a fibrous and vascular m structure, g^^oma of areolar tissue, which contains small vesicles or ovisacs, named Graafian, and is enclosed within a fibrous tunic. The peritoneum surrounds the whole except at the attached margin. * See a Paper in the Philosophical Transactions for 1846.