CAVITY OF THE MOUTH. 139 The external layer is formed of longitudinal fibres, which outer or lon- begin opposite the cricoid cartilage by three bundles, anterior §^^tudinal, and two lateral;—the former is attached to the ridge at the back of the cartilage, and the others join the inferior con- strictor. The internal layer, on the other hand, is formed audjnner or of circular fibres, which are continuous with those of the constrictor. The structure of the oesophagus is described more fully in the dissection of the thorax. Section XII. CAVITY OF THE MOUTH. The cheeks, the lips, and the teeth, are to be examined with the mouth, as all may be considered accessory parts. The Mouth.—The cavity of the mouth is situate below Mouth, that of the nose, and extends from the lips in front to the isthmus of the fauces behind. Its boundaries are partly Situation, osseous and partly muscular, and its size depends upon the position of the lower jaw. When the lower jaw is moder- fo^™> ately removed from the upper one, the mouth is an oval cavity with the following boundaries. The roof is concave, and bounda- and is formed by the hard and soft palate, and is limited ^^^^* anteriorly by the arch of the teeth. In the floor is the tongue, bounded by the arch of the lower teeth ; and beneath the tip of that body is the frsenum iinguse, with the sub- lingual gland on each side. Each lateral boundary consists of the cheek and the ramus of the lower jaw ; and in it, near the second molar tooth in the upper jaw, is the opening of the parotid duct. The anterior opening of the mouth is bounded by the lips, and the posterior corresponds with the pillars of the soft palate. The mucous membrane of the mouth is much thicker on Lining of the hard than the soft parts bounding the cavity ; it lines '^'''^^^^ the interior of the cavity, and is reflected over the tongue. Anteriorly it is continuous with the tegument, and posteriorly with the lining of the pharynx. On tracing its disposition the membrane is seen to form differs in a small fold—frsenulum, between each lip and the front of the corresponding jaw. On the bony part of the roof it on roof, is thick and thrown into folds, and covers vessels, nerves, and glands ; but on the soft palate it is smooth and thinner. Along the middle of the palate is a ridge, which ends in