880 DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. in the stemo-clavicular articulation, but not close to the first piece thoiax. ^-^^^ sternum and the origin of the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone and larynx. In this course it passes beneath the left innominate vein, and the remains of the thymus gland. At first it lies on the trachea, but it crosses after- wards to the left of that tube, so as to be placed over the oesophagus and the thoracic duct. To its outer side is the left pneumo-gastric nerve, with one or more cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve. In the neck, the connections of the vessels of opposite sides are the same (p. 79). Peculiarities Pemliarities in origin.—The carotid is sometimes united with the ill its origin, innominate artery; or, should the innominate artery be absent, the common carotids, right and left, arise usually by one trunk. Its junction with the left subclavian is rare, except with transposition of the arch. In position. In iwsition.—It seldom changes its relative position with respect to the other branches of the arch, but if this is altered it tends generally towards the right. The LEFT SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY ariscs from the arch of the aorta, and ascends to the lower part of the neck through the upper aperture of the thorax. Beyond the first rib the vessels of opposite sides are alike (p. 70). The left subclavian trunk is directed almost vertically from the arch of the aorta to the inner margin of the first rib. In the thorax the vessel lies deeply, resting at first on the side of the oesophagus, and afterwards on the vertebral column and the longus colli muscle. It is invested by the left pleural bag in all its extent. On its inner side are the trachea and the oesophagus, with the thoracic duct. Some- what anterior to the level of the artery, though running in the same direction, are the vagus nerve and some of the cardiac nerves. Variations Peculiarities in origin.—The left subclavian varies less than the in its origin other branches of the arch. Occasionally it arises in common with quenF" ^^^^ carotid, when the arch has its usual direction. Should there be transposition of the arch, the subclavian arises usually from an innominate trunk; but this is not a constant rule, for the subclavian, in such a condition of the vessels, may be the last on the arch, like the right vessel, and cross the front of the spinal column to take its place in the neck : or it may take origin, though rarely, from a dilatation connected with the remains of the arterial duct. Right sub- Right artery from the arch,—In some instances the right sub- aiSe'from^^ clavian arises from the arch of the aorta ; and it may be placed first, the arch. second, or third, though most frequently it is last on the arch. To Left sub- clavian artery. Course and connections in the thorax.