DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 626 the triangular ligament of the urethra, divides into two, a right and a left branch, which enter a plexus around the mem- branous part of the urethra and the prostate. vesica], The vesical veins commence in a plexus about the lower part of the bladder, and anastomose with the prostatic and hsemorrhoidal veins. uterine, and The uterine veins are numerous, and form a plexus in and by the side of the uterus. This plexus inosculates above with the ovarian plexus, and below with one on the vagina. vaginal The vaginal veins surround the vagina with a large vascular veins. plexus. Parietal Farietal veins of the 2^elvis.—The other veins of the wall veins. of ii^Q pelvis, viz., the ilio-lumbar, lateral sacral, and middle sacral, open into the common iliac vein. Dissection Dissection.—To dissect the nerves of the pelvis on the of Uie^el^^^ right side it will be necessary to detach the urethra from the ^^s, arch of the pubes, aiid to cut through on the right side the recto-vesical fascia and the levator ani, together with the visceral arteries, in order that the viscera may be drawn from the side of the pelvis. If the bladder is distended let the air escape from it. sacral and By means of this dissection the sacral nerves will be seen coccygeal, they issue from the sacral foramina. The dissector should follow the first four into the sacral plexus, as well as some branches from the fourth to the viscera. A branch of nerve, superior gluteal, is to be shown arising from the lumbo-sacral cord, as this passes to the sacral plexus. The last sacral and the coccygeal nerve are of small size, and will be found coming through the coccygeus muscle close to the coccyx ; these are to be dissected with care, and the student will find them best by tracing the connecting filaments which pass from one to another, beginning above with the offset from the fourth nerve, thetic^"^^^' Opposite the lower part of the rectum, bladder, and vagina is a large plexus of the sympathetic, the pelvic plexus, which sends off'sets to the viscera along the arteries. This plexus is generally destroyed in this stage of the dis- section ; but if it should remain the student may trace the offsets from it, and the communicating branches with the spinal nerves. Sacral Spinal SACRAL NERVES.-—The anterior primary branches five; of the sacral nerves are five in number, and decrease suddenly in size from above downwards ; for whilst the first two are large trunks, the last two are small and slender. Issuing by the apertures in the front of the sacrum (the fifth nerve