636 DISSECTIO^T OF THE PELYIS. forms detrusor urinse; internal or circular gives rise to sphincter; continuous ■with pros- tate ; sub-mucous layer. Extent, Fibres. Addition to it. Strata are joined. Fibrous coat. Open the bladder. Mucous coat prostate, witb. the exception of a fasciculus on each side, which is united to the back of the pubes through the ante- rior true ligament of the bladder. On the front and back of the bladder the muscular layer is stronger, and its fibres more Tertical, than on the lateral parts. Sometimes this outer layer of fibres has been called detrusor urinm from its action in the expulsion of the urine. The circular fibres (fig. 94, are thin and scattered on the body of the bladder ; but around the cervix they are collected into a thick bundle, called the sphincter vesicca, and are continuous before with the fibres of the prostate. In some instances the fibres are hypertrophied, and project into the interior of the organ, forming the fasciculated bladder ; and in other bodies the mucous coat may be forced outwards here and there between the fibres, in the form of sacs, producing the sacculated bladder. The submucous stratum (fig. 94, ^) forms a continuous layer over the lower half of the bladder, but its fibres are scattered above. In the lower third of the bladder the fibres are longitudinal, and continuous with the fibres around the urethra, but they become oblique above that point. At the back of the bladder the layer is increased in strength by the longitudinal fibres of the ureters blending with it. The pro- jection of the uvula vesicae is due to this submucous stratum. The difi'erent muscular strata communicate freely, so that one cannot be separated from another without division of the connecting bundles of fibres. In both sexes the dis- position of the muscular fibres is similar."^ Fibrous coat.—The stratum is placed between the muscu- lar and mucous layers, and is enumerated amongst the coats of the bladder ; it is composed of areolar and elastic tissues as in other hollow viscera, and in it the bloodvessels ramify. Dissection.—The bladder is now to be opened by an in- cision down the front ; and the same cut is to be continued along the upper part of the prostate gland. The mucous membrane of the bladder is continuous pos- teriorly with the lining of the ureters, and anteriorly with that of the urethra. It is very slightly united to the mus- cular layer in consequence of the intervention of the sub- coat. 3. Submucous layer. 4. Muscular layer around the urethra. 5. Circular fibres of the prostate and urethra continuous with the circular of the bladder. 6, 7. Septum of the corpus spongiosum. 8. Corpus spongiosum. 9. Corpus cavernosum. 10. Ureter. * See a Paper before referred to in the Trans, of the Med. Chir. Society, 1856.