DISSECTION OF THE LAEYNX. 178 in colour, and is formed mostly of elastic tissue. At its centre it is thick and strong, and is attached to the con- tiguous margins of the cartilages from which it is named. But on the sides the ligament is thin, and, though still attached below to the cricoid, it leaves the border of the thyroid cartilage and is continued upwards into the chorda vocalis. Some small apertures exist in this membrane for the passage of small arteries into the larynx. This ligament is partly concealed by the crico-thyroid muscle, and a lateral The lateral crico-thyroid or capsular ligament, surrounds ioint. jT^Q articular surfaces between the side of the cricoid and the lower cornu of the thyroid cartilage. Its fibres are strongest behind. A sy7iovial membrane lines the capsule. Between Articulation between the cricoid and arytenoid cartilages.— arytsenoid^ This articulation allows of most movement, and the surfaces of the cartilages, which are in contact, are retained by a capsule, and possess a synovial sac. is a capsule The capsular ligament is fixed to each cartilage around its saa^^^°^^^^ articular surface ; and one part—posterior ligament, is strongest on the inner and posterior aspects. A loose synovial membrane is present in the articulation. Between A kind of capsule, with a synovial sac, unites the apex of an?^apitu- arytsenoid cartilage with the hollowed base of the lum. capitulum of Santorini. Sometimes these cartilages are blended together. Between The ligaments ioining the thyroid with the arylcenoid thyroid and ,, • ix i , ■, • i arytenoid. Cartilages (thyro-arytsenoid) have been already exammed as the vocal cords in the interior of the larynx (p. 171). Two liga- Ligaments of the epiglottis.—A band—thyro-epiglottidean, S)^giott4. connects the lower part of the epiglottis to the posterior sur- face of the thjrroid cartilage, close to the excavation in the upper border of the latter. Some fibrous and elastic tissues —hyo-epiglottidean ligament, connect likewise the front of the epiglottis to the hyoid bone. Constitu- Structure of the Trachea.—The air tube consists trachea. chiefly of a series of pieces of cartilage (segments of rings) (fig. 21), which are connected together by fibrous tissue. The interval between the cartilages at the back of the tube is closed by fibrous membrane, and by muscular fibres and mucous glands. The trachea is lined by mucous membrane with subjacent elastic tissue. Cartilages. Cartilages.—The pieces of cartilage vary in number from sixteen to twenty. Each forms an incomplete ring, which Form. occupies about three-fourths of a circle ; and each is convex