605 COCCYGEUS MUSCLE AND LEYATOK ANI. part of the sympliysis pubis : it meets its fellow inferiorly; and by pel- but, in front, the muscles of opposite sides are separated by below the the urethra and the prostate gland, and the interval between P^-^bes. them is closed by the fascia lining the pelvis. The COCCYGEUS muscle is flat and triangular, and assists Coccygeus ; to close the outlet of the pelvis. It arises by a narrow ^^^^^^ process from the upper part of the ischial spine, and some fibres are attached to the small sacro-sciatic ligament. Widen- ing as it passes inwards the muscle is inserted into the side and inser- and anterior surface of the coccyx, and into the side of the lower piece of the sacrum. The inner surface loots to the connections pelvis, and is in contact with the rectum, on the left side ; of surfaces the opposite surface rests on the small sacro-sciatic ligament. The hinder border is contiguous to the pyriformis muscle, and borders, only vessels and nerves intervening ; and the anterior or lower border is parallel with the levator ani muscle. The LEVATOR AN"! is a thin flat muscle, which is attached Levator above to the side of the pelvis, and descends below into the ' outlet of the cavity, where it joins its fellow and supports situation, the viscera. It arises anteriorly by fleshy fibres from an origin oblique line on the posterior aspect of the pubes, and pos- ^^J^^^g^^^ teriorly from the inner surface of the ischial spine ; and partly from between those two points of bone the muscle takes origin "membrane, from the under part of the recto-vesical fascia, along the line of the white band before alluded to (p. 603). All the fibres are directed downwards to the middle line of the body, to be inserted after the following manner :—The anterior, Insertion the longest, descend by the side of the prostate and join, in d,ie^ifn™of' front of the rectum, with the muscle of the opposite side in the perinse- the central point of the perinseum ; the middle fibres blend with the side of the rectum ; whilst the posterior meet the opposite muscle behind the gut, and are attached in part to the side of the coccyx, as before described in the dissection of the perinseum (p. 458). The anterior fibres of the levator are in contact with the Borders and fascia that closes the pelvic cavity below the pubes ; and the posterior are parallel to the coccygeus muscle. The upper surfaces, surface is contiguous to the recto-vesical fascia and the viscera of the pelvis ; and the under surface looks to the perinseum (ischio-rectal fossa). The two muscles, by their Two mus- I union, form a fleshy layer or diaphragm across the outlet of fleshyXa-^ 1 the pelvis, similar to that which separates the abdomen piiragm. from the chest : this partition is convex below and concave above, and gives passage to the rectum. In front there is an interval between the anterior fibres, which allows the