358 DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. THE PERICARDIUM. Situation. The bag that contains the heart is named the pericardium. It is situate in the middle of the thorax, in the interval between the pleurse of opposite sides. Before proceeding with the anatomy of this sac, the following dissection should be undertaken :— Sis^oflfeart Bissection.—Supposing the surface of the pericardium to be already cleaned, the student should next dissect out the large arteries and veins connected with the heart, and seek The following nerves of the left side crossing the arch of c?ossin|^^^^ the aorta should be sought carefully :—The nerve most ta arch of the left, and the largest, is the vagus ; the next largest in aorta. ^.^^ ^-j^^ right of the vagus is the phrenic nerve. Between the preceding nerves, and close to the coats of the artery, are the two following small nerves,—the left superficial cardiac nerve of the sympathetic, and the cardiac branch of the left vagus ; of the two, the last is the smallest, and to the right of the other. Dissect The cardiac nerves from the left vagus and the sympa • p?exusTn^ thetic are to be followed onwards to a small plexus (super- arch^of ficial cardiac) in the concavity of the aorta. An offset of the plexus is to be traced downwards between the pulmonary artery and the aorta towards the anterior coronary artery of the heart; and another prolongation is to be found coming forwards by the side of the arterial duct, from the deep cardiac plexus, to join the superficial one. When the peri- cardium is opened the nerves will be followed on the heart, but their dissection is difficult, and will require some care. Oftentimes these small nerves are destroyed in injecting the body. Connections The pericardium is larger than the viscus it contains. cardfum^^' Occupying the interpleural space, it is situate behind the sternum, and projects below on each side of that bone, but much more towards the left than the right side. Some- what conical in form, the wider part of the bag is turned towards the diaphragm, and the narrower part upwards towards the large vessels of the heart. Laterally, the peri- cardium is covered by the pleura, and the phrenic nerve and vessels lie in contact with it. Its anterior and posterior surfaces correspond with the objects contained in the fore and hinder part of the interpleural space ; and on the anterior aspect the bag is partly covered by the margins of the lungs, especially the left, in the manner stated. This