BEA^-CHES OF THE INTERITAL ILIAC. 625 The superior Immorrhoidal artery is the continuation of Superior the trunk of the inferior mesenteric behind the rectum, and divides into two branches near the middle of the sacrum. From the point of the division of the trunk these branches are contmued along the rectum, one on each side ; and finally end in about six branches, which pierce the muscular layer of the gut three inches from the end, and terminate in anastomotic loops beneath the mucous membrane, and opposite the inner sphincter : they anastomose with the other vessels, viz., the middle and inferior hsemorrhoidal arteries. The rrdddle sacral artery, a small branch from the bifur- Middle cation of the aorta, descends along the middle line of the ^^ich body over the last lumbar vertebra, the sacrum, and the coccyx, and terminates at the lower part of the spinal column by anastomosing with the lateral sacral arteries. In its course the artery gives small branches laterally, lias lateral opposite each piece of the sacrum, to anastomose with the lateral sa;cral arteries, and supply the nerves, and the bones with their periosteum. Sometimes a small branch is furnished by it to the lower end of the rectum, which takes the place of the middle hsemorrhoidal artery. The INTERNAL ILIAC VEIN rOCeivCS the blood from the internal wall of the pelvis and the pelvic viscera, by branches cor- position to responding for the most part with those of the arteries. The artery. vein is a short and thick trunk, which is situate at first on the inner side of the internal iliac artery; but as it ascends to join with the external iliac it passes behind, and on the right side reaches even the outer aspect of its companion artery. Branches.—Some of the branches forming the trunk of its branches the internal iliac vein, viz., the gluteal, obturator, and peculiar are sciatic, have the same anatomy as the arteries ; but the following visceral branches,—the pudic and dorsal of the penis, the vesical and hsemorrhoidal, the uterine and vaginal, have some peculiarities. The pudic vein receives roots corresponding with the pudic vein, branches of the artery in the perinseum, but not those cor- responding with the offsets of the artery on the dorsum of the penis. Its hsemorrhoidal branch commences in a large plexus around the lower end of the rectum beneath the mucous membrane (plexus hsemorrhoidalis), with which the superior hsemorrhoidal vein communicates. The dorsal vein of the penis receives roots from the corpora dorsal vein cavernosa and corpus spongiosum of the penis, and piercing s s