44 DISSECTION" OF THE ORBIT. Ophthalmic nerve gives three branches. Frontal branch supplies the following. Branch above the pulley of oblique muscle ; sometimes two : and branch through or- bital notch. Lachrymal nerve ends in eyelid ; its offsets join superior maxillary. Dissection. Elevator of upper eyelid The OPHTHALMIC NERVE of the fifth (fig. 6, ^, p. 19) as it approaches the sphenoidal fissure, furnishes from its inner side the nasal branch, and then terminates by dividing into the frontal and lachrymal branches ; the former enters the orbit between the heads of the external rectus, but the other two lie, as before said, above the muscles. 1. The frontal nerve (fig. 6) is close to the outer side of the fourth as it enters the orbit, and is much larger than the lachrymal branch. In its course to the forehead the nerve lies along the middle of the orbit, and bifurcates anteriorly into the supra-trochlear and supra-orbital branches :— a. The supra-trochlear branch., which is of small size, passes inwards towards the pulley of the superior oblique muscle, where it leaves the orbit to end in the eyelid and forehead (p. 7.) Before the nerve turns round the margin of the frontal bone, it sends downwards a branch of com- munication to the infra-trochlear branch of the nasal nerve. Frequently there are two supra-trochlear branches ; in such instances one arises near the back of the orbit. h. The supra-orbital branch is the continuation of the frontal nerve in direction and size, and leaves the orbit by the supra-orbital notch. It then ascends on the forehead, and supplies the external part of the head (p. 7). Whilst in the notch the nerve gives downwards palpebral filaments to the upper lid. 2. The lachrymal nerve (fig. 6), after entering the orbit in a separate tube of the dura mater, is directed forwards in the outer part of the cavity, and beneath the lachrymal gland to the upper eyelid, where it pierces the palpebral ligament, and is distributed to the structures of the lid. Branches.—The nerve fmrnishes branches to the lachrymal gland ; and near the gland it sends downwards one or two small filaments to communicate with the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve. Occasionally this nerve has a communicating filament with the fourth nerve. 3. The nasal nerve is not visible at this stage of the dissection : it will be noticed afterwards at p. 46. Dissection.—Divide the frontal nerve about its middle, and throw the ends forwards and backwards : by raising the posterior part of the nerve, the distinct origin of the nasal branch from the ophthalmic trunk will be seen. The lachrymal nerve may remain uncut. The LEVATOR PALPEBR^ suPERiORis is the most superficial muscle, and is attached posteriorly to the roof of the orbit in front of the optic foramen. The muscle widens as it ex-