DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 34 Eyelashes. Different parts in eye- lids. Examine structure of lids. Layer of orbicularis. A fibrous layer. Cartilage forms part of the lid. Difference in the two lids. cilia and the Meibomian glands are absent from tbe part of the lid which is internal to the opening of the lachrymal canal. The eyelashes (cilia) are two or more rows of long hairs, which are fixed into the anterior edge of the free border of the lid ; they are largest in the npper lid, and diminish in length from the centre towards the sides. The cilia are so arranged as to be convex towards one another. Structure of the Eyelids.—Each lid consists funda- mentally of a piece of cartilage attached to the bones by ligaments. Superficial to this framework is the integument, with a layer of fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum, and beneath it a mucous lining of the conjunctiva. The upper lid has also in it the tendon of the levator palpebrse. Vessels and nerves are furnished to these parts. Dissection,—The student may continue with the structure of the lids on the left side, on which the muscles are dissected. Let the bit of tow or wool remain beneath the lids, and let the palpebral part of the orbicularis pal- pebrarum be thrown inwards by means of an incision around the margin of the orbit. In raising the muscle, care must be taken of the palpebral ligament, and of the vessels and nerves of the lid. Orbicularis palpebrarum.—The palpebral fibres of this muscle form the thin pale layer that occupies the eyelids. A thin stratum of areolar tissue without fat unites the muscle with the skin. The palpebral ligament is a stratum of fibrous membrane, which is continued from the margin of the orbit to join the free edge of each tarsal cartilage. At the inner part of the orbit the ligament is thin and loose, but at the outer part it is much thicker and stronger. The tarsal cartilages, one for each eyelid, give the form and strength to the lids, and are formed of yellow or spongy cartilage. Each is fixed internally by the ligamentum vel tendo palpebrarum, and externally by a fibrous band— external tarsal ligament, to the outer part of the orbit. The margin corresponding with the edge of the lid is free, and thicker than the rest of the cartilage. On the inner surface each cartilage is lined by the mucous membrane or con- junctiva. The cartilages are not alike in the two lids. In the upper eyelid, where the cartilage is largest, it is crescentic in shape, and is about half an inch wide in the centre ; and to its fore part the tendon of the levator palpebrse is