OYAEIES AND FALLOPIAIT TUBES. 655 The special fibrous coat (tunica albuginea) is of some A fibrous thickness and of a whitish colour, whence its name, and is rounds^ adherent to the contained stroma. Sometimes a yellow spot stroma, (corpus luteum) or some fibrous cicatrices may be seen in this covering. The ovisacs or the Graafian vesicles are small round trans- in the parent bodies, and are from thirty to fifty or one hundred small or more in number in each ovary till after the child-bear- resides, ing period. They vary in size from a pin's head to a pea, and are scattered through the stroma of the ovary. They are largest in size towards the circumference of the organ, Size and • and sometimes they may be seen projecting through the fibrous coat. Each consists of a transparent coat with a fluid inside. Coat; The coat of the vesicle named ovi-capsule (tunica fibrosa), is formed of fine areolar tissue, and is united to the stroma of the ovary by a network of bloodvessels, which ramifies in the wall. Lining it is a laminar series of nucleated cells— the memhrana granulosa of Baer, which is thickened at one spot on the side towards the ovary, and forms a prominence, the germinal eminence, around the ovum. The fluid in the contents, interior is transparent and albuminous ; and in it is sus- pended the minute vesicular ovum, together with molecular granules. When the Graafian vesicle is matured it bursts on the Shedding of surface of the ovary, and the contained ovum escapes into ^^^"^ the Fallopian tube. After the shedding of the ovum the and corpus ruptured vesicle gives origin to a yellow substance, corpus luteum, which finally changes into a cicatrix. Bloodvessels and nerves.—The ovarian artery pierces the Artery; ovary at the anterior or attached border, and its branches run in zigzag lines through the stroma, to which and the Graafian follicles they are distributed. The veins begin in veins; the follicles and the texture of the ovary, and after escaping from its substance, form a plexus (pampiniform) near the ovary, and within the fold of the broad ligament. The nerves nerves, are derived from the sympathetic on the ovarian and uterine vessels. Appendage to the ovary.—(Parovarium, Organ of Rosen- Appendage miiller.) On holding up the broad ligament of the uterus to ovary, to the light, a collection of small tortuous tubules will be Situation, seen between the ovary and the Fallopian tube. This mass Form, is the remnant of the Wolffian body of the fetus ; and it is about one inch broad with its base to the Fallopian tube, and apex to the attached part of the ovary. The small