THE PLEURA. 353 In tlie interval between the apices are the several parts passing between the neck and the thorax. Dimensions.—The hollow of the thoracic cavity does not Size of chest correspond entirely with the thorax ; for the space included cavity;^ by the ribs is occupied below by the abdominal viscera, and above it reaches beyond the ribs into the neck. In consequence of the arched condition of the diaphragm depth the depth of the space varies greatly at different points. At ' the centre, where the depth is least, it measures about seven before ; inches, but at the back as much again ; and the other ver- behind: tical measurements can be estimated by means of the data on sides, given of the level of the base to the wall of the thorax. AlteroMons in capacity.—The size of the thoracic cavity Sj'^^^i^ .^^ is constantly varying during life with the condition of the life; ribs and the diaphragm in breathing. It is increased in the horizontal measurements in inspira- in trans- 1 11 •! -11 X J J? verse dimen- tion, when the ribs are raised and separated from one sions by another ; and is diminished in expiration as the ribs approach "^^^ > each other and the sternum sinks. An alteration in depth is due to the condition of the in depth by diaphragm in respiration ; for the muscle descends when air ptiy^^^ is taken into the lungs, increasing thus the cavity ; and ascends when the air is expelled from those organs, so as to restore the previous size of the space, or in violent efforts to diminish it. But the movement of the diaphragm is not bnt un- equal throughout, and some parts of the cavity will be increased more than others. For instance the central tendi- nous piece is joined to the heart case, and moves but slightly; but the lateral, bulging, fleshy halves descend freely, and add greatly to the size of the lateral part of the chest by their separation from the thoracic parietes. The thoracic cavity may be diminished by the diaphragm Thorax les- being pushed upwards by enlargement, either temporary or addiUmis to permanent, of the viscera in the upper part of the abdomen; abdomen, or by the existence of fluid in the latter cavity. THE PLEURA. The pleurse are two serous membranes, or closed sacs, Sac of the which are reflected around the lungs in the cavity of the P^®^^^- thorax. One occupies the right, and the other the left half of the cavity ; and it approaches its fellow along the middle line of the body, forming a thoracic partition, though the two do not blend. Each pleura is a sac of a conical shape, whose apex projects Form. A A