DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. of the scapula, and is an offset of the dorsal branch of the subscapular vessel (p. 269). It enters beneath the sub- scapularis muscle, and forms an anastomosis with small twigs of the supra and posterior scapular branches. Fosition.—The examination of the muscles on the opposite surface of the scapula may be next undertaken. For this purpose the scapula is to be turned over ; and a block, which is of sufficient height to allow the shoulder to be made prominent, is to be placed between it and the arm. Dissection.—The skin is to be removed from the promi- nence of the shoulder, by beginning in front at the anterior border of the deltoid muscle. Some small cutaneous nerves are to be found in the fat : some of these descend over the acromion, and others come to the surface about half way down the posterior border of the deltoid muscle. Superficial nerves.—Branches of nerves, supra-acromial (fig. 42 descend to the surface of the shoulder from the cervical plexus (p. 60). A cutaneous branch of the circum- flex nerve turns forwards with a small companion artery from beneath the posterior border of the deltoid, and sup- plies the integument covering the lower two thirds of the muscle (Fig. 42, Dissection.—The fat and fascia are now to be taken from the deltoid muscle, its fibres being made tense at the same time. Beginning at the anterior edge of the muscle, the dissector is to carry the knife upwards and downwards in the direction of the fibres, in order that its coarse, oblique, muscular fasciculi may be more easily cleaned. At the same time the fascia may be removed from the back of the scapula, so as to denude the teres major and a part of the infra- spinatus muscle. The DELTOID MUSCLE is triangular in form, and has its base at the scapula and clavicle, and its apex at the humerus. It arises from nearly all the lower edge of the spine of the scapula, from the anterior or lower border of the acromion, and from the outer half or third of the clavicle. Its fibres converge to a tendon, and are inserted by means of it into a triangular impression, above the middle of the outer surface of the humerus, which is two to three inches long^ and about one inch wide above. The anterior border is contiguous to the pectoralis major muscle and the cephalic vein ; and the posterior rests on the infraspinatus and triceps muscles. The origin of the muscle corresponds with the attachment of the trapezius to the