75i DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 4. Anterior tibial artery: the nerv^e outside it is the anterior tibial. Position of veins and nerve. Branches. Muscular cutaneous. Recurrent. Malleolar, inner and outer. Articular. 13 orsal artery. Extent and course. Connec- tions. torum ; and it is placed afterwards between the tibial muscle and tlie extensor proprius pollicis, but towards the lower end of the vessel the last muscle becomes superficial, and crosses to the inner side. The artery rests on the interosseous membrane in two thirds of its extent, and is overlapped by the fleshy bellies of the contiguous muscles, so that it is at a great depth from the surface ; but it is in front of the tibia and the ankle joint in the lower third, and is comparatively superficial, for it here lies between the tendons of the muscles. Venae comites entwine around the artery, covering it very closely with cross branches on the upper part. The anterior tibial nerve approaches the tibial vessels about the middle third of the leg, and continues with them, crossing once or twice. At the lower end of the artery the nerve is on the outer side. Branches.—In the leg the anterior tibial artery furnishes mostly muscular ofi'sets, but near the knee and ankle joints other named branches take origin. A cutayicous branch accompanies the musculo-cutaneous nerve. 1. A recurrent branch leaves the trunk as soon as this appears above the interosseous membrane, and ascends in the tibialis anticus muscle to the knee joint. On the joint it anastomoses with the other articular arteries. 2. Malleolar arteries (internal and external) arise near the ankle joint, and, as their name expresses, are distributed over the ends of the tibia and fibula. The internal is the least regular in size and origin ; the external anastomoses with the anterior peroneal artery. 3. Some small articular branches are supplied from the lower end of the artery to the ankle joint. The DORSAL ARTERY of the foot is the continuation of the anterior tibial, and extends from the front of the ankle joint to the posterior part of the first interosseous space. At this interval it passes downwards between the heads of the inter- osseous muscle, to end in the sole as before described (p. 745). The artery is supported by the inner row of the tarsus, viz. the astragalus and the scaphoid and cuneiform bones ; and it is covered by the integuments and the deep fascia, but near its termination it is crossed by the inner tendon of the extensor brevis muscle. The tendon of the exten- sor pollicis is on the inner side ; and the tendon of the 1. Tibialis anticus muscle. 2. Extensor pollicis and extensor longus digitornm drawn aside. 3. Part of the anterior annular ligament.