568 DISSECTION" OF THE ABDOMEK opposite tlie tip of the cartilage of the tenth rib, where it is contiguous to the transverse colon ; and the small end is in contact with the duodenum, structure of Structure.—The wall of the gall-bladder has a peritoneal, a fibrous and muscular, and a mucous coat, with thin inter- vening layers of areolar tissue. The serous coat is stretched over the under or free surface of the gall-bladder, and surrounds the large end. The muscular coat is very thin, and gives a covering to the sac ; it has much areolar tissue intermixed with the fibres. The mucous coat is marked internally by numxCrous ridges and intervening depressions, which give an areolar or honey- comb appearance to the surface. On laying open the gall- bladder this condition will be seen, with the aid of a lens, and covered to be most developed about the centre of the sac, and to diminish towards each extremity. The surface of the mucous membrane is covered by a columnar epithelium. Where the gall-bladder ends in the cystic duct its coats project into the interior, and give rise to ridges that resemble the parietal prominences in the sacculated large intestine. The cystic duct joins the hepatic duct at an acute angle, to form the ductus communis choledochus. It is about an inch and a half long, and is distended and somewhat saccu- lated near the gall-bladder. Structure.—The coats of the duct are formed like those same as sac, ^£ ^-^^ from which it leads, but the muscular fibres are very few. The mucous lining is provided with branched glands, as in the hepatic and common bile ducts (p. 552). Valve of the gall-bladder.—On slitting open the duct the mucous membrane is seen to form a series of semilunar projections (from nine to twenty), which are arranged obliquely around the tube, like the thread of a screw, and increase in size towards the gall-bladder. This structure is best seen on a gall-bladder that has been inflated and dried; as in this state the parts of the duct between the folds are most stretched. Bloodvessels and nerves.—The vessels of the gall-bladder are named cystic. The artery is a branch of the hepatic ; and the cystic vein opens into the vena portse near the liver. The nerves are derived from the hepatic plexus, and entwine lymphatics, g^p^^j^^ ^^le vessels. The lymphatics follow the cystic duct, and join the deep lymphatics on the spinal column. wall. Serous coat. Fibrous and muscular stratum. Mucous layer is areolar on surface, by a columnar epithelium. Projections of the wall. Duct of gall bladder. Structure and is pro- vided with glands. Mucous coat like a screw. Artery and vein, nerves and