456 DISSECTIOIT OF THE PERIN'.5:UM. for on each side is a space, tlie ischio-rectal fossa, in which is much loose fat, together with the vessels and nerves for the supply of the end of the gut. Dissection Dissection.—The skin is to be raised from this part of the perinseum by the employment of the following cuts :— One is to be made across the perinseum at the front of the anus, and is to be extended rather beyond the ischial tube- rosity on each side. A second is to be carried a little behind the tip of the coccyx in the same direction, and for the same distance. The two transverse cuts are to be connected by carrying the knife along the middle line and around the anus. The flaps of skin thus marked out, are to be raised of sphincter and thrown outwards from the middle line : in detaching the skin from the margin of the anus, the superficial sphincter muscle may be injured without care, for it is close to the skin. The dissector should trace the sphincter back to the coccyx, and forwards for a short distance beneath the remaining piece of skin. Difference The next step is to bring into view the hollow of the the^is'chio-^ ischio-rectal fossa between the side of the rectum and the rectal fossae, tuberosity of the hip bone : on the left side the fat is to be cleaned out of it without reference to the vessels and nerves, but on the opposite side a special dissection is to be made of Dissection them. To clean out the fat from the left fossa, begin at rectal foSa?" outer margin of the sphincter, and proceed forwards and backwards. In front the dissection should not extend beyond the anus, whilst behind it should lay bare the margin of the gluteus maximus. On the inner side of the hollow the fibres of the levator ani (sometimes very pale) and of the coccygeus are to be dissected. On the outer boundary the pudic vessels and nerve should be denuded : they lie in a canal formed by fascia, and at some distance from the surface. On right On the right side it is not necessary to clean the muscular vessels^and fi^^^s, when following the vessels and nerves. If the student nerves. begins at the outer border of the sphincter, he will find the inferior hsemorrhoidal vessels and nerve, which he may trace outwards to their trunks (pudic vessels and nerve) : some branches of the nerve, which join the superficial peri- ngeal and inferior pudendal nerves, are to be followed forwards. In the posterior angle of the space there is a small ofi*set of the fourth sacral nerve ; and external to it, one or more branches of the sciatic nerve and artery are found turning round the border of the gluteus. ISTear the front of the fossa is a superficial perinseal artery and nerve (of the pudic);