POSTERIOR HALF OF PERINEAL SPACE. 455 surface is slightly convex over the urethra, and presents a longitudinal prominent line or raphe, which divides this a raphe, part of the space into two halves. Between the anus and ^^^^^^^"^^ the tuberosity of the hip bone the surface is somewhat de- pressed over the hollow of the subjacent ischio-rectal fossa, especially in emaciated bodies. The margin of the anal aperture possesses numerous and folds^ converging folds, but these are more or less obliterated by around that the position of the body and the distension of the rectum ; opei^ing- and projecting oftentimes through and around the opening are some dilated hfemorrhoidal veins (haemorrhoids). Deep boundaries.—The deep boundaries of the perinseal Boimdmg . . . . parts space will be ascertained, in the progress of the dissection, around, to correspond with the inferior aperture or the outlet of the ^jj^^ pelvis. The limits may be made out by referring to a dry let of pelvis, or prepared pelvis, on which the ligaments remain entire ; and the student should trace on the body, the individual boundaries with his finger. In front is the arch of the pubes ; and at the posterior part is the tip of the coccyx. On each side in front is the portion of the innominate bone which forms the pubic arch, viz., from the pubes to the ischial tuberosity ; and still farther back is the great sacro- sciatic ligament extending from the tuber ischii to the tip of the coccyx. Form,—The space included within these boundaries has Form of the the form of a lozenge, and measures about four inches from measure- before backwards, and three inches between the ischial i^ents. tuberosities. A line from the front of the tuberosity of one a line be- side to the corresponding point on the other, will divide the J^befositLs perinseal space into two triangular parts. The anterior half divides it (urethral) contains the penis and the urethra, with their muscles and accessory parts. The posterior half (rectal) is occupied by the lower end of the large intestine, with its muscles, <fec. Depth.—The depth of the perinseum from the surface to Depth of the bladder may be said to be generally about three inches *^®®P^ce. at the anus, but this measurement varies in different bodies ; and the space has less depth before than behind. POSTERIOR HALF OP THE SPACE. This portion of the perinseal space contains the lower end Contents of the rectum, surrounded by its elevator muscle and the ^^^^ muscles acting on the anus. The gut does not occupy how- general ever the whole of the interval between the pelvic bones ; Position.