556 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. vertical section of tlie membrane (2) will show the tubes to those of extend vertically from the surface into the submucous coat, and to be of greater length than the crypts of Lieberkuhn in mtestme. ■, -i ^ -. i , , •, the jejunum and ileum ; they measure from y^th to 4^^Qth of an inch in length, and ^^qHl to ■j^Qth. of an inch across. The solitary follicles (Fig. 83, B) are found all through the large intestine, scattered here and there ; but they are in greatest number in the csecum and vermi- form appendix. They are whitish rounded bodies from -T^^th to J^th of an inch in diameter, and are situate in the submu- and form, cous layer amongst the tubules. These follicular glands are simple sacs without opening, as in the small intestine, but over each is a depression in the mucous membrane simu- lating an aperture into it (Kolhker). Epithelium. The epithelium is of the columnar kind, as it is in the small intestine, and enters the tubules. Vessels and Vessels.—The distribution of the vessels in the wall of the large intestine is the same as in the smaller bowel. The absorbent vessels, after leaving the intestine, join the absorbents. lymphatic glands along the side of the colon. THE PANCREAS. The pancreas (Fig. 84) is a narrow flattened gland from six to eight inches in length, which has some resemblance to a dog's tongue. It is larger at the right than at the left end; and it is divided into a head, tail, and body. The headj or the right extremity (1%), occupies the conca- vity of the duodenum ; whilst the left extremity, or the tail {t)y is rounded, and touches the spleen. The body of the gland {i) is narrowest a little to the right of the vertebral column, and is thickest at the upper border ; it measures about one inch and a half in breadth, and from half an inch to an inch in thickness. The connections of the pancreas with surrounding parts are described at p. 534. Dissection.—Let the pancreas be placed on the anterior * Enlarged view of a solitary gland and the tubules of the mucoils coat (Boehm). B. A section of a follicle. C. Tubules of the mucous membrane. 1. Surface opening. 2. Side view of the tubes. 3. Pits for the closed ends of the tubes in the submucous tissue. Form ana length; divisions. Situation and form. The head and tail; and the body. Trace out the duct.