DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 262 directed towards the chest, viz., the long thoracic under cover of the anterior boundary, and the circumfiex and sub- scapular vessels and nerves on the posterior boundary of the axilla. Some arterial twigs enter the axillary glands, and a few should be traced out. In taking away the fascia and fat from the posterior boundary of the space, so as to follow the muscles to their insertion into the humerus, a small nerve (internal cutaneous of the musculo-spiral) should be looked for near the great vessels. The large nerves of the brachial plexus are to be defined : with moderate caution they cannot be injured. THE AXILLA. Situation and form of the arm-pit. Boundaries. The pectoral muscles in front. and latissi- mus, teres, and subsca- pularis be- hind. Parts at the inner and outer sides. Situation of the apex The axilla, or arm-pit, is the hollow between the arm and the chest. It is somewhat conical in form, and its apex is directed upwards to the root of the neck. The space is larger near the thorax than at the arm, and its boundaries are as follows :— Boundaries,'—In front and behind the space is limited for the most part by the muscles passing from the trunk of the body to the upper limb ; and the folds of the axilla are constructed by the unattached parts of those muscles. In the anterior boundary are the two pectoral muscles, but these take unequal shares in its construction in consequence of the difference in their size and shape :—thus the pectoralis major extends over the whole front of the space, reaching from the clavicle to the lower edge of the anterior fold ; whilst the pectoralis minor, which is a narrow muscle, cor- responds only with the middle part or third of that fold. In the posterior boundary, from above downwards, are the subscapularis, the teres major, and the latissimus dorsi muscle : this boundary reaches lower than the anterior, especially near the humerus, and its lower margin, which is formed mostly by the latissimus dorsi, projects forwards beyond the level of the subscapularis. On the inner side of the arm-pit are the first four ribs, with their intervening intercostal muscles, and the part of the serratus magnus that takes origin from those bones. On the outer side the space has but small dimensions, and is limited by the humerus, and by the biceps and coraco- brachialis muscles. The apex of the hollow is situate between the clavicle, the upper margin of the scapula, and the first rib ; and the