755 ANTERIOR TIBIAL VESSELS. extensor brevis cligitorum is on the outer side, except for about half an inch before the artery dips into the sole of the foot, where it crosses as before said to the inner side of the vessel. The veins have the same position with respect to Position of , , , veins and the artery as m the leg, and the nerve is external to it. nerve. Branches.—Offsets are given to the bones and the liga- Branches. ments of the foot : those from the outer side of the vessel have received the names tarsal and metatarsal from their distribution. A small interosseous branch is furnished to the first intermetatarsal space. 1. The tarsal branch arises opposite the scaphoid bone, Tarsal, and runs beneath the extensor brevis digitorum to the outer side of the foot, where it divides into twigs that inosculate with the metatarsal, plantar, and peroneal arteries : it supplies offsets to the extensor muscle beneath which it lies. 2. The metatarsal branch takes an arched course to the J^^etatarsal, outer part of the foot, near the base of the metatarsal bones and beneath the extensor muscle, and its terminal branches anastomose with the external plantar and tarsal arteries. From the convexity of the arch of the preceding branch, which gives which is turned forwards, three interosseous arteries are fur- geotisl^" nished to the three outer intermetatarsal spaces: these supply the interosseous muscles, and divide at the cleft of the toes into two dorsal collateral branches. At the fore part and back of the spaces the interosseous arteries join the deep vessels in the sole of the foot by means of the anterior and posterior perforating arteries. The first interosseous branch (arteria dorsalis poUicis pedis) First inter- arises from the trunk of the artery as this is about to leave the dorsum of the foot; it extends forwards in the space between the first two toes, and is distributed like the other interosseous offsets of the metatarsal branch. The ANTERIOR TIBIAL VEINS have the same extent and con- Anterior nections as the artery they accompany. They have their ^^^^^^ vems. usual position along the artery, one on each side, around which they form loops by cross branches ; they end in the popliteal vein. The branches they receive correspond with those of the artery; and they communicate with the internal saphenous vein. Peculiarities in size.—The anterior tibial may be small, or even Varieties in wanting, in which case the place of its diminished or deficient part anterior will be supplied by the posterior tibial or the peroneal artery. tibial Position.—On the dorsum of the foot the artery is often removed farther outwards than the line from the centre of the ankle to the posterior part of the first interosseous space. 3 c 2