686 DISSECTIOIs^ OF THE THIGH. to the artery, however, is not the same throughout. Beneath Poupart's ligament it is on the inner side of that trunk, and on the same level, and is supported on the pubes between afterwards the psoas and pectineus muscles; but it soon winds beneath the artery, and appears on the outer side opposite the upper border of the adductor longus muscle. In this space the vein receives the internal saphenous and deep femoral branches. outside it. Peculiarities ill place of artery. Origin of profunda varies. Position of the vein varies ; or tlie vein may be di- vided. Take the fascia from the front of the thigh. Follow out sartorius and pre- serve nerves below in contact with it. Peculiarities in the artery.—Change in position.—Four examples of transference of the main trmik of the limb from the front to the back of the thigh have been recorded. In those cases the artery passed from the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic notch, and accompanied the great sciatic nerve to the popliteal space. Origin of the profunda.—The profunda branch, though arising commonly from the femoral artery between one inch and two inches from Poupart's ligament, may approach nearer to the ligament until it arrives opposite that band, or may even go beyond, and be fixed to the external iliac artery (one example, Quain). And the branch may recede farther and farther from the ligament, till it leaves the parent trunk at the distance of four inches from the commencement; so that in applying a ligature to the femoral artery in the upper part of the thigh, the thread should be placed four inches below Poupart's ligament, in order that the spot chosen may be free from the disturbing influence of an occasional large offset. Position of the vein.—The position of the vein with respect to the artery may be altered ; for the venous trunk may be placed on the inner side through all the triangular space. Further the vein may be slit so as to present a large vein on each side of the artery for a greater or less extent, or one of the two veins may lie over the arterial tube. Dissection.—To proceed with the deep dissection, the limb is to be retained in the same position as before, and the flaps of skin on the front of the thigh are to be thrown aside. The fascia lata is to be cut along the middle line of the thigh and knee, and to be reflected to each side nearly to the same extent as the skin. Over the knee joint the student will And the fascia united with the tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg, so as to form lateral accessory ligamentous bands. In raising the inner piece of the fascia the narrow muscle then appearing (sartorius) should be followed to its insertion into the tibia : and care should be taken of the small nerves along its inner border, viz.: —the two branches of the internal cutaneous above ; the great saphenous and its branch and a plexus between the sa2Dhenoas, internal cuta- neous, and obturator, at the middle of the thigh. The dissector is to avoid displacing the muscle whilst he is removing its sheath of fascia; and to retain it in the natural position he may fix it with stitches.