82 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. The muscle bounds a space that con- tains parotid and sub- maxillary glands. Stylo- hyoideus. Origin. Insertion. Surrounds digastric tendon. Ninth nerve in the ante- rior tri- angle. Its branches here are muscular. Branch to lower hyoid muscles is joined with cervi- cal nerves by inter- communi- cating the occipital artery and the hypoglossal nerve, the former passing backwards, the latter forwards. The anterior belly rests on the niylo-hyoid muscle. The digastric muscle describes an arch across the side of the neck, and forms the lower boundary of a space which reaches upwards to the jaw and the mastoid process, and to the base of the skull in front of the ear. This space is divided into two parts by the stylo-maxillary ligament. In the posterior portion are contained the parotid gland, 10, and the vessels and nerves in connection with it (p. 30) ; in the anterior are the submaxillary gland, 11, and the facial vessels, and deeper still the muscles between the chin and the hyoid bone. The STYLO-HYOiD MUSCLE is thin and slender, and has the same position as the posterior belly of the digastric. It arises from the outer surface of the styloid process, near the base or about the middle, and is inserted into the body of the OS hyoides. The muscle has the same connections as the posterior belly of the digastric ; and its fleshy fibres are usually perforated by the tendon of that muscle. In many bodies the stylo-hyoid muscle is absent. The HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE (ninth cranial) may be now examined, at least that part of it which is seen in the anterior triangle of the neck. Appearing at the lower edge of the digastric muscle, the nerve hooks round the occipital artery ; it is then directed forwards to the tongue below the digastric, and disappears in front beneath the mylo-hyoid muscle. As the nerve crosses the neck, it lies over the carotid vessels ; and near the cornu of the os hyoides it crosses the lingual artery, so as to become highest of the two. Branches.—In this part of its course the nerve gives the descendens noni branch and a small muscular ofi'set to the thyro-hyoideus. The descending branch (ram. descend, noni) arises from the trunk of the hypoglossal on the outer side of the carotid artery, and descends on the front, or in the sheath of the vessel, to about the middle of the neck, where it is joined by the communicating branches of the cervical nerves. After the union of the spinal nerves ofi'sets are supplied to the lower hyoid muscles, viz. omo-hyoid (both bellies), sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid. Sometimes another offset is continued to the thorax, where it joins the phrenic and cardiac nerves. The connection between the descendens noni and the spinal nerves is formed by two or more cross