77 BEANCHES OF BRACHIAL PLEXUS. differ from est. At their commencement the nerves intermix by means of numerous branches, and receive offsets of communication from the sympathetic. To this general statement respecting the position of the First two nerves between the intertransverse muscles, some qualifica- f"^" tion is necessary for the first two nerves ; and the pecu- liarities concerning them will be noticed in Section 18. Brachial Plexus.—The first dorsal and four lower Brachial cervical nerves are blended in this plexus, and a fasciculus P^®^^^ is added to them from the lowest nerve entering the cervical plexus. Thus formed, the plexus reaches from the lowest formed by part of the neck to the axilla, where it ends in nerves for serves, the upper limb. Only the part of it above the clavicle can be now seen. In the neck the nerves have but little of a plexiform disposition : they lie at first between the scaleni muscles, and have the following arrangement :— The fifth and sixth nerves unite near the vertebrae ; the Disposition seventh remains distinct as far as the outer border of the the^piexus^ middle scalenus; and the last cervical and first dorsal are blended in one trunk beneath the anterior scalenus ; so that they are combined at first into three cords. Near the attach- ment of the middle scalenus to the rib, the seventh nerve throws itself into the trunk formed by the fifth and sixth, and then there result two cords to the plexus :—the one formed by the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical nerves ; and the other, by the eighth cervical and the first dorsal nerve. These two trunks accompany the subclavian artery, lying to its acromial side, and are continued to the axilla, where they are more intimately blended. Branches.—The branches of the plexus may be classed Branches into those above the clavicle, and those below that bone. The highest set end mostly in the muscles of the lower part in the neck of the neck, and in those of the chest and shoulder ; whilst the other set consist of the terminal branches, and are furnished to the upper limb, with which they will be referred to. Branches above the Clavicle.—1. The branch to the'^erve of suhclavius muscle is a very slender twig, which arises from the trunk formed by the fifth and sixth nerves, and is directed downwards over the subclavian artery to the under- surface of the muscle ; it is often united with the phrenic nerve at the lower part of the neck. 2. The branch for the rhomboid muscle springs from the Nerve of fifth nerve in the substance of the middle scalenus, and J^eu?^*^^ perforates the fibres of that muscle; it is directed afterwards * .