DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 610 Dissect ves- sels. Isolate viscera. Eeflections of the peri- toneum. After tlie student has learnt, as directed above, the fasciee and the muscles, which are nearly alike in both sexes, he may make the following special dissection of the viscera of the female pelvis. the'viscera Bissection.—On taking away the recto-vesical fascia and of the female much fat, the several viscera will come into view. To main- pelvis, ^^^j^ ^YiQ position of the uterus, raise it up v/ith a piece of string passed through the upper part. The reflections of the peritoneum on the viscera are to be preserved ; and a j)iece of cotton wool is to be placed between the rectum and the uterus. The obliterated part of the internal iliac artery is to be followed forwards to the bladder, but all the other branches may be cut away on this the left side. The ureter will be found passing to the bladder close to that artery. Afterwards the urethra, the vagina, and the rectum are to be cleaned and partly separated from one another at the anterior part of the pelvis, but the arteries on the rectum are to be preserved. The "peritoneum gives a partial covering to the viscera, as in the male pelvis. Investing the upper part of the rectum, and forming behind it the meso-rectum, the membrane is continued for a short distance on the front of the intestine to the posterior part of the vagina, and the back of the uterus. It covers the posterior, and the greater part of the anterior surface of the uterus, and can be traced to the bladder without again touching the vagina. On each side of the uterus it forms a wide fold (broad ligament), which attaches that viscus to the wall of the abdomen and pelvis. As the peritoneum is followed upwards to the wall of the abdomen, it will be found to cover the posterior surface of the bladder, and the lateral part behind the position of the obliterated hypogastric artery. In the female the pouch between the rectum and bladder can be scarcely said to exist, because the vagina intervenes between the two, and arrests, so to express it, the passing forwards of the perito- neum. In the pelvis the serous membrane forms the fol- lowing ligaments for the uterus and bladder. The broad ligament of the uterus passes from the side of the uterus to the wall of the abdomen, and supports that organ in the cavity of the pelvis. By its position across the pelvis, it divides the cavity into an anterior and a posterior which is V^^^^ ' in the former are placed the bladder, urethra, and fnto thre^e^^ Vagina ; in the latter the upper part of the rectum, and the parts. small intestine when it reaches the pelvis. Each ligament Folds or ligaments are— Broad liga- ment of the uterus.