79 COMMOIN^ CAROTID AETERY. commimicating, and may be arranged into an internal and branches an external series. ' A. Internal Series.—1. The phrenic or muscular nerve Phrenic of the diaphragm (fig. 10) is derived from the fourth, or ' third and fourth nerves of the plexus, and it may be joined by a fasciculus from the fifth cervical nerve. Descending obliquely on the surface of the anterior scalenus from the outer to the inner edge, it enters the chest in front of the internal mammary artery, but behind the subclavian vein, and traverses that cavity to reach the diaphragm. At the lower part of the neck the phrenic nerve is joined by a fila- ment of the sympathetic, and sometimes by an offset of the nerve to the subclavian muscle. 2. The branches communicating with the descendens noni Nerves to are two in number. One of them arises from the second, and ins noni^^^' the other from the third cervical nerve ; they are directed inwards either over or under the internal jugular vein, and communicate with the descending muscular branch (descen- dens noni) of the hypoglossal nerve. 3. Muscular branches are furnished to the recti muscles ; Branches to these arise from the loop between the first two nerves, and from the trunks of the other nerves close to the inter- vertebral foramina. 4. Some connecting branches pass from the loop between the Branches to first two nerves to the sympathetic, and to the cranial nerves nerves, near the base of the skull : these will be afterwards described. B. External or Posterior Series.—1. Muscular Branches to branches are given from the second nerve to the sterno- ^^^^^^s* mastoideus; from the third nerve to the levator anguli scapulae; and from the third and fourth nerves to the trapezius. Further, some small branches supply the substance of the middle scalenus. 2. Connecting branches with the spinal accessory nerve.— Branches The communications are numerous between this cranial and spinal^acces- the spinal nerves. First, in the sterno-mastoid muscle ; sory. next, in the posterior triangular space ; and lastly, beneath the trapezius. The union with the branches that are distributed to the trapezius has the appearance of a plexus. The COMMON CAROTID ARTERY is the leading vessel for the Common supply of blood to the neck and head (fig. 10, ^), and is artery, remarkable in not furnishing collateral branches. The origin of the vessel is difierent on opposite sides of the body, beginning on the right side at the lower part of the neck, and on the left side in the thorax.