DISSECTIOIS^ OF THE ORBIT. 46 To find len- the fat between the optic nerve and the external rectus, at ticuiar j^-j^^ j^jg^^.]^ orbit, the small lenticular gandion and its ganglion. ' o o branches will be discovered : the student will find the ciliary- branches, that lie along the side of the optic nerve, the best guide to the situation of the ganglion. The dissector should find then the branches from the nasal and third nerves to the ganglion. And, lastly, he should separate from one another the nasal, third, and sixth nerves, as they enter the orbit between the heads of the external rectus muscle. Third nerve The THIRD NEUVE is placed highest in the wall of the cavernous sinus ; but at the sphenoidal fissure it descends below the fourth, and two branches (frontal and lachrymal) as it enters of the ophthalmic nerve. The nerve enters the orbit ^^^^** between the heads of the outer rectus, having previously divided into two parts. Its upper a. The upper piece, the smallest in size, ends in the under branch. surface of the levator palpebrse and superior rectus muscles. Lower h. The lower part supplies some of the other muscles, branch. ^^^^ ^^^^ -^q dissected afterwards (p. 49). Nasal nerve. The nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve (fig. 6) enters the orbit between the heads of the rectus, and lies between the two parts of the third nerve. In the orbit the nerve is directed obliquely inwards, to reach the anterior of the two General foramina in the inner wall. Passing through this aperture, the face^ the nerve appears in the cranium, at the outer margin of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. Finally, it enters the nasal cavity by an aperture at the front of the cribri- form plate : and after passing behind the nasal bone, it is directed outwards between that bone and the cartilage, to end on the outer side of the nose. In the orbit. In the orbit, the nasal lies at first over the optic nerve, but beneath the superior rectus and levator palpebrse muscles, and afterwards below the superior oblique ; in this part of Branches, its course it furnishes the following branches :— Long root of a. The branch to the lenticular ganglion is about half an gaiigiion^ inch long and very slender, and arises as soon as the nerve enters the orbit : this is the long root of the lenticular ganglion. Long ciliary h. Long ciliary branches.—As the nasal crosses the optic nerve, it supplies two or more ciliary branches to the eyeball. These lie on the inner side of the optic, and join the ciliary branches of the lenticular ganglion. Infra-troch- c. The infra-trochlear branch arises as the nasal nerve is lear branch. g^'bQ-Q-t to leave the cavity, and is directed forwards below the pulley of the superior oblique muscle to the inner part of