634 DISSECTION OF THE PELYIS. End of vas deferens. Vesicle has a special coat; a covering of muscular fibres; and a mu- cous coat. Seminal ducts, how formed. Extent, length, and termi- nation. Structure. to six inclies, and ends posteriorly in a closed extremity: connected with tlie tube, at intervals, are some lateral csecal appendages (fig. 93). JEnd of vas deferens (fig. 93, i).—Opposite tlie vesicula the vas deferens is increased in capacity, and is rather saccu- lated like the contiguous vesicle; but before it joins the tube of that body to form the common ejaculatory duct, it di- minishes in size, and becomes straight. Structure.—The seminal vesicle has the same number of coats, and the same kind of strata as the vas deferens (p. 582). Within the casing of the recto-vesical fascia, the vesiculae and vasa deferentia are covered by a muscular layer of transverse and longitudinal involuntary fibres. The trans- verse are the more superficial (the base of the bladder being upwards), are strongest near the prostate, and act most on the vasa deferentia. The longitudinal fibres, placed chiefly on the sides of the vesiculfe, are continued forwards with the common seminal ducts to the urethra. The mucous membrane is thrown into ridges by the bending of the tube, and presents an areolar or honeycomb appearance : it is covered by a laminar epithelium. In the sacculated part of the vas deferens the mucous lining resembles that in the vesicula in a slight degree. Common seminal ducts {e).—These tubes (right and left) are formed by the junction of the narrowed front of the vesicula seminalis with the vas deferens of the same side, and convey the semen to the ^^rethra. They begin opposite the base of the prostate, and are directed upwards and forwards through an aperture in the circular prostatic fibres, and along the sides of a hollow (vesicula prostatica), to open into the urethral tube. Their length is rather less than an inch, and their course is convergent to their termination, where they are close together in the floor of the urethra (p. 639). Structure.—The wall of the common duct is thinner than that of the vas deferens, but it possesses similar coats. It is surrounded by longitudinal involuntary muscular fibres, which blend with the submucous stratum of the urethra. THE BLADDER. Bladder out of the body. Form. After the bladder has been separated from the surrounding parts, its form, and the extent of its diflferent regions can be more conveniently observed. Whilst the bladder is in the body, it is conical in shape, ii