29 THE PAROTID GLATO. facial, and are directed inwards between the orbicular muscle form an and the mucous membrane of the lip, till they inosculate f^^^ with the corresponding branches of the opposite side. From the arterial arches thus formed, offsets are supplied to the lips and labial glands. From the arch in the upper lip a branch Branch to is given to the septum of the nose,—artery of the septum, 3. The lateral nasal branch arises opposite the ala of the Lateral nose, and passes beneath the levator labii superioris alseque ^?anch. nasi to be distributed on the side of the nose, where it anas- tomoses with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery. 4. The angular branch is the terminal twig of the facial Angular artery at the inner angle of the orbit, and joins with a branch of the ophthalmic artery. The facial vein commences at the root of the nose by a Facial vein small vein named angular (p. 6). It then crosses over the elevator of the upper lip, and separating from the artery is away from courses beneath the large zygomatic muscle to the side of ^^^^^^' the jaw. Afterwards it has a short course in the neck to join the internal jugular vein. Branches.—At the inner side of the orbit it receives veins is joined by from the lower eyelid (inferior palpebral) and the side of the branches, nose. Below the orbit it is joined by the infra-orbital vein, also by a large branch that comes from the pterygoid region (anterior internal maxillary) ; and thence to its termination by veins corresponding with the branches of the artery both in the face and neck. The transverse facial is a branch of the temporal artery. Transverse and appears in the face at the anterior border of the parotid gland. It lies by the side of the parotid duct, with branches of the facial nerve, and distributes offsets to the muscles and integuments ; some branches anastomose with the facial artery. Dissection.—The parotid gland may be next displayed. ^^^^^^^^^ To see the gland, raise the skin from the surface towards the ear by means of a cut from the base of the jaw to the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle ; this cut may be united with that made for the dissection of the posterior muscle of the ear. A strong fascia covers the gland, and is connected above and behind to the zygoma and the cartilage of the ear, but in front is continued over the face. After the fascia has been removed, the superficial connections of the gland will appear. The great auricular nerve will be seen ascending to the lobe of the ear. The PAEOTiD (fig. 10, ^^,) is the largest of the salivary Parotid gland.