FEMORAL ARTERY AND VEIN. 689 the middle third the femoral artery is more deeply placed femoral than in the upper third of the thigh. It is covered by the ^^^^^^^^^ sartorius muscle and the subjacent aponeurosis, in addition tions. to the integuments and the superficial and deep fasciae. And it lies in a hollow bounded on the one side by the vastus internus, and on the other by the adductor longus and adductor magnus, by which it is conducted to the opening in the last muscle. On the outer side of the artery Position of and close to it is the femoral vein. Crossing over the artery Saphenous from the outer to the inner side is the internal saphenous nerve, nerve, which is beneath the aponeurosis before noticed, but is not contained within the areolar sheath of the vessels. Branches.—Only one named branch, anastomotic, springs Branclies. from this part of the artery, the other offsets belonging to muscles. The anastomotic branch (arter. anastomotica magna) arises Anastomo- close to the opening in the adductor muscle, and splits at ' once into two parts, superficial and deep. a. The superficial ofi'set continues with the saphenous superficial nerve to the lower border of the sartorius, and piercing the fascia lata, ramifies in the integuments. h. The deep or anterior branch is concealed in the fibres deep of the vastus internus, and descends in front of the tendon of the adductor magnus to the inner side of the knee joint, where it anastomoses with the articular branches of the pop- liteal and anterior tibial arteries. A branch passes outwards from it in the substance of the vastus ; this forms an arch in front of the.,lower end of the femur with an ofi'set of the external articular artery, and supplies the joint. The two i^ieces of the anastomotic artery may be separate at their origin, and spring from distinct parts of the parent trunk. Muscular branches.—Branches for the supply of the Muscular muscles leave the outer part of the femoral artery, and enter mostly the sartorius and the vastus internus. The FEMORAL VEIN corrcspouds closely with the femoral Femoral artery in its connections with the parts around, and in its branches. The position with respect to the artery is, as above said, external to, and in contact with it. Peculiarities.—Splitting of the arfer^/.—Occasionally the femoral The femoral artery is split into two below the origin of the profmida. Four artery may examples of this peculiarity have been met with, but, in all, the ^® <iivi«ied. trunks were blended again into one above the opening in the ad- ductor muscle. Position of the vein.—The femoral vein may change its position The vein