320 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. are Superficial Palmab, Part OF THE Ulnae, Artery.—In the palm of palmar arch, ^j^^ hand the ulnar artery is directed outwards towards the muscles of the thumb, where it communicates with two off- sets of the radial artery, viz., the superficial volar branch, and the branch to the radial side of the fore finger. The curved part of the artery, which lies across the hand, is Position in named the superficial palmar arch (fig. 45,").—Its convexity and^^^^ is turned towards the fingers, and its position in the palm would be marked nearly by a line across the hand from the connections, cleft of the thumb. The arch is comparatively superficial ; it is covered in greater part only by the integuments and the palmar fascia, but at the inner border of the hand the palmaris brevis muscle lies over it. Beneath it are the flexor tendons and the branches of the ulnar and median nerves. Bran dies Branches.—From the convexity of the arch proceed the digital arteries, and from the concavity some small oflsets to the palm of the hand. A small branch (profunda) arises as soon as the artery enters the hand, to join the a. The deep or communicating hranch (profunda) is small deep arch. ^izQ, and passes downwards with a branch of the ulnar nerve between the abductor and short flexor muscles of the little finger, to inosculate with the deep palmar arch of the radial artery. j^our &. The digital tranches are four in number, and supply branches ^^^^ sides of the three inner fingers and one side of the index finger. The branch to the inner side of the hand and the little finger is undivided in its course ; but the others corresponding with the three inner interosseous spaces, bifur- cate anteriorly to supply the contiguous sides of the above- In the hand, said digits. In the hand these branches are accompanied by the digital nerves, which they sometimes pierce. Theyjoinoff- Near the root of the fingers each receives a communi- deep*^arch^ cating branch from an off'set of the deep arch; but the artery for the inner side of the little finger has its communicating branch with the deep arch about the middle of the hand. Termination From the point of bifurcation the branches extend along of the^ ^^^^^ sides of the fingers, accompanied by the digital nerves ; fingers. and on the last phalanx the vessels of opposite sides unite in an arch, from whose convexity ofi'sets proceed to supply the ball of the finger, as well as the pulp beneath the nail. Collateral branches are furnished to the finger and the sheath of the tendons ; and small twigs are supplied to the pha- langeal articulations from small arterial arches on the bones —an arch being close behind each joint.