39 FACIAL NERVE OUTSIDE THE SKULL. body is turned (see p. 1). Some of the nerve is concealed by the parotid gland, but tbe greater part is anterior to the glandular mass. To expose the ramifications beyond the parotid gland, let beyond the skin be raised from the face in the same manner as on P^^'oti^'^' the left side. The difi'erent branches of the nerve are then to be sought as they escape from beneath the anterior border of the gland, and to be followed forwards to their termination. The highest branches that go to the temple have been already partly dissected above the zygoma ; and their junction with the temporal branch of the superior maxillary, and with the supra-orbital nerve has been seen. Other still smaller branches are to be traced to the outer part of the orbit, where they enter the eyelids and commu- nicate with the other nerves in the lids ; and by means of this set, whilst it crosses the malar bone, a junction is formed with the subcutaneous malar nerve of the fifth. With the duct of the parotid are two or more large branches, which are to be followed below the orbit to their junction with the infra-orbital, nasal, and infra-trochlear nerves. The remaining branches to the lower part of the face are smaller in size : one joins with the buccal nerve at the lower part of the buccinator muscle ; and one or two others are to be traced forwards to the lower lip and to the labial branch of the inferior dental nerve. In order to trace backwards the trunk of the nerve and of the through the gland, the integuments should be taken from parotid" the surface of the parotid as on the other side, and the gland removed piece by piece. In this proceeding the small branches of communication of the great auricular nerve with offsets of the facial, and the branches that dip down from the facial to the auriculo-temporal nerve are to be sought. Lastly, the tip of the mastoid process may be cut off with a chisel ; and after turning it backwards with the sterno- mastoid muscle adhering to it, the small branches of the facial nerve to the back of the ear, and to the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, are to be looked for close to the base of the skull. The Nerve outside the Skull.—The nerve issues from Branches the stylo-mastoid foramen, after traversing the aqueduct of s^uii. Fallopius, and furnishes immediately the three following small branches :— a. The posterior auricular "branch turns upwards in front Posterior of the mastoid process, where it communicates with the great branchf^ auricular, and with a branch to the ear from the pneumo-