DISSECTIOIT OF THE NECK. 86 Posterior auricular artery iu neck supplies a branch to the ear. Vein with artery. Temporal artery, besides terminal branches, gives branches to parotid, to articulation of jaw, and the ear. Branch to face. Branch to temporal muscle and of the temple. Correspond- ing vein. and has the same course as the artery ; it communicates with the lateral sinus through the mastoid foramen, also with the diploic veins, and opens into the internal, some- times into the external jugular vein. The posterior auricular artery is smaller than the pre- ceding branch, and takes origin above the digastric muscle. Ascending in the same direction as the occipital artery, viz. to the interval between the ear and the mastoid process, it divides finally into two branches for the ear and occiput (P- 6). A small branch, stylo-mastoid, enters the foramen of the same name, and supplies the internal ear. The vein with the artery receives a stylo-mastoid branch, and terminates in the trunk formed by the temporal and internal maxillary veins. The temporal artery is in direction the continuation of the external carotid trunk, and is one of the terminal branches of that artery. Ascending under the parotid gland, in the interval between the ear and the articulation of the jaw, the vessel divides on the temporal fascia into anterior and posterior branches about two inches above the zygoma, and these are distributed to the front and side of the head (p. 5). The trunk of the artery gives offsets to the surrounding parts, viz. :— a. Parotid branches are furnished to the gland which conceals the artery. Articular twigs are supplied to the articulation of the lower jaw ; and other muscular branches enter the masseter. Some anterior auricular branches are distributed to the pinna and meatus of the external ear. h. The transverse facial branch quits the temporal artery opposite the condyle of the jaw, and is directed forwards over the masseter muscle (p. 29) ; on the side of the face it supplies the muscles and integuments, and anastomoses with the facial artery. c. The middle temporal branch arises just above the zygoma, and pierces the temporal aponeurosis to enter the substance of the temporal muscle. In the muscle it anasto- moses with branches of the internal maxillary artery. d. A small branch of the temporal artery is likewise found between the layers of the temporal fascia ; this becomes cutaneous near the orbicularis muscle. The temporal vein commences on the side of the head (p. 6), and is contiguous to its companion artery. jN'ear the zygoma it is joined by the middle temporal vein ; next by other branches which are companions of the ofisets of