STRUCTURE OF THE RETINA. 793 derived from the central vessels of tlie retina contained in sels in this tlie optic nerve (p. 48), When the nerve becomes mem- braniform the artery divides into four or five branches ; these pierce the stratum of fibres, and end in a network of capillaries amongst the nerve cells outside them, like the vessels in the gray substance of the encephalon, and without formiDg a separate layer. The larger branches of the artery keep clear of the axis of the eyeball, and only capillaries At the yel- occupy the yellow spot. In the fetus a branch of the artery is distributed to the back of the lens. In animals a marginal vessel runs circularly round the ball at the anterior termination (ora serrata) of the retina. 6. The outer stratum (^) or columnar layer of the retina Outer layer (Jacob's membrane) consists of two difi'erent elements—rods part?'^^^'^^ and cones, which are arranged vfith their ends inwards and outwards. The rods (c) are elongated solid particles, which are pointed Rods, at the inner end, and are the more ^.^ ^. numerous of the two kinds of bodies. °' The coQies (b) are shaped like a flask rsv,^^ • ^ Cones, with a long neck, and have the larger end turned inwards : they do not pro- ject so far out as the rods. "When viewed on the outer surface, the cones form large isolated swellings amongst the ends of the rods (fig. 123, c), and at a deeper level. By their inner ends both bodies are joined to the fibres of Miiller. In the fresh state both are clear and homogeneous, with characters, a glistening appearance, but these characters are soon de- stoyed by water and other fluids. c. The granular layer (^) consists of innumerable rounded Granular or ovalish bodies, collected into two sets (c, d), with an intervening fine molecular material. The intervening portion ^vith mate- has a striated appearance, from the passage of the fibres of [^g^,^" Miiller through it. The fibres of Miiller (b, c) pass vertically through the Fibres of substance of the retina, from the bodies in the columnar layer to the limiting membrane on the inner surface. They are extremely fine threads, and are aggregated into bundles as they penetrate between the optic fibres ; those of the * Microscopic appearance of the outer surface of the retina,— a. Over the yellow spot. b. Near the spot. c. Middle of the retina. The larger rings represent the cones, and the smaller ones tlie rods, seen endwise in all the figures.