EXTERIOE OF THE PHARYl^X. 1-31 proceed to remove the fascia from tlie constrictor muscles in on the the direction of their fibres, these radiating from the side to opposite. the middle line. The margins of the two lower constrictor muscles (middle and inferior) are to be defined. Beneath the lower one near the larynx, will be found the recurrent nerve ; whilst intervening between the middle and superior, are the stylo-pharyngeus muscle and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. To see the attachment of the superior constrictor to the lower jaw and the pterygo-maxillary ligament, it will be necessary to cut through the internal pterygoid muscle. Above the upper fibres of this constrictor, and near the base of the skull (petrous part of the temporal bone), will be found two small muscles of the palate :—one,—tensor palati, lies between the internal pterygoid plate and the pterygoid muscle ; and the other,—levator palati, is rather farther back, and of larger size. The PHARYisrx is that part of the alimentary tube which is Pharynx is situate behind the nose, mouth, and larynx. Through the moutliand part of this passage above the mouth the air moves in ^^^^ respiration, whilst through that below the mouth both air and food are transmitted ; the air passing to the aperture of the windpipe and the food to the oesophagus. Its extent is Extent, from the base of the skull to the cricoid cartilage of the larynx, where it ends in the oesophagus. In form it is form, and somewhat conical, with the dilated part upwards, and the apex or narrower part downwards. In length it measures length. about four inches and a half. The tube of the pharynx is incomplete in front, where it ^P- ji^com- • 11 .. . 11- • plete bag; communicates with the cavities above mentioned, but is quite closed behind. On each side of the pharynx are the trunks is between of the carotid arteries, with the internal jugular vein and the ^gg^eis accompanying eighth, ninth, and sympathetic nerves. Be- ^^^^ ^^.^^^^ hind it is the spinal column, covered by the deep muscles, of spine. viz. longus colli and rectus capitis anticus major. In front the pharynx is attached to the larynx, the hyoid Attach- bone and the tongue, and to the bony framework of the nasal cavity ; but behind it is unattached, and is formed of thin, fleshy and membranous strata. In the posterior wall Coustruc- are three thin muscles, which are so arranged that the lower overlays the middle, and the middle the upper muscle, like the disposition of scales ; and at the upper part the bag is farther completed by an aponeurotic expansion which fixes it to the base of the skull. The whole is lined by mucou3 membrane. The aponeurosis of attachment is seen at the upper part of ^^jJSjnx ^