540 DISSECTIO^T OF THE ABDOMEK Two large centres, solar and hypo- gastric. How to lay bare solar plexvis, and the semilunar ganglia. Follow the ending of the vagus nerves. side of the vertebral column ; and of prevertebral centres or plexuses, which furnish branches to the viscera. Two prevertebral plexuses are found in the abdomen. One of these is the solar or epigastric plexus, which is placed behind the stomach, and supplies nerves to all the viscera above the cavity of the pelvis. The other, or the hypogastric plexus, is situate in the pelvis, and distributes nerves to the pelvic viscera. The offsets or the secondary plexuses of these centres accompany the bloodvessels to the viscera. The knotted or gangliated cord will be seen in a subse- quent stage of the dissection ; and only the great epigastric centre, viz., the solar plexus and the semilunar ganglion with their offsets, is to be now prepared. Dissection. —To denude the great prevertebral centre (solar plexus), the following dissection is to be made :—After the air has been let out of the stomach and the duodenum, the portal vein, the common bile duct, and the gastro-epiploic artery are to be cut through behind the pylorus ; and the stomach, the duodenum, and the pancreas are to be drawn over to the left side. On raising the liver, and taking away some fatty tissue, the vena cava appears : the vein is to be cut across above the junction of the renal vein with it, and the lower end is to be drawn down with hooks. Beneath the vein the dissector will find the large reddish semihmar ganglion of the right side. From its inner part he should trace the numerous nerves which form the solar plexus around the coeliac and superior mesenteric arteries; and should unravel the offsets around those arteries, with their secondary plexuses. From the outer part of the gan- glion branches are to be traced to the kidney, the suprarenal body, and the diaphragmatic arteries. At its upper part the student may observe the large splanchnic nerve; and deeper than it, one or two other smaller splanchnic nerves, which throw themselves into the solar and renal plexuses. Mixed up with the nerves of the solar plexus are numerous lymphatic glands and a dense tissue, which require to be removed with care. The student should then trace the ending of the pneumo- gastric nerves on the stomach. The left nerve will be found in front near the upper border ; and the right nerve will be seen at a corresponding point on the opposite aspect. Branches are to be traced from the right nerve to the plexus of the sympathetic by the side of the coeliac axis, and from the left to the hepatic plexus.