138 DISSECTIOIT OF THE PHARYI^X. muscle is single along middle: attach- ments. Tonsil is between pillars of palate. Vessels. Mucous membrane of pharynx continued into the apertures. Superiorly has colum- nar, infe- riorly scaly epithelium. Beginning of oesopha- gus. Formed of two layers of fibres: velum near the posterior surface. The muscle consists of two narrow slips of pale fibres, which arise from the spine at the posterior border of the hard palate, or from the con- tiguous aponeurosis, and end inferiorly in the tip of the uvula. Behind this muscle, separating it from the mucous membrane, is the thin stratum of the palato-pharyngeus. The tonsil is a collection of mucous follicles resembling those on the dorsum of the tongue, which is placed close above the base of the tongue, and between the arches of the soft palate. Each is roundish in shape, but variable in size, and apertiu-es are more or less apparent on its surface. Externally the tonsil is opposite the superior constrictor muscle and the angle of the lower jaw ; and when enlarged it may press against the carotid blood-vessels. Its arteries are numerous and are derived from the facial, lingual, ascending pharyngeal, and internal maxillary branches of the external carotid. Its veins have a plexiform arrange- ment on the outer side. Nerves are furnished to it from the fifth and eighth cranial nerves. The mucous membrane of the pharynx is continuous an- teriorly with the lining of the mouth and nose. Covering the soft palate and its numerous small glands (palatine), the membrane is continued to the tonsils on each side, and is prolonged by the Eustachian tube to the tympanum. From the dorsum of the tongue it is continued over the epiglottis, forming three small folds, and' then lines the pharynx. In front of each arytsenoid cartilage it encloses a mass of muciparous glands (arytsenoid). It is prolonged into the larynx through the upper opening. Inferiorly, it is con- tinued by the oesophagus to the stomach. The mucous membrane is thicker, redder, and better pro- vided with glands in the upper, than in the lower part of the pharynx ; and its character, near the difierent apertures, resembles that of the membrane lining the cavities opening into the pharynx. Its epithelium is scaly below the palate, that is to say, in the part through which the food passes ; but columnar and ciliated above that spot, where only the air is transmitted. Beginning of the wsophagus.—In addition to what has been said of the commencement of the oesophagus, and its connections in the neck, it may be remarked, that the size of this tube is less than that of the pharynx, and that the walls are flaccid. On dissection the tube will be found to consist of two layers of muscular fibres, with a lining of mucous membrane.