147 SPHEISrO-PALATINE GANCxLIOE". the two upper spongy bones, and on the fiat surface of the ethmoid bone in front of them. As the branches of the olfactory nerve leave the skull, they receive tube-s from the dura mater and pia mater, which are lost in the tissue to which the nerves are distributed. The nerves ramify in the pituitary membrane, and form tufts of filaments that com- municate freely with the contiguous twigs, forming a net- work, but their mode of termination in the tissue is un- known. The olfactory nerve difiers in structure from the other Structure, cranial nerves ; its branches are deficient in the white sub- stance of Schwann, are not divisible into fibrillse, and are nucleated and granular in texture (fig, 16). They resemble the gelatinous fibres, and seem to be formed of an exten- sion of the nervous matter of the olfactory bulb.—(Todd and Bowman.) The other branches of the nerves, together with the vessels which are found in the nose, will be described in the following section. Section XIV. SPHENO-PALATINE AND OTIC GANGLIA, FACIAL AND NASAL NERVES, AND BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. Branches of MecheVs ganglion. —From the ganglion of Brauches of Meckel in the spheno-maxillary fossa, branches are fur- gaD^giion; nished to the nose through the spheno-palatine foramen, to the palate through the canals of the same name, and to the facial nerve along the vidian canal. The position of these several nerves may first be ascertained by examining their channels of transmission in the prepared skull. Dissection.—The branches of the ganglion that enter Seek the nose will be found on the left part of the sawn skull, thT'noS! by seeking them opposite the spheno-palatine foramen, through which they enter the nasal fossa with correspond- ing arteries. One of these nerves (naso-palatine), before referred to as lying in the membrane of the septum, is to be isolated from the pituitary membrane, and followed forwards to where it enters the floor of the nose. Branches of the internal maxillary artery accompany the nerves, and are to be dissected with them. L 2