STRUCTURE OF THE STOMACH. 545 the concavity of the one border corresponds with the con- difference in vexity of the other. An arterial arch and a fold of perito- neum (omentum) extend along each border. Structure. —In the wall of the stomach are four layers Four strata or coats, viz. serous, muscular, fibrous, and mucous; together stomach, with vessels, nerves, and lymphatics. Serous coat —The peritoneum gives a covering to the The serous stomach, and is adherent to the surface except at the adhe-^ margins, where an interval exists corresponding with the lent. attachment of the small and the large omentum. In this space are contained the vessels, nerves, and lymphatics of the stomach. During distension of the stomach the space above mentioned is much diminished. The muscular coat will be laid bare by the removal of the The muscu- serous covering. It consists of three sets of fibres, viz. made up of longitudinal, circular, and oblique ; these lie from without inwards in the order mentioned, and are involuntary or non- striated. a. The longitudinal fibres are derived from the oesophagus; longitu- they spread over the surfaces, without entirely covering ' them, and are continued onwards to the pylorus and the small intestine. The fibres are most marked along the bor- ders, particularly the smaller one ; and at the pylorus they are much stronger than in the centre of the stomach. h. The circular fibres form the middle stratum of the circular, muscular coat, and will be best seen by removing the longi- tudinal fibres near the pylorus. They reach from the left to the right end of the stomach ; but at the pylorus they are most numerous and strongest, and form a firm ring around the opening. c. The oblique fibres are continuous with the circular or and oblique deep layer of the oesophagus, and form only part of a layer ^b^^^- in the gastric wall. On the left of the cardiac orifice they are seen to arch over the great end of the stomach, and they spread out on the anterior and posterior surfaces, gradually disappearing on them. Fibrous or submucous coat.—By removing the muscular The fibrous layer over a small spot, the fibrous coat will appear as a ^ul; fi?m/"' white shining stratum. Formed of areolar or connective tissue, this coat gives strength to the stomach, and serves as a bed in which the larger vessels and nerves ramify before their distribution to the mucous coat. If a small opening is made in this membrane, the mucous coat will project through it, supposing the stomach to be distended with air. The mucous coat will come into view on cutting open the Mucous