STRUCTUEE OF THE TRACHEA. 179 forwards, forming the front and sides of the air tube. At Pecuiiari- the extremities of the trachea, both above and below, the cartilaginous pieces are least constant in size and form ; for towards the larynx they increase in depth, whilst the lowest piece of cartilage is shaped like the letter V : at the extremes also of the tube the cartilages may be slit at their ends, or Q^^^.^^^gg may be blended together. A fibrous tissue is continued from are con- one to another on both aspects, though in greatest quantity fib?o^,fs^^^ externally, so as to incase and unite them, and is extended tissue, across the posterior part of the air tube. Dissection.—On. removing the fibrous membrane and the Dissection, mucous glands from between the cartilages at the back of the trachea, the muscular fibres will appear. After the mus- cular fibres have been examined, they may be cut through to see the elastic tissue and the mucous membrane. Muscular fibres.—Between the ends of the cartilages is a Muscular continuous layer of transverse unstriated fibres (fig. 21, n), traciiea°^^ which are attached to the truncated ends and the inner behind, surface of the cartilages. By the one surface the fibres are in contact with the fibrous membrane and glands, and by the other with the next structure. Some longitudinal fibres are superficial to the transverse; they are arranged in scattered bundles, and are attached to the fibrous tissue. The elastic tissue forms a complete lining to the tracheal Elastic tube beneath the mucous membrane ; though afc the pos- trachea^^^ terior part, where the cartilages are deficient, it is gathered into strong longitudinal folds. This layer is closely connected with the mucous membrane covering it. The mucous membrane of the trachea lines the tube, and Mucous resembles that of the larynx in being furnished with a co- ^itheiium', lumnar ciliated epithelium. Connected with this membrane glands, are numerous branched mucous glands of variable size. The largest set are found at the back of the trachea, in the interval between the cartilages, where some are placed beneath the mucous membrane with the muscular fibres, and others outside the fibrous tissue : the ducts of the last pass forwards between the muscular fibres to the surface of the mucous membrane. Other smaller glands occupy the front and sides of the trachea, being situate on and in the fibrous tissue connecting the cartilaginous rings.