201 ORIGIN OF THE CRA^s^IAL NERVES. nearer the upper than the lower border (fig. 30, The small or aganglionic root is highest, and is separated from the other by two or three of the transverse fibres of the pons. Both roots pass outwards through an aperture in the dura mater, above the petrous part of the temporal bone, and are blended in the peculiar manner stated in p. 19, Both roots penetrate the fibres of the pons, and are near floor oi connected with nuclei near the floor of the fourth ventricle, tricie ■ Deep origin.—The large root divides into two parts near the mass beginning of gray matter called locus cseruleiis (p. 248). One of these bends ^^^^^ ^^^g^ downwards to the restiform body. The other, which is smaller, ' arises from the locus cseruleus, and from the gray matter near it (upper trigeminal nucleus) which the lower part of the trochlear nerve enters ; from the gray substance in the floor of the fourth ventricle, near the hypoglossal nucleus ; and from a deeper nucleus, lower trigeminal, opposite the lower border of the pons, within the fasciculus teres or the fibres continued from the lateral tract of the medulla (Stilling). The small root begins with the fourth nerve in the upper tri- and of small. geminal nucleus, which is in front of the prolongation upwards from the locus cseruleus, and anterior to the floor of the fourth ventricle (Stilling). The SIXTH NERVE (fig. 30, abducent nerve of the eye- Origin of ball, springs from the pyramidal body close to the pons, and ^^^^^ nerve, by a second band from the lower part of the pons. Beep origin.—The fibres of the nerve bend backwards, through the fJ^oni fourth medulla oblongata, to a nucleus in the floor of the fourth ventricle, ^^^^^i^le. whose position is on the outer part of the fasciculus teres, and close behind the anterior fossa (Stilling). See Anatomy of the Fourth Ventricle (p. 249). The SEVENTH CRANIAL NERVE (WiUis) (fig. 30, ') appears Seventh at the lower border of the pons near the restiform body, ^wo^parts It consists of two distinct trunks, facial and auditory ; the former being the motor nerve of the face, and the latter the special nerve for the organ of hearing. The facial nerve (portio dura, seventh nerve Sommerring) Origin of the (fig. 35, ') is firm and round, and smaller than the auditory, facial, internal to which it is placed. It issues from the lateral tract of the medulla, close to the pons, and is connected with the lower border of the pons. The facial nerve receives a small accessory band of fibres Small acces- from the same part of the medulla (intermediate portion of P^®'^®- Wrisberg), which is intermediate between it and the auditory; it is then applied to the auditory nerve, with which it enters the internal meatus. The auditory nerve (portio mollis, eighth nerve, Sommer- Auditory part.