396 DISSECTIOIT OF THE THORAX. higher tlian the artery, though it soon takes its place below the vessel. Offsets. Branches are furnished to the layers of intercostal muscles and the ribs. About the centre (from front to back) of the intercostal space a superficial twig accompanies the cutaneous nerve. Anastc- The upper artery of the set anastomoses with the superior intercostal branch of the subclavian artery ; and those below the true ribs enter the abdominal wall, and anastomose with the arteries of that part. Posterior ^- The posterior branch turns backwards between the ver- branch tebra and the ascendinsf costo-transverse liQ:ament, and is turns to the . . back. distributed m the back. As it passes by the intervertebral foramen it furnishes a small spinal branch to the vertebrae and the spinal cord.—(See Vessels of the Spinal Cord.) Intercostal The intercostal vein resembles closely the artery in its course and branching. JSTear the head of the rib it receives a contributing dorsal branch, and then joins an azygos vein. Superior The superior intercostal artery of the subclavian trunk is artery°from '^^^^^^^^ ^'^ dissection of the neck (p. 76). Descending ^subclavian, over the neck of the first rib, external to the ganglion of the sympathetic, it supplies a branch to the first intercostal Supplies one space : continuing to the second space, which it may supply spaces. ill like manner, it ends by anastomosing with the upper aortic branch. Each intercostal oflset from it divides into an anterior and a posterior branch, like the arteries from the aorta. The vein The vein accompanying the right artery opens into the on the right innominate vein. On the left side the superior intercostal sSe ^^^^ yeiii is formed by branches from the two or three highest spaces ; it is joined by the left bronchial vein, and ends in the left innominate vein, after crossing the arch of the aorta, three^az os '^^^ PREVERTEBRAL OR AZYGOS VEINS are two in number veins. on the left side, and one on the right, and receive branches corresponding with the offsets furnished by the descending part of the thoracic aorta. By means of the larger or right vein the inferior cava communicates with the superior, so that blood may reach the heart from the lower part of the body, or the opposite, if one of the cavse should be obliterated. Large The larger or right azygos vein begins in the lumbar veins azygos IS on . , ^ « i • i • . . . , , right side of on the right side of the spme, and its origin is described spine, with the vessels of the abdomen. It enters the thorax through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, and ascends on the right side of the thoracic duct, over the intercostal