80 DISSECTION" OF THE NECK. Origin. Course. Situation. Parts cover- ing it, beneath it, and on its sides. Internal jugular vein lies close to side of artery. except below. The vessel of tlie right side commences opposite the sterno-clavicular articulation at the bifurcation of the inno- minate artery, and ends at the upper border of the thyroid cartilage by dividing into the two trunks before seen, viz. external and internal carotid. The course of the artery is along the side of the trachea and larynx, gradually diverging from the vessel on the opposite side in consequence of the increasing size of the larynx ; and its position will be marked by a line from the sterno-clavicular articulation to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. Contained in a sheath of cervical fascia, with the internal jugular vein to the outside, and the pneumo-gastric nerve between the two, the carotid artery has the following connections with the surrounding parts ;—As high as the cricoid cartilage the vessel is deeply placed, and is concealed by the common coverings of the skin, platysma and fascise, and by the muscles at the lower part of the neck, viz., sterno-mastoid (sternal origin), sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and omo-hyoid ; and beneath the muscles by the middle thyroid vein. But above the cricoid cartilage to its termination the artery is covered by the sterno-mastoid with the common investments of the part ; superficial to it here is the descendens noni nerve, and crossing the upper part are offsets of the superior thyroid artery with the accompanying vein. The vessel rests mostly on the longus colli muscle, but close to its ending on the rectus capitis anticus major ; on the sympathetic nerve and its branches ; and on the recurrent nerve and the inferior thyroid artery. To the inner side of the carotid lie the trachea and larynx, with the oesophagus and pharynx and the thyroid body, the last overhanging the vessel by the side of the larynx. Along the outer side of the carotid sheath is a chain of lymphatic glands. Internal jugular vein.—This vein extends upwards to the base of the skull by the side of the carotid blood-vessels, but only the part of it that accompanies the common carotid artery is now seen. Placed behind or posterior to its artery, the vein ends below by uniting with the subclavian in the innominate vein. Its proximity to the carotid is not equally close in all the extent of the vessel, for at the lower part of the neck the vein inclines backwards, leaving a space between it and the artery, in which the vagus nerve is seen about midway between the two. Sometimes the vein is superficial to the artery as on the left side. This part of the vein is marked by a dilatation or sinus, but near its