DISSECTION OF THE SPHSTAL CORD. 446 Exceptions in neck. Sacral and coccygeal. Arteries of cord are anterior spinal, a single artery, and is con- tinued by anastomotic branches. Termi- nation. Offsets. Posterior arteries are two; are con- tinued along cord like anterior. lie on sides of cord; Veins, Termination at top of cord. Situation of the cord. monly in the intervertebral foramina, but where the regular position of those apertures is wanting, as at the upper and lower extremities of the spinal canal, they have the following situation:—In the first two nerves they lie on the neural arches of the atlas and axis. In the sacral nerves they are contained in the spinal ^canal. In the coccygeal nerve the ganglion is also within the canal, and about the middle of the long posterior root (Schlemm). Vessels of the Spinal Cord.—The arteries on the sur- face of the cord are anterior and posterior spinal. The veins do not resemble the arteries in their branching. The anterior spinal artery occupies the middle line of the cord beneath the fibrous band before alluded to in that position. It commences at the medulla oblongata by the union of two small branches of the vertebral artery (p. 193) ; and it is continued to the lower part of the cord by a series of anastomotic branches, which are derived from the ver- tebral and ascending cervical arteries in the neck, and from the intercostal arteries in the back. Inferiorly it supplies the roots of the nerves forming the cauda equina, and ends on the central fibrous prolongation of the cord. The branches of this artery ramify in the pia mater, and are distributed to the substance of the cord, some entering the median fissure. The posterior spinal arteries^ one on each side, are con- tinued from the upper to the lower part of the cord, behind the roots of the nerves. These vessels begin superiorly by offsets from the vertebral artery, and their continuity is maintained by a series of anastomotic branches, which enter the canal along the spinal nerves, and are furnished from the same source as the twigs reinforcing the anterior spinal artery. Dividing into small branches, the vessels of oppo- site sides form a free anastomosis around the posterior roots, and some oJffsets enter the fissure of the cord. The veins of the spinal cord are very tortuous, and form a plexus on the surface. At intervals larger trunks arise, which accompany the spinal nerves to the intervertebral foramina, and end in the veins outside the spinal canal. Near the top of the cord the veins are united into two or more small branches ; these join in the skull the inferior cerebellar, or the petrosal sinuses, after communicating with the vertebral veins. The SPINAL CORD (medulla spinalis) is the cylindrical elongated part of the cerebro-spinal centre, which is enclosed within the spinal canal. Invested by the membranes before