441 MEMBRANES OF THE CORD. thus of a visceral and a parietal part ; but the visceral piece, around the cord, is much looser than the like part on the brain. The outer or parietal part is inseparably joined to the parietal inner surface of the dura mater, and gives to the membrane Syei\^and^ a shining appearance. ^ The inner or visceTal layer surrounds the cord loosely, so a loose or as to leave a considerable interval between the two (sub- J^^yei^^^ arachnoid space). At the lower part of the spinal canal the loose sheath is much the largest, and envelops the mass sub-arach- of nerves forming the cauda equina. As the different spinal space, nerves extend to the intervertebral foramina they receive loose sheaths from the visceral part of the arachnoid mem- brane, and retain the same till they perforate the dura mater. Dissection.—The subarachnoid space of the cord may be To expose made evident by placing the handle of the scalpel beneath uoid^s^pacc. the visceral layer; or by putting a detached piece of the cord in water, with the posterior aspect uppermost, and blowing air beneath the serous membrane. The subarachnoid space is situate between the loose or visceral part of the arachnoid membrane, and the spinal ^^^^^ cord invested by pia mater. Larger at the lower than at contains a the upper part of the spinal canal, the space contains a opeJs into special fluid (cerebro-spinal) ; and it communicates with the cavities of cavity in the interior of the brain by an aperture in the fourth ventricle. Crossing the space at the posterior part of the cord, are bundles of fibrous tissue : in the neck the fibres are most marked, and are collected into an imperfect ^perfecr^ partition or septum along the middle line : in the space septum are the serrations of the ligamentum denticulatum, and the roots of the spinal nerves, with some vessels. Dissection. —For the purpose of seeing the next covering Dissection of the cord with the ligamentum denticulatum, the arachnoid covering, membrane is to be taken away. The pia mater is much less vascular on the spinal cord Pia mater than on the brain. Thicker and more fibrous in its nature, the membrane closely surrounds the cord. It sends a thin prolongation into the anterior median fissure of the cord, and furnishes offsets to the roots of the spinal nerves. gives offsets. The outer surface of the pia mater is rough. Along the * This reflection of the membrane over the dnra mater is defied by Kolliker. According to the view of this anatomist, the membrahe is a simple tube corresponding with the visceral layer in the text.