BRANCHES OF THE SUBCLAYIAlSr ARTERY. 73 superficial nerves of the cervical plexus, and the external jugular vein ; but near its termination the vessel gets under beneath, cover of the suprascapular artery and vein, and the clavicle and subclavius muscle. In the third part of its course the artery rests on the surface of the first rib. Above the vessel above and is the brachial plexus, and below it is the subclavian vein. Usually no branch leaves the last part of the artery. Peculiarities.—There are some peculiarities affecting the origin, Peculiarities the course, and the level in the neck of the subclavian artery. of origin of With reference to origin. The level at which it springs from trunk the innominate trunk may vary; so that in one case it will be above the sterno-clavicular articulation, in another, below that joint. Or the artery may spring as a separate trunk from the arch of the aorta ; and in such a state of the parts, the vessel takes a deeper place than usual to reach the scaleni muscles :—a condi- tion that will be referred to with the arch of the aorta in the thorax. It has been before said (p. 58), that the artery may be in course and front of the scalenus or in its fibres ; or that it may be placed one level, inch and a half above the level of the clavicle. Branches of the subclavian.—Usually there are four Branches of branches to the subclavian artery. Three branches arise artery^ from the first part of the arterial trunk ;—one (vertebral) ascends to the head ; another (internal mammary) descends to the chest; and the remaining one (thyroid axis) is a short thick trunk, which furnishes branches inwards and outwards. These arise commonly near the scalenus muscle. Origin of so as to leave an interval at the origin free from offsets, ^^anches This interval varies in length, being from half an inch to an inch in the greater number of cases ; and its extremes range from somewhat less than half an inch to an inch and three quarters. But in some instances the branches are scattered over the whole extent of this part of the artery (Quain)."^ The fourth branch (superior intercostal) arises from the second part of the artery, viz. that beneath the anterior scalenus, and gives off the deep cervical branch. If there is a branch present on the third part of the artery, it is commonly the posterior scapular : if more than one, the internal mammary, to which some offsets belonging usually to the thyroid axis will be added. 1. The vertebral artery is generally the first and largest Vertebral branch of the subclavian, and arises from the upper and the^neck. posterior part of the vessel. Ascending between the con- * The student is referred for fuller information respecting the pecu- liarities of the vessels, and the practical applications to be deduced from them, to the original and valuable work on the Anatomy of the Arteries of the Human Body, by Richard Quain, F.R.S.