481 VESSELS AInTD i^ERVES OF PENIS. behind the aperture of the urethra, the integument forms a andfrsenum. small triangular fold, frcenum prceputii. Where the integu- ment covers the glans it is very thin, assuming in some cases Sebaceous the characters of a mucous membrane ; and behind the glans S^^'^^^s. are some sebaceous follicles—glcmdidfE odoriferw. In the scrotum.—The superficial fascia becomes thin, and Teguments of a reddish colour in the scrotum. If it is cut through the student will perceive that the prolongation sent around the cord on one side, does not communicate with that on the other side; and that the two pouches come in contact in the middle line, and form the septum scroti. The superficial fascia in the scrotum and penis, and in the Muscular front of the perinseum contains involuntary muscular fibres, ^.^^^1^ to which the corrugation of the skin is owing. This con- tractile structure is named the tunica dartos. Dissection.—By removing the fatty tissue from the root Dissection of the penis and the front of the symphysis pubis, the of vessels ^ , 111 nerves, suspensory ligament will be defined. And the dorsal arteries and nerves, and the vein of the penis, which will be partly laid bare, are to be followed forwards in the superficial fascia. The suspensory ligament of the penis is a rather deep band Suspensory of fibrous tissue, of a triangular form, which is attached by pfni'g^^^^ its apex to the front of the symphysis pubis near the lower Attach- part. Widening as it descends, the ligament is divided into two pieces, which are fixed to the upper surface of the body of the penis, and are prolonged on it for some distance. In contains the interval between the pieces or layers are the dorsal vessels and vessels and nerves of the penis. Dorsal vessels and nerves. —The arteries and nerves on the source of dorsum of the penis, ,are the terminal parts of the pudic vessels and trunks of both sides. The vein accompanying the arteries enters the front of the pelvis through the triangular perinseal ligament. The dorsal artery, one on each side, appears between the Doi-sal layers of the suspensory ligament, and extends forwards to ^'^^^^ the glans, where it ends in many branches for that struc- a branch of tare ; in its course the artery supplies the integuments and P^^iic. the body of the penis. It may be derived from the accessory pudic (p. 470). The dorsal vein is a single trunk, and commences by nu- Dorsal vein merous branches from the prepuce and the glans penis. The prostLuc course of the vein is backwards by the side of the artery, plexus, between the layers of the suspensory ligament, and then tln-ough the triangular ligament of the urethra, to join the