PHALA^TGEO-METATARSAL ARTICULATIO^s'S. 773 the outer is fixed into the middle or the outer cuneiform bone. The metatarsal bone of the third toe is also provided with two lateral bands: of these the outer is inserted into the external cuneiform, and the inner into the middle cunei- form bone.^ Line of the articulation. •—The line of the articulation Line of the between the tarsus and metatarsus is zigzag, in consequence across the^ of the unequal lengths of the cuneiform bones. To open the foot, articulation the knife should be carried obliquely forwards from the tuberosity of the fifth to the base of the second me- tatarsal bone ; then about two lines further back for the union of the second metatarsal with the middle cuneiform ; and lastly, half an inch in front of the last articulation for the joint of the internal cuneiform with the first metatarsal bone. The synovial membranes in the tarso-metatarsal articulation Three syno- are two or three in number. There is one between the in- JJ^^nes^^'^" ternal cuneiform and its metatarsal bone. A second is between the cuboid and the two outer metatarsals, and serves for the adjacent lateral articular surfaces of the bones : this is not always separate from the following. The thkd is placed in the joint between the middle and external cunei- form with their metatarsal bones (second and third), and is an offset of the common synovial membrane belonging to the articulation of the scajohoid with the cuneiform bones (p. 770) : prolongations from it are furnished to the lateral arti- cular parts of the second, third, and fourth (inner side) metatarsals. Dissection. —All the superficial ligaments having been taken Separate the ,T . , T , 1 1 bones to see away, the mterosseous ligaments may be seen by separatmg interosseous forcibly the cuneiform bones from one another and from the ligaments. OS cuboides ; the latter bone from the os scaphoides ; and the bases of the metatarsals from one another. The dissector will find that in using force, the bones will tear sometimes sooner than the ligaments. Articulation" of the metatarsus and phalanges. — Union of These are ball-and-socket joints, in which the head of the ^^d^^ha-^^ metatarsal bone is received into the cup-shaped cavity of the langes, by phalanx. Each articulation has two lateral and an inferior ligament^ two lateral as in the hand, and the joint is further strengthened above andTnferior. by an expansion derived from the tendon of the short ex- * Three of these ligamentous hands are most commonly present, viz., two to the second toe, and one to the outer side of the third toe : the ligaments inserted into the contiguous surfaces of the middle and ex- ternal cuneiform bones may be wanting.