DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 476 Abdominal rings. Penis and scrotum. Raise the skin from the front. Position of cutaneous nerves, on the side: and in front. Take the skin from the groin. Seek vessels it will detect the firm band of Poupart's ligament, and some- times a few inguinal glands. Rather above and to the outside of the pubes, the opening of the external abdominal ring may be felt, and the pro- minence of the spermatic cord descending through it to the testicle may be perceived. The internal abdominal ring is still to the outer side, though it cannot be recognised usually on the surface by the finger ; but its position may be ascer- tained by taking a point midway between the symphysis pubis and the crest of the innominate bone, and a little above Poupart's ligament. Attached to the front of the symphysis pubis in the male are the penis and the scrotum. Dissection.—The requisite incisions for raising the skin from the sides and front of the belly are the following :— One cut is to extend outwards over the side of the chest from the ensiform cartilage to about midway between the sternum and the spine, if this has not been made already by the dissector of the upper limb. A second incision is to be begun in the middle line midway between the umbilicus and the pubes, and to be carried outwards to the iliac crest, and along the crest till it ends opposite the first cut ; lastly, the hinder extremities of the two incisions are to be connected along the side of the chest and the belly. The piece of skin thus marked out is to be raised towards the middle line, and the cutaneous vessels and nerves are to be sought in the fat at the side and middle line of the abdomen. Along the side of the abdomen are the lateral cutaneous nerves, five or six in number, which will be found in a line with the corresponding nerves of the thorax ; ofisets are to be traced forwards and backwards with small cutaneous arteries. On the iliac crest, near the front, is a large branch from the last dorsal nerve ; and still farther back on the crest, is a smaller cutaneous branch of the ilio-hypogastric nerve. Near the middle line the small anterior cutaneous nerves will be recognised ; these are uncertain in number and size, and are to be followed outwards in the integuments. The piece of skin covering the lower part of the abdomen or the groin is next to be thrown downwards, on both sides, by means of an incision along the middle line to the root of the penis. After its reflection the cutaneous vessels and nerves are to be dissected on the right side, and the sui3er- ficial fascia on the left. To make the necessary dissection on the right side, all the