17 MENINGEAL VESSELS AND NERVES. Branches. —As soon as the artery enters the cranial gives ^ ^ cavity, it furnishes branches to the dura mater and osseous dura mator structure, and to the ganglion of the fifth nerve. One small offset, petrosal, enters the hiatus Fallopii, and extends and ear. through the aqueduct of the same name till it meets the stylo-mastoid artery. One or two branches enter the orbit, and anastomose with the ophthalmic artery. b. The small meningeal branch is an offset of the large one Small outside the skull, and is transmitted through the foramen ^eumgeai. ovale to the membrane lining the middle cranial fossa. c. Another meningeal branch from the ascending pharyn- From geal artery appears in the middle fossa of the skull, after ph^^ryngeai passing through the foramen lacerum (basis cranii). The posterior meningeal branches are likewise small, and Posterior are furnished by the occipital and vertebral arteries. menmgeai Those from the occipital, one on each side, enter the skull from occipi- by the i uvular foramen : and those from the vertebral arise ^^}^ , verteDral. opposite the foramen magnum. Both sets ramify in the posterior fossa of the skull. MENmGEAL Nerves.—The source of the nerves of the Nerves of dura mater is very uncertain. Offsets to it are derived from '^^^^ mater, both the cranial and sympathetic nerves. To make these neryes apparent, it would be necessary to steep the dura mater in diluted nitric acid."^ CuAisriAL j^ERVES,—The cranial nerves pass from the Cranial encephalon through apertures in the base of the skull. As the^aseof each leaves the cranium it is invested by processes of the skull: membranes of the brain, which are thus disposed :—those of the dura mater and pia mater are lost on the nerve ; whilst that of the arachnoid membrane is reflected back, after a short distance, to the interior of the skull. Some of the nerves, those in the middle fossa of the skull for instance, receive sheaths of the dura mater before they approach the foramina of transmission. For the present the nerves will be referred to as nine in number, but notice will be subsequently taken of a different mode of enumerating them. Only part of the course of each nerve will be now seen, only partly the rest must be learnt in the dissection of the base of the brain. * Many of the cranial nerves are said to supply the dura mater ; and the student who is desirous for further information may consult Pro- fessor KoUiker's MiJcroskopische Anatomie, p. 495. c