554 DISSECTIOIT OF THE ABDOMEK see the valves. Situation of the valve; two pieces in it. One ileo- colic ; the other ileo-csecal. These are joined at the ends, and form frsena. Opening in the valve. The valve a prolongation of the wall of the gut. Appendix opens into csecum. Ridges in the csecum ; how formed. Four strata in the wall of the gut. Serous coat differs along the intes- tine. been dried the following cuts should be made into it :—One oval piece is to be taken from the ileum near its termination; another from the side of the csecum., opposite the entrance of the small intestine ; and lastly the end of the colon in- cluded in the ligature is to be cut off. Ileo-ccecal valve.—On looking into the intestine, the ileo" csecal valve will be seen at the entrance of the ileum into the csecum. It is composed of two pieces, each with a dif- ferent inclination, which project into the interior of the csecum, and bound a narrow, nearly transverse aperture of communication between the two differently-sized portions of the alimentary canal. The upper piece of the valve, ileo-colic, projects horizontally into the large intestine, opposite the junction of the ileum with the colon. And the lower piece, ileo-ccecal, which is the larger of the two, has a vertical direction between the ileum and the csecum. At each extremity of the opening the pieces of the valve are blended together, and the resulting folds extend transversely for some distance on the intestine, forming the frmna or retmacula of the valve. The size of the opening between the pieces of the valve depends upon the distension of the intestine ; for when the extremities or retinacula of the valve are stretched the mar- gins of the opening are approximated, and may be made to touch. Each piece of the valve is formed by the circular muscular fibres of the intestinal tube, covered by mucous membrane ; as if the ileum was thrust obliquely through the wall of the csecum, after being deprived of its peritoneal coat and its layer of longitudinal fibres. The construction above referred to is easily seen, on a fresh specimen, by dividing the peri- toneum and the longitudinal fibres, and gently drawing out the ileum from the csecum. The opening of the appendix into the csecum is placed below that of the ileum. A small fold of mucous membrane closes partly the aperture, and acts as a valve. Folds or ridges are directed transversely in the interior of the gut, and correspond with depressions on the outer sur- face. These folds result from the doubling of the wall of the intestine, and the largest enclose vessels. Structure of the Colon,—The coats of the large intes- tine are similar to those in the small gut, viz. serous, mus- cular, fibrous, and mucous. Serous coat—The peritoneum does not invest the large intestine throughout in the same degree. It covers the