12 DISSECTION OF THE INTERIOR OF THE HEAD. How to pre- serve the brain. Examina- tion of it. Its descrip- tion where found. Directions. Dura mater in base of skull : its prole tions dividing the nerves, cut through, the vertebral arteries, as they wind round the upper part of the spinal cord. Lastly, cut across the spinal cord as low as possible, as well as the roots of the spinal nerves that are attached on each side. By placing the first two fingers of the right hand in the spinal canal, the cord may be raised, and the whole brain may then be taken readily from the skull in the left hand. Its preservation.—The brain may be immersed in spirit to harden the texture, and methylated spirit may be used on account of its cheapness. To allow the spirit to reach the interior of the ventricles, the upper part of each hemi- sphere is to be cut oJff nearly to the level of the corpus callosum ; and then each lateral ventricle is to be opened by a longitudinal incision, about two inches long, near the inner margin of the divided hemisphere, and about midway from before back. Now, placing the brain upside down on a piece of calico long enough to wrap over it, set it aside in the spirit, together with the top of one hemisphere. Its examination.—At the end of one day the dissector should return to the examination of the other membranes and the vessels. As soon as the vessels have been learnt, the membranes are to be carefully removed from all the surface of the brain, without detaching the different cranial nerves. Finally, the brain may remain in the spirit till the dissection of the head and neck has been completed. The description of the brain will be found after that of the head and neck. Directions.—After setting aside the brain, the anatomy of the dura mater, and the vessels and nerves in the base of the skull should be proceeded with. Let the head be raised to a convenient height, and the tentorium be fastened in its natural position with a few stitches. The dissector should be furnished with the base of a skull whilst studying the following parts. Dura mater. —At the base of the cranium the dura mater is much more closely united to the bones than it is at the top of the skull. Here it dips into the different inequalities on the osseous surfaces : it also sends processes through the several foramina, which join for the most part the pericra- nium, and furnish sheaths to the nerves. Beginning the examination in front, the student will find the membrane sending a prolongation into the foramen csecum, as well as a series of tubes through the apertures in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. Through the sphenoidal fissure, a large process enters the orbit ; and a covering is continued