522 DISSECTIOIT OF THE ABDOMEIST Winslow. the posterior by a space (bag of the omentum), which ex- tends a varying distance, ^agof the Cavity or sack of the great omentum.—When an opening is made through the great omentum near the stomach, and Boundaries, this viscus is raised, a space is seen to extend upwards to the liver, and downwards into the omentum. This is the omental sack. In front the space is bounded by the small omentum, the stomach, and the anterior part of the great omentum. Behind it are the posterior part of the great omentum, the transverse colon, and the transverse meso-colon with its ascending layer. Above is the liver ; and below is the doubling of the omental fold. Opens into This space communicates with the rest of the peritoneal cavft^by GSiYity, through the hole (foramen of Winslow), behind the foramen of small Omentum. If the sack of the omentum were perfect, it could be inflated through the foramen ; or if it were detached from the surrounding parts, it could be drawn through the same hole into the general bag of the peri- toneum. Parts Supposing it to be detached and drawn out, the following form^dbyit P^^^^ would have peritoneum taken from them, viz. the small omentum (posterior piece), the posterior part of the stomach, the great omentum (inner piece), the upper surface of the transverse colon, the pancreas, the spine, and the posterior part of the liver. Should this piece of peritoneum be removed, there is not any membrane to prevent the vessels reaching the difi'erent viscera ; and it may be readily conceived how the peritoneum could be replaced over the viscera, and around the vessels without being perforated by them. Foramen of The foramen of Winslow is the space behind the small ^ ^* omentum, through which the bag of the great omentum 0]3ens into the general cavity of the peritoneum. In front of it is the small omentum, and behind are the vena cava and the spine. Above it is the liver (lobulus Spigelli), and below is the duodenum. Should this hole be closed by inflammation, a dropsical efiusion would be confined to the sack of the omentum, and so be shut out from the general bag of the peritoneum. Splenic The splenic omentum reaches from the great end of the omentum. g-^Qj^r^^j]^ concave surface of the spleen, and does not consist usually of two strata or pieces, like the other omenta. It covers the vessels passing between the two viscera, and is continued inferiorly into the great omentum. Peritoneum Folds on the la7ge intestine.—The large intestine is con-