LIGAMENTS OF THE FINGERS. 347 finger presents a hollowed articular surfacej -wliicli receives the ends of the prominence of the os trapezoides, and articulates late- rally with the OS trapezium and os magnum. That of the middle finger articulates with the os magnum. The meta- carpal bone of the ring finger touches the os magnum and the unciform bone. And the little finger bone is opposed to the OS unciforme. Synovial membranes.—Usually two synovial membranes Synovial are interposed between the carpal and metacarpal bones, viz. a separate one for the bone of the thumb, and ofisets of the common carpal synovial sac (p. 344) for the others. Some- o^*^^'^^- times there is a distinct synovial sac for the articulation of the OS unciforme with the two last metacarpals. Interosseous liqaw,ents.—The interosseous lisraments be- Interosseous ligaments, tween the bases of the metacarpal bones may be demonstrated by detaching one bone from another. On forcibly separating the carpal bones their strong interosseous ligaments will and appear, viz. one on each side of the os semilunare in the first ^^^^" row, and between all the bones in the second row. Dissection.—For the examination of the joint between Dissection the head of the metacarpal bone and the first phalanx j^intX^^ of the finger, it will be requisite to clear away the ten- dons and the tendinous expansion around it. A lateral ligament on each side, and an inferior thick band are to be defined. Another joint may be opened to see the articular surfaces. The same dissection may be made for the articulations between the phalanges of the finger. Uniok between the Metacarpal Bones and the First Metacarpal Phalanges.—In these joints the convex head of the meta- phafanges. carpal bone is received into the glenoid fossa of the phalanx, and the two are retained in contact by the extensor and flexor tendons, and by the following ligaments :— The lateral ligawients are the same on both sides of the Lateral joint. Each is triangular in form ; it is attached by its ligaments, upper part to the tubercle on the side of the head of the metacarpal bone, and ends below by being inserted into the side of the phalanx and the inferior ligament. The inferior inferior ligament is a longitudinal band, which is fixed firmly to the ligament, phalanx, but loosely to the metacarpal bone. It is fibro- cartilaginous in texture, and is grooved for the flexor tendon : to its sides the lateral ligaments are attached. Covering the upper part of the joint is the extensor Capsule, tendon ; this takes the place of a superior ligament, and sends down an expansion on each side which serves as a