OCCIPITO-FRONTALTS MUSCLE. 3 The oociPiTO-FRONTALIS MUSCLE covers the arch of the Occipito- skull, and consists of an anterior and a posterior fleshy part, f^o^^^^^^^- with an intervening tendon. Dissection.—On the same side of the head (the left) Occipito- the occipito-frontalis is to be dissected. To bring this iiow seen: muscle into view, a cut may be made along the middle line of the skull, from the root of the nose to a little below the occipital protuberance ; and it may be connected in front with the transverse incision on the side of the head. The flap of skin, thus marked out, is to be raised from before and thrown backwards ; whilst doing this the dissector will meet with first the anterior fleshy part of the muscle, next a white shining thin aponeurosis, and lastly the posterior fleshy belly towards the lateral aspect of the cranium. The care to be student should bear in mind that the aponeurosis of the cutltaway^ muscle is easily taken away with the granular fat superficial to it; and if the under surface of the flap of the integuments presents a white instead of a yellow appearance, he may suppose he is removing that aponeurosis. The anterior or frontal part is a thin muscular layer over Frontal part: the OS frontis, which is not connected to the subjacent bone, but mixes below with some muscles of the face. Along the Origin, line of the eyebrow (its origin) the fibres are blended with the orbicularis palpebrarum and corrugator SQpercilii, whilst opposite the nose they join the pyramidalis nasi muscle. Ending. From this attachment the fibres are directed upwards to the aponeurosis, and end in it rather below the level of the coronal suture. The posterior or occipital part is stronger than the an- Occipital terior; it arises from the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, and from the outer half or two-thirds of the upper curved line of the occipital bone. The fibres are about one how inch and a half in length, and ascend to the aponeurosis. attached. The tendon, or epicranial aponeurosis, extends over the Aponeurosis, upper part of the cranium, and is continuous across the middle line with the same structure of the opposite half of the head. On the side it gives origin to the auricular its attach- muscles, and a thin membrane is here prolonged from it i^e^t. over the fascia covering the temporal muscle. Posteriorly, the aponeurosis is attached to the superior curved ridge of the occipital bone between the fleshy parts of the muscles of opposite sides. Tlie aponeurotic expansion is closely at- tached to the skin ; but it is connected to the pericranium only by a loose areolar tissue devoid of fat, so that it moves freely over the skull. B 2