DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 700 brandies, supposing the veins and the fat removed, it will be requisite to follow backwards the internal circumflex artery above the upper border of the adductor brevis, and to trace the perforating branches through the tendons of the adductors near the femur. The PROFUNDA (deep femoral) is the chief muscular artery of the thigh, and arises from the femoral trunk about one inch and a half below Poupart's ligament (p. 685). At its origin the vessel is placed on the outer side of the parent trunk. It is then directed inwards beneath the femoral vessels to the inner side of the femur, and ends at the lower third of the thigh in a small branch that pierces the adductor magnus. Where the vessel lies in the triangular space of the thigh (near its origin) it rests on the iliacus muscle. But on the inner side of the femur it lies parallel to the femoral artery, though deeper in position ; and it is placed first over the adductor brevis, and thence to its termination between the adductors longus and magnus. Its branches are numerous to the surrounding muscles and the bone, and maintain free anastomoses with other vessels supplied to the upper part of the thigh, as well as with those of the leg. It is through these communications that the blood finds its way to the lower part of the limb when the tube of the chief artery is obliterated either above or below the origin of the profunda. The branches to the adductor muscles are unnamed. The named branches are these :—external circumflex to the extensor muscles of the knee ; internal circumflex round the inner side of the femur to the back of the thigh ; and perforating arteries through the adductors to the back of the limb and the extensor muscle of the knee joint. The external circumflex artery has been described in the dissection of the muscles of the front of the thigh (p. 693). The internal circumflex branch arises from the inner and circumaex; pQgterior part of the profunda, and turns backwards between the psoas and pectineus, but above the border of the adductor brevis, along the side of the tendon of the external obturator muscle. Having reached the back of the thigh, it ends in two branches, which will be seen in the dissection of the buttock (714). It supplies the undermentioned branches to the inner side of the thigh :— a. An articular artery enters the hip joint through the notch in the acetabulum. b. At the border of the adductor brevis two muscular branches arise :—one ascends to the obturator and the super- Profunda artery, origin, course, and ending. Parts around. Branches to muscles of the thigh join freely. The named branches external circumflex internal ends on back of thigh, supplies hip joint and muscles.