DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 232 ends in in- ferior cornu. Optic thala- mus. Hippocam- pus in pos- terior cornu; how formed. Hippocam- has a large end and jagged border. Dissection. Structure of hippocam- pus. Great trans- verse fissure along with the pointed end of the corpus striatum, into the white substance of the roof of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. Superficial to the anterior part of the tsenia is a yellowish semi-transparent layer (lamina cornea), and beneath this some veins pass in their course to the veins of Galen in the piece of pia mater. The optic thalamus is only partly laid bare in this stage of the dissection, and its examination may be omitted till after the third ventricle has been learnt. The hippocampus minor (calcar avis) resembles a cock's spur (fig. 36, n), as it lies in the posterior cornu of the ven- tricle. It is pointed at its posterior extremity, and is covered on the free surface by a medullary layer which is continued to the corpus callosum. When it is cut across a gray stra- tum will be found beneath the white ; and the eminence itself is produced by the extension inwards of the sulcus at the posterior part of the inner surface of the hemisphere (p. 224). The hippocampus major (fig. 36, q) is the curved projection in the floor of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. Convex on the surface that looks to the cavity, this body is curved in the same direction as the cornu, and has its concavity turned inwards. The anterior extremity is the largest and presents two or three indentations, which give it the appearance of the foot of an animal, hence the designa- tion pes hippocampi. Along the inner or concave margin is the small band or tsenia that is prolonged from the fornix ; and beneath that band is a thin layer of gray matter, with a notched border, which has been named fascia dentata. Dissection.—To examine more fully the hippocampus^ the parts of the corpus callosum and fornix, which remain in the middle line, should be divided longitudinally, and the posterior lobe of the left hemisphere should be drawn back- wards. When the pia mater has been removed from the inner side of the hippocampus, and this projection has been cut across, its structure will be manifest. The hippocampus is covered on the ventricular surface by a medullary layer, in which the tsenia or the band of the fornix ends. On the opposite surface of this body is the hollow of a sulcus, which is filled with gray substance from the exterior of the brain. Along the free margin of the hippocampus the gray matter projects in the form of a notched ridge, the fascia dentata. Transverse fissure of the cerebrum.—By drawing the separated hemisphere away from the crus cerebri and the