477 SUPERFICIAL FASCIA m THE GROIK fascia superficial to the vessels is to be raised in the same and nerves manner as the piece of skin. The vessels which will then groiul^* appear are the superficial pudic on the inside, the superficial epigastric in the centre, and an offset of the superficial cir- cumflex iliac artery on the outside. Some inguinal glands are seen along the line of the reflected fascia. Two cuta- neous nerves are to be sought :—one, the ilio-inguinal, comes through the abdominal ring, and descends to the thigh ; the other, ilio-hypogastric, appears in the superficial fascia above, and rather outside the abdominal ring. In the dissection of the fascia on the left side two strata Separate or layers are to be made out, one over and one beneath the f^^ia^n^(^ vessels. The layer that is superficial to the vessels is to be layers in reflected by means of a transverse cut from the front of the ^ g^^^^- iliac crest to the middle line, not much above Poupart's ligament ; and by a vertical one along the middle line to the pubes. The subjacent vessels mark the depth of this layer ; and when these are reached, a flap of the fascia like that of the skin, is to be thrown towards the thigh. To define the thinner under stratum, cut it across in the same manner as the other layer, and then detach it with the vessels on it from the tendon of the external oblique muscle. This stratum, like the preceding, is to be traced around the cord to the scrotum ; and as the student follows it down- wards, he will find it connected with Poupart's ligament, and inseparably joined with the fascia lata close below that structure. The superficial fascia, or the subcutaneous fatty layer, lies Superficial between the skin and the special fascia investing the muscles, ^^^^^^ and is indivisible over the greater part of the abdomen ; into^two but in the groin it is divided into a subcutaneous and a layers, deeper layer by the vessels and the glands. The subcutaneous layer contains fat, and varies therefore JjJjfg^JJg^^^" in appearance and thickness in diflerent bodies ; for it is layer con- sometimes divisible into strata, whilst at others it is very thin and somewhat membranous near the thigh. This layer is continuous with the cutaneous fatty covering of the thigh, and with that of the rest of the abdomen ; and when traced to the limb, it is found to be separated from Poupart's liga- ment beneath by the superficial vessels and glands. Internally it is continued to the penis and the scrotum, where it changes and scro- its adipose tissue for involuntary muscular fibre ; and after investing the testicle, the layer is prolonged to the super- ficial fascia of the perinseum. The deeper layer of the superficial fascia (aponeurosis of Deeper