DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 680 with hooks. A piece of the areolar casing of the femoral vessels within the crural sheath is to be cut out over both the artery and the vein. When this has been done two thin partitions may be defined ; one is on the inner side of the vein separating it from a gland, and the other is between the vein and the artery. A fatty stratum may be seen over the upper aperture of the sheath, closing the tube towards the abdomen. Contents of Interior of the crural sheath.—The sheath contains the the sheath, femoral vessels, and is divided into three compartments by two partitions. The position of the septa has been before referred to,—one being internal to the femoral vein, and Space di- ^^^^ other between the two large vessels. In the outer com- vided into partment is the femoral artery, lying close to the side of the thieep<arts. gj^^^^^j^ ^g^^ 75,^); in the middle one is the femoral vein (fig. 75, '*); and in the inner space (crural canal) is only a lymphatic gland. The femoral vessels are surrounded by a common covering of areolar tissue, which is distinct from the crural sheath now described. The inner Crural canal (fig. 75).—The innermost space in the interior of the three ^j^g crural sheath has this designation :—Its lensjth is from spaces IS . the crural a quarter to half an inch, for it reaches only from the base canal. Gimbernat's ligament to the upper cornu of the saphenous Extent and Opening. Anterior to the sheath at this part, and conse- parts around quently to the contained space, are Poupart's ligament and the upper end of the falciform margin of the saphenous opening ; whilst behind it is the pectineus muscle, covered by fascia lata. In the sheath, but on the outer side of the canal, is the femoral vein. The aperture above by which the space communicates with the cavity of the abdomen is named the crural ring. Through this channel the intestine in femoral hernia passes from the abdomen. Crural rino-. The crural ring is the upper opening of the crural canal Situation , ^^"^^ "^^^ abdominal cavity. It is on a level with the base and form, of Gimbernat's ligament, and is larger in the female than in the male. It is oval in shape ; and its greatest measurement is from side to side, in which direction it equals about half Structures inch. The structures around the opening, and outside around. crural sheath, are nearly similar to those bounding the crural canal, viz., in front the crural arch with the spermatic * Gimbernat used the name crural ring, and Mr. Lawrence proposes to call it femoral aperture. Might not the nomenclature be made to resemble more that used in describing inguinal hernia, by calling this opening the internal crural aperture, and the saphenous opening the external crural aperture ?