DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. 440 and is sliglitly con- nected with bones around. It gives off- sets on spinal and one central inferior piece. Dissection to remove cord and see next covering. Arachnoid membrane has a the sacrum ; but beyond that point it is impervious, and is continued by a slender cord to the back of the coccyx. The capacity of the sheath is much greater than is needful for the contents ; and the size of the sheath is larger in the neck and the loins than in the back. On the outer aspect the dura mater is smooth, when a comparison is made between it and the part in the skull, for it does not act as a periosteum to the bones. Between it and the osseous surfaces are some vessels and fat ; and it is connected to the posterior common ligament of the vertebrae by a few fibrous bands. On each side the dura mater sends offsets along the spinal nerves in the intervertebral foramina ; and these several offsets become gradually longer inferiorly, where they form tubes which enclose the sacral nerves, and lie for some distance within the spinal canal. In the midst of the tubes into which the dura mater seems to be divided below, will be seen the slender before-men- tioned impervious cord, which descends from the lower part of the sheath of the dura mater to the end of the spinal canal, and blends with the periosteum covering the back of the coccyx. Dissection.—The sheath of the dura mater with the con- tained cord is to be next removed from the body. For this purpose the lateral processes in the intervertebral apertures are to be cut ; and one or two processes in the lumbar region should be followed outwards beyond the intervertebral ganglion of the contained nerve by cutting away the surround- ing bone. The central prolongation may be now detached with care from the coccyx. !N"ext, the cord and its mem- branes are to be divided opposite the lower cervical vertebrae, and to be removed by cutting the bands that attach the dura mater to the ligament of the bodies of the vertebrae. When the cord is taken out, it is to be placed on a piece of board, or on a table, with the lateral offsets widely sepa- rated. To show the arachnoid covering, the dura mater is to be slit along the middle, on one or both aspects, as far as the small terminal median cord before referred to ; but the membrane is to be raised whilst it is being cut through, so that the loose arachnoid enveloping the cord may not be injured. Lastly the dura mater is to be fastened back with pins. The arachnoid membrane is the thin serous covering of the cord which is immediately beneath the dura mater. Like the corresponding membrane in the skull, it invests the nervous centre and lines the dura mater, and consists