646 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. arrange- ment of su- perior ha3- morrhoidal. Arteries, Bloodvessels.—The arteries are supplied from three different sources:—They are, superior hsemorrhoidal, from the inferior mesenteric; middle hsemorrhoidal,^ from the internal iliac artery; and inferior hsemorrhoidal, from the internal pudic. All three sets anastomose on the lower end of the gut, and only the upper haemorrhoidal, which is the largest, requires further notice. The branches of this artery (p. 625) about six in number pierce the muscular coat three inches from the anus, and descend between the mucous and muscular coats as far as the internal sphincter, where they end in loops like the veins, which join just within the anus, and form circular arterial rings. The veins are deficient in valves, and communicate freely around the lower end of the gut. Above, ihey join the inferior mesenteric vein, and through it reach the vena portse; and, posteriorly, they pour some blood into the internal iliac vein by branches corresponding with the middle hsemorrhoidal artery. Nerves and lympliaties.—The nerves for the intestine are obtained from the sympathetic, and those for the sphincter Lympliaties. come from the spinal system. The lymphatics terminate in the chain of glands on the sacrum. Veins are without valves. Nerves. Section VI. ANATOMY OF THE VISCERA OF THE FEMALE. Viscera in In the female pelvis are the viscera common to both sexes, the pelvis. ^ j^^^ bladder and the urethra, with the rectum; and those special to the female, viz., the organs of generation. Dissection. —The contents of the pelvis are to be removed To remove . ^ t ■ t_ the viscera, together with the genital organs. In this proceeding the student should keep the scalpel close to the osseous boundary of the pelvic outlet, to avoid injuring the end of the rectum ; and he should also detach the crus of the clitoris from the bone. and prepare After the parts referred to are taken from the body, the them. rectum is to be separated from the uterus and the vagina, but the rest of the viscera may remain united until after the genital organs are examined. The bladder may be moderately distended, and the fat and the areolar tissue and vessels are to be removed from the viscera.