THE FOURTH NERVE. 43 numerous, viz. tlie second, third, fourth, ophthalmic of the fifth, and the sixth nerve, together with the small orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve ; and their general distribution is as follows :—The second nerve enters the their distri- eyeball, the third is furnished to all the muscles of the ' cavity but two, the fourth enters the superior oblique (one of the two excepted), and the sixth is spent in the external rectus muscle. The fifth nerve supplies some filaments to the eyeball, but the greater number of its branches pass through the orbital cavity to the face. The ophthalmic and some vessels are contained likewise in the orbit. vessels. The lachrymal gland secretes the tears, and is situate in Laehrymal the hollow on the inner side of the external angular process fhe^^cfuter ^ of the frontal bone. It is of a lengthened form, something part of the like an almond ; and from its anterior part a thin piece ^' projects beneath the upper eyelid. The upper surface is convex, and in contact with the periosteum, to which it is connected by fibrous bands that constitute a ligament for the gland ; the lower surface rests on the eyeball and the external rectus muscle. In structure the lachrymal resembles the salivary glands ; its ducts and its ducts, from six to eight in number, open by as many apertures in a semicircular line on the inner surface of the upper eyelid, near the outer canthus. The FOURTH NERVE (fig. 6, ^,) is the most internal of the three nerves that enter the orbit above the muscles. After reaching this space, it is directed inwards to the superior oblique muscle, which it enters at the orbital surface, contrary to the general mode of distribution of the nerves on the ocular surface of the muscles. * Superficial view of the orbit, with the nerves entering above the muscles (Arnold). 1. The fifth nerve. 2. Ophthalmic nerve. 3. Thhd nerve. 4. Fourth nerve. 5. Optic nerve. Q. Sixth nerve. ct. Internal carotid artery cut across. open on Fig. 6.* upper eyelid.