808 DISSECTION OF THE EAE. From inter- nal maxil- lary. Posterior auricular. Inferior palatine. Nerves from several sources. Dissection to prepare the nerves before enter- ing. and in the tympanic cavity. Tympanic nerve supplies membrane a. The internal maxillary artery supplies a tympanic branch (inferior), which is distributed in the membrane of the tympanum. It gives also an offset to the cavity from the petrosal branch of the middle meningeal artery ; this enters the temporal bone by the hiatus Fallopii. b. The stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular artery, entering the lower end of the aqueduct of Fallopius, gives twigs to the back of the cavity, and the mastoid cells. One of this set, superior tympanic, anastomoses with the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary artery, and forms a circle around the membrana tympani, from which branches are directed inwards. c. Other branches from the ascending pharyngeal, or from the inferior palatine artery, enter the space along the Eusta- chian tube. Nerves. —The lining membrane of the tympanum is sup- plied from the plexiform communication (tympanic plexus) established between Jacobson's and the sympathetic nerve : but the muscles derive their nerves from other sources. Crossing the cavity is the chorda tympani branch of the facial nerve. Dissection. —The preparation of the tympanic plexus will require a separate fresh temporal bone, which has been softened in diluted hydrochloric acid, and in which the nerves have been hardened in spirit. The origin of Jacobson's nerve from the glosso-pharyngeal is first to be sought close to the skull (p. 113) ; and the auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric is to be looked for at the same time, Supposing the nerves to be found, the student should place the scalpel on the outer side of the Eustachian tube, and carry it backwards through the vaginal and styloid pro- cesses of the temporal bone, so as to take away the outer part of the tympanum, but without opening the lower end of the aqueduct of Fallopius, lest the facial nerve should be injured. After the tympanum has been laid open, Jacobson's nerve is to be followed in its canal; and the branches that lie in the grooves on the surface of the promontory are to be pursued —one of these arching forwards and two coursing upv»^ards. The connections of the chorda tympani nerve can be seen on the preparation used for the muscles. The tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve (nerve of Jacobson, p. 116) enters a special aperture in the tem- poral bone, and is conducted by it to the inner wall of the tympanum. In this cavity the nerve supplies filaments to