814 DISSECTION" OF THE EAR. Has two strata. One glassy looking, with trans- verse lines: the other a thin layer. Space sepa- rating the two. Bodies of Corti and other struc- tures un- certain. Two scalse of the coch- lear tube that join above.. They differ in extent, and size at spots. A third where the bony part is wanting, it constructs alone the septum. This membrane (basilar layer) has a glassy appearance like the elastic layers of the cornea. Close to the lamina spiralis it is homogeneous in texture, but farther out it possesses fine radiating lines, which cause it to split in shreds in the same direction. And near its outer attachment there is a gela- tinous looking tissue (cochlearis muscle, Bowman ; ligamen- tum spirale, Kolliker) fixing it to the bone. On the surface of the glassy or basilar layer turned towards the vestibular scala is a thin membrane (Corti). It consists of a special striated lamella, covered by the lining membrane of the scala, which is separated from the basilar layer by a space to be afterwards noticed. With the aid of the microscope modifications in the tex- ture of the glassy layer of the septum, together with other bodies on its vestibular surface with a very complicated arrangement, have been described by recent observers. But as the researches into the nature of the structures in question are far from complete, and as the interpretation to be given to the microscopic appearances is as yet uncertain, a more particular notice of them seems scarcely suited to a text-book for students.^ ScalcE of the cochlea (fig. 128).—These are the two passages into which the tube of the cochlea is divided by its septum. They are placed the one above the other, and are named scala vestihuli and scala tympani; the former ("*) is nearest the apex of the cochlea. Above they communicate through the aperture named helicotrema. Below they end diff'erently, as the names express : the scala vestibuli opens into the front of the vestibule ; the scala tympani is shut out from the vestibular cavity by the septum cochlea, and is closed below by the membrane of the fenestra rotunda. On the whole they are nearly equal in size, but each has certain peculiari- ties ; thus the vestibular scala is largest above and extends to the apex of the cochlea ; whilst the tympanic scala (^) is largest near the base. Connected with the last is the small aqueduct of the cochlea, which begins close to a ridge or crest near the large end of the scala, and ceases at the under aspect of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. A third small scala or passage in the cochlea has been * If tlie student is desirous of further informatioD, he may consult tlie recent work in English of Professor Kolliker. In this woik will be found a summary of tlie observations referred to above, and a reference to other sources of information.