709 GLUTEUS MINIMUS. lies between the two smaller gluteal muscles : it subdivides into two pieces. One (superior) courses along the origin of the gluteus minimus to the front of the iliac crest, where it this has an anastomoses with the ascending branches of the external upper circumflex artery. The other portion (inferior) is directed and a lower forwards over the middle of the smallest gluteal muscle with P'®^®* the nerve, towards the anterior lower iliac spine and the great trochanter, and communicates also with the external circum- flex branches. Some ofi'sets pierce the muscle to supply the hip-joint. Vem.—The companion vein of this artery enters the Gluteal pelvis, and ends in the internal iliac vein. The superior gluteal 'nerve is a branch of the lumbo-sacral Superior cord (p. 597). It accompanies the gluteal artery, and divides nerv^f^ into branches for the supply of the two smallest gluteal ig muscular, muscles : its lowest branch may be traced forwards into the tensor vaginae femoris. The GLUTEUS MINIMUS is likewise conical in shape, and Gluteus arises from the dorsum of the hip bone between the superior ^^"^^^^^s- and inferior curved lines, extending downwards as far as the middle of the hip joint.The fibres are collected on Attach- a tendon, which is inserted into an impression along the fore part of the great trochanter, and is united inferiorly with the gluteus medius. One surface is in contact with the gluteus medius, and the it is next gluteal vessels and nerve ; the other with the hip joint and ' the bone, and the outer head of the rectus femoris muscle. The anterior border lies by the side of the other gluteus ; and is and the posterior touches the pyriformis muscle. A bursa pre^eding.^ is placed between the tendon and the bone. Dissection.—The smallest gluteal muscle may be cut Divide through near the innominate bone, and the tendinous part 'gJJ^teuf of the rectus femoris underneath it should be defined close above the hip joint. "Whilst detaching the gluteus from the parts beneath, the student cannot fail to notice the connec- tion between its tendon and the capsule of the joint. The deep vessels to the articulation may be observed and followed after the muscle is removed. The outer head of the rectus femoris is a slip of tendon Outer head about two inches long, which reaches outwards almost hori- "^^f}^ zontally, and is fixed into the groove above the margin of the where at- acetabulum. In front it joins the other tendinous piece of * Its extent is greater than that given usually to the muscle. For the limit of the lower line see the description of the hip bone in Quain's Anatomy, vol. i. p. 138 (Edition of 1856).