DISSECTIOIT OF THE UPPER LIMB. 270 Dissection of brachial plexus. Dissection.-—In order that the branches of the brachial plexus may be followed out, the pectoralis minor is to be cut through near its insertion into the coracoid process, and to be turned towards the chest, but without injuring the thoracic nerves in contact with it. The axillary vessels are then to be cut across below the second rib,^ and to be drawn down v/ith hooks; and their thoracic branches may be removed at the same time. A dense fascia is to be cleared away from the large nerves of the plexus. Nerves entering brachial plexus. Its situa- tion and connec- tions. The nerves form three cords that lie around the artery, and give these several branches, from the outer. The BRACHIAL PLEXUS rcsults from the union of the an- terior branches of the first dorsal and the four lower cervical nerves; and a slip is added to it above from the lowest nerve in the cervical plexus. The plexus is placed partly in the neck, and partly in the axilla, and is divided oppo- site the coracoid process into large trunks for the supply of the limb. The part of the plexus above the clavicle is described in the dissection of the head and neck (p. 77). The part below the clavicle has the same connections as the axillary artery with the surrounding muscles, and the nerves interlace in it in the following manner;—■ At first the plexus consists of two bundles of nerves, which lie on the outer side of the artery, and are thus constituted ;—the one nearest the vessel is formed by the last cervical and first dorsal nerves ; and the other, by the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical nerves. A little lower down a third or posterior bundle is produced by the union of two fasciculi from the other bundles, one from each ; so that, beneath the small pectoral muscle, the plexus con- sists of three large bundles or cords, one being to the outer side, one to the inner side, and one behind the vessel. Occasionally there may be some deviation from this mode of arrangement. The branches of the plexus below the clavicle are fur- nished to the muscles of the front of the chest ; to some of the muscles of the scapula, and the latissimus dorsi; and to the arm. They arise from the several cords in the following way :— The outer cord gives origin to one anterior thoracic branch, to the musculo-cutaneous trunk, and to the outer head of the median nerve. * The student must be careful not to cut the vessels higher than the spot mentioned, otherwise he will injure the dissection of the neck.