13 SmUSES OF THE DUEA MATER. on the optic nerve to the eyeball. After lining the sella and connec- Turcica, the dura mater adheres closely to the basilar pro- ^^^^ cess of the occipital bone ; and it may be traced into the spinal canal through the foramen magnum, to the margin of which it is very firmly united. The tentorium cerehelli is the piece of the dura mater that Tentorium is interposed in a somewhat horizontal position between the ^^^^ ® ^' cerebellum and the posterior part of the cerebrum. Its its attach- upper surface is raised along the middle, where it is joined by the falx cerebri, and is hollowed laterally for the recep- tion of the back part of the cerebral hemispheres ; its under surface touches the little brain, and is joined by the falx cerebelli. The anterior margin is free, except at the ends where it is fixed by a narrow slip to each anterior clinoid process. The posterior or attached part is connected to the following bones :—occipital (its transverse groove), inferior angle of the parietal, petrous portion of the temporal (upper border), and posterior clinoid process of the sphenoid. Along the centre of the tentorium is the straight sinus, and the whilst in the attached edge are the lateral and the superior petrosal sinuses. Falx cerebri. —The characters of this fold have been given Falx cere- -I ri bri. m p. 10. The falx cerehelli has the same position below the tento- Falx cere- rium as the falx cerebri above that fold. It is much smaller ^^^^^ than the falx of the cerebrum, and will be seen by detaching the tentorium. Triangular in form, this fold is attached to the middle of the occipital bone, below the transverse ridge, and projects between the hemispheres of the cerebellum. Its base is directed to the tentorium, and the apex ends contains below, at the foramen magnum, to each side of which it sinuses!^ gives a small slip. In it are contained the occipital sinuses. The SINUSES are venous spaces between the layers of the Sinuses of dura mater, into which the blood is received. All the sinuses open either into a large space named torcular Herophili, opposite the occipital protuberance, or into the two cavern- ous sinuses by the sides of the body of the sphenoid bone. A. The TORCULAR Herophili (fig. 1, a,) is placed in the Occipital tentorium, opposite the centre of the occipital bone. It is ceivesV^' of an irregular shape, and numerous sinuses open into it; viz. the superior longitudinal above, and the occipital below; the straight and inferior longitudinal in front, and the lateral sinus on each side.