mTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 195 a. !N"umerous small long branches leave it close to its its offsets origin, and enter the base of the brain between the crura cerebri (posterior perforated spot). h. Soon afterwards the vessel is joined by a small straight communi- branch (posterior communicating) from the internal carotid '^^^^^^ artery. c. Lastly, it furnishes a small cJioroid artery to the fold and choroid, of pia mater that projects into the cerebrum : this small branch winds round the crus cerebri, and is transmitted between the crus and the hemisphere of the cerebrum to the velum interpositum and the choroid plexus. From the foregoing examination of the offsets of the Part of vertebral arteries, and of the trunk (basilar) that continues pii^^d by^' them onwards, it appears that about half the encephalon— ^rteries^^ viz. the medulla oblongata, the pons, the cerebellum, and the posterior third of the cerebrum—receives its blood through the branches of the subclavian arteries. The INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY terminates in the great Internal brain by supplying branches to the remaining two thirds, or to the anterior and middle lobes. Having passed through the space of the cavernous sinus (p. 21), the vessel emerges on the inner side of the anterior clinoid process, and divides at the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius into anterior cerebral, middle cerebral, and posterior communicating ends in arteries. At the base of the brain the carotid artery lies anedes! between the second and third nerves, but nearest the former. Branches.—In the skull the carotid artery supplies the Branches, ophthalmic ofi'set, before it ceases in the following terminal branches to the cerebrum. 1. The anterior cerebral artery supplies the inner part of Anterior the cerebral hemisphere. The vessel of each side is directed ^ ^ forwards to the median fissure between the halves of the large brain ; and as the two are about to enter it, they are united by a short thick artery, the anterior communicating, communi- Each artery then runs forwards in the fissure, and bends artery; round the anterior part of the corpus callosum, so as to be placed on the upper aspect in the natural position of the brain. Still continuing backwards nearly to the posterior extremity of the hemisphere, the vessel gives off numerous branches, which anastomose with the other-cerebral arteries. It supplies other branches, thus :— a. Near its commencement the artery furnishes many its off-sets, small branches to the part of the brain contiguous to the o2