427 COMPLEXTJS MUSCLE. united with the npper fleshy fibres, and splits into the two following pieces :— The transversalis colli arises from the transverse processes transver- of the upper six dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the ^^^^^ posterior transverse processes (diapophyses) of the cervical vertebrse, except the first and last. The traclielo-mastoid muscle (transversalis capitis T) arises and to the in common with the preceding, and has besides an attach- trache^o-^^^ ment by distinct tendons to the articular processes of the mastoid, last three or four cervical vertebrae. The muscle is thin and is inserted beneath the splenius into the upper half of the posterior part of the mastoid process : its insertion is about three quarters of an inch wide.* ''^ Connections of the erector spincE.—The erector spinas Connections and its prolongations occupy the lumbar, thoracic, and cer- gJec^oj. vical parts of the back. In the loins the muscle is contained spinfe in the in an aponeurotic sheath (p. 420), and has the multifidus ^ spinae on its inner side : its attachment on the inner surface of the innominate bone corresponds in greater part with the origin of the gluteus maximus on the outer side. The superficial tendon, which is common to it and the multifidus, will be described with the last mentioned muscle (p. 436). Opposite the ribs the ilio-costalis and longissimus dorsi are dorsal, concealed by the muscles of the other layers already examined. In the neck its accessory small muscles lie underneath and cervical the splenius and the trapezius the cervicalis ascendens is ^^^loi^s- attached in a line with, but below the splenius colli; and the transversalis colli and trachelo-mastoid are more internal, or between the two last and the complexus. The cOxMPLEXUs is internal to the prolongations from the Complexus. longissimus dorsi, and converges towards its fellow of the opposite side at the occipital bone. Narrow at its lower end, the muscle arises by tendinous points from the tips of Origin, the transverse processes of the upper six dorsal, and the last cervical vertebra ; and from the articular processes of the other cervical vertebra as high as the third : to the inner side of the muscle is frequently added a fleshy slip from the spines of one or two of the lower cervical vertebrae. From the tendons of origin the fibres pass upwards, the inferior * The a,natomy of the prolongation from the longissimus might be simplified by describing it as the transversalis muscle with a double insertion, like the splenius, into the head and neck. In accordance with the nomenclature of the splenius the part to the head might be named transversalis capitis, and the part to the neck transversalis colli, as at present.