126 DISSECTION OF THE I^ECK. and joins subclavian vein. Structure the phrenic nerve, to open into the subclavian vein close to its union with the internal jugular vein. Double valves, like those of the veins, are present in the interior of the tube ; and two guard the opening into the posterior part of the vein, to prevent the passage of the blood into it. Commonly the upper part of the duct is divided ; and there may be separate openings into the large vein, corresponding with those divisions. Structure.—This tube is formed of three coats like the vessels, viz. inner, middle, and outer. The inner is an elastic reticulate layer of longitudinal fibres covered by epithelium; the middle is muscular and elastic with transverse fibres ; and the outer is constructed chiefly of fibrous tissues arranged longitudinally. Examine next the brachial and cervical plexuses, using the description of the right side (p. 7 6). CoMMOif CAROTIDS.—On Opposite sides these vessels have differences like those between the right and left subclavian, left carotids, arteries ; for on the left side the vessel arises alone, and from the arch of the aorta, and is therefore deep in the chest and longer than the right. The part of the artery between its origin and the upper piece of the sternum will be seen in the dissection of the thorax. Beyond the sterno-clavicular articulation the vessels, on both sides, so nearly resemble one another that the same description will serve for the two (p. 79). It must be difference in remarked however that, on the left side, the jugular vein and the pneumo-gastric nerve are much nearer to the accompanying artery than on the right side, and are placed over the artery in the lower third of the neck."^ The THYROID BODY is a soft reddish mass, which is situate opposite the upper part of the trachea. It consists of two lobes, one on each side, which are united by a narrow piece across the front of the windpipe. The connecting piece, about half an inch in depth, is named the isthmus, and is placed opposite the second and third rings of the air tube. Each lobe is somewhat conical in shape, with the smaller Connections end upwards, and is about two inches in length. It is inter- posed between the windpipe and the sheath of the common carotid artery, and is covered by the sterno-thyroid, sterno- extentof hyoid, and omo-hyoid muscles. The extent of the lobe lobes. depends upon variations in its size ; but usually the lateral Spinal nerves. Difference in origin of right and In the neck vein and nerve. Thyroid body- consists of two lobes united by a cross piece. * Sometimes these differences will be reversed—tlie vein and nerve being over the artery on the right side, and away from it on the left.