116 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. with others, Connecting branches.—These arise chiefly from the pe- trosal ganglion, and in this set is the tympanic nerve, sympathetic 1- ^ A filameitt ascends from the sympathetic nerve in the and vagus, j^eck to join the petrosal ganglion. Sometimes there is a fila- ment given from the ganglion to the auricular branch of the vagus, as well as to the upper ganglion of that nerve, facial and 2. "^The tympanic branch (fig. 14, ^) (nerve of Jacobson) bythfs^^^^^ enters the aperture in the ridge of bone between the jugular branch, and the carotid foramen, and ascends by a special canal to the inner wall of the tympanum, where it ends in branches. Its distribution is given with the anatomy of the tympanum of the ear. and with 3. Connecting branch of the facial nerve.—This pierces facial; ^^iq digastric muscle, and joins the trunk of the glosso- pharyngeal, below the petrosal ganglion : it is not always present. distributed Branches for Distribution.—In the neck the branches are *° furnished chiefly to the tongue and the pharynx, but they are also united with other nerves, carotid 1. Carotid branches surround the artery of that name, artery, communicate on it with the pharyngeal branch of the vagus, and with the sympathetic nerve, stylo-pha- 2. Some muscular branches enter the stylo-pharyngeus, i-yngeus, whilst the nerve is in contact with it. andpharyn- 3. Branches to the pharynx form the pharyngeal plexus geai plexus, uniting with nerves from the sympathetic and vagus. the tonsil, 4. The tonsillitic branches supply the tonsil and the arches of the soft palate. On the former they end in a kind of plexus—circulus tonsillaris, and the 5. Lingual branches.—The terminal branches of the nerve tongue. supply the root and the posterior part of the tongue, as well as the lateral surface. The distribution of these is described with the tongue (Section 15). Vagus nerve The PNEUMO-GASTRTC NERVE (fig. 14, ^) (vagUS nerve) is the largest of the three trunks of the eighth cranial nerve (Willis), and occupies the same sheath of dura mater as the in foramen spinal accessory in the jugular foramen. In the foramen it iuguiare, j^^g ^ distinct ganglion (gang, of the root), to which the smaller part of the spinal accessory nerve is connected, and in the When the nerve has escaped from the foramen, it receives the small part of the spinal accessory, and swells into a large ganglion (gang, of the trunk). Here the nerve lies between the carotid artery and the jugular vein, and communicates with the several nerves at this part. To reach the thorax, the vagus descends almost vertically neck,