737 THE PLANTAR FASCIA. at its attachment to the os calcis, but widens and becomes thinner as it extends forwards. A slight depression, corre- sponding with an intermuscular septum, marks its limit on each side. Opposite the heads of the metatarsal bones it ^^^^^^^^ divides into five processes, which send bands to the integu- pieces, ments near the web of the foot, and are then continued on- wards to the toes, one to each. If one of the processes be divided longitudinally, and its parts reflected to the sides, pieces, it will be seen to join the sheath of the fle.Tor tendons, and to be fixed also on the sides into the margins of the meta- tarsal bone and into the transverse metatarsal ligament. Where the processes separate from each other, the digital ^^J^g^^^g^. vessels and nerves and the lumbricales muscles become super- vessels, ficial, and transverse fibres arch over the intervals. The lateral parts of the fascia are thinner than the central inner part piece. On the inner margin of the foot the fascia has but ^l^^l. little strength, and is continued to the dorsum ; but on the outer side it is increased in thickness, and presents a strong outer part, band between the os calcis and the projection of the fifth metatarsal bone. Dissection. —To examine the septa, a longitudinal incision Expose the may be made along the middle of the foot, through the septa, central piece of the fascia, and a transverse one near the calcaneum. On detaching the fascia from the subjacent flexor brevis digitorum, by carrying the scalpel from before backwards, the septal processes will appear on the sides of that muscle. The intermuscular septa pass down on the sides of the Two inter- flexor brevis digitorum, and thus isolate the central muscle ^pta!^^^^ in the superficial layer of the sole of the foot. A piece of fascia reaches across the foot from the one septum to the other, beneath the short flexor. The inner septum lies between the short flexor and the Inner abductor pollicis, and is perforated by the internal plantar nerve, and the tendon of the flexor pollicis longus. The outer partition between the short flexor and the ab- and outer, ductor minimi digiti, is pierced by the digital nerve and artery for the outer side of the little toe. The transverse ligament crosses the roots of the toes, and Transverse is contained in the skin forming the rudimentary web of the the Se? foot. The band of fibres is attached at the extremities to the great and little toes, and is connected with each of the others as it passes over. Beneath it are the digital nerves and vessels. The sheaths of the flexor tendons are similar to those of Sheaths of 3 B