DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 188 fixes firmly the odontoid process of tlie second vertebra against the body of the atlas, confining it in a ring (fig. 28). Fig. 28.'^- articular surfaces. and two synovial membranes. Capsule and synovial sac to articular surfaces. Joint at sternal end of clavicle. Dissection. When the transverse and check ligaments have been cut through, the tip of the odontoid process will be seen to have two cartilaginous surfaces; one in front where it touches the atlas, the other at the opposite aspect, where it is in contact with the transverse ligament. Two synovial membranes facilitate the movements of the odontoid process, one being for the joint between it and the atlas, and the other for the joint between it and the transverse ligament. Union of the articular surfaces.—The articular surfaces of the occipital bone and atlas are surrounded by a capsular ligament of scattered fibres, which is strongest externally and in front. When the joint is opened, the condyle of the occipital bone will be seen to look somewhat outwards, whilst the hollowed surface of the atlas has an opposite direction. A synovial membrane is present on each side. The articular surfaces of the first two vertebrse are enclosed on each side by a capsule (fig. 24, ^), which is stronger in front than behind. On opening the joint the surfaces of the bones may be perceived to be almost hori- zontal. On each side there is a separate loose synovial membrane, Sterno-clavicular Articulation.— The internal end of the clavicle is received on a fibro-cartilage, and is retained in position by a capsular ligament, by a band to the first rib, and by another band between the ends of the clavicles. Dissection.—For the examination of the ligaments of the sterno-clavicular articulation, take the piece of the sternum that was laid aside for the purpose ; and should the liga- * First vertebra with the odontoid process removed from the socket formed by the bone and the transverse ligament. 1. Socket for the odontoid process. 2. Transverseligament with its offsets cut. 3. Neural ring of the atlas. ■