DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. tracts or columns of the medulla oblongata, and from the olivary fasciculus (p. 209). Some of the fibres of the lateral tract of one side cross offsets from the corresponding tract of the other, so that there is a decussation, like that in the pyramids, across the middle line ; and the peduncle consequently contains fibres that are continued from both sides of the medulla oblongata.* In addition to the longi- tudinal fibres derived from the medulla oblongata, are others coming from the cerebellum, which mix with the former : some of these decussate also across the middle line (see p. 246). The fibres obtained from ihese sources are situate beneath (as now seen) the gray matter : besides being deeper, they are finer than the superficial set, and are interspersed with gray substance. The deeper part of the crus, viz., that at the cerebral aspect, is constructed by these fibres, and is named tegmentum. The gray matter (locus niger) of the crus, is nearer the inner than the outer margin of this body, and is convex towards the free surface, but concave in the opposite direc- tion. The posterior perforated spot (pons Tarini, e) is situate between the peduncles of the cerebrum ; grayish matter forms the floor of the space, and into it numerous vessels enter. This structure is opposite part of the floor of the third ventricle. The corpora alhicantia (corp. mamillaria) are two small, white bodies, about the size of peas, which are formed in greater part, as it will afterwards appear, by the crus of the fornix. If one, say the left, is cut across, it will be found to contain gray matter. In front of them is a mass of gray substance. The tuber cinereum (r), or the mass of gray matter behind the optic commissure, forms part of the floor of the third ventricle, and is continuous with the gray substance in that cavity. In front of it is the optic nerve, and from its centre projects the following :—The infundihulum (funnel) is a conically-shaped tube (fig. 37, i), which reaches to the upper part of the posterior lobe of the pituitary body. In the fetus this tube is open between the third ventricle and the pituitary body, but in the adult it is closed inferiorly. It consists of a layer of gray matter, surrounded by the * This is part of the median commissure of M. Foville, in the me- dulla oblongata, pons, and cerebral peduncles. See the work of M. Foville entitled : Traite complet de VAnatomie, <£*c., du Systeme Nerveux cerebro-spinalj p. 323, 1844.