PLAOTAR VESSELS AND I^ERYES. 739. and is attaclied by two processes to the sides of the middle insertion, phalanx. The short flexor of the toes is contained in a sheath of the Connec- plantar fascia, and occupies the middle of the foot. It con- ceals the tendon of the long flexor of the toes, the accessory- muscle, and the external plantar vessels and nerve. The ABDUCTOR MINIMI DiGiTi lias a wide origin behind Abductor of from the outer and inner tubercles of the os calcis, and from toe.^^^^^^ the plantar fascia and the external intermuscular septum. It ends anteriorly in a tendon which is inserted into the Origin and outer side of the base of the metatarsal phalanx of the insertion, little toe. The muscle lies along the outer border of the foot, and is at side of conceals the flexor accessorius, and the tendon of the pero- neus longus. On its inner side are the external plantar vessels and nerve. Dissection. —To bring into view the second layer of muscles Dissect the and the plantar vessels and nerves, the muscles already ex- "i^i^r^ylr amined must be reflected. Cut through the flexor brevis at and the OS calcis, and as it is raised, notice a branch of nerve and artery to it. Dividing the abductor minimi digiti near its origin, and turning it to the outer side of the foot, seek a small nerve and vessel to it close to the calcaneum. The abductor poUicis can be drawn aside if it is necessary, but it should remain uncut till afterwards. IsTow the plantar vessels and nerves are to be followed plantar forwards to their termination, and backwards to their origin ; nerved and the tendons of the long flexors of the toes, the accessory muscle, and the small lumbricales, should be freed from loose tissue. The PLANTAR ARTERIES are the terminal branches of the Two plantar posterior tibial trunk. They are two in number, and are named external and internal from their relative position in the sole of the foot. Of the two the external is the larger ; . outer. and it forms the plantar arch of arteries, from which digital branches are furnished to the toes. The internal artery is commonly inconsiderable in size, Internal and is directed forwards, under cover of the abductor poUicis, * to the root of the great toe: there it ends either in small ends on side branches to the side of the foot, or in digital branches to the foot, the inner two toes w^hich anastomose with the external plantar artery. The external artery supplies branches to the toes. It has External an arched course in the foot, with the concavity of the arch cuS^'^^ turned inwards. From the inner part of the foot the vessel course; 3 B 2