DISSECTION OF THE ABDOME^T. Direction of the fibres. Insertion. Connections in front, behind. Of outer border. of inner border ; pelvis Psoas parvus; origin; often ab- sent. Iliacus has the form of the iliac fossa. Origin ; insertion. Parts cover- ing it on opposite sides. vertebral substance, and the borders of tlie two contiguous vertebra} : and from tendinous bands over the bloodvessels opposite the middle of the vertebrae. The fibres are directed downwards, and give rise to a roundish muscle, which gradually diminishes towards Poupart's ligament. Inferiorly the muscle ends in a tendon on the outer aspect, which receives fibres of the iliacus, and passes beneath Poupart's ligament to be inserted into the small trochanter of the femur. The abdominal part of the muscle has the following con- nections :—In front are the internal arch of the diaphragm, the kidney with its vessels and duct, the spermatic vessels and the genito-crural nerve, and, near Poupart's ligament, the ending of the external iliac artery. Posteriorly the muscle is in contact with the transverse processes, with part of the quadratus lumborum and with the innominate bone. The outer border touches the quadratus and iliacus; and branches of the lumbar plexus issue from beneath it. The inner border is partly connected to the vertebrse, and is partly free along the margin of the pelvis :—along the attached or vertebral part of this border lie the sympathetic nerve and some lumbar glands, with the cava on the right, and the aorta on the left side ; along the free or pelvic part are the external iliac artery and vein, and the obturator nerve below. The PSOAS PARVUS is a small muscle with a long and flat tendon, which is placed on the front of the large psoas ; but it is rarely present. Its fibres arise from the bodies of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebroe, and from the inter- vening fibro-cartilage, like the large psoas. Its tendon becomes broader inferiorly, and is inserted into the ilio- pectineal eminence and the brim of the pelvis. The tendon is connected with the fascia covering the iliacus muscle. The ILIACUS MUSCLE occupies the hollow (iliac fossa) on the inner aspect of the hip bone, and is blended inferiorly with the psoas muscle. It is triangular in form, and has a fleshy origin from the iliac fossa and the ilio-lumbar liga- ment, from the base of the sacrum, and from the capsule of the hip joint in front. The fibres pass inwards to the tendon of the psoas, uniting with it even to its insertion into the femur, and some reach separately that bone. Above Poupart's ligament the muscle is covered by the iliac fascia ; but placed over the right iliacus is the caecum, and over the left muscle is the sigmoid flexure. Beneath it are the innominate bone and the capsule of the