682 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. cribiform fascia, fat and skin. The cover- ings may bo altered. The surgeon does not find so many as the anatomist. Place of stricture. How to cut the ex- ternal. and the in- ternal stric- ture. Clean out Scarpa's triangular space. Seek nerves. Triangular space at top of the thigh; a layer of the cribriform fascia. And, lastly, there is an investment of the superficial fat or fascia, together with the skin. From without inwards the order of the different strata will be reversed. The coverings may vary, or be conjoined in different degrees according to the condition of the hernia. In some instances, as above said, the prolongation from the crural sheath is wanting. Further, in an old hernia the covering derived from the septum crurale is united usually with that from the crural sheath, so as to form one layer, the fascia propria (Cooper). In general, in an operation for the relief of the strangulated bowel, the surgeon, after dividing the subcutaneous fat, can recognise but little of the coverings enumerated by anatomists until he meets with that of the subperitoneal fat or septum crurale. Seat of stricture.—The strangulation of a femoral hernia may be situate either outside or inside the neck of the sac. The external stricture may be found opposite the margin of the saphenous opening, or deeper in, opposite the base of Gimbernat's ligament, and it may be removed by division of the constricting band arching over the neck of the hernia in each situation. The stricture inside the neck of the sac is occasioned by a thickening of the peritoneum, and it will be relieved by opening the sac and making an incision, of a line or two in extent, with the knife directed horizontally inwards. The several vessels that may be wounded in attempting to relieve the deep stricture are enumerated at p. 511. Dissection.—The triangular space at the top of the thigh will be prepared by removing the fascia lata from the hollow near Poupart's ligament, and cleaning the parts that then come into view. The muscular boundaries on the sides may be first dissected. Afterwards the remains of the crural sheath are to be taken away ; and the femoral vessels are to be followed downwards as far as the sartorius muscle. On the outer side of the vessels the divisions of the anterior crural nerve are to be sought, together with the branches of an artery (profunda) which are buried in the fat. All the fat is to be cleared out of the space ; and in removing it from beneath the femoral artery, the student is to look for one or two small nerves to the pectineus muscle. The TRIANGULAR SPACE (Scarpa) is situatc at the upper part of the thigh, and is beneath the hollow observable on the anterior aspect near Poupart's ligament. It corresponds with the axillary space in the upper limb. Commonly its