243 LOBES OF THE CEREBELLUM. is a mass named inferior vermiform process (fig. 39, i to s), vermiform which corresponds with the central part connecting the halves of the cerebellum on the upper surface : the two parts constitute the general commissure of the halves of the cerebellum. Constituents of the vermiform process.—Entering into the Constitu- constitution of the inferior vermiform process are the follow- yermiform ing eminences, which may be easily separated from one process, another with the handle of the scalpel :—Most anteriorly is a narrow body, the uvula (fig. 39, r), which is named from Uvula, its resemblance to the same part in the throat; it is longer from before backwards than from side to side, and is divided into laminae. Its anterior projection into the fourth ven- tricle is named nodule, or laminated tubercle, s ; and on its nodule, side is a ridge of gray matter, the furrowed hand, which is furrowed notched on the surface, and unites it with the almond-like lobe of the hemisphere. Connected with the nodule is a thin white layer,—the medullary velum ; but this and the velum, furrowed band will be seen in a subsequent dissection (p. 244). Behind the uvula is a tongue-shaped body, named pyramid, p, which is elongated from side to side, and pyramid, is marked by transverse laminae. Still farther back are certain transverse pieces, i, extending between the posterior and com- lobes of the hemispheres, of which they were considered by Reil to be the commissures. Lobes of the Hemisphere.—Each hemisphere is sub- Seven lobes divided into lobes on both the upper and the under aspect {J^^g^i^ (fig. 39). On the upper surface there are two lobes, anterior and Two lobes on posterior, which are separated by a sulcus, but the interval f^^^^^ between them is not well marked. The anterior or square lobe extends back to a level with the posterior edge of the vermiform process ; and the posterior reaches thence to the great horizontal fissure at the circumference. On the under surface of the cerebellum, there are five Five on lobes ; and three of them are separated by sulci amongst J^ce^yf the laminse of the hemisphere, but they are not more distinct on the than the lobes on the upper surface :— bemispheie, Beginning behind, the student will meet first the posterior posterior, lohe, which joins the commissural laminse behind the pyramid in the vallecula. Next in order is the slender lohe, which is slender, connected with the posterior part of the pyramid, as well as with the other transverse laminae behind that body. And lastly, attached to the side of the pyramid, is the hiventral lohe. and biven- R 2