519 EEFLECTIONS OF THE PERITONEUM. In order that it may be seen, tlie descending colon and the peritonenm must be separated from the abdominal wall. This viscus is surrounded with fat, and is situate in the occupies lumbar region opposite the last dorsal, and the upper two or region^ three lumbar vertebrse. Its position is somewhat oblique, and the upper is nearer than the lower end to the spinal column. In front of the kidney are the peritoneum and Parts in the colon ; and behind it are the quadratus lumborum and i3eiiin(j psoas muscles, with the diaphragm and the last rib. Above above, each kidney and resting on it, is the suprarenal capsule ; below, and below each is the iliac crest. The inner border looks inside, to the spine and receives the vessels; whilst the outer border projects towards the side of the abdominal wall. Sometimes the two are united in front of the aorta, and form the horse-shoe kidney. Difference on opposite sides.—The right kidney is placed Ri^ht rather lower than the left ; it reaches as high as the lower border of the last rib but one, whilst its fellow is opposite the upper border of the corresponding rib. In front of the Different right, in addition to the common connections before specified, ^^^^ before is the duodenum ; and before the left one is the lower end of the spleen. Above the right is the liver, and above the and above, left the spleen. The connections of the pancreas may be omitted for the Pancreas present. This viscus is described at page 534. ^' THE PEHITON-EUM, This is the largest serous membrane in the body. Like Peritoneum other membranes of the kind it is a closed sac in the male, but in the female its cavity is continuous with the canals of the Fallopian tubes. One part of it lines the wall of the consists of a abdomen (parietal layer), and another is reflected over the ^fg^erai different viscera (visceral layer) except where the vessels layer, enter. The inner surface is smooth ; but the outer is rough, when it is detached from the parts with which it is naturally in contact. The membrane forms folds as it f^^i^/^n^^ passes from viscus to viscus along the vessels ; and the vessels, folds attaching the viscera to the abdominal wall, consist for the most part of two layers, one on each side of the vessels. The continuity of the sac may be traced in both a hori- 2:ontal and a vertical direction. Horizontal circle around the abdomen. —If the membrane Circle of the be followed outwards from the umbilicus, it will be found ^^^^^^^ane