DISSECTIOIT OF THE ABDOMEN. 566 ti-ansverse fissure: extends to the lobules. Veiiji portae occupies portal canals. Capsule of The capsuU of Glisson is a layer of areolar tissue, which Giisson,with envelopes the vessels entering the liver through the trans- verse fissure. In this sheath the vessels ramify, and in it they are minutely divided before their termination in the lobules. Processes of the sheath accompany the small inter- lobular vessels, and join the covering of the lobules. If a transverse section is made of a portal canal, the vessels will retract somewhat into the loose surrounding tissue. The vena portce ramifies in the liver like an artery ; and the blood circulates through it in the same manner, viz., from trunk to branches. After entering the transverse fissure the vein divides into ^^S- S6.* large branches ; these lie in the portal canals or spaces with ofisets of the hepatic artery, the hepatic duct, and the nerves and lymphatics (fig. 86, P). The division is repeated again and again; and the resulting vessels give ofi" minute lateral branches (vaginal) (p), which ramify in the loose capsular sheath. Finally, the last branches of the vein (interlobular, i, i) penetrate between the lo- bules, around which they form a circle, and end in the interior as before explained. The hepatic artery is consumed in the nutrition of the structure of the liver. Whilst surrounded by the capsule of Glisson (fig. 86, a), it furnishes vaginal branches which ramify in the sheath and give it a red appearance in a well injected liver ; it supplies other twigs to the coats of the vena portse and the biliary duct. From the vaginal branches a few ofisets are sent to the lobules to supply their structure. This artery is supposed to terminate in capillaries that com- municate with the branches of the vena portse. The hepatic vein (vense cavae hepaticse) begins by a plexus in the interior of each lobule, and its smallest radicle issues from the base of the lobule as the intralobular vein. By the Hepatic artery nourishes the liver, and joins vena portse. Hepatic veins Avith- out a sheath * Vessels in a portal canal and the lobules of the liver (Kiernan).— I, I. Lobules of the liver. P. Branch of the vena porta?, ^iih. pp, vaginal branches which supply interlobular offsets, i. a. Hepatic artery, d. Hepatic duct. i\ i\ i'. Openings of interlobular branches of the portal vein.