106 DISSECTIO^T OF THE HEAD. Section VIII. SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE AND VESSELS. Superior Directions.—The student may examine next tlie remaining nerve next "^^^^^ "^-^^ Mth. nerve, viz. the superior maxillary, as this can be seen most conveniently after the dissection of the pterygo-maxillary and submaxillary regions has been made. Dissection. Dissection.—The superior maxillary division of the fifth nerve, in its course to the face, occupies successively the skull, the spheno-maxillary fossa, and the infraorbital canal; and to lay bare the nerve in its whole extent the skull, the above mentioned fossa, and the orbit must be opened. The skull and the orbit will have been opened already, if the preceding instructions have been followed ; but if the latter has not been dissected, refer to the necessary steps (p. 41). Inspheno- To trace the nerve in the spheno-maxillary fossa, the fossa^^^^^ student may niake the following dissection :—The middle fossa of the base of the skull is to be cut through from the inside with a chisel ; the cut is to be made from the sphe- noidal fissure in front to the foramen spinosum behind, and external to the foramen rotundum and foramen ovale. The side of the skull is then to be sawn through vertically in front of the petrous part of the temporal bone, so that the incision shall end at the posterior extremity of the cut made in the base with the chisel. Afterwards, with a bone forceps or a saw the outer wall of the orbit is to be divided into the spheno-maxillary fissure. The piece of bone forming part of both the skull and orbit is now loose, and is to be removed with the temporal muscle. The nerve can be partly seen as it crosses the spheno-maxillary fossa : but to bring it more completely into Yievi, some of the sphenoid bone bounding the fossa must be taken away, so as to leave only an osseous ring round the nerve at its exit from the skull. In the fat of the fossa the student is to seek the following ofisets,—the orbital branch, branches to Meckel's ganglion, and dental branches to the upper jaw. In floor of To foUow ouwards the nerve in the floor of the orbit, the the orbit. contents of the cavity must be taken away, and the bony canal in which it lies must be opened to the face. Near the front of the orbit the anterior dental branch is to be traced downwards for some distance in the bone. The infraorbital vessels are to be prepared with the nerve.