DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 436 Insertion. Connec- tions. Eotatores spiiiEe are parts of multifidus. Aponeurosis of multi- fidus. Dissection of sacral nerves. Five sacral nerves: are differ- ently distri- buted. five lower vertebrae. From this origin the fibres are directed obliquely inwards, some extending more than the length of one vertebra, to be inserted into the spines and the neural arches of the vertebrae between the first cervical and last sacral. This muscle fills chiefly the vertebral groove, and is con- cealed by the erector spinae and the semispinalis. The internal branches of the vessels and nerves of the back lie along its outer border. The following small muscles may be said to be parts of the multifidus. Botatores spince. — These are eleven small muscles beneath the multifidus spinae in the dorsal region, and are separated from that muscle by fine areolar tissue. Each is attached on the one hand to the tip and the upper edge of a transverse process, and on the other to the lower border of the neural arch of the vertebra next above. The first springs from the transverse process of the second vertebra. ^ The aponeurosis common to the multifidus and erector spinae is fixed firmly to the surrounding bones, and furnishes attachment to the muscular fibres. In the middle line it is connected with the spines of the lower lumbar vertebrae, and the spines of the sacrum. On the outer side it is attached to the posterior part of the iliac crest, and to the outer row of tubercles on the back of the sacrum, being connected at the last spot with the great sacro-sciatic ligament. Above, it is continued some way on the surface of the erector spinae, but further on the longissimus dorsi than the ilio-costalis. Blending with the cutaneous surface below is the vertebrj aponeurosis (p. 423). * Dissection.—To find the branches of the sacral nerves, it will be necessary to remove the part of the multifidus spinae which covers the sacrum. These nerves are very fine, but three may be detected by following inwards the external branches on the great sacro-sciatic ligament. The lowest two nerves must be sought on the back of the sacrum, below the attachment of the multifidus spinae muscle: the fourth comes through an aperture, and the fifth between the sacrum, and coccyx. Sacral JN'erves.—The posterior primary branches of the sacral nerves are five in number. Four issue from the spinal canal by the apertures in the back of the sacrum, and the fifth between the sacrum and the coccyx. The first three have the common division into inner and outer branches, like the other dorsal nerves, but the last two are undivided.* 4 * See a paper on the mode of branching of the spinal nerve?, in tlie 'Lond. Med. Gazette" of Feb. 10, 1843.