DISSECTIOIT OF THE ABDOMEK 492 Insertion into ribs. Has cross tendons. Its sheath, how formed. Deficient above and below. Linese transversiB are three or more. Situation. Linea semi- lunaris is at edge of rectus. joins tlie muscle of tlie opposite side ; and the external pro- cess is attached to the pubic crest. Becoming wider towards the thorax, the rectus is inserted by three large fleshy pro- cesses into the cartilages of the last three true ribs ; and the highest slip, which is also external, is attached to both the bone and cartilage of its rib. The muscle is contained in an aponeurotic sheath, except above and below ; and its fibres are interrupted at intervals by irregular tendinous lines,—the inscriptiones tendinese. Sheath of the rectus.—The aponeurotic casing of the rectus is derived from the splitting of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique at the outer edge of the muscle. One piece passes before, and the other under the muscle ; and the two unite at the inner border so as to enclose it in a sheath. Inseparably blended with the stratum in front of the muscle is the aponeurosis of the external oblique ; and joined in a similar manner with that behind, is the aponeurosis of the transversalis. The sheath is deficient behind, both above and below. Above, the muscle rests on the ribs, without the interven- tion of the sheath which is fixed to the margin of the thorax. Below, midway between the umbilicus and the pubes, the internal oblique ceases to incase the rectus, and passes altogether in front of it with the other aponeuroses ; at the spot where the sheath is wanting inferiorly, a white, and sometimes well-defined margin (the fold of Douglas) may be seen when the outer edge of the muscle is raised. Where the sheath is deficient the rectus is in contact with the fascia transversalis. The linecB transverscB are the tendinous intersections cross- ing the rectus. These give rise to the transverse markings on the surface of the abdomen, and are usually* three in number. The position of the lines is at the following spots : one is opposite the umbilicus, another at the ensiform carti- lage, and the third midway between the other two. If there is a greater number, the additional tendinous band will be placed below the umbilicus. These markings seldom extend the whole breadth or depth of the muscular fibres, more particularly above and. below. Linea semilunaris.—This line which was before alluded to with the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, corres- ponds with the outer edge of the rectus, and reaches from the eighth rib to the outer part of the pubic crest of the hip bone : it marks the line of division of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique muscle.