DISSECTION OF THE mTERIOR OF THE HEAD. 16 Circular sinus, Transverse sinus. Superior petrosal. Inferior petrosal. The circular sinus lies around the pituitary body, and reaches from the one cavernous sinus to the other across the middle line. Besides serving as the means of communication between those sinuses, it receives small veins from the pituitary body. This sinus is usually destroyed by the removal of the pituitary body. The transverse or basilar sinus crosses the basilar process of the occipital bone, on a level with the petrous part of the temporal bone, and joins the opposite cavernous sinuses. A second transverse sinus is sometimes found nearer the foramen magnum. The superior petrosal sinus (fig. 1, h) lies in a groove in the upper margin of the petrous part of the temporal bone, and extends between the cavernous and lateral sinuses* A small vein from the cerebellum, and another from the internal ear, are received into it. The inferior petrosal sinus (fig. 1, i) extends between the same sinuses as the preceding, and lies in a groove along the line of junction of the petrous part of the temporal with the basilar process of the occipital bone ; it is joined by a small vein from the outside of the skull, through the foramen lacerum at the base of the cranium. This sinus passes through the anterior compartment of the jugular foramen, and ends in the internal jugular vein. Arteries of dura mater are:— Anterior meningeal. Middle meningeal, from inter- nal maxil- lary ; Meningeal Artehies.—The arteries supplying the dura mater and the cranium are found in the three fossae of the base of the skull, and may be named from their situation, anterior, middle, and posterior meningeal. The anterior meningeal are two very small branches which come from the ethmoidal arteries (p. 48) : they enter the skull by apertures between the frontal and ethmoid bones, and are distributed to the dura mater near the ethmoid bone. The middle meningeal arteries are three in number : two, that are named large and small, are derived from the internal maxillary trunk ; and the third is an ofiset of the ascending pharyngeal artery. a. The large meningeal branch of the internal maxillary artery enters the skull by the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid bone, and ascends towards the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. At this spot the vessel enters a deep groove in the cranium, and ends in ramifications that spread over the side of the head, some of these reaching to the top, and others towards the occiput. Two veins accompany this artery.