623 BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL ILIAC. foramen, and lie beneath the muscle in that situation. In Offsets in the pelvis the artery has its companion nerve above, and P®^^^^' vein below it; and it gives origin to the following small branches :— a. Iliac branch.—Amongst other small offsets, the obtu-iliac branch, rator furnishes a twig to the iliac fossa to supply the bone and the iliacus muscle; this anastomoses with the ilio- lumbar artery. h. The pubic branch, arising as the artery is about to pubic leave the pelvis, ascends on the posterior aspect of the pubes, and communicates with the corresponding branch of the opposite side, as well as with an offset sent dovmwards from the epigastric artery. There may be more than one branch to the pubes. Peculiarities.—The obturator artery may arise at the front of the Its origin pelvis, from the epigastric instead of the internal iliac, and turn ti'.i^r?i£c^" down almost vertically to the thyroid aperture. Or, it may arise by two roots, one from the epigastric, another from the internal ^o^J°°^ iliac, the roots varying in size in different instances. The position of the obturator to the internal crural ring, in the instances of its origin from the epigastric, has been before alluded to (p. 511). In some bodies the obturator may be found to take origin from From exter- the external iliac artery. i^al iliac. An account of the frequency with which these different pecu- Frequency liarities occur, will be found in Mr. Quain's work on the "Anatomy reutort^dus of the Arteries." Suffice it to say here, that the origin from the internal iliac is the most frequent ; that from the epigastric next ; and the origin from the two sources, or from the external iliac artery, the least frequent. 4. The sciatic artery is the next largest branch to the Sciatic gluteal ; it is distributed to the buttock, and may be con- ^^^^^^ sidered the offset by which the internal iliac artery termi- nates. The artery is continued over the pyriformis muscle in the pel- and the sacral plexus to the low^er part of the sacro-sciatic notch, where it leaves the pelvis between the pyriformis and the coccygeus. External to the pelvis it divides into branches and outside beneath the gluteus maximus muscle. In the pelvis it sup- plies the pyriformis and coccygeus muscles. 5. The pudic artery supplies the perinseum and the genital Pudic artery organs, and has nearly the same connections in the pelvis as ^l^^^ the sciatic, from which it often springs. If the artery comes as a separate trunk from the internal iliac, it accompanies the sciatic, though external to it, and leaves the pelvis between the pyriformis and coccygeus. At the back of the pelvis it winds over the ischial spine of the hip bone, and enters the perim^um. (See p. 469.)