DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 424 Dissection. Splenius has two parts. One to the neck. One to the head. Their con- nections with other muscles. Dissection of fourth layer. Define off- sets from the erector spin£e. Show the the tendon of tlie latissimns ; also to the fascia lumborum ; and to the ribs and a thin fascia over the intercostal muscles. Below, between the pelvic and vertebral attachments, it blends with the underlying tendon of the erector spinse and multifidus. Dissection.—The superior serratus is to be cut through, and the subjacent vertebral aponeurosis taken away, and then the splenius muscle will be denuded. The SPLENIUS muscle consists of cervical and cranial parts, which are named respectively splenius colli and splenius capitis. The two are united at their origin. The splenius colli arises from the spines of the three or four upper dorsal vertebrae above the sixth. Ascending in the neck, the muscle is inserted by tendinous processes into the tips of the posterior transverse processes (diapophyses) of the upper three cervical vertebrae, behind the attachment of the elevator of the angle of the scapula. The splenius capitis (fig. 66, ^) arises from the spines of the last cervical and first two dorsal vertebrae, and from the ligamentum nuchse as high as the third cervical vertebra. The fleshy fibres ascend, and are inserted by a thin tendon into the apex and outer surface of the mastoid process, and into the bone behind it for about an inch and a half. The splenius colli is smaller than the splenius capitis, and its fibres are more oblique. These muscles are beneath the trapezius, the rhomboidei, and the serratus superior ; and the insertion into the occipital bone is beneath the sterno- mastoideus. The complexus muscle can be seen above the upper border of the splenius capitis. Dissection of the fourth layer. —To lay bare the complexus muscle in the neck, the splenii must be detached from the spinous processes, and thrown outwards. And whilst the large erector spinse is being displayed in the dorsal and lumbar regions by the dissector of the upper limb, two pro- longations from it to the cervical vertebrae and the head are to be defined by the dissector of the neck. One, a thin narrow muscle, the cervicalis ascendens, is continued beyond the ribs from the sacro-lumbalis or outer piece of the erector spinas, and is to be separated from the muscles around. The other is a larger offset of the longissimus dorsi, or inner piece of the erector spinae. Blended at first with the fibres of the longissimus, it is divided afterwards, like the splenius, into a cranial part (trachelo-mastoid) and a cervical part (transversalis colli). ■^^ The serratus inferior is to be detached with the vertebral