DISSECTION OF THE lOTERIOR OF THE HEAD. 20 Abducens nerve is in cavernous sinus. Seventh nerve has two parts. Eisfhth nerve has three parts. Their pas- sage through foramen jugulare. Ninth nerve. Dissection of carotid, of sympa- thetic plex- uses. The SIXTH NERVE enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, and supplies one of the orbital muscles. It pierces the dura mater behind the body of the sphenoid bone, and crosses the space of the cavernous sinus in its course to the orbit, instead of lying in the outer wall of the sinus with the other nerves. In the sinus the nerve is placed close against the outer side of the carotid artery ; and it is joined by one or two branches of the sympathetic nerve surrounding that vessel. Seventh Nerve.—This cranial nerve consists of two trunks, facial and auditory, and both enter the meatus audi- torius internus. In the bottom of the meatus they separate; the facial nerve courses through the aqueduct of Fallopius to the face, whilst the auditory nerve is distributed to the internal ear. Eighth Nerve. — Three trunks are combined in the eighth cranial nerve of Willis, viz. glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric, and spinal accessory. All three pass through the central compartment of the foramen jugulare, but all are not contained in one tube of either the dura mater or the arachnoid membrane. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve is external to the other two, being separated from them by the inferior petrosal sinus, and has distinct sheaths of the dura mater and the arachnoid membrane ; but the pneumo-gastric and spinal accessory nerves are inclosed in the same tube of the dura mater, only a piece of the arachnoid intervening between them. The NINTH nerve is the motor nerve of the tongue, and consists of two small pieces, which pierce separately the dura mater opposite the anterior condyloid foramen ; these unite after passing through that aperture. Dissection.—The dissector may now return to the ex- amination of the trunk of the carotid artery, as it winds through the cavernous sinus. On the opposite side, viz. that on which the nerves in the wall of the cavernous sinus are untouched, an attempt may be made to find two small i)lexuses of the sympathetic on the carotid artery. One of these (cavernous) is on the artery near the root of the anterior clinoid process ; and to bring it into view it will be necessary to cut ofi" that piece of bone, and to dissect out with care the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth nerves, looking for filaments between them and the plexus. Another plexus (carotid), joining the fifth and sixth nerves, surrounds the artery as this enters the sinus. In an injected body this dissection is scarcely possible.