FACIAL NERYE m THE BONE. 153 Dissection. —The examination of the nerve is to be begun Dissection at the stylo-mastoid foramen, and to be carried inwards from the^bonV^ that point. With this view, the side of the skull should be sawn through between the meatus externus and the anterior border of the mastoid process, so as to open the posterior part of the aqueduct of Fallopius. The nerve will be then seen entering deeply into the substance of the temporal bone ; and it will be readily followed if the dissector cuts away with the bone forceps all the bone projecting above it. In this last step the cavity of the tympanum will be more or less opened, and the chain of bones in it laid bare. The nerve is now to be traced onwards along the inner side of the tympanum, till it becomes enlarged, and bends suddenly inwards to the meatus auditorius internus. The surrounding bone is to be removed from the enlargement on the nerve, so as to trace to it the petrosal nerves; and then the meatus auditorius is to be laid open, to see the facial and auditory nerves in that hollow. The course of the chorda tympani nerve (branch of the of chorda facial) across the tympanum will be seen by the removal of ^^^P^^"' the central ear bone, the incus. The nerve may be also followed through the wall of the cavity behind, as well as out of the cavity in front. The remaining branches of the facial nerve in the bone and other are very minute, and are not to be seen, unless on a fresh ^^'^^^hes. piece of the skull which has been softened in acid. The student may therefore omit all the paragraphs marked with an asterisk, till he is able to obtain a part on which a careful examination can be made. The facial nerve enters the internal auditory meatus with Facial nerve the auditory nerve. It is then received into the aqueduct of Fallopius at the bottom of the meatus, and is conducted winds through the temporal bone to the stylo-mastoid foramen and tempSal the face (p. 39). In its serpentine course through the bone, bone, the nerve is first directed outwards to the inner wall of the tympanum : at that spot it suddenly bends backwards, and is marked by a gangliform swelling (intumescentia gangli- is marked formis) fig. 19, to which several nerves are united. From ^^f^J^^^^^"^ this swelling the nerve is continued through the arched receives aqueduct, passing along the inner wall of the tympanum, twigs, and then behind that cavity to the aperture of exit from the bone. The branches of the nerve in the bone serve for other the most part to connect it with other nerves ; but one branches, supplies the tongue, and another the stapedius muscle. branches.—These branches communicate with Branches