THE APPENDAGES OF THE EYE. 33 apex of the nose. The imier part projects backwards along another in- the septum of the nose, nearly to the superior maxillary riostni. bone ; it assists in the formation of the partition between the nostrils, and extends below the level of the septum nasi. The cartilage of the aperture has not any attachment Not inserted directly to bone ; but it is united above to the lateral cartilage by fibrous tissue, and is connected below with the dense structure that forms the margin of the aperture of the nostril. At the tip of the nose the cartilages of opposite sides touch. Behind the outer half of the cartilage of the aperture, in Accessory the dense tissue that fixes it to the bone ; are two or three ^^^^^^^s^^- small pieces of cartilage—cartilagines minores vel sesamoidece, which seem to result from the breaking up of the hinder extremity of the cartilage of the aperture. The Appendages of the Eye consist of the eyebrow, the Appendcages eyelid, and the lachrymal apparatus. Some of these can be seen now on the opposite side of the face ; but the apparatus for the tears will be dissected after the orbit has been completed. The eyebrow (supercilium) is a curved eminence just above Eyebrow, the eye, which is placed over the orbital arch of the frontal bone. It consists of thickened integuments, and its pro- minence is also due to the subjacent orbicularis palpebrarum. It is furnished with long coarse hairs, that are directed outwards, and towards one another. The eyelids are two semilunar folds in front of the eye, Eyelids, which are freely moveable, and can be approached over the eyeball, or can be separated so as partly to lay it bare. The upper lid is the largest and the more moveable of the Upper two, and descends below the middle of the eyeball when the l^^g^^t. two meet; it is also provided with a special muscle to raise it. The interval between the open lids is named fissura "palpebrarum. Externally and internally they are united by a commissure or canthus. The free margin is thicker than the rest of the lid, and shape of is semilunar in form for the greater part (fig. 7); but towards the inner side, or about a quarter of an inch from the commissure, it becomes straight. At the spot where Papilla these differently shaped parts join is a small white eminence, i^-chrymahs. the papilla lachrymalis, in which is the punctum lachrymale Punctum. or the opening of the canal for the tears. This margin is Where hairs provided anteriorly with the eyelashes, and posteriorly t^res.^^^" with the openings of the Meibomian glands : but both the