CAYITY OF LEFT VENTRICLE. 371 of tlie circulating fluid ; and tlie left side of the heart receives its pure blood at once from the right auricle through the aperture (foramen ovale) in the septum. Dissection.—The left ventricle may be opened by an How to incision along both the anterior and the posterior surface, ventricle, near the septum ; these are to be joined at the apex, and are not to be extended so far upwards as to reach the auricle. On raising the triangular flap the interior of the cavity will be seen. The CAVITY OF THE LEFT VENTRICLE is lougcr, and more Form of left conical in shape than that of the opposite ventricle (fig. 55). and on a transverse section of the heart it is oval or almost circular. The apex of the cavity reaches into the apex of the heart, Apex, for the fibres of the left ventricle form alone this part. The base is turned towards the auricle, and is not sloped like that Base with of the right ventricle. In it are the openings into the aorta j^gg^®^" and the left auricle. The walls of this ventricle are thickest, and the anterior Walls, boundary is formed by the septum ventriculorum. Its surface is irregular, like that of the right ventricle, in J^J^^J^^^^^^' consequence of the projections of the fleshy columns, or the fleshy carnse columnse ; but near the great artery (aorta) leading columns, from the cavity the surface is smooth. Three sets of fleshy columns are seen in this as in the right ventricle ; but the and some set which projects into the cavity, and receives the small ^^^^ tendinous threads of the valve, is the most marked. The musculi papillares spring from the front and back of the parietes, and are collected for the most part into two large muscular projections. The aperture into the left auricle (auriculo-ventricular) is Left auri- placed beneath the orifice of the aorta, but close to it, only cuJar^^pS-" a thin fibrous band intervening between the two. This ture, opening is rather smaller than the corresponding aperture of the right side, and is longest Hke it in the transverse direc- tion. Placed, as before said, beneath the aortic aperture, Position, it extends also to the right, so as to lie beneath the left it has a extremity of the right auriculo-ventricular opening. It is '^alve. furnished with a membranous valve that projects into the ventricle ; but this is stronger and of greater length than the tricuspid, and has also firmer and more tendinous cords. Attached to a fibrous ring around the aperture, as well as in part to the aortic fibrous ring, the valve is divided below by a notch on each side into two instead of three pieces ; its segments lie one before another, having their edges B B 2