588 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Place of origin of the brandies: their classi- fication. Visceral branches. Renal artery, is beneath its vein: gives offsets. Difference between left and right. Capsular artery. Spermati vessel with surrounding parts have been before referred to (p. 531), and its branches remain to be examined. The branches of the aorta are numerous, and arise in the following order :—First, are the diaphragmatic arteries, two in number, which leave the sides of the vessel immediately it appears in the abdomen. Close to the tendinous ring of the diaphragm the single trunk of the coeliac axis arises from the front of the aorta. And about a quarter of an inch lower down, also on the front, the trunk of the superior mesenteric artery begins. Half an inch lower the renal arteries, right and left, take origin from the sides of the aorta. On the fore part of the vessel, close above each renal, is the small capsular branch ; and below the renal is the spermatic artery. From the front of the aorta, one to two inches above the bifurcation, springs the inferior mesen- teric artery ; and from the angle of division the small middle sacral artery runs downwards. Four or five small lumbar branches on each side come from the posterior part of the vessel, opposite the bodies of the lumbar vertebras. The branches may be classified into two sets—one to the viscera of the abdomen (visceral), and another to the abdo- minal wall (parietal). A. The visceral branches are coeliac axis, superior and in- ferior mesenteric, renal, capsular, and spermatic. All this set, except the last three, viz., the renal, capsular, and sper- matic, have been examined (pp. 525, 535). The renal arteries leave the aorta nearly at a right angle, and are directed outwards, one on each side. JSIear the kidney each divides into four or five branches, which enter the renal substance between the vein and the ureter. Each artery lies beneath its companion vein, being surrounded by a plexus of nerves, and supplies small twigs to the supra- renal capsule (inferior capsular), to the ureter, and to the fatty layer about the kidney. The arteries of opposite sides have some difi"erences. The left is the shortest, owing to the position of the aorta. The right crosses the spine, and passes beneath the vena cava. Varieties in both the number and place of origin of this artery are frequent. The middle capsular artery is a small branch that rims almost transversely outwards to the suprarenal body to which it is distributed. This ofi'set anastomoses with the other branches supplied to the suprarenal body by the renal and phrenic arteries. It is of large size in the fetus. The spermatic artery is destined for the testicle. It is