DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEK 564 Glandular STRUCTURE OF THE LivER.—The substance of the liver structure is consists of a coUection of small secreting bodies, called incased by . , ' two coats, lobules or acim ; together with vessels, which are concerned both in the production of the secretion and in the nutrition of the organ. The whole is surrounded by a fibrous and a serous coat. Serous coat, 1. Serous coat—The peritoneum invests the liver almost completely, and adheres closely to the subjacent coat. At where certain spots intervals exist between the two, viz. in the fissures occupied by vessels, at the lines of attachment of the ligaments, and at the surface covered by the gall-bladder. Where the right lateral ligament is inserted the space is the largest. Fibrous 2. The fihrous covering is very thin, but it is rather covering IS g-j^^Qj^ggj. where the peritoneum is not in contact with it. to the^^^^ It invests the liver, and is continuous at the transverse interior. fissure with the fibrous sheath (capsule of Glisson) surround- ing the vessels in the interior. When the membrane is torn from the surface, it is found to be connected with fine shreds that dip between the lobules or glandular structure of the liver. Lobules of Size and form of the lobules.—The lobules (fig. 86, I) con- ' stitute the proper secretory substance, and can be seen either on the exterior of the liver, or on a cut surface, or by means size and of a rent in the mass. As thus observed, these bodies are appearance, ^1^^^^^ the size of a pin's head, and measure from ^Lth to investment 'uiQ^ in diameter. Closely massed together, each presents a dark central point, and is isolated from the surrounding ones by a stratum of areolar tissue. By means of transverse and vertical sections of the lobules, their form will appear triangular on the exterior, but five or many sided in the interior of the liver. They are clustered around the smallest divisions (sublobular) of the hepatic vein, to which each is connected by a small twig issuing from the centre (intralobular vein), something like the attachment of the lamina to the stalk or petiole of a leaf. The part of each lobule in contact with the small sublobular vein wants the covering of areolar tissue that invests the other sides. To study the minute structure of the lobules the student should have the difierent vessels of the liver minutely in- i, jected, and should be provided with a microscoi3e. , A lobule is Constituents of the lobules.—Each lobule or elementary giand!^*^ piece of the liver is composed of minute hepatic secretory i cells, which are arranged in lines so as to leave intervals I