36 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. andlachry- are distributed to the eyelids. The lachrymal artery per- forates the palpebral ligament near the outer part of the orbit, and its offsets supply the lid, as well as anastomose with the palpebral branches. Veins. The veins of the lids open into the frontal and angular veins at the root of the nose. Nerves of The nerves of the eyelids are supplied from the ophthalmic ^^•^'^ and facial nerves. from fifth The branches of the ophthalmic nerve (of the fifth) that give offsets to the upper lid, are the following : lachrymal, near the outer part ; supra-orhital, about the middle ; and supra-trochlear and infra-trochlear at the inner side (pp. 44, 46). In the lower eyelid, about its middle, is a branch of and seventh the superior maxillary trunh of the fifth nerve. The iiei-ve. branches of the facial nerve enter both lids at the outer part, and supply the orbicularis muscle ; they communicate with the branches of the fifth nerve. Parts of ex- EXTERNAL Ear.—The outer ear consists of a trumpet- erna ear. gj^r^p^^^ structure, named pinna or auricle, which collects sounds ; and of a tube—meatus auditorius, which conveys those sounds to the inner ear. The pinna may be examined on the left side of the head, but the meatus will be described with the rest of the anatomy of the ear. Texture and The pinna, or auricle of the ear, is an uneven piece of pinna. yellow cartilage, which is covered with integument, and is fixed to the margin of the meatus auditorius externus. It is of an oval form, with the margin folded, and the larger end placed upwards. Surfaces The surface next the head is convex, but the opposite foS^nd^ one is hollowed out, and presents the undermentioned eleva- eminencus. tions and depressions. In the centre is a deep hollow named concha, which conducts to the meatus auditorius. In front of that hollow is a projection of a triangular shape— the tragus, which has some hairs on the under-surface ; and on the opposite side of the hollow, rather below the level of the tragus, is another projection,—the ayititragus. The round, rim-like margin of the ear is called the helix, and the depression internal to it, the groove, or fossa of the helix. "Within the helix, between it and the concha, is the large eminence of the antihelix, which presents at the upper pai-t a well-marked depression, the fossa of the antihelix. Infe- riorly the external ear is terminated by a soft, pendulous part, the lohule. Five small The muscles of the pinna, which extend from one part of