221 BASE OF THE CEREBRUM. pia mater ; and it is lined by the membrane of the third ventricle as far as it is pervious. The pituitary body will be very imperfectly seen when it Pituitary has been dislodged from its resting-place: therefore it should be sometimes examined in the base of the skull by removing the surrounding bone. Its use is unknown. This body (fig. 37, p) is situate in the hollow in the Situation, centre of the sphenoid bone (the sella Turcica), and consists of two lobes, anterior and posterior. The anterior is the largest, and is hollowed out behind, where it receives the posterior lobe. In the adult this body is solid and firm in texture, and reddish in colour; but in the fetus it is hollow, and opens into the third ventricle through the infundibulum. Structure.—It is firm and reddish externally, but softer Structure, and yellowish internally. In the anterior lobe are vesicular nucleated corpuscles, mixed with a granular semi-fluid sub- stance, and the whole is contained in roundish spaces, which are constructed by a stroma of areolar tissue with blood- vessels. In the posterior lobe there are vessels and fine nerve tubes with a granular material and nuclei. Dissection.—To see the lamina cinerea and the anterior Dissection, termination of the corpus callosum, the convolutions of the anterior lobe of the cerebrum may be removed on the left side, where they lie over those parts. The convolution (gyrus fornicatus) in contact with the corpus callosum may be divided, and its ends turned forwards and backwards. The lamina cinerea is a thin layer of gray substance, which Gray extends backwards from the anterior termination of the corpus callosum to the tuber cinereum. This stratum closes the anterior part of the third ventricle, and is continuous laterally with the anterior perforated spot. In consequence of its great thinness, this structure is often broken through in removing the membranes of the brain. The corpus callosum is now seen to be bent in front, and {^^^^^ then to be extended horizontally backwards in the longi- tudinal fissure to a spot within a quarter of an inch of the anterior commissure (fig. 37, a), where it presents a well- marked concave margin, to which the lamina cinerea is joined. A white band, fillet or peduncle of the corpus ends in- callosum, is continued onwards, on each side, from the line two^band?, of termination before alluded to, to the anterior perforated spot. To the anterior bend of the corpus callosum the term knee (genu) is applied, and to the prolonged central part the appellation beak (rostrum) has been given. Laterally the