STRUCTURE OF THE UTERUS. 653 The space within the neck terminates inferiorly at the os and a uteri (fig. 99, c), and it is continuous above, as before said, gi^aped" with the space within the body. It is larger at the middle space in the than at either end, being spindle-shaped, and is somewhat flattened like the cavity of the body. Along both the ante- in the neck rior and the posterior wall is a longitudinal ridge, and other ^^th^lrbor ridges (rugce) are directed obliquely from these on each side : vitse. this appearance has been named arbor vitoe uterinus. In the intervals between the rugse are some mucous follicles, which sometimes become filled and distended with fluid, and give rise to the rounded clear sacs named the ovula of Nahoth. Structure.—The dense wall of the uterus is composed ^^^J^i^^^ of layers of unstriated muscular fibre, intermixed with dense organ, areolar and elastic tissues, and large bloodvessels. On the exterior is the peritoneum, and lining the interior is a thin mucous membrane. The muscular fibres can be demonstrated at the full period ^^g^® of gestation to form three strata in the wall of the uterus, strata: viz. external, internal, and middle. The external layer con- external, tains fibres which are mostly transverse ; but at the fundus and sides they are oblique, and are more marked than along the middle of the organ. At the sides the fibres converge towards the broad ligament ; some are inserted into that membrane ; whilst others are prolonged on the Fallopian tube, the round, ligament, and the ligament of the ovary. The internal fibres describe circles around the openings of internal, the Fallopian tubes, and spread from these apertures till they meet at the middle line. At the neck of the uterus they become transverse in direction. The middle or intervening and middle, set of fibres are more indistinct than the others, and have a less determinate direction. The mucous lining is continued into the vagina at one end Mucous of the uterus, and into the Fallopian tubes at the other. In the interior of the uterus it is of a reddish white colour, and is thin, smooth, and adherent, but without papillse. Like the mucous membrane of the intestine, it possesses tubular glands, which may be either straight and simple, or may be covered twisted or branched ; the minute apertures of these are "^'^^^ glands, scattered over the surface. In the cervix uteri, between the Follicles in rugae, mucous follicles and glands are collected, and near the neck, outer opening are filiform papillse. The epithelial covering of the mucous membrane consists Epithelium, of a single layer of cells, which is columnar and ciliated throughout the cavity of the uterus. The bloodvessels of the uterus are large and tortuous, and Vessels are large.