DISSECTIOIT OF THE FACE. 28 Insertion at corners of the mouth. Parts in con- tact with it. Arteries of the face. Facial artery; and connec- tions. Plan of the branches. Inferior labial. Two coronary to a band of fascia—the pterygo-maxillary ligament. From this origin the fibres are directed forwards to the angle of the mouth, where they mix with the other muscles and with both parts of the orbicularis ; and as some of the central fibres descend to the lower lip whilst others ascend to the upper lip, a decussation takes place at the corner of the mouth. On the cutaneous surface of the buccinator are the different muscles that converge to the angle of the mouth ; and crossing the upper part is the duct of the parotid gland, which perforates the muscle opposite the second upper molar tooth. Internally the muscle is lined by the mucous membrane of the mouth, and externally it is covered by a fascia that is continued to the pharynx. By its intermaxillary origin the buccinator corresponds with the attachment of the superior constrictor of the pharynx. The VESSELS OF THE FACE cousist of the facial and trans- verse facial arteries with their accompanying veins. The arteries are branches of the external carotid; and the facial vein is received into the internal jugular trunk. The facial artery emerges from the neck, and appears on the lower jaw, anterior to the masseter muscle. From this point the artery ascends in a tortuous manner, near the angle of the mouth and the side of the nose, to the inner angle of the orbit, where it anastomoses with the ophthalmic artery. The course of the vessel is comparatively super- ficial, though lying in the mass of fat of the inner part of the cheek. At first the artery is concealed by the platysma whilst crossing the jaw, but this thin muscle does not pre- vent pulsation being recognised during life ; and near the mouth the large zygomatic muscle is superficial to it. The vessel rests successively on the lower jaw, buccinator muscle, elevator of the angle of the mouth, and elevator of the upper lip. Accompanying the artery is the facial vein, which is nearly a straight tube, and lies to its outer side. Branches.—From the outer side of the vessel unnamed branches are furnished to the muscles and integuments, some of which anastomose with the transverse facial artery. From the inner side are given the following branches :— 1. The inferior labial branch runs inwards beneath the depressor anguli oris muscle, and is distributed between the lower lip and chin ; it communicates with the inferior coronary, and with the labial branch of the inferior dental artery. 2. Coronary branches. —There is one for each lip (superior and inferior), which arise together or separately from the