10 DISSECTION OF THE INTERIOR OP THE HEAD. Structure, and processes. Falx. Form and attach- ments. Sinuses in it. Superior longitudinal einus. Situation and ending. Its interior. Veins open- ing into it. this appearance is due to an epithelial covering similar to that lining serous membranes. This external envelope of the brain consists of white fibrous and elastic tissues so disposed as to give rise to two distinct layers, viz., an external or endosteal, and an internal or special. At certain spots these layers are slightly sepa- rated, and form thereby the spaces or sinuses for the passage of the venous blood. Moreover, the innermost layer sends processes between different parts of the brain, forming the falx, tentorium, tfec. The falx cerebri is the process of the dura mater, in shape like a sickle, which dips in the middle line between the hemispheres of the cerebrum. Its form and extent will be evident if the right hemisphere is gently separated from it. It is narrow and pointed in front, where it is attached to the crista galli of the ethmoid bone, but widens posteriorly, and joins a horizontal piece of the dura mater named the tentorium cerebelli. The upper border is convex, and is fixed to the middle line of the skull as far backwards as the occipital protuberance ; and the lower, or free border, is concave, and turned towards the corpus callosum of the brain, with which it is in contact posteriorly. In this fold of the dura mater are contained the following sinuses :—the superior longitudinal along the convex border, the inferior longitudinal in a part of the lower edge, and the straight sinus at the line of junction between it and the tentorium. The superior, longitudinal sinus (fig. 1, extends from the ethmoid bone to the occipital protuberance. Its position in the convex border of the falx will be made manifest by the escape of blood through numerous small veins, if the finger is carried backwards along the middle line of the head. When the sinus is opened, it is seen to be narrow in front, and to become wider as it proceeds backwards, till it ends in a common point of union of certain sinuses (torcular Herophili) at the centre of the occipital bone. Its cavity is triangular in form, with the apex of the space turned to the falx ; and across it are stretched small ten- dinous cords—chord99 Willisii, near the openings of some of the cerebral veins. Occasionally small glandulae Pacchioni are present in the sinus. This sinus receives small veins from the substance and exterior of the skull, and larger ones from the hemispheres of the brain. The cerebral veins open chiefly at the poste- rior part of the brain, and lie for some distance against the wall of the sinus before they perforate it ; their course is