DISSECTION OF THE EAR. 810 of the osse ous part. Vestibule. Dissection to see it. Form and Constituents The OSSEOUS LABYRINTH coiisists of three parts, viz., the vestibule, the semicircular canals, and the cochlea : these communicate externally with the tympanum, and internally through the meatus internus with the cranial cavity. The VESTIBULE is the common central cavity of the osseous labyrinth, and is placed behind the cochlea but in front of the semicircular canals. Dissection. —This cavity may be seen on the dry bone that has been used for the preparation of the tympanum. The bone is to be sawn through vertically close to the inner wall of the tympanum, so as to lay bare this wall and the fenestra ovalis leading into the vestibule. In this section one of the semicircular canals (horizontal) may be laid open just above the fenestra ovalis. By enlarging the fenestra ovalis a very little in a direction upwards and forwards, the end of the superior semicircular canal and the vestibular space will appear. Other views of the cavity may be obtained by sec- tions of temporal bones in different directions, according to the skill and knowledge of the dissector. The vestibular space is somewhat oval in form (fig. 129), the extremities of the oval being placed forwards and back- wards, and the under part or floor is more narrowed than the dimensions, upper part or roof. It measures about ^l-th of an inch in different directions, but it is narrowest from without inwards. The following objects are to be noted on the boundaries of the space. In front, close to the outer wall, is a large aperture lead- ing into the cochlea ; and behind are five round openings of the three semicircular canals. The outer wall corresponds with the tympanic cavity, and in it is the aperture of the fenestra ovalis. On the inner wall, nearer the front than the back of the cavity, is a vertical ridge or crista. In front of the ridge is fossa in front a small circular depression, fovea hemisphericay which pre- sents anteriorly some minute apertures for nerves, and cor- responds with the bottom of the meatus auditorius internus. Beliind the crest of bone, near the common opening of two of the semicircular canals, is the small opening of the aque- duct of the vestibule : this tube ends on the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. On the roof is a slight transversely oval depression, fovea semi-elliptica; this is separated from the fovea hemispherica by a continuation of the crista before mentioned on the inner wall. canals; SEMiciRCULAH CANALS (fig. 129) are three osseous tubes, Apertures before and behind. In outer wall. Crest on inner wall ; of it; and aque- duct behind Roof has a fossa.