DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. 314' metacarpal, and carpal. The origin and course of the ar- tery may- vary. Ulnar nerve iu the fore- arm. Its branches are to elbow joint. to two mus- cles of fore- arm. cutaneous branch of palm of hand. cutaneous interosseous membrane, and divides into anterior and pos- terior interosseous arteries : these brandies will be after- wards followed. 4. The metacarpal branch arises from the artery near the lower end of the ulna, and turns back along the metacarpal bone of the little finger, of which it forms a dorsal branch. 5. The carpal branches (anterior and posterior) ramify ou the front and back of the carpus, on which they anastomose with corresponding offsets of the radial artery, and form arches across the wrist. Peculiarities of the ulnar artery. —The origin of the ulnar artery has a tendency to approach the trunk of the body, and it may be transferred to any point of the vessel in the arm^ or axilla ; but this deviation is much less frequent in it than in the radial artery. Once the origin was found between two and three inches below the elbow. (Quain.) Its irregular position in the forearm varies more than that of the radial under similar circumstances. The artery is generally super- ficial to the fiexor muscles at the bend of the elbow (only one exception, Mr. Quain), but beneath the aponeurosis of the forearm, though sometimes it is subcutaneous with the superficial veins. The ULKAR NERVE enters the forearm between the attach ments of the flexor carpi ulnaris to the olecranon and inner condyle of the humerus. Under cover of that muscle the nerve reaches the ulnar artery about the middle (in length) of the forearm, and is continued on the inner side of the vessel to the hand. On the annular ligament the nerve is rather posterior to the artery. In this part of the limb it furnishes articular, muscular, and cutaneous branches as below :— a. Articular nerves.—In the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle, the ulnar nerve gives slender filaments to the articulation against which it lies. h. Muscular branches.—It furnishes ofi'sets near the elbow joint to two muscles of the forearm, viz. flexor carpi ulnaris and flexor profundus. One branch enters the upper part of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and the other supplies the inner hal of the flexor profundus digitorum. c. Cutaneous nerve of the forearm and hand.—About the middle of the forearm a small cutaneous branch (palmar) arises from the nerve, and continues on the ulnar artery, sending twigs around it, to end in the integuments of the ipalm of the hand. Sometimes a cutaneous ofi'set from it perforates the aponeurosis near the wrist, and joins the internal cutaneous nerve. d. The dorsal cutaneous nerve of the hand arises about two