STEUCTUEE OF THE TESTIS. 579 tained the bloodvessels, and a network of seminal ducts forming the rete testis. Of the Jiner processes of the tunica albuginea, which enter and the testis, there are two kinds. One set round and cord- ^"^^ like, but of different lengths, are fixed posteriorly to the mediastinum, and serve to maintain the shape of the testis. The other set form delicate membranous septa, which divide the seminal tubes into masses named lobes, and are continued like the rest to join the mediastinum. Tunica vasculosa.—Within the tunica albuginea is a thin Avasculai^ vascular layer, which has been named as above by Sir A. Jtm^Jca^"^^ Cooper. It lines the fibrous coat, covering the different vasculosa). septa in the interior of the gland. It is formed of the ramifications of the bloodvessels united by areolar tissue, like the pia mater of the brain : and in it the arteries are subdivided before they are distributed on the secern- ing tubes, and the veins in the interior are supported by it. Form and length of the seminal tubes (tubuli seminiferi).— Seminal The secerning or seminal tubes are the minute branched ^^^^^^^^ ; extremities of the duct or vas deferens. They are very appearance wavy, and are but slightly held together by fine areolar tissue and surrounding bloodvessels, so that they may be readily drawn out of the testis for some distance. Their length is said by Monro to, be sixteen feet, but by Lauth to length, be only two feet and a quarter. The size and the characters of the minute tubules can be learned only with the aid of the microscope. Ending, size and structure.—Towards the circumference of the testis, the tubes have for the most part distinct closed, extremities ; but some communicate, forming loops or communi- arches, and others are united deeper in the gland. The cations; diameter of the tubules varies from -^^th to y^oth of an size: inch. The wall of the tubuli is formed of a thin, fibrous structure; membrane, but it has considerable strength : lining the interior is a nucleated granular epithelium, with polygonal cells ; and on the exterior is a plexus of bloodvessels. Names from the arrangement of the tubes.—To different Tubes parts of the seminal tubes between the origin and ending the following names have been applied. Where the tubules are collected into separate masses, they form the lobes of the testis. As they enter the fibrous mediastinum they become straight, and are named tubuli recti. Communi- cating in the mediastinum, they produce the rete testis. And, lastly, as they leave the upper part of the gland they