STRUCTURE OF THE COLON". 555 front of the cseciim, and the front and sides of the ascend- ing and descending colon ; but in neither does it reach commonly the posterior aspect (p. 523). The transverse colon is incased like the stomach, and has an interval along each of the borders where the transverse meso-colon and the great omentum are attached. The muscular coat is formed by longitudinal and circular Two layers fibres, as in the small intestine, but the former are arranged ^^^^^ > in bands. a. The longitudinal set of fibres may be traced in the longitudinal csecum as a thin layer over all the surface, but they are bands: collected for the most part into three longitudinal bands, each being about half an inch in width. On the vermiform which are appendix the longitudinal fibres form a uniform layer. They on^appendix are continued thence in the form of bands along the csecum and rectum; and colon. On the rectum they are diffused over the surface as on the caecum. When the bands are divided the intestine elongates—the sacculi, and the ridges in the interior of the gut disappearing at the same time. 6. The circular fibres are spread over the whole surface, and circular, but are most marked in the folds or ridges that project into the intestine. In the rectum (to be afterwards seen) they form the band of the internal sphincter muscle. The fibrous coat resembles that of the small intestine. It Fibrous coat will be exposed by removing the peritoneal and muscular ^^J^ ^^^^^ coverings. The mucous coat, which will be seen on opening the intes- Mucous coat tine, is smooth, and of a pale yellow colour. It is not foids^iird ^ thrown into special folds, except in the rectum. The surface villi, is free from villi; and by this circumstance the mucous membrane of the large can be distinguished from that of the small intestine. This surface difference in the two portions of the tube is well seen in the ileo-csecal valve ; for the surface which looks to the small intestine is studded with villi, whilst the lower surface which is covered by the lining membrane of the cjsecum is free from those eminences. Microscopic appearances.—In a piece of fresh intestine structure the mucous membrane may be seen with the microscope to gmail^^ut^^ possess small tubes or crypts, some larger solitary follicles, and an epithelial covering. The tubules or crypts (Fig. 83, C) occupy the whole length Tubes or of the large gut, and resemble those of the small intestine, c^yp^s but are more numerous and closer together. Their orifices more on the surface are circular (1), and are more uniformly dif- aiTlonger fused than the apertures of the crypts in the small gut. A than