DISSECTIOJT OF THE ITECK. 56 view. Crossing the space obliquely about an inch above the clavicle, and thus dividing it into two, is the small omo- hyoid muscle. ?b^^^e omo Above the omo-hyoid muscle will be found the ramifica- iiyoid; tions of the branches of the cervical plexus, together with the spinal accessory nerve ; the latter will be recognised by its piercing the stemo-mastoid muscle. The greater number of the branches of the cervical plexus descend to the shoulder, but the small occipital and great auricular nerves ascend to the head, whilst the superficial cervical branch is directed forwards over the sterno-mastoid muscle, below^ Below the omo-hyoideus are the subclavian artery and the brachial plexus, which have a deep position. In this part also the following vessels and nerve are to be sought, viz. the supra-scapular vessels behind the clavicle; the transverse cervical vessels beneath the omo-hyoid muscle ; and, lastly, in triangular the small branch of nerve to the subclavian muscle, which space. I'gg about the middle of the space between the clavicle and the omo-hyoideus. POSTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. Posterior triangular space of the neck. Boundaries. Is divided' by omo- hyoideus. Part near clavicle. This space (fig. 8), having the form and position before noted, is about eight inches in length, and contains the cervical and brachial plexuses ; the portion of the subclavian artery on which a ligature is usually placed ; together with other smaller vessels and some ofi'sets of the nerves. It is bounded in front by the sterno-mastoid muscle, 1, and behind by the trapezius 2. Its base corresponds with the middle third of the clavicle, and its apex is at the skull. In the area of the space are several muscles, which are placed in the following order from above down, viz., splenius capitis, levator anguli scapulae 6 ; and middle and posterior scalenus 5 ; and at the lower and outer angle, somewhat beneath the trapezius, is the upper part of the serratus magnus. Covering the space are the structures already examined, viz. the skin and superficial fascia, the platysma over the lower half or more, and the deep fascia. The small omo-hyoid muscle, 3, crosses the lower part of the space, so as to subdivide it into two,—a lower or clavicular, and an upper or occipital. The clavicular part is small in size and close to the clavicle, and contains the subclavian artery. It is triangular in form, Y/ith its base directed forwards ; and is bounded in front by the stemo-mastoid, 1, above by the omo-hyoid muscle, 3,