SHOULDER JOINT. 301 A corresponding muscle is placed beneath tlie extensor of the knee joint. Dissection.—As the dissection of the arm has been com- Dissection pleted as far as the elbow, it will be advisable to examine ghoufder next the shoulder joint. For this purpose the tendons of joi^t- the surrounding muscles, viz. those of the subscapularis, supra and infraspinatus, and teres minor, must be detached from the joint. On the removal of loose fibrous tissue the articular capsule will be prepared. Shoulder Joint.—This joint (fig. 40) is formed between Shoulder the head of the humerus and the glenoid fossa of the iuSine of. scapula. Inclosing the articular ends of the bones is a fibrous capsule lined by a synovial membrane. A liga- mentous band (glenoid ligament) deepens the shallow scapular cavity for the reception of the large head of the humerus. This articulation has great extent of movement ; and the Looseness, bones entering into its formation are but slightly bound together by ligamentous bands, for, on the removal of the muscles, the head of the humerus may be drawn from the scapula with great readiness. The capsular ligament (fig. 40, ^) surrounds the arti- Capsular cular ends of the bones, and receives some fibres from the contiguous tendons. At the upper part it is fixed around the neck of the scapula, where it is connected with the long head of the triceps. At the lower part the liga- ment is attached to the humerus close to the hemispherical articular surface ; but its continuity is interrupted between the tuberosities of the bone by the tendon of the biceps muscle. On the inner side there is generally an aperture in the capsule, below the coracoid process, through which the synovial membrane of the joint is continuous with the bursa beneath the tendon of the subscapularis. The fol- ^^^^^'^ lowing muscles surround the articulation ;—above are the tendons of the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor; below the capsule is only partly covered by the subscapu- laris : and internally it is well supported by the last-named muscle. On the front of the capsule is a rather thick band of ^and^^^^^ fibres,—the coraco-humeral or accessory ligament (fig. 40, ^), which springs from the base of the coracoid process of the scapula, and ends in the great tuberosity of the humerus. Dissection.—The articulation is to be opened by cutting Dissection, circularly through the capsule near the scapula. When this has been done the attachment of the capsule to the