SUPERIOE OBLIQUE MUSCLE. 45 tends forwards, and bends downwards in front of the eyeball, to be inserted by a wide tendon into the fore part of the is attached tarsal cartilage. By one surface the muscle is in contact carriage; with the frontal nerve and the periosteum ; and by the other, with the superior rectus muscle. If it is cut across is highest about the centre, a small branch of the third nerve will be ^^^^^^ seen entering the under surface of the posterior half. The RECTUS SUPERIOR is the upper of four muscles that lie Upper rec- around the globe of the eye. It arises from the upper part ^n^scle. of the optic foramen, and is connected with the other recti Origin, muscles around the optic nerve. Near the front of the eye the fleshy fibres end in a tendon, which is inserted, like the Insertion, other recti, into the sclerotic coat behind the union of this with the cornea. The under surface of the muscle is in Position to contact with the globe of the eye, and some vessels and nerves to be afterwards seen ; the other surface is covered by the preceding muscle. The SUPERIOR OBLIQUE MUSCLE is tMu and narrow, and Upper ob-^^^ passes through a fibrous loop at the inner angle of the orbit, ^^^^^ ^^^^ ^ before reaching the'eyeball. The muscle arises from the inner part of the optic foramen, and ends anteriorly in a rounded tendon, which, after passing through the loop enters a before referred to, is reflected backwards and outwards between the superior rectus and the globe of the eye, and is inserted into the sclerotic coat behind the middle of the insertion, eyeball. The fourth nerve is supplied to the orbital surface Connections, of the muscle, and the nasal nerve lies below it. The thin insertion of the muscle lies between the superior and the external rectus, and near the tendon of the inferior oblique. The loop, or pulley, or trochlea, is a fibro-cartilaginous Pulley of the ring about two lines and a half in length, which is attached by fibrous tissue to the depression of the frontal bone at the inner angle of the orbit. A fibrous prolongation is con- tinued from the anterior margin of the pulley on the tendon as far as the eyeball; and a synovial membrane lines the ring, to facilitate the movement of the tendon through it. To see the synovial membrane and the tendon, this pro- longation must be cut away. Dissection.—The superior rectus muscle is next to be Dissection, divided about the middle and turned backwards, when a branch of the third nerve to its under surface will be found. The nasal nerve and the ophthalmic artery and vein will be now seen crossing inwards above the optic nerve : these should be traced forwards to the inner angle, and backwards to the posterior part of the orbit. By taking away some of