DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 678 Parts trans- mitted through the opening. Names for fascia. Anatomy of parts con- cei-ned in femoral hernia. Dissection to ir:eo a sheath around femoral ves- sels. Define sheath. The crural arch: attach- ments ; Parts clos Through the lower part of the opening the saphenous vein and the ducts of the inguinal glands are transmitted : and through the upper part, close to the falciform edge, a femoral hernia would project. Other terms are apj)lied to the fascia on the opposite sides of the saphenous opening ; thus the piece on the outer side is called iliac part from its attachment to the iliac crest; whilst that on the inner side^ which is fixed to the pubes (fig. 73, is named in like manner the pubic part of the fascia lata. Parts concernei) in Femoral Hernia.—Besides the saphenous opening the dissector has to study the undermen- tioned parts, to obtain a knowledge of the structures amongst which the hernial protrusion is situate; viz. the crural arch and Gimbernat's ligament, the crural sheath, the crural canal and the crural ring, together with a partition (septum crurale) between the thigh and the abdomen. Dissection.—To examine Poupart's ligament and a loose sheath of membrane around the femoral vessels, the piece of the fascia lata outside the saphenous opening is to be reflected inwards by the following incisions. One cut may be begun near the edge of the falciform border, and may be carried outwards for one inch and a half, parallel and close to Poupart's ligament. Another is to be directed obliquely downwards and inwards from the termination of the first, to a little below the inferior cornu of the opening. When the fascia has been turned inwards and some fat removed, the tube of membrane (crural sheath) will be brought into view as it descends beneath Poupart's ligament. With the handle of the scalpel the sheath is to be sepa- rated carefully from the fascia lata beneath, and from the ligament in front of it; and Gimbernat's ligament on the inner side of the sheath, to which the upper end of the falci- form border is united, is to be defined. FouparVs ligament, or the crural arch, is a firm band of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdo- men, which stretches from the front of the iliac crest to the pubes (p. 487). When viewed on the surface, the arch has not a straight direction between its bony attachments as long as the fascia lata is uncut, but is curved downwards towards the thigh. The outer half is oblique. But the inner half is almost horizontal, and widens as it approaches the pubes, where it is inserted into the spine, as well as into the pectineal line of the hip bone for about an inch as Gimbernat's ligament. The space between the crural arch and the innominate