DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 264 thoracic artery, which ramify on the serratus muscle ; but these are commonly so unimportant, that this part of the axillary space may be considered free from vessels with respect to any surgical operation. Lying on the surface of the serratus magnus, is the nerve to that muscle ; and perforating the inner boundary of the space, are the lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax,—two or more offsets of which are directed across the axilla to the arm, and receive the name intercosto-humeral. Lymphatic The lymphatic glands of the axilla are arranged in two lidll?:^^ sets : one set lies along the inner side of the bloodvessels; and the other occupies the lower and hinder parts of the space, lying near and along the posterior boundary. Com- monly they are ten or twelve in number ; but in number as well as in size they vary much. The glands by the side of the bloodvessels receive the lymphatics of the arm ; and those along the hinder boundary are joined by the lym- phatics of the fore part of the thorax and of the posterior surface of the back, as well as by some of those of the mamma. The efferent ducts of all unite to form a trunk, which opens into the lymphatic duct of the same side in the end in the neck, or into the subclavian vein by a separate tube. Small ducf ^^^^^^ vascular twigs from the branches of the axillary vessels are furnished to the glands. Pectoraiis The PECTORALis MAJOR is a muscle of a triangular shape, ■ which has its base at the thorax and its apex at the arm. Origin from It arises internally from the front of the sternum, and clavicle?^ the cartilages of the true ribs except the last ; superiorly from the sternal half of the clavicle ; and inferiorly from the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdo- men. From this wide origin the fibres take different direc- tions,—those from the clavicle being inclined obliquely downwards, and those from the lower ribs upwards beneath the former ; and all end in a tendon, which is inserted into Insertion outer edge of the bicipital groove of the humerus for humerus ^^^^^ inches (Fig. 72, This muscle bounds the axilla anteriorly, and is connected sometimes to its fellow by fibres in front of the sternum. Besides the superficial structures and the mamma, the Parts cover- platysma covers the pectoraiis major close below the clavicle. iug it, lengthened interval, which corresponds with a depression on the surface, separates the clavicular from the sternal attach- and along- ment. One border (upper) is in contact with the deltoid the borders. j^^g^|g^ ^j^^ with the cephalic vein and a small artery ; and the lower border forms the margin of the anterior fold of