DISSECTION OF THE BRAIK 236 Origin of optic nerve. Dissection. Origin of fornix in optic thala- mus : how forms corpus albi- cans. Joined by other fibres, Dissection. Pineal gland; position, free in tlie inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle, presents inferiorly two small roundish tubercles, which are placed one outside and the other inside the bend (genu) of the optic nerve, and are named from their position to it, in- ternal and external geniculate bodies. The origin of the o;ptic nerve from the thalamus, and from the geniculate and quadrigeminal bodies, can be now seen. At the back of the crus cerebri the optic tract receives fibres from the optic thalamus which it touches, and then divides into two terminal bands :—one of these is connected with the gray matter in the external geniculate body, and is continued onwards to one of the corpora quadrigemina (nates) ; the other is similarly connected with the internal geniculate body, and is then prolonged to the other quadri- geminal body (testis) of the same side. Dissection.—The origin of the fornix in the optic thala- mus may be followed out next. As a preparatory step the anterior commissure and the anterior part of the corpus callosum should be cut along the middle line, so that the left hemisphere can be separated from the other. On the left hemisphere the crus of the fornix is to be traced down- wards, first to the corpus albicans, and then upwards into the optic thalamus. Anterior 'pillar of the fornix (fig. 38, t).—The fornix begins in the thalamus opticus near the tubercle on the upper surface. From this origin it descends in a curved direction to the corpus albicans, where it makes a turn like half of the figure 8, and furnishes a white envelope to the gray matter of that body. The crus then ascends, being bent forwards, through the gray substance on the side of the optic thalamus ; and it is joined by the fibres of the taenia semicircularis and peduncle of the pineal gland. Lastly, the crus is applied to the like part of the opposite side to form the body of the fornix. The pineal body and the corpora quadrigemina, which are placed behind the third ventricle, may be next examined. Dissection.—All the pia mater should be carefully re- moved from the surface of the quadrigeminal bodies, espe- cially on the left side, on which they are to be seen. The posterior lobe of the hemisjphere of the same side may be cut ofi". The pineal gland (conarium) is a small conical body (fig. 37, u), which is situate above the posterior commissure, and between the anterior pair of the corpora quadrigemina. In shape like the cone of a fir, it is less than a quarter of an