DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 290 Disposition above and below ; forms inter- muscular septa. Directions to be ob- served. Position of limb. Dissection of muscles and vessels. Position of the muscles of the arm. Biceps has a short and long head. than elsewhere. At certain points it receives accessory fibres from the subjacent tendons :—thus in front of the elbow there is an offset from the tendon of the biceps ; and near the axilla the tendons of the pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, and teres, send prolongations to the fascia. At the upper part of the limb the fascia is continuous with that of the axilla, and is prolonged over the deltoid and pectoral muscles to the scapula and the clavicle. In- feriorly it is continued to the forearm, and is connected to the prominences of bone around the elbow joint, especially to the condyloid ridges of the humerus. Its attachments to the condyloid lines of the humerus give rise to the two intermuscular septa of the arm. Directions.—As the back of the arm will not be dissected first, the skin may be replaced on it until the front has , been examined. And to keep in place the vessels and nerves at the upper part of the limb, they should be tied together with string, as near as it is possible to their natural position, and then fastened to the coracoid process. Fosition.—The limb is still to lie on the back, but the upper part is to be raised by means of a small block beneath the scapula, and this bone is to be fixed in such a position as to render tense the muscles. The inner surface of the arm is to be placed towards the dissector. Dissection.—The aponeurosis is to be reflected from the front of the arm by an incision along the centre, like that through the integuments ; and it is to be removed, on the outer side, as far as the line of the humerus leading to the outer condyle, but on the inner side rather farther back than the corresponding line, so as to lay bare part of the triceps muscle. In raising the fascia the knife must be carried in the direction of the fibres of the biceps muscle, and care must be taken not to displace the brachial artery and the nerves that are with it. Muscles on" the Front of the Arm.—Only three muscles are present on the fore part of the arm. The most prominent one along the centre of the limb is the biceps ; and another along its inner side, reaching about halfway down, is the coraco-brachialis. The brachialis anticus muscle is beneath the biceps. Some muscles of the forearm are connected to the outer and inner condyles of the humerus, as well as to the line above the outer condyle. The BICEPS MUSCLE (fig. 44, ®) forms the prominence ob- servable on the front of the arm. It is wider at the middle than at either end ; and the upper part of the muscle con-