788 DISSECTIOIT OF THE EYE. Situation. Attaca- ment. Anterior surface; posterior. Situation and size of the central aperture. Component structures. Muscular fibres: sphi]icter and dilator of pupil. How tliey act. Position and form of pig- ment cells. Pigment gives colour, Arteries are radiating Its position and connections may be observed in the different dissections that have been prepared. Placed within the ciliary ligament, it is suspended vertically in frgnt of the choroid coat (fig. 117, and is pierced by an aperture for the transmission of the rays of light. It is circular in form, is variously coloured in different persons, and is immersed in the aqueous humour. By its circumference the iris is connected with the pos- terior elastic layer of the cornea and the ciliary ligament, and by means of the last body with the sclerotic coat close to the cornea. The anterior surface is free in the aqueous humour, and is marked by lines converging towards the pupil. The posterior surface is also free, and is covered with a thick layer of pigment, to which the name uvea has been applied (fig. 117, The aperture in it is named the pupil of the eye ; this is slightly internal to the centre, and is nearly circular in form, but its size is constantly varying (from ^-V"^-^ inch) by the contraction and relaxation of the muscular fibres, according to the degree of light acting on the optic nerve. Structure.—The stroma of the iris is composed chiefly of fibres of areolar tissue, arranged in bundles, which are directed like rays towards the pupil. In it are involuntary muscular fibres, both circular and radiating, together with pigment cells. Yessels and nerves ramify through the tissue. Muscular fibres.—The sphincter of the pupil (fig. 119) is a narrow band about J^ih. of an inch wide, v,rhich is close to the pupil on the posterior aspect. The dilator of the pupil is said to begin at the outer border of the iris, and its fibres, collected into bundles, join internally the sphincter. Enlargement of the pupil is supposed to be effected by shortening of the radiating fibres ; and diminution, by con- traction of the- circular ring. The movements of the iris regulate the quantity of light admitted into the eye. The pigment cells are spread out in the stroma, and are disposed also on both surfaces. In the substance of the iris they are ramified and irregular as in the choroid (fig. 120, a) ; on the fore part they are ovalish or rounded, but still rami- fied ; and behind, where there is a thick layer (uvea), the cells are rounded and filled with granules. The colour of the iris is dependent upon the colour and position of the pigment. The arteries of the iris have a looped arrangement : they are derived chiefly from the long and the anterior ciliary '