54 DISSECTION OF THE ITECK. I)Osition of the carotid vessels ; and behind the muscle, near the clavicle, is another slight hollow which points to the situation of the subclavian artery. Promi- Along the middle line of the neck the following parts can tiie middle recognised through the skin :—About two inches and a line of neck, half from the base of the jaw is the eminence of the os hyoides, with its cornu extending laterally on each side. Below this may be felt the wide prominence of the thyroid cartilage, called pomum Adami, which is most marked in man ; and between the cartilage and the hyoid bone is a slight interval, corresponding with the thyro-hyoid membrane. Inferior to the thyroid, is the narrow prominent ring of the cricoid cartilage ; and between the two the finger may distinguish another interval, which is opposite the crico- and supra- thyroid membrane. From this spot to the sternum, and pression.^ between the sterno-mastoid muscles, is a depression, whose depth is much increased in emaciated persons, in which the tube of the trachea can be felt. In some bodies, especially in women, the swelling of the thyroid gland may be perceived by the side of the upper part of the trachea. Direction.—As the time will not allow now the examina- tion of the whole side of the neck, the student should lay bare in this stage only the parts behind the sterno-mastoid muscle. Dissection of Dissection.—To raise the integuments from the posterior ma.^^^**^^ triangle of the neck, and from the structures immediately connected with it, the skin may be divided along the sterno- mastoid from the one end to the other, and afterwards along the clavicle as far as the acromion. The triangular flap of skin is to be reflected from before back towards the trapezius muscle. The superficial fascia, which will then be brought into view, contains the platysma ; and to see that muscle, it will be necessary to take the subcutaneous fat from its surface. Platysma The PLATYSMA MYOIDES IS a thin subcutaneous muscular muscle layer, which is now seen only in its lower half. The muscle is placed across the side of the neck, and extends arises at from the top of the shoulder to the face. Its fibres take shoulder; origin by fibrous bands from the clavicle and the acromion, and below these bones from the fascia covering the pectoral and deltoid muscles ; and then ascend over the side of the inserted into neck, to be inserted into the jaw. The lower part of the jaw, muscle is more closely united to the skin than the upper, and covers the external jugular vein as well as the lower covers part of the posterior triangle. At first the fibres of the triangle.