DISSECTION OF THE ABDOME^T. 552 The epithe- lium is columnar. How to see the areolar tissue. Arteries of the intes- tine : absorbents. Two coats in the bile duct; epithelium and glands. ture is slightly larger tliaii the mouths of the contiguous crypts of Lieberklihn. In the small secretory cells of the gland the epithelium is laminar. Epithelium.—The epithelial lining of the mucous mem- brane of the small intestine is of the columnar or cylindrical kind. For the villi it forms a very distinct covering of elongated or prismatic pieces. It sinks into the crypts of Lieberkiihn, and gives them a lining, as before said. Dissection.—To demonstrate the areolar tissue between the coats of the intestine, a piece of the bowel turned inside out, is to be inflated forcibly ; and to ensure the success of the attempt, a few cuts may be previously made through the peritoneal coat. The air enters the wall of the intestine where the peritoneal covering is wanting, and spreads through the whole gut; but opposite the solitary glands and the patches of Peyer the mucous coat is more closely connected with the neighbouring structures, and the subjacent portion will not be distended with the air. The intestine may be examined when it is dry. Vessels of the intestine. —The branches of arteries ramify in the submucous layer, and end in a network of small twigs in the mucous membrane, which supplies the valves, the villi, and the glands. Opposite Peyer's patches the intestine is most vascular ; and the vessels form circles around the follicles, and supply offsets to them. The mins have their Usual resemblance to the companion arteries. The absorbents consist of a superficial longitudinal set (lymphatics), and of a deep transverse set (lacteals), which end in larger vessels in the mesentery. Beneath the patches of Peyer's glands the lymphatics form distinct plexuses. Structure of the common bile duct.—The bile duct consists of a strong fibrous coat with a few muscular fibres, and of an internal or mucous coat which is lined by cylindrical epithelium. On the surface of the mucous membrane are the openings of numerous branched mucous glands, which lie in the fibrous coat, and external to it ; some of them are aggregated together, and are visible without a lens. LARGE INTESTINE. Extent of The large intestine is the part of the alimentary canal the gut, between the termination of the ileum and the anus. Its division and attachment by peritoneum to the abdominal v/all have been described (p. 516). length; In length this part of the alimentary canal measures about