THE BEACHIAL ARTERY. 293 the humerus, but afterwards it is in front of that bone; and bone, and its situation is indicated on the surface by the depression along the ifmb/^ the inner border of the biceps and coraco-brachialis muscles. In all its extent the brachial artery is very superficial; Connec- and it is covered mostly by the integuments and the deep ^uggi^g^and fascia, except at the bend of the elbow where it becomes fasciss, deeper, and is crossed in addition by the median basilic vein and the prolongation from the tendon of the biceps. Posteriorly the artery has the following muscular connec- tions :—whilst it is inside the humerus it is placed suc- cessively over the long head of the triceps, and the inner head of the same muscle; but when the vessel has turned to the front of the bone, it lies on the insertion of the coraco-brachialis and on the brachialis anticus. To the outer side of the vessel are the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles, the latter somewhat overlapping it in the lower part of the arm. Veins. —Yense comites lie on the sides of the artery, en- with vems, circling it with branches, and the median basilic vein crosses over it at the elbow. The basilic vein is near the line of the artery, but superficial to the fascia in the lower half of the arm. The nerves in relation with the artery are the following:— ^^^icl with The internal cutaneous is in contact with the vessel until it has perforated the fascia about the middle of the arm. The ulnar nerve lies to the inner side as far as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis muscle ; and the musculo-spiral is behind the artery for a distance of about two inches. The median nerve is close to the vessel in all the course, but alters its position in this way :—as low as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis the nerve is on the outer side, but it then crosses obliquely either over or under the artery, and becomes internal to the vessel about two inches above the elbow joint. Branches spring both externally and internally from the its branches brachial artery. Those on the outer side are muscular, and supply the coraco-brachialis, biceps, and brachialis anticus ; muscular, those on the inner side are named superior and inferior profunda, anastomotic, and nutritious. 1. The superior profunda, branch (fig. 44, ^) is larger than superior the others, and leaves the artery near the lower border of P^'^^^^^^' acromial thoracic. 2. Long thoracic branch. 3. Subscapular branch. 4. Brachial artery and branches. 5. Superior profunda branch. 6. Inferior profunda branch. 7. Anastomotic branch. 8. Biceps muscle. 9. Triceps muscle. The median and ulnar nerves are shown in the arm ; the median is close to the brachial arterj.