FEMORAL VEIN. 685 the thigh it is placed deeply beneath the sartorius muscle. At first the artery rests on the psoas muscle ; and it is sub- sequently placed over the pectineus, though at some distance from it in this position of the limb, and separated from it by fat, and by the profunda vessels and the femoral vein. Its companion vein and the anterior crural nerve have the Position of following position with respect to it:—The femoral vein is nerve!^^^ on the inner side and close to it at the pubes, but is placed behind the artery lower down. The anterior crural nerve is on the outer side, being distant nearly half an inch near Poupart's ligament; and some of the branches of the nerve approach the artery, or lie on it, near the apex of the con- taining space. The branches of the first part of the artery are the superficial ^.'g^^^^®^ epigastric and circumflex iliac, two external pudic, and the already deep femoral branch. The cutaneous offsets have been seen (p. 671), with the exception of the following, which is beneath the fascia lata. The inferior external pudic artery arises separately from, (^ne external or in common with the other pudic branch (superior) (p. 671). neath the This branch courses inwards over the pectineus muscle to the fascia, scrotum or the labium pudendi, according to the sex; and it perforates the fascia lata at the inner border of the thigh to reach its place of destination. In the integuments it anasto- moses with branches of the superficial perinseal artery. The deep femoral branch, or the profunda, is the largest Prof^ii^da. off"set of the femoral artery, and arises from the outer part of that trunk one inch to two inches (Quain) below Poupart's Origin ligament. It is consumed in the muscles of the thigh, and its distribution will be afterwards ascertained. In the present and position dissection it may be seen to lie over the iliacus muscle, where triangle.^ it gives the external circumflex artery to the outer part of the thigh; and then to be directed, with a large vein, beneath the trunks of the femoral vessels to the inner side of the limb. Femoral Vein.—The principal vein of the limb, whilst Femoral in the triangular space in the upper part of the thigh, has ^i-st inside almost the same relative anatomy as the artery. Its position artery. tsrnal circumflex. 4. External circumflex. 5. Superficial circumflex— iliac and epigastric branches. 6. External pudic artery. 7. Aponeu- rosis over the lower part of the femoral artery. 8. Anterior crural Qerve. 9. Pectineus muscle. 10. Adductor longus. 11. Gracflis. 12. Vastus internus. I'i. Rectus femoris. 14. Sartorius cut across. * Some anatomists apply the term common femoral to the part of the trunk above the origin of the profunda, and give the names superficial and deep ft moral to the nearly equal parts into which it divides.