COmECTIONS OF THE DUODEJSTUM AND PANCREAS. 533 placed on the upper part of tlie jejunum, another on the lower end of the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and the gut is to be cut through at the points at which it is tied. The detached piece of the intestinal tube can be taken away by cutting through the vessels and the peritoneum connecting it to the wall of the abdomen ; after it has been separated, it is to be set aside for future study whilst the body is turned. To render the remaining viscera fit for examination, the gge the student should moderately inflate the stomach and duodenum duodenum, from the cut extremity of the latter, and remove the peri- toneum and fat ; whilst cleaning them, he should be careful of the vessels and nerves. • On turning upwards the stomach he will be able to trace and pan- the pancreas from the spleen on the one hand to the duode- c^®^^- num on the other; and on raising the duodenum, the common bile duct may be found between it and the head of the pancreas. DuoDE^iUM (fig. 84, d).'—The first part of the small in- Extent of testine, or the duodenum, begins at the pyloric end of the duodenum; stomach, and crossing the spinal column, ends on the left side of the second lumbar vertebra. It makes a curve course and around the head of the pancreas, and occupies the right situation, hypochondriac, right lumbar, and umbilical regions of the abdomen. Its peritoneal covering is incomplete and peculiar (p. 523). From its winding course around the pancreas it Division, is divided into three parts—superior transverse, vertical, and inferior transverse. The superior transverse part is free and moveable, like the pirst part is stomach ; it measures about two inches in length, and is ^^^^^g^^' directed from the pylorus to the neck of the gall bladder, moveable, ascending slightly in its progress from the one point to the other. In front it is overlapped by the liver, as well as by the gall bladder when this is distended ; and behind it are the bile duct and the vena portas. The vertical part is fixed almost immoveably by the peri- Second part toneum and the pancreas. It is nearly three inches in ^® ' length, and descends from the gall bladder as far as the third lumbar vertebra. Superficial to this part is the and rests on right bend of the colon ; and beneath it are the kidney and Sidney, its vessels. On its inner side is the head of the pancreas, with the common bile duct. The ducts of the pancreas and liver pour their contents into this piece of the duo- denum. The inferior transverse part is the longest of the three, The third