LIGAMENTS OF RADIUS AND ULNA. 339 Some few fibres are transverse between the margins of the fossa before mentioned. Dissection.—Open the joint by an incision across the front Dissection, near the humerus, and disarticulate the bones, in order that the form of the articular surfaces may be seen. The synovial membrane lines the joint, and can be traced Synovial from one bone to another along the inner surface of the connecting ligaments. It projects between the radius and the orbicular ligament, and serves for the articulation of the head of that bone with the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna. Articular surfaces of the bones. —The humerus presents Lower end inferiorly two distinct articular surfaces for the bones of the h.umerus. forearm. The one for the radius is on the outer side, and One surface consists of a rounded eminence (capitellum) on the front of radius, the bone, which is covered with cartilage only on the anterior aspect. The surface in contact with the ulna is limited another for internally and externally by a prominent ridge, and hollowed ^^^'^' out in the centre, like a pulley (trochlea) : the external ridge corresponds with the interval between the heads of the radius and ulna. On the front of the humerus above the articular also forcoro- surface are two depressions which receive the coronoid pro- an^radius^^ cess and the head of the radius during flexure of the joint ; ^^^^ olecra- and on the posterior aspect is a large fossa for the reception non. of the olecranon in extension of the forearm. On the end of the ulna there is a large excavation named End of the sigmoid cavity, which is narrowed in the centre, but expanded in front and behind (fig. 50). A slightly raised line extends from front to back through the cavity, and is received into the hollow of the trochlea of the humerus in the motions of the joint. In the bottom of the cavity the cartilage is wanting completely, or for a greater or smaller distance across the articular hollow. The end of the radius presents a circular depression with End of the a raised margin. In the bent state of the joint the depres- ^^^^^s- sion of the radius is fitted on the outer eminence of the humerus, and the bone is thus supported during rotation of the limb. Union of the Radius and Ulna.—The radius is con-Radius is nected with the ulna at both ends by means of distinct liga- iTna!^ ments and a synovial membrane; and the shafts of the bones are united further by interosseous ligaments. Upper radio-ulnar articulation.—In this joint the head ^^jf^^^^ the radius is received into the small sigmoid cavity of the hj^^^ ulna, and is kept in place by the following ligamentous band :— z 2