734 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Termiua- tiou. Branches. Muscular. Nutritious to fibula. Anterior peroneal to front of foot. CoTOmuni- cating. Size of tibial changes. Crispin and Substitu- tions. (anterior peroneal); and it is directed onwards over tlie arti- culation between the tibia and fibula to the outer side of the foot, where it terminates in branches, and anastomoses with the tarsal and external plantar arteries. Two com- panion veins surround the artery. Branches.—Besides the anterior peroneal, it furnishes muscular, nutritious, and communicating offsets. 1. Muscular branches are distributed to the soleus and the deep flexors, and some turn round the fibula to the peronei muscles. 2. The nutritious artery is smaller than that to the tibia, and is transmitted through the tibialis posticus to the aper- ture about the middle of the fibula. 3. The anterior peroneal branch passes forwards through an aperture in the lower part of the interosseous membrane, and is continued in front of the fibula to the dorsum and the outer part of the foot : on the front of the leg and foot it anastomoses with the external malleolar and tarsal branches | of the anterior tibial artery. | 4. A communicating offset near the ankle joint joins in an | arch, as before mentioned, with a similar branch of the pos- terior tibial. Sometimes there is a second arch between the same vessels. Peculiarities in the arteries.—The posterior tibial artery maj he, \ smaller than usual, or absent. Its place will be then supplied in ^ the foot by a large peroneal artery, which is directed inwards at the d lower end of the tibia, and either joins the small tibial vessel, or runs alone to the sole of the foot. The peroneal artery may arise from the popliteal, or from the endnig vary, anterior tibial artery. And its anterior peroneal branch may take the place of the anterior tibial artery on the dorsum of the foot. A compensating principle may be observed amongst the arteries of the foot as in those of the hand, by means of which the deficiency in one is supplied by an enlarged offset of another. Posterior tibial veins. Posterior tibial nerve. The POSTERIOR TIBIAL VEINS begin on the inner side of the foot by the union of the plantar veins : they ascend, one on each side of the artery, and unite with the anterior tibial trunks at the lower border of the popliteus, to form the large popliteal vein. They receive the peroneal veins, and branches corresponding with the offsets of the artery : branches connect them also with the saphenous veins. The POSTERIOR TIBIAL NERVE is a Continuation of the internal popliteal, and reaches, like the artery, from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the interval between the OS calcis and the inner malleolus. Whilst beneath the