DISSECTIOIT OF THE LAEYISTX. 174 two sources. 3. Some otlier twigs from the inferior thyroid artery per- forate the crico-thyroid membrane, and end in the muco-as lining of the interior of the larynx at the lower part. Veins end Veins.—The vein that accompanies the branch of artery differently, f^^^^ -(^j^g superior thyroid, joins the internal jugular or the superior thyroid vein ; whilst the vein corresponding v/ith the other artery opens into the plexus connected ynth. the inferior thyroid veins (pp. 84, 127). Section XVII. HYOID BONE, CARTILAGES AND LIGAMENTS OF THE LARYNX, AND STRUCTURE OF THE TRACHEA. Dissection. Dissection.—All the muscles and the mucous membrane are to be taken away so as to denude the hyoid bone, the cartilages of the larynx, and the epiglottis ; but the piece of membrane that joins the hyoid bone to the thyroid cartilage, and the ligaments uniting one cartilage to another, should bo left with care. In the arytseno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane, a small fibro-cartilaginous body (cuneiform car- tilage) should be sought : an oblique projection indicates its position. Hyoid bone. The hyoid hone (os hyoides) is situate between the larynx Form. and the root of the tongue. K^esembling the letter U, placed horizontally and with the legs turned backwards, it offers for examination a central part or body, and two side pieces cr cornua. Body of the The body is flattened, and measures most in the vertical ^°^®* direction. Convex in front, where it is marked by a tubercle, it presents an uneven surface for the attachment of muscles ; whilst on the opposite aspect it is concave. To the ujDper border the fibrous membrane (hyo-glossal) fixing the tongue is attached. ^Si^^^picces, The cornua are two in number on each side (large and '^^^^ small). The large cornu continues the bone backwards, and * is joined to the body by a surface covered with cartilage. The surfaces of this cornu look somewhat upwards and down- wards ; and the size decreases from before backwards. It and small, ends posteriorly in a tubercle. The sm^all cornu, or appendix, is directed upwards from the point of union of the great