DISSECTION OF THE TO^s^GUE. 162 Muscular cortex of tongue. Arrango- ment iu the toiigao; its posterior fibres. Perpendicu- lar fibres, where ]-»resent. Constrictor at the tongue, how ends. Number and names of these. First com- plete infe- rior, then supe- rior lingua- lis, then transversa- lis. and extend as far as the hyo-glossus, with which they become blended. Cortex of the tongue.—The muscles above described, together with the superficial lingualis, constitute a cortical layer of oblique and longitudinal fibres, which covers the tongue, except below where some muscles are placed, and resembles ''a slipper turned upside down.^'"^ This stratum is pierced by the deeper fibres. The genio-hyo-glossus enters the tongue vertically on the side of the septum, and perforates the cortical covering to end in the submucous tissue. In the tongue the fibres spread like the ribs of a fan from apex to base, and are col- lected into laminse as they pass through the transversalis. The most posterior fibres end on the hyo-glossal membrane and the hyoid bone ; and a slip is continued from them, beneath the hyo-glossus, to the upper constrictor of the pharynx. A vertical section at a future stage will show the radiation of its fibres. Some perpendicular fibres, distinct from those of the genio- hyo-glossus, are said by anatomists to occupy more or less of the middle line of the tongue. A few of these appear to be present in the apex of the tongue, where they pass from the upper to the lower surface, and through them the fasci- culi of the transverse muscle are transmitted. The pharyngeo-glossus (glosso-pharyngeus), or the part of the upper constrictor attached to the side of the tongue, passes amongst fibres of the stylo and hyo-glossus, and en- tering into the lingual substance, is continued with the transverse muscle to the septum. B. The intrinsic muscles are three in number in each half of the tongue, viz., transversalis, with a superior and an inferior lingualis. Dissection.—To complete the preparation of the inferior lingualis on the right side, the fibres of the stylo-glossus covering it in front, and those of the genio-hyo-glossus over it behind, are to be cut through. The superior lingualis may be shown, on the left side, by taking only the mucous membrane from the upper surface from tip to base. The transversalis may be laid bare on the right side, by cutting away on the upper surface the stratum of the extrinsic muscles already seen ; and on the lower surface, the inferior lingualis and the genio-hyo-glossus. * This apt simile has been used by Mr. Zaglas in an accurate Mono- graph on the muscular structure of the tongue. See Annals q-^ Anaicmr and Physiology J Part I., by Mr. Goodsir. Edin. 1850.