72 DISSECTION OF THE l^ECK. First part internal to scalenus is deep. Parts in front, behind, below. Branches. Second part beneath scalenus. Parts in front, behind, above. One branch. Third part its superfi- cial. Parts cover- ing it; vessel may be divided into three parts : the first extending from the sterno-clavicular articulation to the inner border of the anterior scalenus ; the second, beneath the scalenus ; and the third, from the outer border of that muscle to the lower edge of the first rib. First part.—Internal to the anterior scalenus the artery- lies deeply in the neck, and ascends slightly from the level of its origin. Between the vessel and the surface will be found the common tegumentary coverings and the deep fascia, the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, and a deep process of fascia from the inner border of 'the scalenus muscle. Crossing the artery near the scalenus are the large internal jugular, and the small vertebral vein ; and internal to these veins is the pneumo- gastric nerve. Some branches of the sympathetic are like- wise placed in front of the vessel. This part of the sub- clavian lies over the longus colli muscle, though at some distance from it, and separated from it by fat, by the recurrent branch of the pneumo-gastric nerve, and by the sympathetic nerve. Below the artery, both in this and the next part, is the pleura, which ascends into the arch formed by the vessel. Three branches arise from the subclavian in this part of its extent. Second part.—Beneath the scalenus the vessel is less deep than it is when internal to that muscle, and at this spot it rises highest above the clavicle. The second part, like the first, is covered by the integuments, platysma, and deep fascia ; then by the clavicular origin of the sterno-mas- toid eus ; and lastly by the anterior scalenus with the phrenic nerve. Behind the vessel is the middle scalenus. And above it, in the interval between the scaleni, are the large trunks of the lower cervical nerves ; with the exception of the trunk formed by the union of the last cervical and first dorsal, which lies between the artery and the middle scale- nus. The subclavian vein is below the level of the artery and separated from it by the anterior scalenus muscle. From this part of the subclavian one branch takes its origin. Third part.—Beyond the scalenus the subclavian artery is contained in the clavicular part of the posterior triangular space (p. 58), and is nearer the surface than in the rest of its course. This part of the vessel is enclosed in a tube of the deep cervical fascia, which it receives as it passes from between the scaleni. It is comparatively superficial whilst in the space before mentioned, for it is covered only by the integuments, the platysma and deep fascia, with some