408 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. ligaments unite the vertebrae. How to see the several ligaments. The bodies are united by: Anterior common ligament, varies in width. length, attach- ment of its fibres, and in thickness. Posterior common ligament is wide at parts; composing the spinal column are united together by two sets of ligaments—one between the bodies and the other between the processes of the bones. These ligaments have a general resemblance along the spinal column, and one description will suffice for all except for those between the first two vertebrae and the head, and between the bones of the pelvis. The description of the special ligaments will be found in the dissections of the neck and pelvis. Dissection.—After the ligaments of the ribs have been examined, the same piece of the spinal column will serve for the ligaments of the bodies and articular processes of the vertebrae. It is supposed that the spinal canal has been opened to examine the spinal cord, and that the posterior ligament of the bodies of the vertebrae is therefore laid bare; but if the canal should not be open, the arches of the ver- tebrae must be sawn through close to the articular processes The anterior ligament of the bodies will be prepared with very little trouble, by removing the areolar tissue. The remaining ligaments between the neural arches and the spines of the bones may be defined on the pieces taken away in opening the spinal canal. A. Ligaments of the bodies of the vertehrce.—The bodies of the moveable vertebrae, except the first and second, are united by an anterior and a posterior common ligament, and by intervening pieces of fibro-cartilage. The anterior common ligament (fig. 58,^) is white and strong, and reaches from the atlas to the sacrum: it is widest opposite the lumbar vertebrae, and becomes narrower as it is traced upwards. Its fibres are longitudinal in direc tion, and consist of a superficial and a deep layer : by detaching parts of the ligament, the superficial fibres will be seen to reach the length of three or more vertebrae, whilst the deep reach from bone to bone. A greater number of the fibres are attached to the intervertebral fibro-cartilages than to the bones ; and more are fixed to the margins than to the centre of the body of each vertebra. Its outline is uneven, for it is broader over the bodies of the vertebrae (^), than on the intervertebral substance; and if the ligament be cut across at intervals it will be found to be thickest opposite the hollow part of the body of each vertebra. The posterior cowomon ligament (fig. 60,) is contained the spinal canal, lying on the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrae, and extends from the sacrum to the occipital bone. This ligament is wide above, and diminishes in size