235 ANTERIOR COMMISSURE OF THE CEREBRUM. Gray matter of the ventricle.—A stratum of gray matter Gray matter covers most of the surface of the ventricle. At the lower J^!^^}^^ part of each optic thalamus it envelops the crus of the fornix, and ascends to the septum lucidum ; and in the floor of the cavity it exists in abundance, entering into the corpora albicantia, and uniting the structures that form the floor of the third ventricle. In the middle of the space it reaches from side to side, and forms the soft commissure. The anterior commissure of the cerebrum is a round Anterior bundle of vdiite fibres, which passes through both corpora commis- striata, and connects the opposite hemispheres. To see it form and in one half of its extent, the student should make the follow- extent, ing dissection :— Dissection,—On the side on which the corpus striatum To see it, has been cut into, the commissure is to be followed into the gtSatiim^^ interior of that body, by scraping away the gray matter (intraventricular) with the handle of the scalpel. The com- missure may be seen then to perforate below the white fibres of the corpus striatum, and to pass through the other mass of gray matter (extraventricular) of the same body. The anterior commissure is free only in the middle line. Position ; v/here it lies before the pillars of the fornix; for it perforates the corpus striatum, passing in succession through the intra- and course ventricular gray mass, the white fibres, and the extraventri- cular gray mass. Lastly, the commissure pierces the white to roof of stratum bounding externally the corpus striatum, and ends coruu?^ in the roof of the inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle. The posterior commissure of the cerebrum is smaller than Posterior the anterior, and is placed above the passage into the fourth commissure, ventricle. Laterally it enters the substance of the optic thalamus, and piercing it, ends in the hemisphere. The thalamus opticus (inferior ganglion of the cerebrum) Thalamus will be best seen on the side on which the inferior cornu of ^^P^^^^s. the lateral ventricle has been opened. It is a square-shaped p°g?^.J^^^^ body, which forms part of the lateral and third ventricles. The upper surface projects in the floor of the lateral Upper sur ventricle (fig. 36, I), and is marked in front by a promi- nence—anterior tubercle, near the taenia semicircularis. The under surface forms part of the roof of the inferior cornu of Under part, the lateral ventricle, and into it the crus cerebri is inserted. By its inner side this body enters into the third ventricle ; inner side, and along the upper part lies the peduncle of the pineal body. On the outer side are the corpus striatum, and the Outer side substance of the hemisphere. The anterior part looks to anterior, the foramen of Monro. And the posterior part, which is Jerior°parts