32 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Molar glauds. the fifth, facial, and great auricular. Its lymphatics join those of the neck. Two or three small molar glands lie along the origin of the buccinator, and open into the mouth near the last molar tooth by separate ducts. Nasal carti- Take away tissue from surface. The upper cartilage touches its fellow iu the middle. The lower cartilage surrounds aperture. One part outside; Cartilages op the nose.—These close the anterior nasal aperture in the skeleton, and form part of the outer nose and the septum. They are five in number, two on each side—^lateral cartilage and cartilage of Fig. 3.* "fche aperture ; together with a central , one, or the cartilage of the septum of the nose. Only the lateral cartilages are seen in this stage of the dissection. Dissection. —The lateral cartilages will be seen when all the muscular and fibrous structure of the left side of the nose, and the skin of the lower part of the nostril of the same side, have been taken away. By passing the knife deeply in the middle line, the cartilage of the septum will be rendered apparent between the lateral cartilages of each side. The upper lateral cartilage (fig. 3, is flattened, and is somewhat triangular in form. Posteriorly it is attached to the nasal and superior maxillary bones ; and anteriorly it meets the one of the opposite side for a short distance above, but the two are separated below by an interval, in which the cartilage of the septum appears. Inferiorly the lateral cartilage is contiguous to the cartilage of the aperture, and is connected to it by fibrous tissue. The cartilage of the aperture (fig. 3, ^5) forms nearly a ring around the nostril. In front it is bent at an acute angle, and from this point a part extends backwards on both the outer and inner sides of that aperture. The pari of the cartilage, which bounds the opening externally, does not reach downwards to the margin of the nostril, but ceases on a level with the groove on the outer aspect of the wing of the nose ; it is narrow and pointed behind, but swells out in front and forms with its fellow the prominence of the * Lateral cartilages of the nose (Arnold), 1. Upper lateral car- tilage. 2. Lower lateral, or the cartilage of the aperture.