761 LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE JOINT. patella is thrown down, a fold (mucous ligament) will be seen extending from the end of the femur to the front of the joint below the patella. On each side of the knee-pan is a similar fold (alar ligament) over some fat. The limb is afterwards to be laid flat on the table and part and dissect of the posterior ligament is to be removed, to lay bare the ^ents^ crucial ligaments at the back of the joint ; but the limb is to be replaced in the former position before the jDarts are learnt. The synovial membrane lines the interior of the capsule, Synovial and is continued to the articular ends of the bones. Besides ^^e^^^^^^i® covering the capsule, it invests the interarticular cartilages, and sends a pouch between the tendon of the popliteus and the external cartilage and the head of the tibia : it is likewise reflected over the strong crucial ligaments at the back of the extends joint. On the front of the femur the sac of the membrane articular extends two inches above the articular surface. surfaces; In the centre of the joint is a fold of the synovial sac, the thrown into H, 1 . 1 , • 11 1 1 folds named gament, which contains a small vessel and some ligaments. fat, and extends from the interval between the condyles to the fat below the patella. On each side of the patella is another fold—alar ligament, which is continuous with the former below the pattella. Dissection. —The ligamentous structures within the capsule Dissect in- (see below) will be brought into view, whilst the limb is still i^j^ments. in the same position, by throwing down the patella and its ligament, and clearing away the fat behind it. In this step the student must be careful of a small transverse band that connects anteriorly the interarticular cartilages. The remains of the capsule and the synovial membrane are finally to be cleared away from the crucial ligaments and the interarticular cartilages. Ligaments within the capsnle.—The remaining ligamentous Ligaments structures, although within the capsule, are external to the ^psuk!^^^ sac of the synovial membrane which is reflected over them. They consist of the crucial ligaments in the middle line; and of two flat plates of fibro-cartilage, the interarticular or semilunar, on the head of the tibia. The crucial ligaments (fig. 112) are two strong fibrous Two crucial processes between the ends of the tibia and femur^ which ligaments, maintain in contact the bones. They cross one another somewhat like the legs of the letter X, from which circum- stance they have received their name. One is anterior to the other at the attachment to the tibia. a. The anterior ligament (*^) is oblique in its direction, and Anterior is