DISSECTIOi^T OF THE NECK. 60 upwards beneath the platysma to the lobule of the ear, where it ends in the following branches :— supplie a. The facial branches are sent forwards to the integu- fiiciai, ment over the parotid, and a few slender filaments pass through the gland to join the facial nerve, auricular, 6. The auricular hranclies ascend to the external ear, and are chiefly distributed on its cranial aspect ; one or more reach the opposite surface by piercing the pinna. On the ear they communicate with the branches furnished from the facial and pneumogastric nerves, and mastoid c. The mastoid branch is directed backwards to the branches, integument between the ear and the mastoid process ; and it joins the posterior auricular branch of the facial nerve (p. 39). Superficial 3. The superficial cervical nerve springs from the same nerver source as the preceding, and turns forwards round the sterno-mastoid muscle about the middle. Afterwards it pierces the fascia, and ramifies over the anterior triangular space beneath the platysma myoides (see p. 62). There may be more than one branch to represent this nerve. Nerves that B. The DESCENDING SET of branches (fig. 8), (supra- escen are Qi^y^Q^i^f^ a^j.^ derived from the third and fourth nerves of the plexus, and are directed towards the clavicle over the lower part of the posterior triangular space. Their number is somewhat uncertain, but usually there are about three on the clavicle. stern^al,^ The most internal branch (sternal) crosses the clavicle cuEii? and^ near its inner end ; the middle branch lies about the middle acromial. -^-j^^^ bone ; and the posterior (acromial) turns over the attachment of the trapezius to the acromion. All are dis- tributed to the integuments of the chest and shoulder. Lymphatic The lymphatic gla'uds (glandulse concatenatse) lie along neck. the sterno-mastoid muscle, and are continuous at the lower part of the neck with the glands in the cavity of the thorax. There is also a superficial chain along the external jugular vein. Dissection. Dissection.—The dissection of the posterior triangle should be repeated on the left side of the neck, in order that the difierence in the vessels may be observed. After- wards the reflected parts are to be replaced and carefully fastened in their natural position with a few stitches, pre- servative fluid having been previously applied with strips of calico. The back to Directions.—It is supposed that the body will be now beexamined ^^^ned on its fore part for the dissection of the back.