640 DISSECTIO^T OF THE PELYIS. tions : one in bulb, one inglans, Lacunse. One larger than the rest. Ducts of glands of Cowper. Mucous membrane: extent: colour; folds; glands; epithelium. Submucous tissue; arrange- ment in prostate, in mem- branous, and in spongy parts. Erectile tissue throughout. Penis formed of two vascular erectile bodies. floor of the spongy portion :—one is contained in the bn.lb or bulbous part of the urethra, and is named sinus of the bulb ; the other is situate in the glans penis, and has been called fossa navicularis from its shape. Many small pouches or lacmicB are seen in the interior of the canal, chiefly along the floor, as far back as the membranous part, and have their apertures turned towards the outer orifice of the urethra. One of these is larger than the rest, lacuna magna, and is placed generally on the upper boundary or the roof of the urethra, opposite the fossa navicularis. The ducts of Cowper's glands open on the mucous membrane : they are tvi^o in number, and terminate, one on each side, on the floor of the urethra near the front of the bulb, but in the ordinary examination they are seldom to be recognised. Mucous lining of the urethra.—The mucous membrane of the urethra is continued into the bladder, as well as into the ducts opening into the canal, and joins in front the tegu- mentary covering of the glans penis. It is of a reddish colour in the spongy and membranous portions, but in the protate it becomes whiter. In the spongy and membranous parts it is thrown into longitudinal folds during the con- tracted state of the penis. Its surface is studded with follicles, and with the apertures of branched mucous glands ; and it is provided with papillae towards the external orifice. Its epithelial covering is of the columnar kind, but near the meatus externus this becomes lamingtr. Submucous tissue.—Beneath the mucous lining of the urethra is a stratum of longitudinal involuntary muscular fibres mixed with elastic and fibrous tissues. It is continu- ous behind with the submucous fibres of the bladder, and is joined in the prostate by the fibres accompanying the com- mon seminal ducts. This structure differs in quantity along the canal. It is most developed in the prostate, where it forms the projection of the crest and blends with the circular fibres of that body. In the membranous portion of the canal the muscular structure is less abundant. In the spongy part the submucous structure is richer in fibrous constituents. In the prostatic and membranous divisions of the urethra there is, in addition, a thin enveloping layer of vascular or erectile tissue, which is continued backwards from the corpus spongiosum urethrse to the neck of the bladder. Structure of the Penis.—The form and the connec- tions of the penis having been described at page 614, the tissues of which it is composed remain to be noticed. The section already made through the penis shows this body to I