DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. 94 has a branch to mylo-hyoid muscle. Middle me- ningeal artery. ends in skull, but gives branch to tympanum, to meninges. Branches of second part are to the temporal muscle; to the masseter; to the buc- cinator ; a. As this artery is about to enter the foramen it fur- nishes a small twig, mylo-hyoid branch, to the muscle of that name ; this is conducted by a groove on the inner surface of the bone, in company with a branch from the dental nerve, to the superficial surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, where it anastomoses with the submental artery, 2. The middle or great meningeal artery is the largest branch, and arises opposite the preceding one. It ascends beneath the external pterygoid muscle, crossing the internal lateral ligament, and enters the skull through the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid bone. When in the skull the artery ends in branches which ascend to the vertex of the head, and supply the bone and the dura mater (p. 16). Before the meningeal artery enters the skull, it furnishes the two following small branches : a. The tympanic branch enters the tympanum through the Glasserian fissure, and is distributed in that cavity, anastomosing with the other arterial branches of the part. h. The small meningeal branch arises near the skull, and passes through the foramen ovale with the inferior maxillary nerve ; it supplies the dura mater in the middle fossa of the skull. The branches from the second part of the artery, viz. whilst it is between the muscles, are altogether muscular in their destination, and are named temporal, masseteric, buccal, and pterygoid. 3. The deep temporal arteries are two in number (anterior and posterior), and each occupies the part of the temporal fossa indicated by its name. They ascend beneath the temporal muscle, and anastomose with the superficial tem- poral artery. The anterior also communicates, through the malar bone, with branches of the lachrymal artery. When the parent trunk has the unusual position beneath the pterygoid, the anterior branch is beneath that muscle, instead of over it. 4. The masseteric artery is directed outwards with the nerve of the same name behind the tendon of the temporal muscle ; and passing through the sigmoid notch, enters the under surface of the masseter muscle. Its branches anasto- mose with the other branches to the muscle from the external carotid trunk. 5. The buccal branch quits the artery near the upper jaw, and in the unusual position of the artery it may perforate the fibres of the pterygoid ; it then descends beneath the coronoid process with its companion nerve, and is distributed