DISSECTIO]^ OF THE ABDOMEK 570 cortical substance; colour; consistence : composi- tion. Pyramids; number, form, and direction, end in papillae. Composi- tion. Kudiment- ary condi- tion of the kidney. Secretory tubes are incased by a fibrous coat. Fibrous coat sends in offsets. three-fourths of the kidney ; it covers the pyramidal masses with a layer about two lines in thickness, and sends pro- longations between the same nearly to their apices. Its colour is of a light red, unless the kidney is blanched ; and its consistence is so slight that the mass gives way beneath the finger. This layer is formed of a congeries of convoluted uriniferal tubes, surrounded by vascular plexuses ; and in a well-injected specimen, red points (Malpighian bodies) are scattered here and there through its texture. The pyramidal masses (pyramids of Malpighi, medullary substance,) are twelve or eighteen in number, and converge to the sinus of the kidney. Each mass is conical in form. The base, turned towards the circumference of the organ, is surrounded by the cortical substance ; and the apex, which is free from cortical covering, is directed to the hollow at the inner part of the kidney. Internally the pyramidal mass ends in a smooth, rounded part, named m,amilla or papilla, and is surrounded by one of the divisions (calyx) of the excretory tube. Occasionally two of the masses are united in one papillary termination. Each conically-shaped mass is constructed of uriniferal tubes, like the cortical covering ;—but in it the tubes have become straight, and are converging to their termination on the papilla. The cut surface has a grooved appearance indicatory of its con- struction ; and if the mass is compressed, urine vfiil exude from the tubes, through apertures in the apex. In the human fetus, and in some animals, the kidney is divided into separate lobes ; and each lobe consists of a pyramidal mass with a cortical envelope. With the growth of the human kidney the original divisions disappear, and the cortical covering of contiguous lobes is blended to pro- duce the interlobular cortical part. But the uriniferous tubes and the vessels of each pyramid and its cortical sub- stance, which correspond with one of the primary lobes, remain distinct in the adult. Stuucture of the Kidney.—The kidney consists of a mass of minute secretory tubes, intermixed with blood- vessels, lymphatics, nerves, and fine areolar tissue. The whole is incased by a fibrous coat. The fibrous coat is a white firm case, which is connected with the kidney by fine processes and vessels, but is readily detached from it by slight force. At the inner margin of the kidney it sinks into the hollow or sinus, and sends processes on the entering vessels : at the same spot it is continuous with the fibrous coat of the excretory duct.