597 LUMBAR SPINAL ^s^ERYES. Section VI. LUMBAR SPINAL NERVES AND THE CORD OF THE SYMPATHETIC. The spinal nerves of the loins resemble those in the lower part of the neck in being united in a plexus, and supplying the limb and the contiguous parts of the trunk. Dissection.—The lumbar nerves and their plexus are to Dissection be seen on the left side, and to bring them into view, bL* plexus' the dissector should scrape avf ay the left psoas. For on left side, the most part the fleshy fibres may be removed freely ; but a small branch (accessory of the obturator) should be first looked for at the inner border of the muscle. In the substance of the quadrat us lumborum a communication may be sometimes found between the last dorsal and the first lumbar nerve. The branches of the sympathetic that join the spinal nerves are to be followed along the lumbar arteries. On the right side the psoas may be lefc untouched, to see and on the nerves issuing from it. y^ig^t. Spinal Lumbar Nerves.—The anterior primary branches Four lumbar of the lumbar nerves enter into the lumbar plexus with the . 1 . . • plexus, exception of the last. Five m number, they increase m size from the first to the last, and are joined by filaments of the sympathetic near the intervertebral foramina. They and supply supply branches to the psoas and quadratus lumborum muscles. The fifth or lowest receives a communicating branch from Fifth to the the fourth nerve, and descends into the pelvis to the sacral nam^d lun^^^ plexus. After the two are joined, the name lumho-sacral is bo-sacrai. applied to the common trunk. The LUMBAR PLEXUS (fig. 91) is formed by the first four Plexus how- lumbar nerves. Contained in the substance of the psoas near the posterior part, the plexus consists of communicating Situation, loops between the several nerves, and increases in size from above downwards, like the individual nerves. Superiorly Connections it is united sometimes with the last dorsal nerve ; and in- ^^^^^^ serves, feriorly it joins the sacral plexus through the large lumbo- sacral cord. The branches of the plexus supply the lower part of the ^jj^^^^g abdominal wall, the fore part of the thigh, and the inner viz.: side of the leg ; they are six in number, viz. :—