DISSECTION" OF THE BEAIK 2U •with those of Galen. Dissection. Other cho- roid plex- uses. Third ven- tricle is near base of brain. Koof. Floor. Parts on the sides, in front, and behind. Opening into other ventricles. Along tlie centre of the velum are two large veins, vems of Gale7i, which begin at the foramen of Monro, by the union of branches from the corpus striatum and the choroid plexus. Lying side by side in the membrane, these veins are usually united into one at the posterior part of the velum, which opens into the straight sinus. Dissection.—When the velum interpositum has been raised • and thrown backwards, the third ventricle will be visible. In reflecting the piece of pia mater the student must be care- ful of the pineal body, which would otherwise be detached. On the under surface of the velum are the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. The choroid plexuses of the third ventricle are two fringed bodies beneath the velum, which resemble the like parts in the lateral ventricle. The third ventricle is an interval between the optic tha- lami (fig. 3*7, e to d), and reaches to the base of the brain. Its situation is in the middle line of the cerebrum, and below the level of the other ventricles, with which it com- municates. Its boundaries and communications are the following :— The roof is formed by the velum interpositum and the fornix. The floor is very oblique from behind forwards, so that the depth of the cavity is greatest in front: correspond- ing with the floor are the parts at the base of the brain, which lie between the crura cerebri and the anterior longi- tudinal fissure, viz. locus perforatus, corpora albicantia, tuber cinereum, commissure of the optic nerves, and lamina cinerea. On the sides of the cavity the optic thalami are situate. In front of the space are the descending pillars of the fornix, with part of the anterior commissure of the cere- brum in the interval between them. Behind are the posterior commissure and the pineal body. Crossing the centre of the space, from one optic thalamus to another, is a band of gray matter—the soft commissure, (c). This space communicates with the other ventricles of the brain in the following way :—In front it joins each lateral ventricle through the foramen of Monro, and opens into the fifth ventricle in the fetus. Behind is an opening into the fourth ventricle, beneath the posterior commissure, which is named aqueduct of Sylvius. At the lower part, in front, there is a depression opposite the infundibulum (iter ad in- fundibulum). The lining of the ventricle is continued into the neighbouring cavities through the diff'erent apertures of communication, and closes the iter ad infundibulum.