760 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. attach- ments ; is joined by semimem - branosus. Insertion of the semi- membrano- sus. Fig. 111/= Posterior ligament. Two sets of fibres. Anterior iigatnent, or tendon of the exten- sors. Open the knee joint the head of the tibia, and becoming thicker is fixed for abonfc an inch into the inner surface of the tibia, below the level of the ligamentnm patellse. The ten- dons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semi- tend inosus muscles lie over the ligament; and the tendon of the semimembranosus, and the internal lower articular vessels are beneath it. To the posterior edge some fibres of the tendon of the semi- membranosus are added. The tendon of the semimembranosus muscle is to be followed beneath the hinder part of the internal lateral liga- ment. It is inserted beneath the liga- ment into an impression at the back of the inner tuberosity of the head of the tibia, and sends some fibres to that band ; it gives also one membranous prolongation to join the fascia covering the popliteus muscle, and another to the posterior ligament of the knee joint. Between the tendon and the bone is a synovial bursa. The posterior ligament (ligament of Winslow) is formed in great part by the fibres from the tendon of the semimem- branosus, which are directed across the joint to the outer condyle, but a deeper set of fibres is continuous with the general capsule. ]N"umerous apertures exist in it for the pas- sage of vessels and nerves to the interior of the articulation. The anterior ligament (ligamentum patellae) or the tendon of insertion of the extensor muscles of the leg (fig. Ill, is about two inches long, and is narrower in the middle than at the ends. Superiorly it is attached to the lower part of the patella and the depression on the inner surface ; and inferiorly it is inserted into the tubercle of the head of the tibia, and an inch of the bone below it. The expansion of the vasti covers it; and a bursa intervenes between it and the top of the tubercle of the tibia (p. 692). Dissection.—To see the reflections of the synovial mem- brane raise the knee on blocks, and open the joint by an incision from the front to the back on each side above the patella. When the anterior part of the capsule with the * External ligaments of the knee joint (Bourgery).—1. Tendon of the extensor muscle ending below at 2 in the ligament of the patella, i 3. Internal lateral ligament. 4. Lateral part of the capsule.