719 POPLITEAL VESSELS. accompanies the external saphenous nerve over the muscles of the leg. The superior articular arteries arise from the popliteal Branches to trunk, one from the inner and one from the outer side, above are live.^ the condyles of the femur ; they are directed almost trans- versely beneath the hamstring muscles, and turn round the Two supe- bone to the front of the joint. a. The external one perforates the intermuscular septum, external; and divides in the substance of the vastus externus. Some of the branches end in that muscle, and anastomose with the external circumflex (of the profunda) ; others descend to the joint; and one offset forms an arch across the bone with the anastomotic artery. b. The internal artery, oftentimes very small, winds be- iuternal. neath the tendon of the adductor magnus, and terminates in branches in the vastus internus, which supply it and the knee joint, and communicate with the anastomotic artery. The inferior articular branches lie beneath the gastro- Two infe- cnemius, but are not on the same level on opposite sides of '' the limb, for the inner one descends below the head of the tibia, whilst the outer one is placed above the fibula. Each lies beneath the lateral ligament of its own side. a. The external branch supplies the outer side of the knee external; joint, anastomosing with the other vessels on the articulation, and with the recurrent branch of the anterior tibial artery : it sends an offset beneath the ligament of the patella to join a twig from the lower internal branch. h. The internal artery ascends at the anterior border of internal; the internal lateral ligament, and after taking its share in the free anastomoses over the joint, ends in offsets for the articulation and the head of the tibia. The azygos branch enters the back of the joint through and one the posterior ligament, and is distributed to the ligamentous artery, structures and fat and the synovial membrane of the interior. The POPLITEAL VEIN Originates in the union of the vense Popliteal comites of the anterior and posterior tibial vessels, and has the same extent and connections as the artery it accompanies. At the lower border of the popliteus muscle the vein is Position to internal to the arterial trunk. Between the heads of the ^^^^^y- I gastrocnemius it is superficial to that vessel. And thence to I the opening in the adductor magnus it lies to the outer side, I and close to the artery. It is joined by branches corre- Branches, j sponding with those of the artery, as well as by the short saphenous vein (fig. 104).