877 AECH OF THE AORTA. name arterial canal or duct (ductus arteriosus, Botalli), and opens into the aorta rather beyond the origin from the arch of the last great vessel of the head and neck. As the lungs do not give passage to the circulating fluid Use. before birth, the impure blood of the pulmonary artery passes through the arterial duct into the aorta below the attachment of the vessels of the head and neck, in order that it may be transmitted to the placenta to be purified ; but after birth, when the function of the lungs is established, the current of blood is directed along the branches of the • pulmonary artery instead of through the arterial duct. This channel becomes gradually smaller, when the blood has ceased to flow through it, and is quite obliterated before the eighth or tenth day. The AORTA is the great systemic vessel which conveys the This great blood from the heart to the different parts of the body. The vessel first arches backwards to reach the spinal column, on which it extends through the chest and the abdomen. In through the thorax the vessel is divided into two parts—arch of the ^^^^ ^ abdomen. aorta, and the descending or thoracic aorta. Arch of the aorta.—The aorta has its origin in the left its first ventricle, close below the junction of the cartilage of the arched, third rib of the left side with the sternum. From that The extent point it ascends, curving backwards over the windpipe and the gullet, to reach the left side of the spinal column. And it loses the name of arch " at the lower border of the body of the third dorsal vertebra. The arch has its con- vexity upwards and to the right, and its concavity to the root of the left lung ; and from it chiefly the large vessels for the supply of the upper part of the body take their origin. For the purpose of reducing to order the numerous ^P^^^'^^^j connections of this portion of the aorta, the arch is divided arch, into three parts—ascending, transverse, and descending. Thejirst or ascending part is about two inches in length. First part: or slightly more, and is directed upwards behind, and very close to the sternum : it reaches as high as the upper border length and of the cartilage of the second rib on the right side, and is contained nearly altogether in the pericardium. At first the pulmonary artery is superficial to the aorta ; but, as the vessels take diff'erent directions, the latter is soon uncovered, and remains so to its termination. Behind it are the right branches of the pulmonary vessels. On the right side is the descending cava, and on the left, the pulmonary artery. Hear the heart the vessel bulges opposite each semilunar valve, in the situation of the sinuses of Valsalva ; and