THYROID BODY. 127 piece reaches as high as the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and as low as the sixth ring of the trachea. From the upper part of the thyroid body, and most Accessory commonly from the left lobe, there is occasionally found a pyranSd. conical piece—pyramid, ascending towards the hyoid bone, to which it is connected by a fibrous band. Sometimes this part is attached to the hyoid bone by a slip of muscle, the levator- glandulce thyreoidew of Soemmerring. This body is of a brownish red or purple hue, is granular Weight and in texture, and weighs from one to two ounces. Its size is larger in the woman than in the man. On cutting into the gland a viscid yellowish fluid escapes. No excretory tube has been found attached to it. Structure. —The thyroid body is not provided with a No distinct distinct capsule ; but it is surrounded by areolar and fine ^^P^^^®* elastic tissues, which project into the substance and divide it into masses. The substance of the gland consists of spherical or elon- Consists of gated vesicles, which vary in size, some being as large as ^^^^^^^^^ the head of a small pin, and others only -gTo'^^h of an inch. These vesicles are simple sacs, distinct from one another, and contain a clear yellowish fluid. In the wall with a of the vesicles is found a thin proper membrane v/ith a and^spe^k?' nucleated epithelial lining. Capillary vessels and con- membrane, nective tissue unite the vesicles together into small irregular masses or lobules of the size of the little finger nail. Bloodvessels.—The arteries to the thyroid body are two on Blood- each side—superior and inferior thyroid ; and occasionally there is an additional branch—lowest thyroid from the innominate artery. The branches of the external carotid Superior, (superior thyroid) ramify chiefly on the anterior aspect; lowest^thy^^ while those from the subclavian (inferior thyroid) pierce the roid arte- under surface of the thyroid body. A very free communication is established between all the arteries ; and in the substance of the thyroid body the arteries form a fine network around the vesicles, and so pass into the radicles of the veins. The veins are also large and numerous ; they are superior, Veins, middle, and inferior thyroid on each side. The first two have been traced to the internal jugular vein (p. 81). The inferior inferior thyroid veins, two in number, issue from the lower plexus on part of the thyroid body, and descend on the trachea, the the trachea, two forming a plexus on that tube beneath the sterno-thyroid muscles ; each enters finally the innominate vein of its own side. The TRACHEA, or air tube, is continued from the larnyx to Trachea