DISSECTIO^T OF THE EAR. 804 and termi- nation. Cartilagi- nous part. Use of the tube. Membrarie ill fenestra rotunda. Construc- tion of three layers. Ossicles of the tympa- num are three. Malleus has head. neck, handle. iind short tensor tympani muscle have been alluded to ; its course in the temporal bone is along the angle of union of the squa- mous and petrous portions, outside the canal of the carotid artery. Externally it ends in a dilated and somewhat oval opening, with the longest measurement in a vertical direc- tion and with an irregular margin, which gives attachment to the special cartilage completing the canal. The cartilaginous part of the tube is nearly an inch in length, and extends from the temporal bone to the interior of the pharynx (see p. 134). Through this tube the mucous membrane of the tympanum is continuous with that of the pharynx ; and through it, by reason of its inclination downwards, the mucus passes from that cavity. The secondary r^iemhrane of the tympanum is placed within the fenestra rotunda, and is rather concave towards the tympanum, but convex towards the cochlear passage which it closes. It is formed of three strata, like the membrane on the opposite side of the tympanum, viz. an external or mucous, derived from the lining of the tympanum ; an internal or serous, continuous with that clothing the cochlea ; and a central layer of fibrous tissue. Ossicles of the Tympanum. —These are three in number, and are placed in a line across the tympanic cavity. The outer one is named malleus from its resemblance to a mallet; the next, incus, from its similitude to an anvil ; and the last, stapes, from its likeness to a stirrup. For the exami- nation of these little bones, the student should be provided with some separate dry specimens, besides the ossicles that are in position in the cavity. The malleus (fig. 127, a) is the longest bone, and is twisted and bent. It is large at one end (head) and small and pointed at the other (handle) ; and it has besides two pro- cesses with a narrowed part or neck. The head or capitu- lum (^) is free in the cavity, is oval in shape, and is smooth except at the back, where there is a depression (^) for arti- culation with the next bone. The nech is the slightly twisted part between the head and the processes. The handle or manubrium {'^) decreases in size towards the tip, and is flattened from before backwards, except at the extre- mity where it is compressed from within outwards : to its outer margin the membrana tympani is connected. The processes of the bone are two in number, long and short :— The short one (^) springs from the root of the handle on the