DISSECTIOIT OF THE UPPER LIMB. 340 orbicular ligament around the head of the bone. Fig. 50,* and synovial membrane. Union of the shafts. The annular or orbicular ligament (fig. 50, ^) is a strong fasciculus of fibres, about a quarter of an inch wide, which is placed around the prominence of the head of the radius, and is attached to the anterior and posterior edges of the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna. Its upper border is connected with the ligaments of the elbow joint; but the lower is free, and is applied around the neck of the radius. The radius moves freely in the socket formed by the ligament and the cavity of the ulna. The synovial membrane is a pro- longation of that lining the elbow joint ; it projects inferiorly between the neck of the radius and the lower margin of the annular ligament. Ligaments of the shafts of the bones, —The aponeurotic stratum connect- ing together the bones in nearly their whole length consists of the two following parts :— Radius is The interosseous membrane (fig. 49, ^) is a thin fibrous joined in the layer, which is attached to the contiguous margins of the Sterosseous radius and ulna, and forms an incomplete septum between membrane, ^-j^^ muscles on the front and back of the forearm. Supe- This is defi- riorly the membrane is wanting for a considerable space, and cient above, through the interval the posterior interosseous vessels pass backwards. Some small apertures exist in it for the passage of vessels ; and the largest of these (4) is about two inches from the lower end through which the anterior interosseous artery turns to the back of the wrist. The membrane gives attachment to the deep muscles. Most of its fibres are directed obliquely inwards towards the ulna, though a few on the posterior surface have an opposite direction. The round ligament (fig. 49, ^) is a slender band above the interosseous membrane, whose fibres have a direction oppo- site to those of the membrane. By one end it is fixed to the front of the coronoid process, and by the other it is inserted into the radius below the tubercle. This ligament divides the space above the interosseous membrane into two parts. Oftentimes this band is not to be recognised. * View of the orbicular ligament (5) of the radius, which retains the upper end of the bone against the ulna.—1. Olecranon, and 2. Coro- noid process. By round ligament.