SHEATHS OF FLEXOR TETOONS. 319 Dissection.—To follow one of the processes of the fascia to its termination, the superficial fibres must be first re- moved, and it mnst be then divided longitudinally by insert- ing the knife beneath it opposite the head of the metacarpal bone. Ending of the processes.—The process of the fascia may be seen to send downwards an offset on each side of the tendons, which is fixed to the ligament connecting together the ends of the meta- Fig- 46.* carpal bones, and to the borders of the metacarpal bone for a short distance. The same disposition exists in each of the pro- cesses. The transverse ligament of the fingers is a thin fibrous band, which stretches across the roots of the fingers, and is contained in the fold of skin forming the rudiment of a web between them. Beneath it the digital nerves and vessels are continued onwards to their terminations. Sheath of the flexor tendons (fig. 46).— Along each finger the flexor tendons are retained in position against the phalanges by a fibrous sheath. Opposite the middle of each of the two nearest phalanges the sheath is formed by a strong fibrous band (ligament um vaginale), which is almost tendinous in consistence ; but opposite the joints of the fingers it consists of scattered and oblique fibres that form a thin membrane. If the sheath be opened it will be found to be lined by a synovial membrane, which lubricates the tendons, and forms long and slender vascular folds (vincula vasculosa) between them and the bones. Dissection.—The palmar fascia, and the thinner parts of the tendinous sheaths opposite the joints of the fingers, may be taken away. On the removal of the fascia the palmar arch of the ulnar artery and the median and ulnar nerves become apparent. Dissection. Deep ending of the pieces of fascia. Ligament of the fmgers. Sheath of the tendons varies m thickness. Has a syno- vial sac. Dissection. The flexor and extensor tendons of the finger with accessory 2. Flexor sublimis tendon. 8. Flexor profundus tendon. 4. Extensor digitorum tendon. 5. LumbricaHs muscle. 6. Interosseous muscle.