459 HEMORRHOIDAL VESSELS AND NERVES. the coccyx, in order that its insertion may be more apparent. The muscle descends from the inner aspect of the hip bone, and is inserted below along the middle line from the coccyx into coccyx, . and tendon to the central point of the permseum :—The most posterior iu front of fibres are attached to the side of the coccyx ; and between » that bone and the rectum the muscles of opposite sides are united in a median tendinous line. The middle fibres are blended with the side of the intestine (rectum). Whilst the centre of tha anterior are joined with the fibres of the opposite muscle, permseum. in front of the rectum, in the central point of the perinseum. This muscle bounds the ischio-rectal fossa on the inner side. Arteries.—The inferior hsemorrhoidal is the only named branch of the pudic artery that is now dissected. Some ^ ^P^'^^- other small unnamed branches of the pudic and sciatic are visible. The inferior hcemorrhovdal artery arises from the trunk of inferior the pudic, internal to the ischial tuberosity ; it sends branches ^ai inwards across the ischio-rectal fossa to the skin, and the ends on sphincter and levator ani muscles. On the rectum this [^^ts^us-^ artery anastomoses with the upper hcemorrhoidal branch, and cies. with the artery of the opposite side. In a well-injected body, some cutaneous branches may be seen to run forwards to the anterior part of the perinseum, and to communicate with the superficial peringeal branch. Veins accompany the Branciiof artery. Other small muscular branches of the pudic artery cross other oflfsets. the front of the ischio-rectal fossa, and supply the anterior *^^P^^^°- part of the levator ani muscle. Branches of the sciatic artery appear on the inner aspect Bi-anches^of of the gluteus maximus at the back of the fossa ; some end in that muscle, and others are continued round its border to the surface. Serves.—The branches of nerves to be learned in this Nerves, part of the perinaeum are, the inferior hsemorrhoidal ; an offset of the fourth sacral nerve ; and some branches of the small sciatic nerve. The inferior hcemorrhoidal nerve is most frequently a inferior branch of the pudic, though it may have a separate origin ^^"ig from the sacral plexus. Accompanying the artery of the artery of same name across the ischio-rectal fossa, it reaches the margin ^^^^ name, of the anus, where it terminates in offsets to the integument -permina- and the sphincter muscle. Other cutaneous off'sets of the tion. nerve turn forwards over the fossa, and communicate with one of the superficial perinaeal nerves, and with the inferior pudendal (of the small sciatic) on the margin of the thigh.