DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL COED. Fig. 68/' is deepest towards the lower end of the cord. The medullary substance of the surface enters the fissure, lining it ; and in the bottom of the cleft the white fibres are transverse, and are sepa- rated by apertures for bloodvessels. The posterior median fissure (fig. 68, p.) is not so wide, nor so well marked as the anterior, but it is best seen at the upper part of the neck, and in the lower enlarge- ment. Vessels of the posterior sur- face of the cord enter this fissure. The lateral fissure is situate along the line of attachment of the fibrils of the posterior roots (fig. 67, h). It reaches inwards to the gray matter in the interior of the medulla. Some anatomists describe another lateral fissure along the line of origin of the anterior roots, but there is not any cleft in that situation. Segments of the Cord.—Each half of the cord, viz., from the anterior to the posterior median fissure, is divided into two parts by the lateral sulcus (fig. 67, h) : the piece in front of that slit and the posterior roots of the nerves is called the antero-lateral column; and the piece behind, the posterior column. A central or commissural piece unites the halves of the medulla. The antero-lateral column (fig. 67, ct to h) includes rather more than two thirds of the half of the cord, extending back- wards to the posterior roots of the nerves, and gives attach- ment to the anterior roots. The posterior column (fig. 67, h to p) is situate between the posterior roots of the nerves and the central fissure along the posterior aspect of the cord. Near the median fissure is a slight groove or furrow, which marks ofi" a slender piece, the posterior median column : this separation is best seen in the cervical part of the cord. The commissure of the cord is the central piece connecting the halves of the medulla, and Limiting the depth of the median fissures. Different division of the cord.—Each half of the cord is divided sometimes into three parts or columns—anterior lateral, and posterior (fig. 67), whose limits are the follow- * A plan of the segments and fissures of the cord.—a. Anterior, and p. Posterior fissure. a to c. Anterior column. c. to h. Lateral column. 6. to p. Posterior column, e, Gfray matter of tlie cord.