420 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. of processes from it. Fascia lumborum is part of trans- versalis abdominis; has two off- sets behind, one to apex, the other to root of the ti'ans verse processes; which form of tlie external oblique muscle may, or may not remain, After tlie removal of this muscle (supposing a part to be left), the internal oblique will be seen to be attached to a subjacent aponeurosis, and to the ribs and the iliac crest ; its attachments above and below are to be cut through, and it is to be raised from the transversalis muscle towards the spine, as far as possible without detaching it. Then the aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle (fascia lumborum) appears, and perforating it are two nerves :—one, the last dorsal with an artery near the last rib ; and the other, the ilio-hypogastric, close to the iliac crest. Two offsets are prolonged backwards from this fascia to the transverse processes. To see one prolongation, viz., the one that is attached to the apices of the processes, the latis- simus dorsi is to be cut through (both its aponeurosis and fleshy part) by an incision directed outwards from the middle line, on a level with the spinous process of the third lumbar vertebra ; on raising the outer border of the mxuscle (erector spinse) which comes into view, the strong process of the fascia will be apparent. After dividing transversely this first pro- longation, another muscle (quadratus lumborum) will be seen ; and on raising its outer border the second thin ofiset of the fascia will be evident on the abdominal aspect of the muscle. The fascia lumborum is the posterior aponeurosis or tendon of the transversalis abdominis muscle, and occupies the interval between the last two ribs and the crest of the hip- bone. By its cutaneous surface it gives attachment to the internal oblique muscle, sometimes to the external oblique, and to the aponeurosis of the latissimus dorsi and serratus posticus inferior. The last dorsal and ilio-hypogastric nerves pierce it in their course from the abdomen. From the inner part of the aponeurosis two prolongations reach the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and enclose the quadratus lumborum. The more superficial of the two is the strongest; it lies beneath the erector spinsQ in this position of the body, and is connected to the apices of the transverse processes, but it also fills the intervals between those osseous pieces. The deeper or anterior pro- longation passes on the abdominal surface of the quadratus lumborum, and is fixed to the roots of the transverse pro- cesses, and the bodies of the vertebrse. Thus the prolonga- tions of the fascia contain the quadratus lumborum in a sheath. In like manner the erector spince lies in another sheath,