157 THE TONGUE. flexus, 5, arising from the front of the ganglion, may be supposed to be derived from the internal pterygoid nerve. The nerve of the internal pterygoid muscle (fig. 20), is a Nerve of long slender branch, which arises from the inner side of the ^e^ygoid inferior maxillary nerve near the sknll, and is directed downwards to the deep surface of the muscle. This nerve is joined by a fasciculus from the motor root of the fifth nerve. Directions.—The remainder of the left pterygo-maxillary Directions, region may be examined on this side of the body. Section XV, DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. Directions.—The tongue and larynx are to remain con- Directions, nected v/ith each other whilst the student learns the general form, and the structure of the tongue. Dissection.—The ends of the extrinsic lingual muscles Dissection, that have been detached, may be cut off, but enough of each should be left to trace it afterwards into the substance of the tongue. The TONGtTE occupies the floor of the mouth, and is rather Tong-ue. ovoidal in shape, with the larger end turned backwards. It is free over the greater part of the surface ; but at the hinder part, and at the posterior two-thirds of the under Situation surface, it gives attachment to the muscles and the mucous membrane that fix it to the parts around. The apex or tip of the tongue is in contact with the incisor Connections teeth ; and the base, which looks towards the pharynx, is base.^^' attached to the hyoid bone, and is connected likewise with the epiglottis by three folds of mucous membrane—a central and two lateral. The upper surface or dorsum of the tongue Upper sur- is somewhat convex, and is received into the hollow of the roof of the mouth ; in the anterior two thirds it is divided into two equal parts by a median groove, which ends a little in front of a hollow named foramen caecum. This surface is rough and covered with papillae over the anterior two thirds; but is smoother at the posterior third, though even here the surface is irregular, in consequence of projecting mucous glands and follicles. The under surface, free only in part. Under sur- gives attachment to the mucous membrane, and to the dif- ^^°^* ferent lingual muscles that are connected with the hyoid