MEDULLA OBLOIS^GATA. 211- more or less marked in different bodies, issue from the posterior column, beginning mostly in the nucleus of the beginning restiform body (Clarke), and advance over the surface of the olivary and pyramidal bodies to the anterior sulcus, where Fig. 34.* most enter the half of the medulla of their own side, but ^^^^ ending. others cross the median sulcus to the other half of the medulla, decussating with the fibres of the other side. The fibres that do not reach far into the sulcus join the surface band on the pyramid of the opposite side (Clarke). Below the olivary body this superficial layer forms often times a J^^^^e arci- 'j 'J -t d formes. distinct band, ih.Q fibrce, arciformes (fig. 31^ e). The deep transverse fibres (fig. 34, h) begin behind in the ^^^p set; ganglia contained in the posterior pyramid and restiform beginning, body (Clarke), and penetrate between the longitudinal fibres as they reach forwards to enter the raphe in the middle line. ending. Some surround the olivary body, and others traverse it and join with its fibres in the commissure of the olivary bodies. This layer communicates often with the superficial one The two sets between the longitudinal bundles of fibres. The raphe (fig. 34, h and g) occupies the middle line of Raphe', the medulla above the decussation of the pyramids, and Situation, serves as the commissure between the olivary bodies and the Transverse section of the medulla oblongata above the middle of the olivary body (Clarke), a. Anterior pyramid, b and c. Lateral column, d. Restiform body. e. Posterior pyramid. /. Corpus olivare with roots of the ninth nerve piercing it. g. Olivary commissure, h. Deep transverse or commissural fibres of the medulla meeting in the raphe (a few more are added in this cut from a second drawing). Jc. Accessory oHvary nucleus. I. Other gray deposits inside the olivary body. n. Floor of the fourth ventricle covered by epithe- lium. 0. Kuclei of the ninth nerve, p. Nuclei of the vagus and glosso- pharyngeal nerves. r. Nucleus of the auditory nerve, s. Superficial transverse fibres, f. Remains of the gelatinous substance (tuberculo cinereo).