STRUCTURE OF THE REIKIS. 643 Bloodvessels.—The bloodvessels of the penis are large in Vessels, size, and serve to nourish as well as minister to the function of the organ. Having entered the cavernous mass, they ramify in the insterstices of the trabecular structure, and end in the venous plexuses. The arteries of the corpora cavernosa are offsets of the ^]Jg^!^^^.g^jgg pudic, both at the root and along the body of the penis. Entering the cavernous structure, they divide into branches, which ramify in the trabecule© (fig. 96, a), becoming finer and finer, until they terminate in minute branches; these termiuation open into the veins in the intertrabecular spaces without veins.^ ^ the intervention of capillaries. Others of the terminal twigs end in tufts of short, slightly curved vessels—the helicine Heiicine arteries of Miiller (fig. 97), which project into the intertra- ^^^eries. becular spaces, and are imbedded in the p. ^ coat of the thin veins: these twisted vas- cular bodies have dilated extremities, and are continued by means of fine vessels into the venous spaces (KoUiker). The helicine arteries exist in greatest number at the posterior part of each corpus ca- vernosum. The veins fill the interspaces of the areolar structure, and anastomose freely together to form Veins venous plexuses. In these spaces the wall of the veins is Jiiated and ■■^ ^ form plex- I very thm, because support is received from the surrounding uses, fibrous structure. Into the large radicles of the veins the terminal branches of the arteries pour their contents ; and the erectile condition of the corpus cavernosum is produced by the distension of those receptacles. By means of the apertures in the septum the veins of opposite sides com- municate freely. Most of the veins of the corpus cavernosum issue along Ending of the upper and under aspects of the penis, to end in the dorsal ^ ^ems. vein and the prostatic plexus ; but some escape at the crus penis, and join the pudic vein. Corpus spongiosum urethrce.—This constituent part of the Spongy penis surrounds the urethra, and forms the bulb behind and the penis the glans penis in front (p. 614). The urethra is not enveloped equally on all sides by this tissue, for at the bulb only a thin stratum is above the canal. Posteriorly an ofi"set of the corpus spongiosum is continued beyond the bulb around the urethra. * A tuft of the twisted or helicine arteries (Miiller). The dark shadowing around reprej^ents a vein incasing the bundle of vessels. T T 2 0 are