228 DISSECTION" OF THE BRAIISr. and bodies along it. Inner boundary. Aperture, between. The de- scending part; roof; floor. and bodies on it. Septum lucidum: position, form. surfaces, borders. Dissection. piece of the iiiider part of tlie corpus callosum (c) ; next, a large, gray, pear-shaped body, the corpus striatum (k) ; behind this, another large white projection, named optic thalamus (l) ; and between the two last bodies is a white line (s), teenia semicircularis. On the surface of the optic thalamus is a vascular fold of the pia mater (e), known as the plexus choroides, together with the thin white edge of the fornix (/). Close behind the optic thalamus is the beginning of a projection (hippocampus major), that lies in the floor of the descending part of the lateral ventricle (q) ; and in the posterior cornu is an elongated eminence, the hippocampus minor (n). The inner boundary of the ventricle, or the septum ventriculorum, is a thin partition, which has been named septum lucidum ; below the anterior part of this partition, opposite the front of the optic thalamus, is the aperture of communication (foramen of Monro) between the two lateral ventricles. The lower or descending part of the ventricle winds be- neath the optic thalamus, and forms a curve like the half- bent fore finger. Forming the roof, will be the optic thala- mus and the contiguous part of the hemisphere. In the floor is a large curved, convex eminence, somewhat indented at the end, which is called the hippocampus major (q) ; and along its concave margin is a thin white band—taenia (v), that is prolonged from the fornix. External to the projection of the hippocampus is another white eminence, the pes accessorius (y), or eminentia coUatoralis. In this part of the ventricle is the vascular fringe of the plexus choroides : it enters by a fissure internal to the hippocampus. The septum lucidum (fig. 37, s), or the thin partition between the lateral ventricles, is a translucent part of the cerebral mass, which hangs vertically in the middle line between the corpus callosum and the fornix. It is some- what triangular in form, with the larger part turned for- wards, and the narrow or pointed extremity directed back- wards. Its surfaces look to the lateral ventricles. The upper border is attached altogether to the under aspect of the corpus callosum ; and the lower border is joined in part to the fornix (/), but in front of that body it is connected with the under or prolonged portion (rostrum) of the corpus callosum. The septum consists of two layers, which enclose a space—the fifth ventricle ; and each layer is formed of white substance, with an external coating of gray matter. Dissection.—The space of the fifth ventricle will come into view by cuttiDg through the part of the corpus callosum