DISSECTION OF THE ABDOME^T. 500 The dissec- tion on the left groin. Keflect oblique. Cut the cremaster. Clean sub- jacent parts. Show the epigastric vessels. Situation of inguinal hernia. Predisposi- tion natur- ally. Course it follows. reserved on the left side of tlie body, should be now dissected for inguinal hernia. Dissection.—The skin, the superficial fascia, and the apo- neurosis of the external oblique having been already reflected in the previous examination of the wall of the abdomen, the necessary dissection of the inguinal region will be com- pleted by reflecting the internal oblique muscle as in fig. 75, \ To raise upwards the oblique muscle, its lower fleshy origin from Poupart's ligament must be detached. For this purpose let one incision be made across the fleshy part of the internal oblique, from the iliac crest towards the linea alba ; and after the depth of the muscle has been ascertained by the layer of areolar and fatty tissue beneath it, let the lowest fibres be carefully cut through at their origin from Poupart's ligament. By detaching the muscle cautiously, the student will be able to raise it from the subjacent trans- versalis, so that it may be turned upwards on the abdomen (fig. 75). The separation of the two muscles just mentioned is sometimes difficult in consequence of their fibres being blended together, but a branch of the circumflex iliac artery marks their intermuscular space. The cremaster muscle is then to be divided along the cord, and to be reflected to the sides. Let the dissector clean the surface of the transversalis muscle, without displacing its lower arched border ; and trace with care the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalisj to show its exact extent outwards. The fascia transversalis and the spermatic cord should be likewise nicely cleaned. Crossing the interval apparent below the border of the transversalis muscle, is the epigastric artery, which lies close to the inner side of the internal abdominal opening, but beneath the fascia transversalis. A small piece of the fascia should be cut away to show the vessel on the side of the abdominal ring. Inguinal Hernia.—A protrusion of intestine through the lower part of the abdominal wall near Poupart's liga- ment (the part answering to the inguinal region), is named an inguinal hernia. The escape of the intestine in this region is predisposed to by the deficiency in the muscular strata, by the passage of the spermatic cord through the abdominal parietes, and by the existence of fossae on the inner surface of the wall. The gut in leaving the abdomen either passes through