794 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. Position and extent. Membrane lining- retina. Constitu- ents of retina at yellow spot, Colour. Vessels. Vitreous body. To obtain p view of it, and of its front. Part of the l?lobe filled by it. Composi- tion. Hyaloid membrane. Connec- tions. cones are said to be connected over the yellow spot with the inner bodies (d) in the granular layer, and with offsets of the nerve cells (Kolliker). The limiting membrane is a very delicate layer on the inner surface of the retina, which is joined by the fibres of Miiller, and resembles the elastic layers of the cornea in its properties. In the yellow spot the nerve cells of the inner stratum form a continuous layer : whilst the nerve fibres extend only into the circumference, and the molecular material of the same layer is absent over the fovea centralis. The granular layer and the fibres of Miiller are absent over the central fossa. Only the conical elements of Jacob's membrane (fig. 123, a) are found in this spot. The colour of the part is due to yellow pigment difiused through all the textures except Jacob's membrane. Water removes it readily. Capillary vessels occupy the spot, whilst the larger branches pass around. YiTREOUS Body.—A transparent mass fills the greater part of the space within the coats of the eyeball, which has been named vitreous body from its resemblance to glass ; it consists of a clear aqueous fluid, contained in a translucent membrane, and has the consistence of jelly. Dissection. —The vitreous body may be seen on the eye on which the retina was dissected, by taking away the retina, the ciliary ligament and processes, and the iris. To obtain a view of its anterior part with the lens in situation, an eyeball should be pinned upright on wax ; the sclerotic and choroid coats should be cut through about a quarter of an inch behind the cornea (p. 779) ; and on re- moving carefully the cornea, ciliary ligament, and ciliary processes, the vitreous body will become apparent. The vitreous body is globular in form, and fills four fifths of the ball of the eye, reaching forwards nearly to the iris. In front the vitreous body is slightly hollowed, and receives the lens with its capsule, \to which it is closely united. The flidd of the vitreous body has nearly the same composition as the aqueous humour. Enveloping the whole is a thin membrane named hyaloid. The hyaloid membrane is the fine transparent covering of the vitreous body. It passes continuously over the surface of that mass ; and in the fetus it is connected with fibres that penetrate the vitreous body. On the inner aspect arc a few delicate nuclei. At the fore part it is closely united