472 DISSECTION OF THE PERm^UM. forwards ; but the artery must necessarily be cut, when it arises farther back than usual, and crosses the front of the ischio-rectal fossa in its course to the bulb of the urethra, ejaculatory dividing the prostate gland the edge of the knife is to '' be turned outwards and downwards, in the direction of a line from the urethra through the left lateral lobe of that body, and so as not to injure the ejaculatory duct below, the^ restate upper part of the prostate and its fibrous capsule are gland. ^ " not to be cut through, otherwise the vessels on the exterior may be divided, and the urine may be effused beneath the peritoneum. Directions. Directions.—When the dissection of the perinsDum is completed, the flaps of skin are to be fastened together after some preservative fluid has been used, and the limbs are to be put down into the position required for the examination of the abdomen. Section II. PERINiEUM OF THE FEMALE. Perinjeum of female has special parts. Along middle aper- tures of anus and vulva. Parts within vulva. Parts bounding space are alike in both sexes. The perinjeum in the female differs from that in the male more in the external form than the internal anatomy ; but it has special parts distinguishing it, viz. the aperture of the vagina surrounded by its sphincter, and the aperture of the vulva with the labia. Surface-marking.—On the surface of the perinseal space in the middle line, there are the two apertures of the anus and vulva, which are separated from one another by an in- terval of about an inch. The anus is situate relatively rather farther back than in the male. And the vulva is in the situation of the scrotum of the other sex, with the labia majora on the sides. Within the vulva at the upper part, is the clitoris, with two small membranous folds, labia minora, extending downwards from it. Below the clitoris is the small aperture of the urethra ; and still lower down is the vagina, whose opening is sometimes partly closed by a thin piece of membrane, the hymen. Deep boundaries.—The deep boundaries of the perinseum are alike in both sexes ; but in the female the outlet of the pelvis, corresponding with the perinseum, is larger than in the male. J)issection.~Th.G steps of the dissection are much the