730 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Parts over nnd under it. Tendo Acbillis. Extent and inser- tion. arises from the outer condyle, and joins common tendon. Position of the muscle. Detach sole us. and clean the deei) fascia. Deep part of the fascia of the leg. The superficial part of the soleus is in contact with the gastrocnemius; and the opposed surfaces of the two are aponeurotic. Beneath the muscle are the bones of the leg, the deep laj^er of flexors, and the vessels and nerves. Tendo Achillis.—The common tendon of the gastrocne- mius and soleus is one of the strongest in the body. It is wide above, and commences about the middle of the leg, though it receives fleshy fibres on the under surface nearly to the lower end : and below it is narrowed, and is insertexl by a rounded bundle into the lower part of the os calcis at the posterior aspect. A bursa intervenes between it and the upper part of the calcaneum. The tendon is close beneath the fascia ; and lying along its outer side, but superficial to it, are the external saphenous vein and nerve. The PLANTARis is remarkable in having a tendon the longest in the body, which takes the appearance of a riband wdien it is stretched laterally. The short fibres of the muscle arise from the line above the outer condyle of the femur, and from the posterior ligament of the knee joint; and the tendon in which they end is inserted into the os calcis with or by the side of the tendo Achillis, or into the fascia of the leg. The belly of the muscle, about three inches in length, is concealed by the gastrocnemius, but the tendon appears on the inner side of the tendo Achillis about the middle of the leg. This little muscle crosses the popliteal vessels, and lies on the soleus. Dissection.—The soleus is to be detached from the bones of the leg, and the vessels and nerves it receives are to be divided ; but in raising it the student should take care not to injure the thin deep fascia and the vessels and nerves. The superficial vessels may be next removed by cutting through their tendons near the os calcis. The piece of fascia between the muscles of the superficial and deep layers is to be then cleaned ; and the integuments between the inner ankle and the heel are to be taken away to lay bare the annular ligament, but a cutaneous nerve to the sole of the foot piercing the ligament is to be preserved. Lastly the student should open the bursa between the tendo Achillis and the os calcis, if this has not been done. Deep part of the fascia.—This intermuscular layer of the fascia of the leg is fixed to the tibia and fibula, and binds down the deep layer of flexor muscles. Beneath the soleus it is thin and indistinct ; but lower in the limb it is much stronger, and is marked by some transverse fibres near the