DISSECTIOIS" OF THE NECK. 53 tube, that reaches to the nose. It is entirely encased by ing to the bone ; and in length, size, and direction, it corresponds with the passage of the same name in the dried skull. In the its opening. nasal cavity it opens into the front of the inferior meatus, where its opening is guarded by a fold of the mucous membrane, but a bent probe introduced through the nostril may be readily passed into it from the meatus. As the duct is continuous with the mucous membrane of structure of the nose it has the same structure, viz. a fibrous external layer with a mucous lining. The epithelium of the sac and duct is ciliated as in the nose, but in the lachrymal canals it is scaly. Directions.—The examination of the eyeball must be Anatomy of made on the fresh eye of either the ox or the sheep ; but afterwards, this part may be omitted with more advantage to the student till the dissection of the head and neck has been completed. The description of the eyeball will be found at the end of the book. Section V. DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Position.—For the dissection of the right side of the neck Position of let the head be supported at a moderate height, and let the * ^ face be turned to the left side, and fastened in that position with hooks. To obtain a good view of the neck, the right arm should be drawn under the body, so that the point of the shoulder may be depressed, and the parts put on the stretch. Surface-marJcing.—The side of the neck presents a some- Boundaries what sqiTare outline, and is limited in the following way :— the n^ec^^ Inferiorly is the prominence of the clavicle, and superiorly is the base of the lower jaw with the skull. In front its boundary is marked by a line from the chin to the sternum, and behind by another line from the occiput to the acromial end of the clavicle. The part thus marked out is divided Division into two triangular spaces (anterior and posterior) by the t?fangTe^s by diagonal position of the sterno-mastoid muscle. In con- sterno- sequence of the direction of that muscle the base of the anterior space is at the jaw, and the apex at the sternum ; whilst the base of the posterior one is at the clavicle, and the apex at the head. The surface in front of the sterno- mastoid is depressed at the upper part of the neck, near the