177 LIGAMENTS OF THE LARYITX. and the posterior surface, hollowed from side to side, is Sides, convex from above down. To its sides the arytseno-epiglot- Foot stalk, tidean folds of mucous membrane are united. The lower part is connected by a fibrous band (thyro-epiglottidean liga- ment) to the posterior surface of the thyroid cartilage, near the notch in the upper border. The epiglottis is further connected to the hyoid bone and the root of the tongue, in front of it, by strong bands of elastic and fibrous tissue. After the mucous membrane has been removed from the Glands in it. epiglottis, the fibro-cartilaginous structure will be seen to be perforated by numerous apertures, which lodge mucous glands. Between the epiglottis and the hyoid bone is a mass of ^J^^^^^^®^ yellowish fat with some glands, which has been sometimes called the epiglottidean gland. Ligaments of the Larynx.—The larynx is connected J^^^l^^®^*^ by ligaments with the hyoid bone above, and with the larynx, trachea below. Besides there are connecting fibres uniting together the cartilages ; and between some of the cartilages synovial membranes exist. Urdon of the lanmx with the hyoid hone and the trachea.— between tn-i i- /T o 1 OS hyoides A thm loose elastic membrane (thyro-hyoid) passes from the and trachea. thyroid cartilage to the hyoid bone, and a second membrane connects the cricoid cartilage with the trachea. The thyro-hyoid ligament is attached on the one part to Thyi^o-hyoid the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and on the other, to the upper border of the hyoid bone, at the posterior aspect. Of some thickness in the centre, it gradually becomes thinner towards the sides, and finally ends in a rounded elastic cord, which intervenes between the extremity of the hyoid bone and the upper cornu of the thyroid car- tilage. The superior laryngeal nerve and artery perforate this ligament, and a synovial membrane is placed between it and the posterior surface of the hyoid bone. In the elastic lateral part of the ligament will be found occasionally a small ossific nodule (cartilago triticea). The membrane joining the lower border of the cricoid Crico- cartilage to the first ring of the trachea — crico-tvacheal rnembrane. ligament, resembles the band joining the rings of the trachea to each other. Union of the cricoid and thyroid cartilages.—These car- Between tilages are joined in the middle line in front by the crico- thyrofd^car- thyroid ligament ; and on the side, by a capsular ligament tilages are around the small cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The anterior crico-thyroid ligament or membrane is yellow an anterior ^ ^ *^ ligament