DEEP LAYER OF MUSCLES. 731 malleoli, wMcIi give it the appearance and office of an an- nular ligament in that situation. Inferiorly it joins the annular ligament between the heel and the inner ankle. Dissection.—The deep layer of muscles, the posterior Clean the tibial nerve, and the trunks and offsets of the posterior tibial ^^^^scies and peroneal vessels, will be made ready for learning by the removal of the fascia and the areolar tissue. A muscle between the bones (tibialis posticus) is partly concealed by an aponeurosis which gives origin to muscles on the sides ; and it will not fully appear until after the membrane cover- ing it has been divided. Deep Layer of Muscles.—The deep flexor muscles at the Four mus- back of the leg are four in number, viz. popiiteus, flexor ^ggyj^ayer longus poUicis, flexor longus digitorum, and tibialis posticus. The first of these is close to the knee joint ; it crosses the bones, and is covered by a special aponeurosis. The flexors lie on the bones, the one of the great toe being on the fibula, Position and and that of the other toes on the tibia. And the last muscle covers the interosseous membrane. With the exception of the popiiteus, all enter the sole of the foot, and have a destination, fleshy part parallel to the bones of the leg, and a tendinous part beneath the tarsus. The POPLITEUS arises within the capsule of the knee Popiiteus joint. It is attached by tendon to the fore and upper part within knea of an oblong depression on the outer surface of the external joint, condyle of the femur below the external lateral ligament; and external to the capsule of the joint, some fleshy fibres arise from the posterior ligament. From the tendon the fibres radiate, and they are inserted into the tibia above the inserted oblique line on the posterior surface. The muscle lies on the tibia, and is covered by a fascia derived in great part from the tendon of the semimembra- nosus muscle. On it lie the popliteal vessels and the com- panion nerve, with the gastrocnemius and plantaris. Along Parts the upper border are the lower articular vessels and nerve of the inner side of the knee. The lower border of the muscle corresponds with the attachment of the soleus on the tibia. The origin will be seen with the dissection of the ligaments of the knee joint. The FLEXOR LONGUS POLLicis ariscs below the soleus from Flexor the lower half or two thirds of the posterior surface of the po^^cfg^g fibula except an inch inferiorly ; from the intermuscular attached to septum between it and the peronei muscles ; and from the ^ aponeurosis over the tibialis. Inferiorly the tendon of the muscle enters a groove in the astragalus, and afterwards