284 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. tus fills the hollow of that name ; is inserted into hume- rus. Connec- tions. Dissection of suprasca- pular ves- sels. Suprascapu- lar artery- gives a supraspinal branch, and ends in infraspina- tus. Suprascapu- lar nerve has muscu- lar branches like artery: and articu- lar. Dorsal branch of subscapular artery. hollow of tlie bone that it fills. It arises from the surface of the supraspinal fossa of the scapula, except from the cervical part ; from the upper side of the spine of the bone ; and from the fascia covering the surface. Its fibres end in a tendon, which crosses over the shoulder joint, and is m- serted into the upper impression on the great tuberosity of the humerus. The muscle is concealed by the trapezius and the acromion process ; and it rests upon the scapula, the shoulder joint, and the suprascapular vessels and nerve. Its tendon joins that of the infraspinatus at the attach- ment to the humerus. Dissection.—The vessels and nerves on the dorsum of the scapula will be traced by separating from behind forwards the supra and infraspinatus muscles from the bone. In the supraspinal fossa are the suprascapular vessels and nerve, which are to be followed beneath the acromion to the infra- spinal fossa ; and entering the infraspinal fossa, beneath the teres minor muscle, is the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery. The anastomosis between the vessels should be carefully cleaned. The suprascapular artery is derived from the subclavian trunk, and is one of the branches into which the thyroid axis subdivides (p. 74). After a short course in the neck it crosses over the ligament at the superior costa, and enters beneath the supraspinatus muscle. In that position it furnishes a supraspinal branch for the supply of the muscle, the bone, and the shoulder joint ; and it ends in the infraspinal fossa, where it gives offsets to the infraspi- natus muscle and the scapula, anastomosing with the dorsal branch of the subscapular, and with the posterior scapular artery of the subclavian (p. 74). The companion vein of the suprascapular artery joins the external jugular vein. The suprascapular nerve is a branch of the brachial plexus (p. 78). When it reaches the costa of the scapula, it enters the supraspinal fossa beneath the posterior special ligament. In the fossa it supplies tv/o branches to the supraspinatus ; and the nerve is continued finally beneath a fibrous band to the infraspinatus muscle, in which it ends. The nerve gives some articular filaments to the shoulder joint, and other ofi'sets to the scapula. The dorsal branch of the subscapular artery (p. 269) turns backwards below the inferior costa of the scapula, through the posterior of the two spaces between the teres muscles. Entering the infraspinal fossa beneath the teres minor, it