EUSTACHIAK TUBE. 803 The memhrana tympani (fig. 126) is a thin partition be- Membrana tween the meatus aiiditorius and the cavity of the tympanum. ' It is oval in form, and is attached by its circumference to a Fig. 126.^^ groove at the inner end of the auditory passage : but in the state in the fetus it is fitted into a separate osseous ring, the tympanic the fetus, bone. The membrane is placed very obliquely with respect situation; to the meatus, so that it forms with the floor of that passage an angle of 45 degrees, and the outer surface is directed downwards. Towards the auditory canal the surface is con- surfaces, cave ; but in the tympanum it is convex, and attached to its upper half is the handle of the malleus f) one of the tympanic ossicles. Structure. —This membrane is formed of three strata or it is formed structures, an external, internal, and middle. Two of these il^r^ epithe- are obtained from the common covering and lining of the ^^^^ body: thus, the outer one is part of the integuments of the meatus ; and the inner layer is 'derived from the mucous membrane of the tympanum. The middle stratum is formed fibrous of fibrous tissue, and is fixed to the groove in the bone as stratum, before said. From the centre, where it is connected with the handle of the malleus, fibres radiate externally towards the circumference; and near the margin at the inner sur- face is a band of stronger circular fibres, which diminishes gradually and ceases towards the middle. The Eustachian tube is the channel through which the Eustachian tympanic cavity communicates with the fauces. It is about an inch and a half in length, and is directed downwards and inwards to the pharynx. Like the meatus auditorius, it is partly osseous and partly cartilaginous in texture. The osseous part is rather more than half an inch in an osseous length, and is narrowed at the middle. Its opening in the ^'^^^'^' tympanum, and its situation with respect to the canal for the situation * Inner and onter views of the membrane and ossicles of the tym- panum : the right-hand figure shows the inner surface.—1. Membrana tympani. 2. Malleus. 3. Stapes. 4. Incus bone. . 3 F 2