DISSECTIO]<[ OF TPIE LARYNX. 172 siiVt^band ^^^^^ outer surface of tlie arytsenoid cartilage. This liga- ment contains chiefly white fibrous tissue in its interior, which is continuous with that in the arytseno-epigiottidean fold of mucous membrane. Mucous The mucous membrane of the la,rynx is derived from tha.t membrane, ij^yeg^ij^g ^he pharynx, and is prolonged to the lungs through the trachea. When entering the larynx it is stretched be- tween the epiglottis and the tip of the arytsenoid cartilage, forming the arytoeno-epiglottidean fold on each side of the laryngeal orifice : in this spot it is very loose, and the sub- mucous tissue abundant. In the larynx the membrane lines closely the cavity, sinks into the ventricle, and is pro- longed into the laryngeal pouch. On the tliyro-aryto3noid ligaments it is very thin and adherent, allowing these to be visible through it. Epithelium A columnar ciliated epithelium. covers the surface from the superior vocal cords and the root of the epiglottis, but has different it becomes flattened on the lower cord (Kheiner In the natuie. small part of the larynx above the line mentioned, the epithelium is of the laminar kind. Glands. Numerous racemose glands are connected with the mucous membrane of the larynx ; and the orifices v/ill be seen on the surface, especially at the posterior aspect of the epiglottis. In the edge of the arytseno-epigiottidean fold there is a little swelling occasioned by a mass of subjacent glands (arytsenoid), and a small fibro-cartilaginous body. None exist over the vocal cords. Dissection Dissection.—The course of the laryngeal nerves in the neck has been already traced, and their termination in the larynx may be dissected on the untouched side. For this purpose the other half of the thyroid is to be disarticulated from the cricoid cartilage ; and care should be taken of the recurrent nerve, which lies near the junction between the two. The trachea and larynx should be fastened down next with pins, and after the thyroid has been drawn away from the cricoid cartilage, the inferior laryngeal nerve can be traced over the side of the latter cartilage to the muscles of the lar^mx, and the mucous membrane of the pharynx. Afterwards the superior laryngeal is to be followed to the mucous membrane of the interior of the larynx, and to that of the pharynx. Two communications are to be found be- tween these nerves ; one is beneath the thyroid cartilage, the * In Kbllikex^s Manual of Human Microscopic Anatomy, Lond. 1860.