DISSECTION" OF THE LARYKX. 164 X:)Osterior third of the dorsum of the tongue. A few are found in front of the caliciform papillse, where they project into the muscular substance. Some ducts open on the sur- face, and others into the hollows around the large papillae, or even into the foramen caecum, glands at Opposite the papillae vallatae, at the margin of the tongue, the side, ^ small Collection of submucous glands. Under the tip and beneath of the tongue, on each side of the frcenum, is another collection of the same kind of glands imbedded in the mus- cular fibres, from which several ducts issue. Nerves from JS[erves.—There are three nerves distributed in each half three sources, of the tongue, viz., the gustatory, the hypoglossal, and the giosso-pharyngeal. gustatory, The gustatory nerce gives upwards filaments to the mus- cular substance, and to the two smallest sets of papillae, conical and fungiform ; it joins also the hypoglossal nerve. hypo-glos- 2. The hypoglossal nerve is spent in long slender fila- ments that are furnished to the muscular substance of the tongue. and glos&o- 3. The glosso-pliaryngecd nerve divides into two branches pharyngeal, j^q^^j. border of the tongue :—One turns to the dorsum, and ends in the mucous membrane behind the foramen caecum. The other passes beneath the side of the tongue, and divides into filaments that enter the muscular substance ; it supplies the papillae caliciformes, as well as the mucous membrane covering the lateral part of the tongue. Arteries and Yessels.—The arteries are derived chiefly from the lingual veins. artery of each side ; these, together with the veins, have been examined (p. 103). After supplying the muscular substance the vessels enter the papillae, and end in loops as before said. Section XVI. DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. Outline of The LARYNX is the upper dilated part of the air tube, in la-ynx. Vv^hich the voice is produced. It is constructed of several cartilages united together by ligamentous bands ; of muscles for the movement of the cartilages ; and of vessels and nerves. The whole is lined by mucous membrane. Dissection. Dissection.—Thie tongue may be removed from the larynx by cuttng through its root, but this is to be done without