561 FOKM OF THE LIYER. body. Its duct opens into the duodenum with that of the pancreas. Dissection.—Preparatory to examining the liver, the clean the vessels at the under surface should be dissected out. This y^sseis on the under proceeding will be facilitated by distending the vena cava surface, and vena portse with tow or cotton wool, and the gall- bladder with air through its duct. The several vessels and ducts are then to be defined, and the gall-bladder to be cleaned. On following outwards the left branch of the vena portse to the longitudinal or antero-posterior fissure, it will be found connected anteriorly with the remains of the umbilical vein, and posteriorly with the remains of the ductus venosus. The liver is of a red-brown colour and firm consistence ; Colour, and and weighs commonly in the adult from three to four pounds consistence; (fifty to sixty ounces). Transversely the gland measures weight, from ten to twelve inches ; from front to back between six measure- and seven inches ; and in thickness, at the right end, about three inches, but this last measurement must' vary with the spot examined. In shape the liver is somewhat square. It offers for Form and examination two surfaces, two borders, and two extremities ; and the under surface is further marked by lobes and fossse, and by fissures which contain vessels. The connections and the ligaments of the liver are de- scribed at pp. 517, and 524. Surfaces.—On the upper aspect the liver is convex : ex- Upper tending from front to back is the suspensory ligament, which smooth • divides the upper surface into two unequal parts, of which the right is the larger. The under surface is irregular, and under presents, as before said, lobes, fissures, and fossae. In con- Sre^ufar. tact with this surface is the gall-bladder ; and a longitudinal fissure divides it into a right and left lobe. Borders.—The anterior border is thin, and is marked by Anterior two notches: one is opposite the fissure on the under surface g^Yxd before alluded to, and the other is over the large end of the notched, gall-bladder. The posterior border is much thicker at the posterior is right than at the left end, and at the thickened part it touches the right kidney and the diaphragm. Opposite the ^^^^^g^^^ vertebral column is a hollow in this border ; and the vena ^ cava is partly imbedded in the liver on the right of the spine. Extremities.—The right extremity of the liver is thick and Extremities rounded, and the left is thin and flattened. Lohes,—On the under surface the liver is divided pri- Lobes are