89 TEMPORAL MUSCLE. Afterwards, to see the insertion and extent of origin of To see the the muscle, let the coronoid process be sawn oft by a cut ^^^sertion. passing from the centre of the sigmoid notch nearly to the last molar tooth, so as to include the whole of the insertion of the muscle ; and in thus proceeding let the student be careful of the buccal artery and nerve issuing from beneath it. Lastly, the coronoid process should be raised and the fat removed in order that the extent of the low^er fibres of the temporal muscle, and their contiguity to the external pterygoid close below them, may be observed. The temporal muscle has been before seen to occupy the Origin of upper part of the temporal fossa (p. 4) ; and by the previous ^-J^scle^^ dissection the lower part has been laid bare. The origin of the muscle is the following :—It occupies the whole of the temporal fossa, reaching up to the semicircular line on the side of the skull, and downwards to the crest on the outer aspect of the great wing of the sphenoid bone. From this extensive origin, as well as from the fascia over it, the fibres converge to a superficial tendon, which is inserted into the Insertion, edge and the inner surface of the coronoid process, as well as into a groove on the same surface which reaches from the apex to near the last molar tooth. Behind the posterior border of the tendon are the masseteric vessels and nerve, and in front of it the buccal vessels and nerve : the last nerve perforates occasionally some of the fibres of the muscle. Dissection.—For the display of the pterygoid muscles, it To dissect will be necessary to remove a piece of the ramus of the jaw. J^uscSs!^ But first, the greater part of the temporal muscle is to be detached from the subjacent bone with the handle of the scalpel, and the deep temporal vessels and nerves to be sought in its fibres. A piece of the ramus of the jaw is next to be removed, but without injuring the vessels and nerves in contact with its inner surface, by sawing across the bone close to the condyle, and again close above the dental fora- men ; and to make the dental vessels and nerve secure from injury, the handle of the scalpel may be inserted between them and the bone, and carried downwards to their entrance into the foramen. The masseteric artery and nerve are liable to be cut in sawing the bone ; should these be divided, turn them upwards for the present, and afterwards tie together the ends. After the loose piece of bone has been removed, and the subjacent parts freed from much fat, the pterygoid muscles will appear,—the external being directed outwards to the condyle of the jaw, and the internal.