DISSECTIOl^ OF THE FOREARM. 334 afterwards superficial. Extensor of first phalanx of thumb has a small origin. Insertion into the thumb. Extensor of second pha- Inax lies alone in the annular ligament. Insertion. Is lower than the preceding two. Indicator muscle. Origin. It is applied to the com- mon exten- sor, and inserted with it. Dissection of supinator brevis. above the end of the radius. Opposite the carpus the radial artery winds backwards beneath its tendon. The ulnar attachment is higher than the radial, and begins close below the insertion of the anconeus. Between the contiguous bor- ders of this muscle and the supinator brevis the posterior interosseous artery appears. The EXTENSOR PRiMi iNTERNODii POLLicis is the Smallest muscle of the deep layer, and its tendon accompanies that of the preceding extensor. Its origin, about one inch in width, is from the radius and the interosseous membrane, close below the attachment of the preceding muscle. Its fibres end in a tendon, which passes through the same space in the annular ligament as the extensor of the metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the metacarpal end of the first phalanx of the thumb. With respect to surrounding parts this muscle has the same connections as the preceding. The EXTENSOR SECUNDi INTERNODii POLLICIS varies in the extent of its bony attachment. It arises from the ulna for three inches, in a line with and below the extensor of the metacarpal bone; and from the interosseous membrane below for one inch ; but it may be connected oftentimes with the middle three fifths of the ulna. Its tendon of insertion after passing through a sheath in the annular ligament dis tinct from that of the other two extensor muscles, is directed along the dorsum of the thumb to be fixed to the base of the last phalanx. It is covered by the same muscles as the other extensors of the thumb, but it becomes superficial nearer the lower end of the radius. Below the annular ligament its tendon crosses the radial artery, and the tendons of the ex- tensors of the wrist. The EXTENSOR INDICTS (indicator muscle) arises from the; ulna for three or four inches, usually below the middle and internal to the preceding, though the attachment may be; carried upwards beyond the centre of the bone. Near the annular ligament the tendon becomes free from muscular fibres, and passing through the ligament with the commo extensor of the fingers, is applied to the external tendon of that muscle, and blends with it in the expansion on the firs phalanx of the fore finger. Until this muscle has passed the ligament it is covered by the superficial layer, but it is after- wards subaponeurotic. Dissection.—To lay bare the supinator brevis, it will be necessary to detach the anconeus from the external condyl of the humerus, and to cut through the supinator longus an the radial extensors of the wrist. After those muscles have.