DISSECTIOIT OF THE THOEAX. 392 Constitu- ents of the air tube in tlie lung. Pieces of cartilage. Fibrous and elastic tissue. Muscular fibres. Mucous membrane. Lobules, how formed. Lobes. Nature and form of the air cells: position on air tubes. Size. Structure. in shape, appearing to be spaces amongst the cells rather than tubes with continuous walls. Changes m the elements of the bronchi.—The modifica- tions which the elementary parts constructing the air tube undergo in the bronchial divisions and in the air cells are the following :—The pieces of cartilage, which are regularly arranged in a line in the trachea, become broken up in the smaller bronchial tubes, and are scattered over the wall as irregular fragments. Becoming thinner and smaller as the subdivision of the air tube proceeds, they at last disappear, and are absent from the terminal branches. The fibrous and elastic tissues of the bronchial tubes are continued even to the air cells ; but in the small cell-bearing branches, the bundles of elastic tissue are diffused, and the two textures, much diminished in strength, are blended together to form the parietal structure. The muscular fibres, which exist at the back of the trachea, are diffused over the inner surface of the bronchi, where they have an annular arrangement, and extend along the air tube beyond the limit of the pieces of cartilage, but they cease where the cells begin to be formed. The mucous memhrane becomes thinner as it ex- tends onwards along the air tube, and it is finally continued to the cells, where it is transparent. Its ciliated columnar epithelium is changed to scaly or pavemental in the air cells. Lobules and lobes.—A lobule is a cluster of air cells around a terminal branch of the air tube. Varying in size and shape, the lobule is invested by areolar tissue, and possesses its own ofiset of the air tube, as well as distinct branches of vessels and nerves. The larger masses of the lung, viz. lobes, are produced by the aggregation of the lobules. The air cells are the little sacs or dilatations in which the smallest branches of the air tube terminate. They are poly- hedral in form, except on the surface of the lung, and are distinct one from another, save through the channel of the air passage. The cells are clustered in groups around the terminal branches of the air tube, and are situate both along the sides and at the extremity of the air passage, with which they communicate by large orifices. In size these small cells vary from to y^yth of an inch, but they are larger on the surface and at the edges than in the deeper parts of the lung. The cell wall is formed by fibrous tissue, with some scattered fibres of elastic tissue, and is lined by a transparent mucous membrane possessing scaly epithe-