DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 716 Remove fascia. and take the fat from the ham. Seek the nerves in the space. Clean the vessels; fmd obtu- rator nerve. it sometimes opposite tlie knee, but usually at a spot lower down. Dissection. —The fascia over the ham is now to be removed without injuring the small sciatic nerve and the short saphe- nous vein, which are beneath it. A large quantity of fat may be next taken out of the space, and several vessels and nerves are to be looked for in it. After the ham has been cleaned, the sartorius and the gracilis are to be replaced in their natural position on the inner side. In the middle line the student will come upon the large internal popliteal nerve ; and nearer the outer side, on the external popliteal. Both nerves give branches ; and their offsets will be recognised more certainly by tracing them from above down along the trunk of the nerve, than by proceeding in the opposite direction. In fat bodies the small nerves to the knee joint are difficult to find. Under cover of the outer boundary, and deep in the space, is an articular nerve from the external jDopliteal, which sometimes arises from the great sciatic. In the bottom of the space are the popliteal vessels, and the vein is more superficial than the artery. The student is to seek an articular branch (superior), on each side, close above the condyle of the femur. Numerous other branches of the vessels to the muscles around, especially below, are to be cleaned. On the upper part of the artery, the branch of nerve from the obturator to the knee joint may be found. The ham; situation and extent. Bounda- ries ; and inner. The POPLITEAL SPACE, or the ham, is the hollow behind the knee. It allows of the free flexion of the joint; and in it the large vessels of the limb are contained. When dis- sected, this interval has the form of a lozenge, and extends upwards along one third of the femur, and downwards along one sixth of the tibia ; but in the natural condition of the parts the sides are approximated by the fascia of the limb, and the space is limited, apparently, almost to the region of the joint. This hollow (fig. 104) is situate between the attachments to the femur of muscles on the back of the limb, and the lateral boundaries are therefore formed in part by the muscles of the thigh (hamstrings), and in part by those of the leg. Thus, on the outer side, is the biceps muscle (*") as far as the joint; and the plantaris and the external head of the gastrocnemius (^) are beyond that spot. On the inner side, as low as the articulation, are the semimembranosus ('^) and semitendinosus (^) muscles, with the gracilis and sartorius