DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 194 under surface of the cerebellum, and ends externally by- anastomosing with the upper cerebellar artery. As the vessel lies by the side of the aperture of the fourth ventricle it gives a small offset to the choroid plexus of that cavity. Basilar The BASILAR ARTERY is the vessel resulting from the union artery. ^£ ^-j^e two vertebral arteries. It reaches from the lower to Extent and upper border of the pons, and ends at the last spot by dividing into two branches (posterior cerebral) for the cere- situation, brum. The vessel touches the basilar process of the occipital bone, from that circumstance receiving its name, and lies in the median groove of the pons. On each side of, and almost parallel to it is the sixth nerve. Branches: Branches.'—Besides the terminal branches, one to each side, mentioned above, the artery supplies transverse offsets to the pons and the under part of the cerebellum, and a large branch to the upper surface of the cerebellum, transverse 1. The transverse arteries of the pons are four or six to the pons, Q^asll twigs, which are named from their direction, and are distributed to the substance of the pons. One of these gives an offset to the internal auditory meatus along the seventh nerve. Resembling most this set of branches is the following and inferior ^^'^^ry, the inferior cerebellar (anterior) : this arises from the cerebellar, basilar trunk, and is directed outwards to the fore part of the under surface of the cerebellum, on which it is dis- tributed. Superior 2. The superior cerebellar artery is derived from the cerebellar, "basilar SO near its termination that it is often described as one of the final branches of that vessel. Its destination is to the upper surface of the cerebellum, to which it is directed backwards over the third nerve and the crus cerebri, but parallel with the fourth nerve. On the upper siu:face of the cerebellum the artery spreads out in branches, and its ramifications anastomose with the vessel of the opposite side, and with the inferior cerebellar artery. Some twigs of this vessel enter the piece of the pia mater (velum interpositum), which projects into the posterior part of the cerebrum. Posterior ^' posterior cerebral artery takes on each side a back- cerebral ward course, similar to that of the preceding artery, but artery, separated from it by the third nerve. The vessel is then j inclined to the inner side of the posterior lobe of the cere- brum, and divides into many branches. Some of these | supply the under part of the posterior lobe, whilst others turn upwards on both the outer and inner surfaces of the I back of the hemisphere, and anastomose with the other j cerebral arteries. Its branches are the following :—