169 mTERIOR OF THE LARYNX. The laryngeal space, reaches from the aperture behind Space partly the epiglottis to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. The upper part of the space, corresponding with the large interval between the alae of the thyroid cartilage, is much diminished in size by the thyro-arytsenoid muscles and the producing vocal cords, and only a narrow interval, the glottis, is left ^ at one spot. At the lower part however the space remains The rest of the same shape and size as the cricoid cartilage, and is ^^^^e- therefore circular, and larger than the narrow part before alluded to. The upper orifice of the larynx (fig. 21) will be seen by Upper ori- placing in contact the surfaces of the cut along the posterior part. It is triangular in shape, with the base in front and shape, the apex behind, and its sides are sloped obliquely down- wards in the antero-posterior direction. Its boundaries are,— and bouuda- the epiglottis in front, the arytasnoid muscle and cartilages behind, and the arytseno-epiglottidean fold of mucous mem- brane on each side. This aperture is closed by the epiglottis during deglutition. The glottis, or rima glottidis, is the interval between the Glottis, lower vocal cords ; ifc is placed on a level with the base of positiuu, the arytsenoid cartilages, and is the narrowest part of the laryngeal cavity. In the state of rest it is a narrow fissure enlarged a little and rounded behind ; but when dilated it is triangular in form, like the upper orifice, though its wider form, part is turned backwards to the aryt£enoid muscle. Its construc- sides are not constructed wholly of a yielding material, but partly of ligament and partly of cartilage :—thus, for about the two anterior thirds is the elastic vocal cord, whilst at the posterior third is the smooth inner surface of the arytsenoid cartilage. The size of the interval difters in the size differs, two sexes. In the male it measures from before back nearly an inch (less a line), and across at the base when dilated, about a third of the other measurement. In the female the dimensions will be less by tv/o or three lines. Alterations in the size and form affect the interval where changes in it is bounded by the cartilages, as well as where it is limited by the ligament. In the former part, the changes are in two ways- occasioned mostly by the rotation of the arytsenoid carti- lages around their axis ; but in the latter they are due to the lengthening or shortening of the bands, or to their yielding, as in the passage of an instrument. In the living Action of body the muscles are constantly producing alterations in the the muscles, fissure, some acting more immediately on the cartilages so as to be dilators or contractors of its base ; and others