263 CONTENTS OF THE AXILLA. fore finger may be introduced into the space for tlie purpose of ascertaining the depth, and the npper boundaries. The and base, base or widest part of the conically-shaped interval is turned downwards, and is closed by the thick aponeurosis that reaches from the anterior to the posterior fold. Contents of the space.—In the arm-pit are contained the fi^g^^^^^g^^ axillary vessels and the brachial plexus, with their branches ; some branches of the intercostal nerves ; together with lymphatic glands, and a large quantity of loose areolar tissue and fat. The position of all these, with reference to the boundaries of the space, is to be carefully studied. Fosition of the trunlcs of the vessels and nerves.—The Position large axillary vessels cross the outer portion of the space in passing from the neck to the upper limb. The part of the vessels that can be seen now, lies close to the humerus, reaching beyond the line of the anterior fold of the arm-pit, and connec- and is covered only by the common superficial layers, viz. axillary the skin, the fatty or superficial fascia, and the ^deep fascia, vessels. Behind the vessels are the subscapularis and the J^endons of the latissimus and teres muscles. To their outer side is the coraco-brachialis muscle. On looking into the arni- pit from below, the axillary vein will be found to lie to the thoracic side of the artery, and to conceal it. After the vein has been drawn aside, the arterial trunk will be seen to lie amongst some of the large nerves of the upper limb, having the median nerve to the outside ; the ulnar, and the small nerve of Wrisberg to the inner side ; the internal cutaneous generally in front of, and the musculo-spiral nerve behind it. This part of the artery gives branches to the side of the chest and the shoulder. The vein receives likewise some branches in this spot. Fosition of the branches of the vessels and nerves. —The Situation of several branches of the trunks of the vessels and nerves vessels and have the undermentioned position with respect to the ^^^^es. boundaries. Close to the anterior fold, and rather concealed by it, the long thoracic artery extends to the side of the chest ; and taking the same direction, thoisigh nearer the middle of the arm-pit, are a small artery and vein (external mammary). Extending along the posterior fold, within its lower margin and in contact with the edge of the subscapu- laris muscle, are the subscapular vessels and nerves ; and near the humeral end of the subscapularis the posterior circumflex vessels and nerve bend backwards beneath the large axillary trunks. On the inner boundary, near the upper part, are a few inconsiderable branches of the superior