ADDUCTOE MAGNUS. 701 ficial adductor muscles ; the other, whicli is larger, descends beneath the adductor brevis, and ends in this and the largest adductor. The origin of the internal circumflex is very variable. In Origin one body it may be from the femoral artery above the pro- ^^^'^^^l®- funda ; in another from the external iliac artery, or from the epigastric and circumflex iliac branches. The perforating branches are usually three in number, Three perfo- and pierce the tendons of some of the adductor muscles close brandties. to the linea aspera of the femur. They supply the muscles on the back and outer part of the thigh ; and anastomose above with branches of the internal iliac, as well as below with those of the popliteal artery. a. The first is opposite the lower border of the pectineus. First, and perforates the short and large adductors. h. The second branch arises lower down, and passes through Second ' ^ ^ gives nu- the same muscles as the preceding : from it a nutritious tritious vessel is supplied to the femur. artery. c. The third artery springs from the deep femoral trunk Third, below the adductor brevis, and is transmitted through the adductor magnus. d. The terminal branch of the profunda (fourth perfo- And the X- \ • XI, X ending IS a ratmg) pierces the adductor magnus. fourth. The PROFUNDA VEIN results from the union of the different Profunda branches corresponding with the offsets of its companion artery. It accompanies closely the artery of the same name, to which it is superficial. Sometimes the vein is suddenly is some- enlarged at the upper part by the union of a large trunk ^^^^p^opUteaL from the popliteal vein, which is directed upwards at first behind, and then through the adductor magnus. Dissection.—To bring into view the remaining muscles. Cut through viz., the adductor magnus, the obturator externus, and the brevis!°^ insertion of the psoas and iliacus, the adductor brevis is to be cut through, and the investing layer of areolar tissue is to be removed from each. After the adductor magnus has been learnt, it will be needful to detach a few of the upper fibres to examine the obturator externus. The ADDUCTOR MAGNUS is uarrow at the pelvis, and wide Adductor at the femur. Triangular in form its base is directed up- wards, whilst one side is attached to the femur and the other is free at the inner part of the thigh. The muscle arises from the part of the innominate bone origin is corresponding with the pubic arch, reaching from the lower ^^^^^^' border of the symphysis to the lower part of the ischial tuberosity. The anterior fibres diverge from their origin,