EXTENSORS OF THE THUMB. 333 more of the posterior surface of the ulna. The upper is close to fibres are nearly transverse, and are contiguous to the triceps, lowest in the triceps muscle. Beneath the anconeus are the supinator brevis muscle, and the recurrent interosseous vessels. Dissection.-—For the display of the deep muscles at the Dissection of back of the forearm, and of the posterior interosseous artery muscles^^ and nerve, some of the superficial muscles, viz. the extensor communis, extensor minimi digiti, and extensor carpi ulnaris must be detached from their origin and turned aside : some small branches of the nerve and artery entering the muscles may be divided. The loose tissue and fat are then to be removed from the muscles, and from the ramifications of the artery and nerve ; and a slender part of the nerve, which and interos- sinks beneath a muscle (extensor of the second phalanx of anTuerve.^^^ the thumb) about the middle of the forearm, should be care- fully dissected. The separation of the muscles should be made carefully, because the small muscles of the thumb, especially the highest two, are not always very distinct from each other. Deep layer of muscles.—In this layer there are five Five muscles small muscles, viz. one supinator of the forearm, and four J^y^^f ^^^f special extensor muscles of the thumb and forefinger. The highest muscle, surrounding partly the upper end of the radius, is the supinator brevis. Below this are the three muscles of the thumb in the following order :—the extensor of the metacarpal bone, the extensor of the first, and that of the second iDhalanx. On the ulna the indicator muscle is placed. The EXTENSOR OSSIS METACARPI POLLICIS (abductor pollicis Extensor longus) is the largest and highest of the extensor muscles of ^jf^ig^i^^s a the thumb, and is sometimes united with the supinator ^kie^attach- brevis, below which it lies. It arises from the posterior surface of the radius for three inches below the supinator brevis ; from a special impression of the ulna for the same distance, on the upper and outer part of the posterior surface; and from the intervening interosseous membrane. The tendon of the muscle is directed outwards over the radial extensors of the wrist, and through the outer compartment in the annular ligament, to be inserted mostly into the base Insertion of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, but also by a slip into the OS trapezium. The muscle is concealed at first by the common extensor The muscle of the fingers ; but it becomes cutaneous between the last deepfbut muscle and the extensors of the wrist about two inches