DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 41 others upwards to the inner angle of the orbit, to join the nasal and infra-trochlear branches of the ophthalmic nerve. The CERVico-FACiAL is smaller than the other trunk, and Lower supplies nerves to the lower part of the face and to the J^^^ upper part of the neck. Its highest branches join the lowest offsets of the temporo-facial nerve, and thus complete the network on the face. This trunk, whilst in the parotid, also gives gives twigs to the gland, and is united with the great ^^Jnches^ auricular nerve. The terminal branches distributed from it are, buccal, supra-maxillary, and infra-maxillary. The buccal branches pass forwards to the angle of the Buccal mouth, supplying the buccinator muscle, and they terminate corner of in the orbicularis oris. On the buccinator they join the mouth, branch of the inferior maxillary nerve to that muscle. The supra-maxillary brandies course inwards above the Supra- base of the lower jaw to the middle line of the chin, and between^^ supply the muscles and the integument between the chin and mouth. Beneath the depressor anguli oris the branches of the facial join offsets of the labial branch of the inferior dental nerve, in the same manner as the junction is made belovsT the orbit ; and the branches of the facial cross those of the fifth nerve in their course onwards to the middle line. The infra-maxillary bra^iches are placed below the jaw, Infra- and are distributed to the upper part of the neck. The ^/^J^^^^''^ anatomy of these nerves will be given with the dissection of the anterior triangle of the neck (p. 62). Section IV. DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. Directions.—The orbit should be dissected on that side on which the muscles of the face have been seen. Fosition. —-In the examination of the orbit the head is Position of placed in the same position as in the dissection of the sinuses of the base of the skull. Dissection.—For the display of the contents of the orbit. How to open it will be necessary to take away the bones forming the roof of the space in the following manner :—Two cuts should be made with a saw through the margin of the orbit, one being placed at the outer, the other near the inner angle of the cavity ; and these should be continued backwards with a chisel, along the roof of the orbit, nearly to the optic foramen. The piece of bone included in the incisions may