546 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEK feel, colour, folds, thickness; disposition at pylorus. On the sur- face are pits or alveoli; their size. shape, and appear- ance near pylorus. The texture made up of tubes of small size; Fig. 80.* closed at deep end; lined by epithelium: contain fluid. stomacli, but the appearances about to be described can be seen only in a recent sfcomach. This coat is a thickish layer, smooth and soft to the touch, which is of a pale rose colour in the healthy con- dition soon after death ; but in the empty state of the stomach the membrane is less vascular than during digestion. In infancy the natural redness is greater than in child- hood or old age. "When the stomach is contracted the membrane is thrown into numerous wavy lines or rugce, which are longitudinal towards the pylorus along the great curve. The thickness of the mucous membrane is greatest near the pylorus ; and at that spot it forms a fold, opposite the muscular ring, which assists in closing the opening. If this membrane and its submucous layer are removed from the pyloric part of the stomach, the ring of muscular fibres (sphincter of the pylorus) will be more perfectly seen. Microscopic structure of the mucous membrane. —With the aid of a lens, the surface of the mucous membrane, when well washed, will be seen to be marked all over by shallow depressions or al- veoli (fig. 80), which measure from 2-^oth to "2^o-th of an inch across. In the bot- tom of each depression are the apertures of minute tubes. Generally hexagonal or jDolygonal in outline, the hollows become larger and more elongated towards the small end of the stomach. Near the pylorus the margins of the alveoli project, and become irregular, so as to resemble rudimentary villi. By means of a thin section under the microscope, the membrane may be seen to be formed almost altogether of minute vertical tubes which lie side by side, and project into the submucous tissue. Measuring from ^-^y^th to 3-^0*^ of an inch across and ^^^-th to g^^th of an inch in length, the tubes are closed at the deep end ; but they open on the surface of the stomach both in the alveoli (fig. 80), and in the interalveolar spaces. For the most part they are straight, but towards the pylorus they become longer and somewhat sacculated at the deep extremity. In their interior they are lined by columnar epithelium, which becomes spheroidal in the lower part of the tube ; and filling them is a colourless fluid containing a granular material. Alveolar depressions of the raucous membrane of the stomach, magnified 32 diameters, with the minute tubes opening into them (Sprott Boyd).