DISSECTIOlSr OF THE ABDOMEK 512 and irregu- same view, there is not in ordinary cases any vessel in the tion of^^" way of the knife on the inner side of the ring. But in them. in some few instances (once in about eighty operations, Lawrence), the obturator artery takes its unusual course, lying in front of and on the inner side of the neck of the hernia, and will be before the knife in the division of the stricture. As this condition of the vessel cannot be recognised beforehand, the surgeon will best avoid the danger of wounding the artery by a cautious and sparing use of the knife. Section III. CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. Definition and con- tents. Dissection to open abdomen. Is largest cavity in the body. Is oval. Above is the diaphragm; below levator ani. In front and on sides. bones and muscles. Behind is spine. Depth is The abdominal cavity is the space included between the spinal column behind, and the visceral arches with their intervening muscles in front. It contains the digestive, urinary, and generative organs, with their vessels and nerves. Dissection. —To prepare ne cavity for examination, the remainder of the abdominal wall above the umbilicus is to be divided by a cut along the left side of the linea alba as far as the xiphoid cartilage. The resulting flaps may be thrown to the sides. Size and form,—This space is the largest in the body. It is oval in form with the ends of the oval upwards and downwards, so that it measures more in the vertical than the transverse direction ; and it is much wider superiorly than inferiorly. Boundaries.—Above it is limited by the diaphragm ; and below by the levatores ani, and the structures that close the outlet of the pelvis : both these boundaries are in part fleshy, and concave towards the contents of the cavity, so that the cavity will be diminished by their contraction and flattening. In front and on the sides the parietes are partly osseous and partly muscular :—thus towards the upper and lower limits is the bony framework of the body, viz. the ribs in one direction and the pelvis in the other; but in the centre are the muscles of the abdominal wall. Behind is the spinal column with the muscles contiguous to it, viz. the psoas and the quadratus lumborum. Alterations in size.—The dimensions of the cavity are