DISSECTIOIT OF THE BRAIK 238 fibres in cerebrum. Fibres of crus cerebri to the hemi- sphere. Dissection of them in the corpus striatum and optic thalamus. Fibres of peduncle diverge m corpus striatum and optic thalamus: hemispliere three principal sets of constituent fibres are recognised, viz., diverging, transverse, and longitudinal: the former are in part continuous with those of the spinal cord ; while the two latter join distant parts of the cerebrum, and are considered to be only connecting or commissural in their office. A. Feduncular or diverging fibres (fig. 38).—In the crus cerebri or the root of the cerebral hemisphere, two bundles of longitudinal fibres are collected ; these are separated, in part, by gray matter, and are derived from the medulla oblongata (p. 219). From this source the hemisphere may be said to spring. Dissection.—A complete systematic view of the diverging fibres cannot be given now, because the dissection necessary for that purpose would destroy parts that have not been yet seen. At this stage the chief purpose is to show the passage of the radiating fibres from the crus through the two cerebral ganglia. To trace the diverging fibres onwards, beyond the crus cerebri, and through the corpus striatum, the nucleus caudatus of that body which covers them should be scraped away ; and this dissection should be made on the side on which the striate body and the optic thalamus remain uncut. In this proceeding the pecten of Reil comes into view, viz., gray matter passing between the white fibres, and giving the appearance of the teeth of a comb. On taking away completely the prolonged part of the nucleus, others of the same set of fibres will be seen issuing from the outer side of the optic thalamus, and then radiating to the posterior and inferior lobes. After tracing those fibres, a part of the upper surface of the optic thalamus may be taken away at the posterior end, to denude an accessory bundle to the peduncular fibres, which comes beneath the corpora quadrigemina from the superior peduncle of the cerebellum. Their arrangement (fig. 38).—The diverging fibres radiate from the peduncle of the cerebrum to the surface of the hemisphere, passing in their course through the two cerebral ganglia (optic thalamus and corpus striatum), and they form a conically-shaped bundle, whose apex is below and base above. The fibres forming the free or fasciculated part of the peduncle pass mostly through the striate body ; whilst those on the opposite aspect of the peduncle, which form its teg- mentum (fig. 38, h), are transmitted chiefly through the