384 DISSECTION OF THE THOKAX. of opposite sides differ in length, and in their connections above the root of the lung. The right nerve is deeper at first in its position, and is also shorter and straighter than the left. As it enters the chest the nerve crosses behind the subclavian vein, but in front of the internal mammary artery; and it lies afterwards along the right side of the innominate vein and the superior cava till it comes in front of the root of the lung. The left nerve has the same position to vessels as the right when entering the cavity, but it is directed in front of the arch of the aorta to the root of the lung ; and, lower down, it makes a curve around the projecting heart. Before reaching the arch of the aorta the nerve is external to the left common carotid artery, and crosses the left vagus from without inwards, so as to be internal to that nerve on the arch. Branches,—Some small filaments are said to be furnished from the nerve to the pleura and pericardium ; and occa- sionally the nerve is joined, near the upper part, by a twig from the branch of the nerve to the subclavius muscle. Internal Mammary Artery.—A small part of this artery, which furnishes a branch to the diaphragm, has not yet been noticed. This part intervenes between the point of entrance of the artery into the chest (p. 74), and its course along the side of the sternum (p. 274). Lying beneath the first rib the vessel winds round the phrenic nerve and the innominate vein to reach the side of the sternum. It gives the following ofi"set:— The superior phrenic branch (comes nervi phrenici) is a very slender artery, which accompanies the phrenic nerve to the diaphragm, and is distributed to that muscle, anasto- mosing therein with the other arteries from the aorta, and with the musculo-phrenic branch of the internal mammary. The PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE is One of the three trunks on^botii*^"^^ constituting the eighth cranial nerve (p. 116). Like the phrenic nerve, it passes through the thorax in its course from the neck to the abdomen. In the lower part of the thorax the nerves of opposite sides have a similar course, for they pass behind the root of the lung, each on its own side, and along the oesophagus to the stomach. But above the root of the lung, the right and left nerves difler as much as the phrenic. Each supplies branches to the viscera, viz., to the heart, the windpipe and lungs, and the gullet, above tbT^^ "^^"^ right nerve is posterior to the left in its position. As root of the the nerve appears in the thorax, it Lies between the sub- lung. Eight nerve above root of lung. Left nerve above root is longer than right. Some off- sets. Internal mammary artery winds round aper ture of thorax, and gives phrenic branch. Vagus nerve 5 belov^ root of lung.