61 FRONT OF THE isTECK. During the period allotted for this position the student is to learn the posterior part of the neck. After the completion of the dissection of the back the student should take out the spinal cord, and then return to the examination of the front of the neck. The head and neck may be detached from the Then detach trunk, supposing the thorax to be finished, by dividing the spinal column between the second and third dorsal vertebrse. By this step the student obtains the clavicles and the first ribs, and preserves the natural position of the parts at the root of the neck : he should moreover be careful to take the arch of the aorta with its branches. FRONT OF THE NECK. Directio7is.—When the body has been turned again, the Examine dissector should continue with the remainder of the right side of the neck, but if the facial nerve has been before omitted, he should dissect first that nerve. Position.—After the part has been detached, the face is Position of to be turned from the dissector, and a small narrow block is to be placed beneath the neck. Further, the neck is to be made tense by means of hooks, the chin being well raised at the same time. Dissection.—An incision along the base of the jaw on the Dissection, right side (if it has not been made already) will readily allow the piece of integument in front of the sterno-mastoideus to be raised towards the middle line. Beneath the skin is the superficial fascia, containing the ramifications of the super- ficial cervical nerve. The nerve is to be followed forwards from its trunk, and the fat is to be taken away from the platysma muscle. Platysma Myoides.—The anterior part of the platysma, piatysma viz. from the sterno-mastoid muscle to the lower jaw, covers J^oJ^^^of"^ the greater portion of the anterior triangular space. The sterno- fibres have the same appearance in this as in the lower half of the muscle, but they are rather stronger. At the base of insertion the jaw they are inserted between the symphysis and the masseter muscle ; while other and more posterior fibres are continued over the face, joining the depressor anguli oris and risorius, as far as the fascia covering the parotid gland or the cheek bone. Below the chin the fibres of opposite Crossing of muscles cross for the distance of about an inch, but those ^^1®^- that are superficial do not belong always to the same side. This part of the muscle is subcutaneous, and conceals the following nerves :—