478 DISSECTIOI:^ OF THE ABDOMEK layer is thin and mem- branous. Special characters and dispo- sition. and ends on fascia lata. Attach- ments deter- mine course of effused urine. Fascia in the female. Cutaneous nerves are derived from two sources. Lateral cutaneous of the inter- costal. w^hich'divide into posterior and the fascia lata, Scarpa) is tiiinner and more membranous than the other, and is closely united to the tendon of the external oblique by fibrous bands, especially towards the linea alba. Like the subcutaneous part of the fascia, this layer is continued upwards on the abdomen, and inwards to the penis and the scrotum : in this last part it becomes very thin, and, having passed through the scrotum, reaches the perinseum, where it has attachments to the subjacent parts as before specified (p. 461). Towards the top of the limb it extends only a very short distance, and ends a little below Poupart's ligament by joining the fascia lata across the front of the thigh ; as it passes over the ligament it is closely joined to that band by a thin membrane. Should urine be effused from rupture of the urethra, it will be directed through the scrotum, by reason of the attach- ments of the superficial fascia in the perinseum, and upwards along the spermatic cord to the abdomen. From the dis- position of the deeper layer across the thigh, it is evident that the fluid cannot pass down the limb, though its progress over the front of the abdomen is uninterrupted. In the female the superficial fascia of the groin is separ- able into two layers, and the disposition of each is nearly the same as in the male ; but the part that is continued to the scrotum in the one sex, enters the labium in the other in its course to the perinseum. In the female the round ligament of the uterus is lost in the superficial fascia of the groin. Cutaneous Nerves.—The nerves in the superficial fascia are derived chiefly from the trunks of the lower intercostal nerves ; thus the lateral cutaneous branches along the side of the belly are ofisets from five or six of those nerves, whilst the anterior cutaneous branches along the front are the terminal parts of the same trunks. Two other cutaneous oflsets from the lumbar plexus, viz., the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal, appear at the lower part of the abdomen. The lateral cutaneous nerves of the abdomen emerge between the digitations of the external oblique muscle, in a line with the same set of nerves on the thorax ; and the lowest are the most posterior. As soon as they appear on the surface they divide, with the exception of the last, into an anterior and a posterior branch. a. The posterior hranches are small in size, and are directed backwards to the integuments over the latissimus dorsi muscle. h. The anterior branches run forwards in the superficial