591 EXTEENAL ILIAC VESSELS. ment, where the muscle lies beneath it. A chain of lym- phatic glands is placed along the front and the inner side of the artery. The position of the external iliac vein is not the same on and with its both sides. On the left side the vein is altogether internal to the artery ; whilst on the right side the vein, though internal in position on the pabes, afterwards lies beneath the arterial trunk. Branches.—Two large branches, epigastric and circumflex Two iliac, arise from the artery a few lines from its end, and are distributed to the wall of the abdomen (p. 498). Some small unnamed twigs are given by it to the psoas Unnamed muscle and the lymphatic glands. offbets. Peculiarities.—In position of usual hrancTies.—The epigastric and Origin circumflex branches may wander over the part of the artery between Poupart's ligament and one inch and a half, or two inches and a half above that band ; of the two the epigastric arises highest. ...,771 unusual branches.—Though the trunk of the vessel is com- Occasional monly free from any unusual branch, it may be occupied between ^I'ancUes the end and the middle by the obturator artery, or by the internal ^ ' circumflex artery of the thigh. Epigastric joined with obturator.—Frequently the epigastric fur- Epigastric nishes the obturator artery to the pelvis ; in such cases the small f^^d obtu- ^ communicating offset, which joins ordinarily the obturator, may be ^^^cr jomev^. supposed to be enlarged. Or the epigastric may arise from the obturator—this having its usual course. Iliac Vein's and Vena Cava.—The larger veins of the Veins of the abdomen correspond so closely with the arteries, both in excrprvena number, extent, and connections, as to render unnecessary vovtdd. the same detail in their description. Further, as the veins increase in size from the circumference towards the centre of the body, those most distant from the heart will be first described. The external iliac is a continilation of the femoral vein Anatomy of beneath Poupart's ligament. It has an extent like the n^ic.'^^'^^ artery of the same name, and ends by uniting with the vein from the pelvis (internal iliac) to form the common iliac vein. On the pubes it is inside its companion artery, and lies Position to between the psoas and pectineus muscles ; and the left vein remains internal to, but the right slips beneath its artery. The veins that open into it are the epigastric and circum- Branches, flex iliac (p. 499). The common iliac vein ascends by the side of its accom- j^P^^™J|^^ panying artery, the right almost vertically, and the left form cava, obliquely, to the right side of the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra (the upper part), where it blends v/ith its fellow in one trunk—the vena cava.