DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 402 several vessels and nerves which pass from the thorax to the Partly the neck, or in the opposite direction. In front on both sides both sides, there are the innominate vein and the phrenic and pneumo- and partly gastric nerves, but farther back the objects on the two sides are different :—on the right side the innominate artery and the cardiac nerves come next ; but on the left side are the left common carotid artery, the thoracic duct, and the left subclavian artery with the cardiac nerves. Lastly, altogether behind on both sides lie the cord of the sympathetic, the first intercostal nerve, and the superior intercostal artery. PAHIETES OF THE THORAX. Soft parts boundlDg the thorax. Intercostal muscles. Inner intercostal layer reaches angle of the rib. Connec- tions. Infracostal; position, attach- ments. Irregulari- ties. Outer intercostal layer extends back to head of the rib. Between the ribs, forming part of the wall of the thorax, are the two layers of intercostal muscles, with the inter- vening nerves and arteries. At the base of the thorax is the diaphragm, which bounds the cavity in this direction. Intercostal Muscles.—The anterior part of these muscles has been described with the wall of the thorax in the dissection of the upper limb (p. 273). The posterior part of the same muscles may be now examined from the inner side. The inner intercostal muscle is fixed to the inner margin of the ribs bounding the intercostal space. Beginning at the sternum, it reaches backwarks only to the angle of the ribs in the middle spaces, but higher and lower the mus- cular fibres approach nearer the spine. Where the muscle ceases, a thin fascia is continued to the spine. The inner surface is lined by the pleura, and the opposite surface is in contact with the intercostal nerve and vessels. The infracostal muscles are small slips of fleshy fibres, which are situate on the inner surface of the ribs, where the internal intercostals cease. Apparently part of the inner intercostals, they arise from the inner surface of one rib, and are attached to the upper border and internal surface of the rib next succeeding. They are uncertain in number, but there may be ten : they are smaller above than below, and the upper and lower may pass over more than one space. External intercostal muscle.—Between the posterior border of the internal muscle and the spine, when the fascia and the muscles above referred to have been removed, the external intercostal muscle will be seen. Its borders are fixed to the contiguous margins of two ribs, and its fibres cross the inner intercostal layer. Whilst this muscle extends backwards to