AKRANGEMEOT OF THE PERITONEUM. (509 The peritoneum does not envelop the viscera of the pelvis The perito- so completely as those of the upper part of the abdomen. After partly surrounding the upper portion of the rectum, covers and fixing it by a process—meso-rectum, the membrane can return-^^ be traced to the back of the bladder, where it projects for some way between this viscus and the rectum, forming the recto-vesical pouch. On each side of the rectum the serous membrane is arrested by the internal iliac artery, and gives rise to a fold, the posterior ligament of the bladder. Tracing ^j^^^*^^^ the peritoneum upwards on the bladder, the student will find it covering all the posterior surface ; and covering the posterior part of each lateral region as far forwards as the position of the obliterated hypogastric artery, but at that vessel it is reflected from the sides and summit of the bladder to the wall of the pelvis and abdomen. All the anterior surface of the bladder is therefore uncovered by peritoneum; lower part and when the bladder is distended it rises above the pubes ^^covered, so as to allow of its being punctured in front without injury to the serous membrane. The recto-vesical pouch (fig. 92, r') is wide behind, where Pouch be- lt corresponds with the interval between the iliac arteries, rectiim^^ and is narrow in front between the rectum and the bladder, and bladder. Anteriorly it extends as far as, or even into the interval Extent for- , . , . , , n 1 wards and • between the vesiculae semmales ; it ends usually about one distance inch and a half from the tip of the coccyx, but sometimes it reaches the prostate gland. The distance of the pouch from the anus is commonly about four inches ; but it will vary with the state of the bladder, for if this viscus is distended the peritoneum will be raised with it, and removed farther from the end of the intestine. False ligaments of the bladder.—Where the peritoneum is False Hga- reflected from the bladder to the wall of the cavity, it gives the bladder rise to the false ligaments of that viscus. These are five in ^^z.,— number :—two posterior, two lateral, and one superior. The posterior ligament (one on each side) reaches from two poste- the back of the pelvis to the bladder, and contains the obliterated hypogastric artery, the ureter, and some vessels and nerves. Between these is the hollow of the recto- vesical pouch. The lateral ligament, also one on a side, is a wide piece two lateral, of peritoneum, which is reflected from the side of the bladder to the iliac fossa and the wall of the pelvis. Along its line of attachment to the bladder is the obliterated hypogastric artery. The superior ligament is reflected from the upper part of