148 DISSECTIOI^ OF THE HEAD. body of ganglion brandies to To lay bare tlie nerves which descend to the palate, the the palate; posterior part of the mncons membrane detached from the septum of the nose, and that lining the nasal fossa behind the spongy bones, should be taken away. After this has been removed the palatine nerves and vessels will be seen through the thin translucent palate bone, and will be readily reached by breaking carefully through the bone with a chisel. Afterwards the tube of membrane that contains the vessels and nerves is to be opened; and these are to be followed down to the soft palate and roof of the mouth, and then onwards towards the incisor teeth. The palatine nerves will lead upwards to the ganglion, which is close to the body of the sphenoid bone. But to bring the ganglion fully into view, it will be necessary to saw through the over- hanging part of the sphenoid bone, to cut away pieces of the bones surrounding the hollow in which it lies, and to remove with care the enveloping fat and the periosteum. The ganglion may be then seen to be a small reddish-lookiDg body, from which the vidian nerve passes backwards. To trace backwards the vidian branch to the carotid plexus and the facial nerve, the^ student must lay open the canal which contains it in the root of the pterygoid process ; and in doing this he must be careful of a small pharyngeal branch of nerve and artery that are superficial to the vidian, and lie in the pterygo-palatine canal. At the back of the pterygoid canal, a small branch from the vidian to the carotid plexus is to be looked for. Lastly, the vidian nerve is to be followed into the skull by cutting away the point of the petrous part of the temporal bone, and the internal carotid artery ; and is to be pursued on the surface of the temporal bone, beneath the ganglion of the fifth nerve, to the hiatus Fallopii. Its junction with the facial nerve will be seen with the dissection of that nerv^e. It is rather a troublesome task to trace the nerve beyond the cartilage in the foramen lacerum (basis cranii). vidian nerve. Ganglion of Meclcel. Situation and connec- tion with spheno- palatine branches. The SPHENO-PALATiNE GANGLION (fig. 18, (ganglion of Meckel) occupies the spheno-maxillary fossa, close to the spheno-palatine foramen, and is connected with the branches of the superior maxillary nerve to the palate. The gan- glionic mass is somewhat triangular in form, and of a greyish colour. It is situate, for the most part, behind the branches of the superior maxillary nerve to the palate, so as to sur- round only part of their fibres ; and it is prolonged posteriorly into the vidian nerve. Meckel's ganglion resembles the