CUTANEOUS VESSELS. 7 supplied by spinal nerves, from both, their anterior and posterior primary branches, except close behind the ear, where there is an offset of the facial (seventh cranial) nerve. The supra-orbital nerve comes from the first trunk of the Sixpra-orbi- fifth nerve, and escapes from the orbit with its companion ' artery ; whilst beneath the occipito-frontalis muscle, the nerve gives offsets to this and the orbicularis palpebrarum, as well as to the pericranium. Finally, the nerve ends in two cutaneous branches, which ramify between the epicranial aponeurosis and the skin :—- * One of these (inner) soon pierces the occipito-frontalis, its two cuta- and reaches upwards as high as the parietal bone. The branches, other branch (outer) is of larger size, and perforating the muscle higher up, extends over the arch of the head to the OS occipitis. Whilst the nerve is escaping from the supra- orbital notch, it furnishes some palpebral filaments to the upper eyelid. In the orbicular muscle a communication is established between this and the facial nerve. At the inner angle of the orbit is the small supra-trochlear Supra-troch- branch of the same nerve. It turns upv^ards to the fore- ^^^^ branch, head close to the bone, and piercing the muscular fibres ends in the integument. Branches are given from it to the orbicularis and corrugator supercilii, and some palpebral twigs descend to the eyelid. The superficial temporal nerves are derived from the Temporal second and third trunks of the fifth, nerve, and from the > facial nerve. a. The temporal branch of the superior maxillary nerve from _ (second trunk of the fifth) is usually a slender twig, which maxillary; perforates the temporal aponeurosis about a finger's breadth above the zygoma. When become cutaneous, the nerve is distributed on the temple, and communicates with the facial nerve, also sometimes with the next. b. The auriculo-temporal branch of the inferior maxillary from nerve (third trunk of the fifth) is near the ear, and accom- J^a^iUary • panics the temporal artery to the top of the head. As soon as the nerve emerges from beneath the parotid gland, it divides into two terminal branches :—the more posterior is the smaller of the two, and supplies the attrahens aurem muscle and the integument above the ear ; the other branch ascends vertically to the top of the head, and is distributed over the epicranial and temporal aponeuroses. The nerve also furnishes an auricular branch (upper) to the anterior part of the ear, above the auditory meatus. c. The temporal branches of the facial nerve are directed and from facial nerve.