DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 296 Ulnar nerve changes its direction. Is without branch as far as the elbow. Internal cutaneous nerve be- neath the fascia. Nerve of Wrisber^ beneath the fascia. Musculo- cutaneous nerve in the arm. nmsculo-cutaneous nerve. Its connections with muscles are the same as those of the artery. The ulnar nerve (fig. 44) is derived from the inner cord of the brachial plexus, and in its progress to the inner side of the hand, it courses along the inner part of the arm, and enters the forearm at the inner side of the elbow joint. At first the nerve lies close to the inner side of the axillary, and then on the same side of the brachial artery as far as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis : but leaving the blood- vessel in the remainder of the arm, it is directed inwards through the inner intermuscular septum, and descends to the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle, being almost surrounded by the muscular fibres of the triceps. There is not any branch given from this nerve till it reaches the elbow joint, but a branch from the musculo-spiral to the triceps muscle accompanies it in the lower part of its course. The internal cutaneous is a tegumentary nerve of the fore- arm, to which it is prolonged like the others. Part of the nerve has been before seen (fig. 43), and only that small portion which is beneath the fascia of the limb, remains to be studied in the arm. Arising from the inner cord of the plexus, it is at first internal, and then becomes superficial to the humeral artery as far as the middle of the arm, where it divides into two branches that perforate the investing fascia (6 and 7, p. 289). Near the axilla it furnishes a small cutaneous offset (8) to the integuments of the arm, which pierces the fascia higher than the trunk of the nerve. The small internal cutaneous tierve (nerve of Wrisberg*) is distributed in the part of the arm now dissected (fig. 43). It arises with the preceding. Concealed at first by the axil- lary vein, it is directed inwards either beneath or through the vein, and joins with the intercosto-humeral nerve. Afterwards it lies along the inner part of the arm as far as the middle, where it perforates the fascia to end in the inte- gument (p. 289). The musculo-cutaneous nerve (nerv. perforans, Casserii) is so named from supplying both the muscles and integu- ment : it ends on the surface of the forearm, and supplies offsets to the flexors of the elbow joint whilst it is passing through the upper arm. It leaves the outer cord of the brachial plexus opposite the lower border of the pectoralis minor, and perforates directly the coraco-brachialis : it is * An account of this nerve is given by Klint. See a Paper in Lndwig's Scriptores Nevrologici Minores, torn. iii. "De Nervis Brachii."