DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 426 only along the dorsal vertebrae. Erector spiiise is single at its origin. Attach- ments. Divides at the last rib into two. Sacro- lumbalis is inserted into six lower ribs. Musculus accessorius is attached to six upper ribs. Cervicalis ascendens reaches the neck. Longissimus dorsi is inserted into ribs and transverse processes; is continued to the neck by the forming arches, whose concavity looks inwards, and are con- nected by tendinous processes to the spines of the dorsal vertebrae as low as the eighth or ninth, or only for half that extent. The ERECTOR SPiN^ is the muscular mass on the side of the spine in the lumbar region. It is single and pointed below ; and its cutaneous surface is covered near the sacrum by a wide and strong tendon, which is common to it and the multifidus spinse. The muscle arises below from the pos- terior fifth of the crest of the innominate bone at the inner aspect, and many fibres take origin from the superficial tendon : in the lumbar region the fibres are connected by fleshy and tendinous processes to the whole length of each transverse process, to the tubercle (process, accessorius) at the root of the same, and to the layer of the fascia lum- borum external to the processes. Opposite the last rib it divides into sacro-lumbalis and longissimus dorsi. The SACRO-LUMBALIS or iLio-cosTALis is the smallest of the two pieces resulting from the division of the erector spinse. Its fibres end in six or seven flat tendons, which are connected together by their margins, and are inserted into the angles of as many of the lower ribs. The muscle is continued onwards to the other ribs and the neck by a fleshy part, which constitutes the two under-mentioned muscles :— The musculus accessorius ad sacro-lumhalem begins by a series of tendinous and fleshy bundles on the angles of the lower six ribs, internal to the tendons of insertion of the outer part or ilio-costalis ; and it ends in tendons, which are inserted into the remaining ribs (upper six) in a line with the ilio-costalis, and into the posterior transverse process (dia- pophysis) of the seventh cervical vertebra. The cervicalis ascendens is a muscular slip that prolongs the accessorius into the neck. United with the preceding, this muscle is attached to four ribs (third, fourth, fifth, and sixth), and is inserted into the tips of the posterior trans- verse processes (diapophyses) of three cervical vertebrae, viz. sixth, fifth, fourth. The LONGISSIMUS dorsi gradually decreases in size as it ascends along the thorax. Internally the muscle is inserted into the tips of the transverse processes of all the dorsal vertebrae by a series of tendinous and fleshy bundles ; and externally it is attached to the ribs, except the first two or three, by thin fleshy processes between the tubercle and angle. Its muscular prolongation to the neck is inseparably