771 ARTICULATIOI^S OF THE METATARSUS. Articulations of the cu^teiform bones (fig. 116).— These bones are united to one another by cross bands, and the external one articulates with the os cuboides after a similar manner. The three cuneiform hones are connected together by short transverse dorsal bands between the upper surfaces. Similar plantar ligaments are wanting, except between the two innermost. There are also iit^e^^osseo^ts ligaments between the contiguous surfaces of the bones. Where the external cuneiform touches the cuboid bone the sur- faces are covered with cartilage, and are furnished with either a prolongation of the common tarsal synovial membrane, or a distinct synovial sac. A dorsal ligament passes transversely between the two, and a plantar ligament takes a similar direction. Between the bones there is also an interosseous ligament. \ The synovial membrane of the articulations of the cuneiform bones is common to many of the bones of the tarsus. Placed between the scaphoid and the three cuneiform bones, it sends one pro- longation forwards between the inner two cuneiforms to the joints of the second and third metatarsal bones ; another out- wards to the articulation of the scaphoid with the cuboid bone; and sometimes a third to the joint between the external cuneiform and the os cuboides. Articulation of the metatarsal bones.—The bases of the metatarsal bones, except the first, are connected toge- ther by dorsal, plantar, and interosseous ligaments ; and where their contiguous parts touch, they are covered with cartilage, and have ofi'sets of a synovial sac. The dorsal ligaments (fig. 116) are small transverse bands from the base of one metatarsal bone to the next, for the four outer toes. The plantar ligaments are similar to the dorsal (fig. 115). The interosseous ligaments are short, Union of the cuneiform boues one with another, and with the cuboid bone. Synovial sac. Union of the metatarsus by dorsal. plantar-, * The several ligamentous bands uniting the bones of the foot on the dorsal aspect are here delineated (Bourgery and Jacob). 3 D 2