122 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Superior ganglion is near skull, beneath carotid- Branches join it with spinal nerves, iv'ith cranial outside skull, and with some in the skull. Branches are sent to external carotid. forming plexuses and ganglia: to internal carotid, which joins cranial nerves : The SUPERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION is tlie largest of tlie cervical ganglia, and is of a reddish grey colour. Of a fusi- form shape, it is as long as two cervical vertebree (second and third), and is placed on the rectus capitis anticus major muscle, beneath the carotid artery and the cranial nerves in connection with it. Branches connect the ganglion with other nerves, and some are distributed to the bloodvessels, the pharynx, and the heart. Connecting branches unite the sympathetic with both the spinal and the cranial nerves. With the spinal nerves,—The four highest spinal nerves have branches of communication with the upper ganglion of the sympathetic ; but the branch to the fourth spinal nerve may come from the cord connecting the upper to the next ganglion. With the cranial nerves.—Near the skull the trunks of the vagus (its lower ganglion) and hypoglossal nerves are joined by branches of the sympathetic. In the foramen jugulare also, both the petrosal ganglion of the glosso- pharyngeal and the ganglion of the root of the vagus receive small filaments, one to each, from an ascending ofi'set of the ganglion. Communications are formed with other cranial nerves by means of the offset continued upwards from the ganglion into the carotid canal. Branches for Distribution.—This set of branches is more numerous than the preceding, and the nerves are of larger size. 1. Branches for bloodvessels (nervi moUes). These nerves proceed to the external carotid artery, and ramify on its branches, forming plexuses on the vessels, which have the same name as the arteries they surround. Some small ganglia are occasionally found on these ramifying branches. By means of the plexus on the facial artery the submaxillary ganglion communicates with the sympathetic ; and through the plexus on the internal maxillary artery the otic ganglion is supplied with a similar communication. With these nerves may be described another offset of the ganglion to the internal carotid artery and its branches. This offset ascends from the upper part of the ganglion, of which it appears to be a continuation. Near the skull it divides into two pieces, which enter the canal for the carotid artery, one on each side of that vessel, and are continued, forming secondary plexuses on the ophthalmic and cerebral arteries, to the eyeball and the pia mater of the brain. In