48 DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. Lachrymal branch supplies gland. Branch to the retina. Supra-orhi- tal branch. Ciliary arteries are posterior— two named long ciliary; and anterior ciliary. being outside the optic nerve, another above it, and a tbii^d set on its inner side. a. The lachrymal branch accompanies the nerve of the same name to the upper eyelid, where it ends by supplying that part, and anastomosing with the palpebral arches. It supplies branches, like the nerve, to the lachrymal gland and the conjunctiva ; and it anastomoses with the middle meningeal and deep temporal arteries, by offsets through the sphenoidal fissure and the outer wall of the orbit. b. The central artery of the retina is a very small branch that enters the optic nerve, and so reaches its destination in the eyeball. c. The supra-orbital branch arises beneath the levator palpebrse and superior rectus muscles ; it then takes the course of the nerve of the same name through the notch in the margin of the orbit, and ends in branches on the fore- head (p. 7). As it winds round the margin of the orbit it supplies the eyelid and the orbicularis muscle. d. The ciliary branches are uncertain in their place of origin, and enter the eyeball at both the front and back. The posterior ciliary are furnished from the ophthalmic trunk, or some of its branches. About twelve in number, they are continued to the eyeball around the optic nerve, and perforate the sclerotic coat at tlie posterior part. Two of this set (one on each side of the optic nerve) are named long ciliary ; they pierce the sclerotic farther out than the others, and are placed then along the middle of the eyeball. The anterior ciliary arteries arise from muscular branches of the ophthalmic, and pierce the sclerotic coat near the cornea : in the eyeball they anastomose with the posterior ciliary. See the dissection of the eyeball for the ending of these e. The muscular branches are furnished from the artery in its course, and those to the lower muscles often arise together. /. The ethmoidal branches are two, anterior and posterior, which pass through the two foramina in the inner wall of the orbit. The posterior is the smaller of the two, and furnishes small meningeal offsets (anterior) to the dura mater of the base of the skull. The anterior branch and anterior, accompanies the nasal nerve, and gives likewise small meningeal offsets to the dura mater. Both send branches to the nose through the apertures in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. Branches to ^. 1\iQ palpebral branches, one for each eyelid, generally Muscular. Eth moidal branches. Posterior