542 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEK and the outer part of the solar plexus, and it is further joined by one of the two smallest splanchnic nerves. The nerves surround the renal artery, having small ganglia on them, and enter the kidney with the vessels. An offset joins is given from the renal nerves to the spermatic plexus spermatic. ^3-^^^^ Coeliac The cceliac plexus is a direct continuation forwards of the plexus solar plexus around the artery named coeliac axis. It is further joined by the small splanchnic nerve on each side, and by an offset from the right pneumo-gastric nerve. The divides like plexus surrounds the artery, and divides, like the vessel, the artery, ^j^^q three parts—coronary, splenic, and hepatic, into coro- a. The coronary plexus accompanies the coronary artery ^^^^'y' to the upper border of the stomach which it supplies. It communicates with the left vagus nerve, and with the sym- pathetic on the pyloric artery, splenic, h. The splenic plexus surrounds the splenic artery, and is conducted by it to the substance of the spleen. It furnishes offsets, like the artery, to the pancreas, and to the stomach along the left gastro-epiploic artery. This plexus is joined by twigs from the left semilunar ganglion, and by an offset from the right pneumo-gastric nerve, and hepatic. c. The hepatic plexus is continued on the vena portse, the hepatic artery, and the bile duct to the transverse fissure of the liver, where it enters the liver and ramifies on the vessels. Whilst ascending in the small omentum, the plexus is joined on the left side by offsets from the left vagus and phrenic The last has nerves.—(Swan.) The following secondary plexuses are plexuses^ furnished around the branches of the hepatic artery, which have the same name and distribution as the vessels :— pyloric, A pyloric plexus accompanies the pyloric artery to the upper border of the stomach. du?denal There are two other plexuses—gastro-epiploic (right) and epiploic,' pancreatico-duodenal^ corresponding with the branches of the pancreatic, artery : the former meets nerves from the splenic plexus, and the latter communicates with the superior mesenteric plexus on the end of the duodenum, and cystic. A cystic plexus is distributed to the gall bladder with the artery. The remaining offsets of the solar plexus, viz., superior and inferior mesenteric, aortic, and spermatic, have been already described (p. 530) ; but the derivation of the superior mesenteric and aortic plexuses from the epigastric centre can be now seen. Ending Ending of the splanchnic nerves—The large nerve perfo-