DISSECTION" OF THE LEG. 762 oblique : its attach- ments ; posterior is vertical. Their use i slight flexion and extension. In extreme flexion and extension. In rotation. In keeping- the bones in a line. Fig. 112/ is smaller than the poBterior. Inferiorly it is attached to the inner lip of the hollow in front of the spine of the tibia, close to the inner articular surface ; and superiorly it is inserted into the back part of the outer condyle of the femur, on the inner surface, and slightly into the interval between the condyles. h. The 2^osteTior ligament (") is almost vertical between the bones at the back of the joint. By the lower end it is fixed to the back of the depres- sion behind the spine of the tibia, near the margin of the bone ; and by the upper extremity it is inserted into the fore part of the hollow between the condyles of the femur, and into the contiguous surface of the inner con- dyle. The use of these ligaments in the movements of the joint, after the other ligaments have been cut through, should be studied. When the joint is only slightly bent, the posterior liga- ment is stretched ; and when it is straightened again the anterior band is made tense. But in greater flexion and extension both ligaments will be called into play to keep the one articular surface on the other. Thus in extreme flexion the anterior band will be stretched after the posterior, because there is an attempt to separate the articular sur- faces backwards at the same time. So in extreme exten- sion the posterior comes into action after the anterior liga- ment, to prevent the femur being carried forwards. In rotation inwards of the tibia the ligaments are crossed tightly, and the movement is arrested by the stretching of the anterior fasciculus ; but in rotation outwards of the bone the ligaments untwist, becoming almost parallel, so as to allow it to be turned back foremost. As long as both ligaments are whole the femur cannot be dislodged from the tibia. If the anterior be cut the femur can be displaced backwards: and if the posterior is divided, ^ Internal ligaments of the knee joint. — 6. Anterior crucial. 7. Posterior crucial ligament. 8. Internal semilunar. 9. External semilunar fibro-cartilage. 10. Transverse ligament. 11. Anterior ligament to the upper peroneo-tibial articulation.