117 GLOSSO-PHAEYNGEAL NERVE. between the internal jugular vein and. tlie internal and. courses to common carotid arteries, and enters that cavity, on the thorax, right side, by crossing over the subclavian artery. Ganglia.—The ganglion of the root (gang, superius), 7, is Onegang- of a greyish colour, and in texture is like the ganglion on the large root of the fifth nerve. The small branches of the vagus in the foramen jugulare come from this ganglion. The ganglion of the trunk (gang, inferius), 9, is cylindrical in form, is reddish in colour, and is nearly an inch in another length. It communicates with the hypoglossal, spinal, and ^ sympathetic nerves. All the intrinsic fibres of the trunk of the nerve are surrounded by the ganglionic substance, but those derived from the spinal accessory nerve, 16, pass by the ganglion without being inclosed in it. The same arrangement may be made of the branches of Branches the pneumo-gastric in the neck, as was adopted for the branches of the glosso-pharyngeal, viz. into those uniting it with other nerves, and those that are distributed to the parts around. Connecting Branches.—Branches of communication arise to unite with from both the ganglion of the root and the ganglion of the ^^^^^^ trunk of the nerve. "^a. From the ganglion of the root.—One or two short spinal acces- filaments unite this ganglion with the spinal accessory nerve, pathetic^" and a branch of the sympathetic nerve in the neck enters the giosso- ganglion. Occasionally there is an ofi'set, 10, to join the ^ ' lower (petrosal) ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Its chief branch is the following :— The auricular branch, 8, traverses the substance of the auricular temporal bone, and reaches the outer ear, on which it is ^^'^^^^^' distributed. This little nerve arises from the ganglion, and crosses the jugular fossa to enter an aperture near the root of the styloid process. Its farther course to the outer ear wall be described with the anatomy of the ear. From the ganglion of the trunk.—This ganglion is with ninth, connected intimately with the hypo-glossal nerve. Other thetk;!"spinal branches pass between it and the upper ganglion of the nerves, sympathetic, 15, and between it and the loop of the first two cervical nerves. Branches for Distribution.—These cervical branches arise Branches to from the inner side of the nerve, and are directed to the ^^^^^^ middle line of the body, to supply the pharynx, the larynx, and the heart. 1. The pharyngeal branch, 13, is an offset from the upper pharynx part of the ganglion of the trunk of the pneumo-gastric, and