329 THE INTEROSSEI MUSCLES. of tlie metacarpal bone of the index finger, and from the upper half of that of the thumb ; and it is inserted into the radial side of the first phalanx of the fore finger. By the palmar surface the muscle is in contact with the adductor and flexor brevis poUicis ; and by the opposite surface it is is perforated subcutaneous. The radial artery perforates it to enter the artery.^ palm. JDissection.—The attachments of the annular ligament to Dissection. the carpal bones on each side may be next dissected out. To define the ligament the small muscles of the thumb and little finger must be taken from it. Before reading the description of this band, the ends of the cut ligament should be placed in apposition. The anterior annular ligament is a firm ligamentous band Annular which arches over and binds down the flexor tendons of the f^-o^^ Qf fingers. It is attached externally to the front of the os wrist, scaphoides, and to the fore and inner part, as well as the ridge of the os trapezium ; and internally to the unciform and pisiform bones. By its upper border it is connected with the aponeurosis of the forearm ; and by its anterior surface it joins the palmar fascia. On the cutaneous surface lie the palmaris longus and the ulnar artery and nerve. JDissection.—IN'ext follow the tendon of the flexor carpi Dissection, radialis to its insertion, and dissect out more fully the attachment of the biceps and brachialis anticus muscles to the bones of the forearm. The tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, in passing from insertion of the forearm to the hand, lies in the groove in the os trape- flexor^carpi zium between the attachments of the annular ligament to the radialis. bone, but outside the arch of that ligament : here it is bound down by a fibrous sheath lined by a synovial membrane. The tendon is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bones of the index and middle fingers. The insertion of the brachialis anticus takes place by a insertion of broad thick tendon, about an inch in extent, which is fixed ^ntkUf into the anterior rough part of the coronoid process of the ulna, and into the contiguous part of the bone. Insertion of the biceps.—The tendon of the biceps is insertion of inserted into the inner part of the tubercle of the radius, and ^^^^^^^^^ • slightly into the bone behind it. A bursa is found between it and the fore part of the tubercle. ]N"ear its attachment | the tendon changes the direction of its surfaces ; the anterior j surface becoming external, and the opposite. The supinator brevis muscle partly surrounds the insertion.