49 THE OPHTHALMIC ARTEEY. arise togetlier opposite the pulley of the superior oblique muscle, and then separate from one another. The arches they form have been dissected with the eyelids (p. 35). h. The nasal is one of the last branches of the ophthalmic, Nasal and is distributed to the side of the nose, on which it anastomoses with the nasal and angular branches of the facial artery. i. The frontal branch turns round the margin of the Frontal orbit, and is distributed on the forehead (p. 5). The ophthalmic vein corresponds in its course and most of OpMhalmic its branches with the artery of the same name. It begins ^^^^ at the inner angle of the orbit, where it joins the facial vein, and receives tributary branches in its progress to the back of the cavity. Posteriorly it leaves the artery, and escapes ends in ca- from the orbit by the sphenoidal fissure, between the heads Ifnus"^ of the external rectus. It ends in the cavernous sinus. The OPTIC NERVE can be now seen to extend from the Optic nerve optic foramen to the back of the eyeball. As the nerve enters the foramen, it is surrounded by the recti muscles ; and beyond that spot, as far as the eyeball, the ciliary arteries and nerves entwine around it. It terminates in the ends in retinal expansion of the eye. retma. Dissection.—Take away the ophthalmic artery, and divide Dissection, the optic nerve about its middle, together with the small ciliary vessels and nerves. Turn forwards the eyeball, and fasten it in that position with hooks. On removing some fat, the three recti muscles—inner, outer, and inferior, and the lower branch of the third nerve will appear. The lower branch of the third nerve supplies three muscles Lower in the orbit. "Whilst entering this space between the heads thfr?ne*i4e of the external rectus, it lies below the nasal, and rather muscular, above the sixth nerve. Almost immediately afterwards the nerve divides into three branches. One of these enters the internal rectus ; another the inferior rectus ; and the third, the longest and most external branch, is continued forwards to the inferior oblique muscle which it enters at the hinder border. Soon after its origin the last nerve communicates and joins with the lenticular ganglion, forming the short root of that g^gifon!' body, and furnishes two or more filaments to the inferior rectus. The SIXTH NERVE enters the orbit between the heads of Sixth nerve the external rectus, below the other nerves in that interval, temal and above the ophthalmic vein. In the orbit it is distributed rectus, to the external rectus muscle. Recti Muscles.—The internal, inferior, and external straight