160 DISSECTIOISr OF THE TONGUE. its septum. Sephim.—This fibrous structure forms a vertical parti- tion between the two halves of the tongue, and extends from the base to the apex. It is stronger posteriorly than anteriorly, and is connected behind with the hyo-glossal membrane. To each side the transverse muscle is connected, Fibro-carti- Its disposition may be better seen subsequently on a ver- tical section. In some instances a small fibro-cartilage about a quarter of an inch deep and of the same length exists in the septum. Hyo-glossal The hyo-glossal memhrane is a thin, but strong fibrous lamina, which attaches the root of the tongue to the upper border of the body of the hyoid bone. On its under or anterior surface some of the hinder fibres of the genio-hyo- glossi are collected, as if this was their aponeurosis to attach them to the os hyoides. Sub-mucous The suhmucous fibrous or aponeurotic stratum of the aponeurosis, tongue invests the organ, and is continued into the sheaths of the muscles. Over the posterior third of the dorsum its strength is greater than elsewhere ; and in front of the epi- glottis it forms bands in the folds of the mucous membrane in this position. Into it the muscular fibres are inserted, which end on the surface of the tongue. Muscles in MuscLES. —Each half of the tongue is made up of ex- each half, trinsic and intrinsic muscles. The former are distinguished by having only their termination in the tongue ; and the Two kinds, latter, by having both origin and insertion within the organ,— that is to say, springing from one part and ending at another. Extrinsic; A. The extrinsic muscles are the following, viz., palato and stylo-glossus, hyo and genio-hyo-glossus, and pharyngeo- glossus. Only the lingual endings of these are now to be noticed, for the origin from the bones around have been before made out. Dissection Dissection.—After the tongue has been firmly fastened on its left side, the extrinsic muscles may be dissected on the palato stylo- right half. Three of these muscles, viz., palato, stylo, and gioisus*^" hyo-glossus, come together to the side of the tongue, at the junction of the middle and posterior third ; and, to follow their radiating fibres forwards, it will be necessary to remove the mucous membrane from the dorsum and the under sur- face, between the tip and the point at which they come in contact with the border. On the dorsum of the tongue a thin muscular stratum, which is superficial to those fibres, is to be taken away with the mucous membrane ; and beneath the tip a junction between the stylo-glossus muscles of opposite sides is to be traced.