DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION". 92 Capsule. Dissection. Fibro-earti- lage; and attach- ments. Two syno- vial mem- branes. Stylo-maxil- lary liga- ment. Dissection. Fig. 13.^ Besides these ligaments there are some scattered fibres surrounding the articulation, which serve as a capsular membrane. Dissection.—After the external lateral ligament and the capsule of the joint have been removed, an interarticular fibre-cartilage, with a synovial membrane above and below it, will be exposed. The interarticular fihro-cartilage (fig. 13, is adapted to the surfaces of the bones. It is elongated transversely, is thinner in the centre than at the margins, and an aperture is sometimes present in the middle. The upper surface fits into the glenoid fossa, being concavo-convex from before backwards, and the lower is moulded to the con- vexity of the condyle of the jaw. Externally it is connected with the capsule and the ex- ternal lateral ligament ; and in front the external pterygoid muscle is attached to it. Two synovial membranes are present in the articulation— one above, and one below the fibro-cartilage. The lower one is the smaller of the two ; and, besides investing the interior of the capsule, it extends from this to the surface of the jaw. Another structure—the stylo-maxillary ligament (fig. 13, is described as a uniting band to this articulation. It is a process of the deep cervical fascia, which extends from the styloid process to the hinder part of the ramus of the jaw. The piece of fascia here referred to gives attachment to the stylo-glossus muscle, and separates the parotid and submaxillary glands. Dissection.—The condyle of the jaw is next to be dis- articulated, still keeping the external pterygoid muscle uncut ; and it with the attached muscle is to be drawn forwards so as to see the fifth nerve beneath ; whilst cutting through the articular ligaments the dissector must be careful * A view of the interior of the compound temporo-inaxillary joint (Bourgery and Jacob). 3. Stylo-maxillary ligament. 4. Interarticular fibro-cartilage—the dark intervals above and below are lined by the synovial membranes.