DISSECTION OF THE NECK. the branches joining it above may form a kind of plexus over the upper part of the common arterial trunk. In connection, more or less intimate, with the large ves- sels, are the following nerves :—in front of the sheath is the descending branch of the hypo-glossal nerve ; within the sheath, between the carotid artery and jugular vein, is the pneumo-gastric nerve ; and behind the sheath is the sympa- thetic nerve. Crossing over the vessels, so as to form an arch below the digastric muscle, is the hypo-glossal nerve, which gives downwards its branch (descend ens noni) most commonly in front of the sheath. Along the outer part of the vessels the spinal accessory nerve extends for a short distance, till it pierces the sterno-mastoid muscle. And on the inner side of the internal carotid artery, opposite the hyoid bone, the superior laryngeal nerve appears ; whilst a little lower down, with the descending branches of the thy- roid artery, is the external laryngeal branch of that nerve. Appearing also on the inner side of the two carotid arteries, close to the base of the space, is the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, which courses forwards between them. Two glandular bodies, the submaxillary, 11, and thyroid, 12, have their seat in this triangular space of the neck. Altogether in front of the vessels, and partly concealed by the jaw, is the submaxillary gland ; and beneath it on the surface of the mylo-hyoideus is the small nerve to that muscle, with the submental artery. By the side of the thyroid cartilage, between it and the common carotid artery, is the thyroid body, which lies beneath the sterno-thyroid muscle : in the female this body is much more strongly marked than in the male. At the base of the space, if the parts were not disturbed, would be the parotid gland, which is wedged into the hollow between the jaw and the mastoid process, and projects some- what below the level of the jaw. Its connections have been noticed at p. 30. Directions.—The student has to proceed next with the examination of the individual parts that have been referred to in connection with the triangular spaces. Anterior jugular vein.—This small vein occupies the middle line of the neck, and its size is dependent upon the degree of development of the external jugular. Beginning in some small branches below the chin, the vein descends to the sternum, and then bends outwards beneath the sterno- mastoid muscle, to open into the subclavian vein, or the