ARTERIES OF THE BRAIN. 193 sulcus,—the fissure of Sylvius ; but the limit between the middle and the posterior is indicated by a line on a level with the anterior part of the small brain. In the centre of the cerebrum, between the hemispheres and in front of the pons, are several small bodies that will be afterwards enumerated. Arteries of the Brain.—The brain is supplied with Arteries of blood by the two vertebral, and the two internal carotid arteries. The vertebral artery is a branch of the subclavian Vertebral trunk, and enters the spinal canal beneath the membrane between the atlas and the occipital bone. Ascending then ends iu to the brain round the side of the medulla oblongata, the artery enters the skull through the foramen magnum, and is blended with its fellow in one trunk (basilar) at the lower border of the pons. As the vessel Avinds round the upper winds round part of the cord, it lies between the roots of the hypoglossal ^^^^11^. and suboccipital nerves ; but it is afterwards internal to the former. Branches.—Between its entrance into the spinal canal Branches and its termination, each artery furnishes offsets to the spinal cord, the dura mater, and the cerebellum. 1. The posterior spinal branch is of inconsiderable size, to spinal and arises opposite the posterior part of the medulla : it descends along the side of the cord, behind the nerves, anterior and anastomosing with its fellow, and with branches that enter by the intervertebral foramina. 2. The anterior spinal branch is as small as the preceding, posterior; and springs from the artery opposite the fro at of the spinal cord. This small branch joins the corresponding twig of the opposite side, and the resulting vessel is continued along the middle of the cord on its anterior aspect. 3. The posterior meningeal artery leaves the vertebral of dura trunk opposite the foramen magnum, and ramifies in the dura mater lining the fossae of the occipital bone. 4. The inferior cerebellar artery (posterior) is distributed Branch to to the under surface of the cerebellum. Taking origin from part^of^^^ the end of the vertebral, or from the basilar artery, this cerebellum, branch winds backwards round the side of the medulla be- tween the pneumo-gastric and spinal accessory nerves, and enters the median fissure of the cerebellum. Directed on- wards along the fissure the artery reaches the upper surface of the small brain, and there anastomoses with the superior cerebellar artery. A branch of this vessel ramifies over the o