DISSECTION OF THE LEG. In the leg the tibia and fibula are super- ficial. Behind is calf of the leg, tendo Achillis, and tibial ves- sels. Line of anterior tibial ves- sels. Ankle joint. Inner border of the foot. Outer border. Dorsal artery. Position c the part. Take away the skin. Prominences on the surface.—The bones of the leg can be traced beneath the skin from the knee to the ankle joint. On the inner side of the limb is the tibia, which is subcu- taneous in all its extent, and is limited in front and behind by a sharp ridge. Above, it presents in front a prominent tubercle into which the ligament of the patella is inserted ; and below, it ends on the inner side of the ankle in the internal maleolar projection. On the outer side of the leg the lower half of the fibula may be felt with ease, but the upper half vdth more difficulty in consequence of the pro- minence of the muscles of the calf. The head of this bone may be recognised below the knee ; and the lower end forms the projection (malleolus) on the outer side of the ankle joint. On the posterior aspect of the leg is the projection of the calf : this is formed by the superficial muscles, and from it descends the firm band of the tendo Achillis, by which those muscles are connected with the heel. Between the tendon and the edge of the tibia, but nearest the former, is the superficial part of the posterior tibial artery. In front between the tibia and fibula are the flexor muscles of the foot and the extensors of the toes, amongst which the anterior tibial artery lies deeply; the position of the vessel will be indicated by a line from the centre of the ankle joint to the inner side of the head of the fibula. On the sides of the ankle joint are the prominent malleoli ; and when the joint is extended, the head of the astragalus projects below the border of the tibia. At the inner border of the foot, about an inch in front of the internal malleolus, is the prominent scaphoid bone pointing out the spot at which an amputation (Chopart's) is practised ; whilst farther forwards, by about one inch and a half, is a slight depression that marks the articulation between the internal cuneiform bone and the metatarsal bone of the great toe. About the centre of the outer border of the foot is the eminence of the tarsal end of the fifth metatarsal bone. A line over the dorsum of the foot, from the centre of the ankle joint to the interval between the inner two toes, will be over the position of the main artery. Position.—For the dissection of the back of the leg the limb is to be placed on its front, with the foot over the side of the dissecting-table, and the muscles of the calf are to be put on the stretch by fastening the foot. Dissection.—For the removal of the skin, one cut maybe made along the middle of the leg to the sole of the foot, where a transverse incision is to be carried over the heel.