316 DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. interosseous membrane and are concealed by the muscles, are to be traced out. Deep layer of muscles.—Only three muscles are pre- sent in the deep layer on the front of the forearm. One lies on the ulna, and is the deep flexor of the fingers ; another covers the radius, viz. the long flexor of the thumb; and the third is the pronator quadratus, which is beneath the other two near the lower end of the bones. The FLEXOR DIGITORUM PROFUNDUS VCl PERFORANS arisCS from the anterior and inner surfaces of the ulna for three fourths of the length of the bone ; from the inner half of the interosseous ligament for the same distance ; and from an aponeurosis common to this muscle and the flexor carpi ulnaris. The muscle has a thick fleshy belly, and ends in four tendons, which pass beneath the annular ligament, being still united together, and are inserted into the last phalanges of the fingers. The cutaneous surface of the muscle is in contact with the ulnar nerve and vessels, with the superficial flexor of the fingers, and with the flexor carpi ulnaris. The deep surface rests on the ulna and the pronator quadratus muscle. The outer border touches the flexor poUicis longus and the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve ; and the inner is con- nected by the aponeurosis to the posterior margin of the ulna. Long flexor The FLEXOR LONGUS poLLicis arises from the upper two of thumb. i]^q hollowed anterior surface of the radius, as low as the pronator quadratus ; from the outer part of the in- Origin. terosseous membrane; and by a round distinct slip from the coronoid process of the ulna, internal to the attachment of the brachialis anticus. The fleshy fibres descend to a tendon, which is continued beneath the annular ligament, and is Insertion, inserted into the last phalanx of the thumb. On the cuta- Parts above neous surface of the muscle is the flexor sublimis, together and beneath with the radial vessels for a short distance inferiorly. The muscle lies on the radius and the pronator quadratus. To the inner side is the flexor profundus digitorum. Pronator The PRONATOR QUADRATUS is a flat muscle, and lies on the ^s'^ouTower l^^er fourth of the bones of the forearm. The muscle arises end of bones from the anterior and inner surfaces of the ulna, where it is o oieami, g^j^g^j^g^-j^ ^^iQ widest, and is inserted into the fore part of is deep in the radius for about two inches. The anterior surface is position. covered by the tendons of the flexor muscles of the fingers, and by the radial artery ; and the posterior surface rests on the radius and ulna with the intervening membrane, and on the interosseous vessels and nerve. Three bqus- cles in the deep layer. Deep flexor of fingers, Origin. Is attached to last pha- Parts around it.