DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 50 muscles of eyeball. Origin. Insertion. Dissect infe- rior oblique. Lower oblique muscle. Origin. Course. Insertion. Connections. Seek tensor tarsi. rectus muscles are placed with reference to the eyeball as their names express. They arise posteriorly from the circumference of the optic foramen by a common attachment, which partly surrounds the optic nerve. But the external rectus differs from the others in having two heads; an upper which joins the superior rectus ; and a lower and larger one that blends with the inferior rectus, and is attached to a bony point on the lower border of the sphenoidal fissure, near to the inner end : some muscular fibres are also con- nected with a tendinous band between the heads. The muscles are directed forwards, and have a tendinous inser- tion into the ball of the eye, about a quarter of an inch from the cornea. Between the heads of origin of the external rectus, the different nerves before mentioned enter the orbit, viz. the third, the nasal branch of the fifth, and the sixth, together with the ophthalmic vein. Dissection.—By opening the optic foramen, the attach- ment of the recti muscles will be more fully seen. To dissect out the inferior oblique muscle, let the eyeball be replaced in its natural position ; then by taking away the conjunctival lining of the lower eyelid near the inner part of the orbit, and removing some fat, the muscle will appear beneath the eyeball, bending from the inner to the outer side. The INFERIOE, OBLIQUE MUSCLE is situato near the anterior margin of the orbit, and differs from the other muscles in the circumstance of its course being directed across, instead of parallel to the axis of the orbit. It arises from the superior maxillary bone, between the margin of the orbit and the groove for the lachrymal sac. From this spot the muscle passes outwards beneath the inferior rectus, and between the eyeball and the external rectus, to be inserted into the sclerotic coat between the last muscle and the superior rectus. The borders of the muscle look forwards and backwards, and the posterior receives the branch of the third nerve. The tendon of insertion is near that of the superior oblique muscle, but rather closer to the optic nerve. Dissection.—To expose the small tensor tarsi muscle, the palpebral ligament attaching the eyelids to the margin of the orbit must be cut through, where this has not been done ; but the lids must be left connected at the inner commissure by means of the tendo palpebrarum. By looking to the posterior aspect of the tendinous band attach- ing the tarsal cartilages, after the lids have been placed across the nose, the pale fibres of the tensor tarsi will be seen.