457 MUSCLES OF THE ANUS. and the last, after communicating with the hsemorrhoidal nerve, leaves the fossa in front. A second perinseal nerve with a deeper position may be found at the front of the fossa. The trunks of the pudic vessels and nerve may be laid bare on the outer wall. The isoHio-iiECTAL FOSSA is the space intervening between Situation of the rectum and the ischial part of the innominate bone. On a vertical section the interval would appear to be tri- Form, angular, with its longest side towards the middle line of the Dimensions, body. Its width is about one inch at the surface, and its depth about two inches ; but it is larger behind than before. It is filled by a soft granular fat. The inner or longest side Boundaries, of the space is very oblique, and is bounded by the levator ani and coccygeus muscles, and slightly by the sphincter ; but the outer side is straight, and is formed by the obtu- rator muscle and the fascia covering it. In front it is limited by the triangular ligament (to be afterwards seen) ; and behind are the great sacro-sciatic ligament and the largest gluteal muscle. Fosition of vessels. —Along the outer wall are the pudic Pudic ves- 1 ^ ,^ T ' - 1 sels on the vessels and nerve ; these lie m a tube of fascia, and are one outer wall, inch and a half from the margin of the ischial tuberosity, but they approach near the edge of the pubic arch towards the front of the space. Crossing the centre of the space and nerves are the inferior hsemorrhoidal vessels and nerve,—branches space. of the pudic. At the anterior part, for a short distance, are two superficial perinseal nerves (of the pudic) ; and at the posterior part is a small branch of the fourth sacral nerve. Into this space the surgeon sinks his knife in the first First cut in incisions in the lateral operation of lithotomy ; and as he enters Tins carries it from before backwards, he will divide the superficial space, hsemorrhoidal vessels and nerve. Muscles.—Connected with the lower end of the rectum Muscles of are three muscles, viz. two sphincters (external and internal) and the levator ani. The EXTERi^AL SPHIN-CTER (sphiuctcr ani externus) is a ^p^^^^'^^^^. flat, thin, orbicular muscle (fig. 70, e), which is pointed in surrounds front and behind, and surrounds the lower part of the rectum. The fibres form ellipses around a central aperture, as in other orbicular muscles. The muscle arises posteriorly Origin, from the tip of the coccyx by a fibrous band, and from the superficial fascia in front of that bone. Its fibres pass for- wards to the anus, where they separate to encircle that aperture ; and having united in front of it, they are m-