DISSECTIOIT OF THE BACK. 432 Part of the vertebral artery. Deep cervi- cal artery. Intercostal arteries are split into inner and outer branches, and give a branch to spinal cord. liumbar arteries are also divided into inner and the complexiis, anastomoses with the vertebral and deep cervical arteries. The vertebral artery lies on the posterior arch of the first vertebra, behind the articulating process of the bone ; and appears in the interval between the straight and oblique muscles, as it passes into the skull below the ligament be- tween the atlas and the occipital bone. Small branches are supplied by the vessel to the surrounding parts. Beneath the artery is the suboccipital nerve. The deep cervical artery is a branch of the superior inter- costal (of the subclavian, p. 76), and resembles the posterior branches of the other intercostal arteries. Passing back- wards between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib, the vessel appears in this dissection between the complexus and semispinalis muscles. Finally the artery ascends as high as the upper border of the semispinalis muscle, and anastomoses with the cervical branch of the occipital artery. The contiguous muscles receive brauches from the deep cervical artery, and anastomoses are formed between its ofisets and those of the vertebral artery. * In the dorsal region.—The posterior branches of the intercostal vessels accomjDany the nerves between the ver- tebrae and the anterior cost o-trans verse ligaments. In the back they are divided like the nerves into inner and outer branches. * The inner branches end in the fleshy mass of the mul- tifidus spinse and semispinalis muscles, and furnish small cutaneous ofi'sets with the nerves. The external branches cross beneath the longissimus dorsi, and supply it and the erector spinse. Like the nerves, the lowest branches of this set are the largest because they extend to the surface. As the dorsal branch of the intercostal artery passes by the intervertebral foramen, it furnishes a small intraspinal artery to the cord and its membranes, as well as other twigs to the vertebrae. * In the loins.—The posterior branches of the lumbar arteries divide, like the intercostal, into internal and external pieces, as soon as they reach the interval between the lon- gissimus dorsi and multifidus spince. Each gives also a spinal branch to the spinal canal, and to the spinal cord with the investing membranes. * The internal branches are small, and end in the mul- tifidus spinas muscle.