275 THE WALL OF THE THORAX. a. A small branch (comes 7iervi phrenici) arises as soon as to phrenic the artery enters the chest, and descends to the diaphragm along the phrenic nerve. h. A few small mediastinal branches are distributed to mediastinal, the remains of the thymus gland, the pericardium, and the triangularis sterni muscle. c. Two anterior intercostal branches turn outwards in each intercostal, space, one being placed on the border of each costal car- ^^'^ tilage, and terminate by anastomosing with the aortic inter- costal arteries. d. Perforating hrariches, one or two for each space, pierce ^®^^^^^gg"^ the internal intercostal and pectoral muscles, and are dis- tributed on the surface of the thorax with the anterior cutaneous nerves. The lower branches supply the mamma in the female. e. The musculo-phrenic branch courses outwards beneath Musculo- the cartilages of the seventh and eighth ribs, and enters the {Jranch^ wall of the abdomen by perforating the diaphragm. It sup- plies anterior branches to the lower intercostal spaces, and its termination will be seen in the dissection of the abdominal wall. Two veins accompany the artery ; these join into one Veins, trunk, which opens into the innominate vein. The intercostal nerves supply the wall of the thorax, and intercostal are seen now in the anterior part of their extent. They are the anterior primary branches of the dorsal nerves. Placed at first between the layers of the intercostal muscles, each course, gives off the lateral cutaneous nerve of the thorax, about midway between the spine and the sternum : diminished in size by the emission of that offset, the trunk is continued onwards, at first in, and afterwards beneath the internal in- tercostal muscle, as far as the side of the sternum, where it J®^'^^^"^"^ ends as the anterior cutaneous nerve of the thorax. The intercostal nerves supply branches to the intercostal muscles, branciies. and to the triangularis stemi. The aortic intercostal arteries furnish branches to the intercostal thoracic wall ; they lie with the nerves between the strata of -with the intercostal muscles, and nearer the upper than the lower rib .^^^ bounding the intercostal space. About the mid point (from two. before back) of the space the artery bifurcates :—one branch follows the line of the upper rib, and the other descends to the lower rib ; both anastomose anteriorly with the inter- costal branches of the internal mammary artery. A small cutaneous offset is distributed with the lateral Cutaneous cutaneous nerve of the thorax. branch.