496 DISSECTIOIT OF THE ABDOMEK and vertical beyond. Connections with parts around. Coverings. In female round liga- ment is in place of cord. Dissection. Constitu- ents of the cord. Spermatic artery; offset of ovarian. Spermatic veins, and plexus. Artery and nerve of the coverings of the cord : almost vertically to its destination. As it lies in the passage named the inguinal canal, it is placed at first (beginning ex- ternally) beneath the internal oblique, and rests against the fascia transversalis (fig. 75) ; but beyond the lower border of the oblique muscle, or nearer the pubes, it rests on the upper ^iurface of Poupart's ligament, and has the aponeurosis of the external oblique between it and the surface of the body, and the conjoined tendon behind it (fig. 74). Its several coverings are derived from the difierent strata in the wall of the abdomen, except from the transversalis muscle. Thus, in proceeding from within outwards, the student will find the following layers around the constituents of the cord :—first the subperitoneal fat; then the tube of the fascia transversalis ; next the cremaster muscle con- tinuous wdth the internal oblique ; afterwards the inter- columnar fascia from the external oblique muscle ; and lastly the superficial fascia and the skin. The round ligament, or the suspensory cord of the uterus, occupies the inguinal canal in the female, and ends in the integuments of the groin. Its coverings are similar to those of the spermatic cord, except it wants usually the cremaster. Dissection. —The constituents of the cord will be displayed by turning aside the difi"erent surrounding layers, and re- moving the areolar tissue. The dissector should trace branches of the genito-crural nerve and epigastric artery into the cremasteric covering. Vessels and nerves of the cord.—In the cord are collected together the spermatic artery and veins which convey the blood to, and take it away from the testis ; nerves and lymphatics of the testicle ; and the vas deferens or the efl'erent duct. The spermatic artery is a branch of the aorta. It enters the cord through the internal abdominal ring, and descends to the testis, in which it ends : it distributes branches to the vas deferens and the epididymis. In the female, a branch from the ovarian artery enters the round ligament. The spermatic veins leave the posterior part of the testicle, and receive branches from the epididymis : ascending in the cord, in front of the vas deferens, they divide and anasto- mose, and form the spermatic plexus. Cremasteric artery and nerve.—The cremasteric covering of the cord has a separate artery and nerve. The artery is derived from the epigastric (p. 492), and is distributed to