735 lOTER^TAL ANN'ULAR LIGAMENT. annular ligament, or somewhat higher than it, the nerve Extent divides into the internal and external plantar branches of the foot. Its connections with surrounding parts are the and connec- same as those of the artery ; but its position to the vessel changes, for it lies on the inner side of the posterior tibial artery above the origin of the peroneal offset, but on the outer side thence to the termination. Its lateral branches Branches. are chiefly muscular. Muscular branches enter the deep flexors, and arise either Muscular to at separate points along the trunk, or together from the flexore ^ internal popliteal nerve. There is an olfset for each muscle, except the popliteus ; but the branch for the tibialis is the largest, and that for the flexor poUicis lies on the peroneal artery. A cutaneous nerve of the sole of the foot pierces the internal Cutaneous annular ligament, and ends in the integuments of the inner and under part of the heel; this nerve will be followed to its termination in the dissection of the foot. The internal annular ligament is placed between the heel internal and the inner ankle, and serves to confine the tendons of ligament, the deep flexor muscles of the foot and toes. Attached by a pointed part to the internal malleolus, the fibres diverge Attacii- and are inserted into the os calcis. One border (upper) is continuous with the fascia of the leg; and the opposite gives attachment to the abductor pollicis muscle of the foot. Be- neath it are sheaths for the tendons, which are formed by Sheaths: the fascia stretched over the subjacent osseous grooves. When the sheaths are opened, the innermost will be found to contain the tibialis posticus, which is lodged in a groove in the malleolus. Immediately behind this is another space for the flexor digitorum. And about three quarters of an inch nearer the os calcis is the interval in which the flexor pollicis lies, contained in a groove in the astragalus. Each sheath is lined by a synovial membrane. Vessels beneath the ligament.—The posterior tibial vessels Tibial ves- in passing beneath the ligament lie between the tendons of the nga-^^^^ the flexor pollicis and flexor digitorum, but rather nearer ^^nt the latter. The artery supplies here small branches to the tarsus and the ankle joint. Occasionally the artery divides beneath or even above the ligament. The nerve is nearer than the artery to the os calcis ; but and nerve, it is sometimes bifurcated beneath the ligament, so that a nerve may lie on each side of the tibial vessels.