NEEVES OF THE THORAX. 383 auricle : their position to the other vessels of the root has been noticed at p. 357. The right veins are longer than the left, and lie beneath Right veins the aorta and the right auricle of the heart. The superior ^^"g^st. one receives its roots from the upper and middle pulmonic lobes, and the inferior vein is formed by branches of the lower lobe. The left veins cross in front of the descending aorta ; and Left veins, one springs from each lobe of the lung. Peculiarities in number.—The number of the pulmonary veins Their num- may be diminished by the union of those of the left side into one; ber varies: or may be increased by the want of union on the right side, from which three trunks result, corresponding with the three lobes of the lung. But other peculiarities may be found as to number, for six or seven veins, taking both sides together, have been met with; and a bronchial vein has been found opening into one of the left veins. In the ending. —The veins of the right side have been observed to may open open in an adult into the vena cava. ^^^^ ^ cava. NERVES OF THE THORAX. The pneumo-gastric and the sympathetic nerves supply Nerves of the viscera of the thorax. Some other nerves (intercostal) thorax, which are contained in the wall of the thorax, will be after- wards dissected. In the cavity of the thorax is the phrenic nerve, which courses through the space to the diaphragm. Dissection.—The phrenic nerve is sufficiently denuded for To trace the its examination ; but the student should trace the vagus nerve through the cavity. The vagus is to be followed, on both sides, behind the particularly root of the lung, and its large plexus in that position is to be dissected out: a few filaments of the gangliated cord of the sympathetic coming forwards to the plexus, must be looked for. In front of the root, the nerve supplies a few pulmonary filaments, especially on the left side. From the root of the lung the vagus is to be pursued along the oeso- phagus, by raising the lung and removing the pleura. The PHRENIC NERVE (internal respiratory) is a muscular Phrenic branch from the cervical plexus to the diaphragm (p. 79). deri^edfrom In its course through the thorax it lies along the side of the cervical plexus pericardium,,and at a little distance from the root of the lung, with a small companion artery. When near the diaphragm ^'^^ passes each is divided into branches : these perforate the fleshy thorax to fibres, and are distributed on the under surface. The nerves ^ plirag-m.