THE URETEE. 573 masses. From this spot the branches of the vein accompany and end in those of the artery (fig. ST, e), and are united finally into one trunk that opens into the vena cava. Some small vessels form an arborescent appearance on the Surface ves- surface of the kidney, and supply offsets to the capsule and the fat. The UEETER is the tube by which the fluid secreted in the Ureter; kidney is conveyed to the bladder. Between its origin and ° ' termination the duct measures from sixteen to eighteen length, inches in length. Its size corresponds commonly with that ^^^^ varies, of a large quill, l^ear the kidney it is dilated into a funnel- shaped part, named pelvis; and near the bladder it is again somewhat dilated, though the lower aperture by which it terminates is the narrowest part of the tube. Its relative anatomy must be studied afterwards, when the body is in a suitable position. In its course from the one viscus to the other, the ureter Course is close beneath the peritoneum, and is directed obliquely downwards and inwards along the posterior wall of the abdo- men as far as the pelvis ; here it changes its direction and becomes almost horizontal in the posterior false ligament of the bladder. At first the ureter is placed over the psoas J'^^g^^^^^^^' inclining on the right side towards the inferior vena cava, and about the middle of the muscle it is crossed by the sper- matic vessels. Lower down it lies over the common or the external iliac artery,* being beneath the sigmoid flexure on the left side, and the end of the ileum on the right side. Lastly, it is contained in the posterior ligament of the bladder, below the level of the obliterated hypogastric artery. Sometimes the ureter is found divided into two for a Sometimes certain distance. Fart in the Mdney.—Near the kidney the ureter is dilated Ureter into a pouch named pelvis ; and when traced upwards into the\^^iiey^ the viscus, it is found to begin by a set of cup-shaped tubes, i^as eaiices, named calices or infundibula, which vary in number from which seven to thirteen. Each cup-shaped part embraces the pyi-amids, rounded end of a pyramidal mass, and receives the urine from the apertures in that projection. Sometimes a calyx surrounds two or more papillae. The several calices are united together to form two or three larger tubes ; * In a dozen uninjected bodies that were examined for me by the late Mr. S. F. Statham, the ureter was found as frequently oyer the one as the other of the two vessels mentioned.