2U DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. joined into two rows. How first row is formed. Separate ligaments of pisiform Ijone. Second row is like first. The two rows are joined by anterior, posterior. and lateral ligaments. Dissection. Surface of each row in contact. One synovial membrane for the carpal bones. carpus are united into two rows by dorsal, palmar, and inter- osseous bands; and the two rows are connected to each other by separate ligaments. Bones of the first row (fig. 51).—The os semilunare is united to the contiguous bones, viz. the scaphoid and cunei- form, by a dorsal and a palmar transverse band, as well as by an interosseous ligament at the upper part of the conti- guous surfaces. The pisiform bone is articulated to the front of the cuneiform bone by a distinct capsule and a synovial membrane (fig. 51, ^). It has further two special Ligaments ;—one of these is attached to the process of the unciform bone, and the other to the base of the fifth meta- carpal bone. The hones of the second row are connected together in the same way as those of the first row, viz. by a dorsal and a palmar band of fibres from one bone to another. Between the contiguous rough surfaces of the several bones are inter- osseous ligaments, one in each interosseous interval. One TOW with another.—The two rows of carpal bones are connected by an anterior and posterior, and two lateral ligaments. The anterior ligament (fig. 51) consists of irregular fibres, and intervenes between the two rows on the palmar aspect. The posterior ligament, which is longer and looser, and the greater number of whose fibres are transverse (fig. 53) has a corresponding attachment on the dorsal aspect of the bones. Of the lateral ligaments the external is the best marked, and extends between the os trapezium and the scaphoid bone ; whilst the internal ligament reaches between the cuneiform and unciform bones. Dissection.—After the division of the lateral and pos- terior ligaments, the one row of bones may be separated from the other, so as to allow the articular surfaces to be seen. Articular surfaces.—The first row of carpal bones, with the exception of the pisiform, forms an arch, whose hollow is turned towards the second. In the second row the magnum and os unciforme present a condyloid projection, which is received into the arch before mentioned ; whilst the two outer bones are much below the level of the others, and form a slight hollow for the reception of the outer part of the scaphoid bone. One synovial membrane serves for the articulation of all the carpal bones, except that of the pisiform with the cuneiform bone. Lining the joint between the two rows of