55 DEEP CERVICAL FASCIA. muscle are thin and scattered, but they increase in strength as they ascend. The oblique direction of the fibres should be noted, because in venesection in the external jugular vein the incision is to be so made as to divide them across. Dissection.—The platysma is now to be cut across near Dissection, the clavicle, and to be reflected upwards as far as the inci- sion over the sterno-mastoid muscle, but it is there to be left attached. In raising the muscle the student must be careful of the deep fascia of the neck ; and should dissect out the external jugular vein, and the superficial descending branches of the cervical plexus, which are close beneath the platysma. The external jugular vein (fig. 8, ^) commences in the External parotid gland (p. 31), and is directed backwards beneath'^^^^ "^^^"^ the platysma to the lower part of the neck, where it pierces the deep cervical fascia to open into the subclavian vein. Its course down the neck will be marked by a line from the crosses side angle of the jaw to the middle of the clavicle. Beyond the subclavian, sterno-mastoid muscle the vein is dilated, and the swollen part (sinus) is limited by two pair of valves, one below at the mouth of the vein, and the other near the muscle. The part of the vein now seen is joined by small superficial branches, and an offset connects it with the anterior jugular vein. Its size, and the height at which it crosses the sterno- mastoid muscle, are very uncertain. The deep cervical fascia consists, like the aponeuroses in Cervical other regions of the body, of a superficial layer which sur- ^^s^^^- rounds the neck continuously, and of processes that are prolonged inwards between the muscles. In some bodies this fascia is thin and indistinct. In its extent round the neck the membrane incases the sterno-mastoideus, and pre- sents a difierent disposition before and behind that muscle. As now seen passing backwards from the muscle, the fascia Part behind continues over the posterior triangular space, and then toi™muscie encloses the trapezius in its progress to the spines of the vertebrae. At the lower part of the neck the fascia is attached to the clavicle, and is perforated by the external jugular vein, and the cutaneous nerves. After the super- ficial layer has been removed near the clavicle, a deep cess^arouSd process may be observed to surround the small omo-hyoid omo-byoid. muscle, and to extend under the clavicle, where it is fixed to the back of that bone, and to the inner end of the first rib. Dissection. —By the removal of the cervical fascia and the Dissection fat from the space between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius splcet^°^^^'^^ muscles, the posterior triangle of the neck will come into