6()0 DISSECTION OF THE PELYIS. Dissection. An anterior and a posterior ligament, and a fibro- cartilage. Union of tlie cornua. Union of bones of tlie coccyx. Union be- tween the sacrum and hip boue. To dissect the liga- ments. an anterior and a posterior common ligament. And there is a separate articulation for the cornua of the bones. Dissection.-—Little dissection is necessary for these liga- ments. When the areolar tissue has been removed alto- gether from the bones, the ligaments will be apparent. The anterior ligament (sacro-coccygeal) consists of a few fibres that pass between the bones in front of the fibro- cartilage. The posterior ligawient is wide at its attachment to the lower margin of the orifice Fig. 100.* sacral canal, but nar- rows as it descends to be inserted into the coccyx. The fihro-cartilage resem- bles that between the ver- tebree, and is attached to the surfaces of the bones. Articulation of the cornua. —The cornua of the first piece of the coccyx articu- late with the cornua of the last sacral vertebra by liga- mentous bands, instead of "^¥1111 joints as in the articular W \ processes of the other ver- tebrse. Union of the bones op THE COCCYX.—Whilst the several pieces of the coccyx remain separate, their centres are connected together by anterior and posterior bands, and by intervening thin fihro-cartilages. But in the male adult the bones are generally joined by ossific matter. Sacko-iliac ARTICULATION.—The irregular surfaces by which the sacrum and the innominate bone articulate, are united by cartilage, and maintained in contact by anterior and posterior sacro-iliac ligaments. Inferiorly the bones are further connected, without being in contact, by the strong sacro-sciatic ligaments. Dissection.—To see the posterior ligaments, the mass of muscle at the back of the sacrum is to be removed on the side on which the innominate bone remains; and the anterior * Ligaments of the pelvis and hip joint.—1. Sacro-vertebral. 2. Hk- vertebral or iho-lumbar. 7. Anterior sacro-iliac. 8. Symphysis pubis. 9. Subpubicligament. 10. Obturator ligament or membrane. 11. Hip joint capsule. 12. Ilio-femoral band.