DISSECTIOlSr OF THE PELVIS. 632 Structure. Fibrous case distinct from pelvic fascia; Muscular and fibrous tissue; how arranged, Glands only few; nature and ending; on vesicles are vessels. Ducts open into iirethra. Arteries. Veins form a plexus. the latter perforate it obliquely to terminate in tlie nretliral canal. Structure.—On a section the gland appears reddish in colour, is very firm to the feel, and is scarcely lacerable. It is made up of a mass of involuntary muscular and some fibrous tissue with interspersed glandular structure; and the whole is enveloped by a fibrous coat. Fibrous covering.—This forms a thin investment for the gland, and sends offsets into the interior. It is quite dis- tinct from the dense capsule derived from the pelvic fascia, and is separated from that sheath by a plexus of veins. Muscidar tissue.—The firm part of the gland consists of involuntary muscular fibres, intermixed with elastic and fibrous tissues. The muscular fibres are arranged circularly around the tube of the urethra : they are continuous behind with the annular fibres of the bladder, and in front with a layer of circular fibres around the membranous part of the urethra. At the low^er and outer parts of the gland the texture is looser and more spongy, especially where the glands are situate and where the larger vessels enter.* This arrangement will be better seen afterwards when the urethra has been opened. Glandular structure.—This element, forming but about one third of the whole gland, is in greatest abundance towards the circumference and in the part called middle lobe. The ducts are branched as in other glands ; and when they are traced into the interior from the urethra, the final radicles will be found to be surrounded by small sessile vesicles, which open into them. On the exterior of the vesicles and the ducts the bloodvessels ramify ; and lining the interior of the tubes is an epithelium of the columnar kind, which becomes laminar in the vesicles. The ducts of the glands are not collected into one excretory tube, but vary in number from twelve to twenty, and open into the prostatic part of the urethra (p. 639). Bloodvessels.—The arteries are unimportant, and are furnished by the vesical and hsemorrhoidal (p. 622). The veins are joined in a plexus around the gland, which com- municates in front with the dorsal vein of the penis, and behind with a plexus of veins at the base of the bladder. In old men this vascular communication gives rise to con- siderable haemorrhage in the operation of lithotomy. * See a Pai)er by the Author in vol. xxxix. of the Med. Cliir. Trans- actions. (1856.)