18 DISSECTION OF THE mTERIOR OF THE HEAD. Olfactory nerve, ends in the nose. Optic nerve enters the eye. Dissection of third and fourth nerves; of fifth 2ierve. Motor oculi nerve passes to orbit. Trochlear nerve in the wall of cavernous sin\is. Trifacial nerve has two roots; The FIRST JSTERVE ends anteriorly in tlie enlargement of the olfactory bulb. This swelling lies on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and supplies about twenty filaments to the nose through the small foramina in the sub- jacent bone. These delicate nerves are surrounded by pro- longations of the membranes of the brain, whose disposition will be noticed in the dissection of the nose. The SECOND NERVE diverging from its commissure to the eyeball, enters the orbit through the optic foramen ; accom- panying the nerve is the ophthalmic artery. Dissection.—The third, fourth, and the ophthalmic trunk of the fifth nerve lie in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus ; and it will be necessary, in order to see them, to remove the sheaths of the dura mater they receive. Afterwards the student should follow outwards the roots of the fifth nerve into the middle fossa of the skull, and take away the dura mater from the surface of the large Gasserian ganglion which lies on the point of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. Then the other two large trunks from the front of the ganglion, viz., superior and inferior maxillary, should be traced to their apertures of exit from the skull. The THIRD NERVE is destined for the muscles of the orbit. It enters the wall of the cavernous sinus near the anterior clinoid process, and is deprived at that spot of its tube of arachnoid membrane. In the wall of the sinus it is placed above the other nerves ; but when it is about to enter the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, it lies below the fourth and part of the fifth, and divides into two branches. Near the orbit this nerve is joined by one or two delicate filaments of the cavernous plexus (p. 21). The FOURTH NERVE courses forward, like the preceding, to one muscle in the orbifc. It is the smallest of the nerves in the wall of the sinus, and is placed below the third ; but as it is about to pass through the sphenoidal fissure it becomes higher than all the other nerves. In the wall of the sinus the fourth nerve is joined by twigs of the sym- pathetic, and it is sometimes united with the ophthalmic trunk of the fifth. Fifth Nerve. —This nerve is distributed to the face and head, and consists of two parts or roots—a large or sensory, and a small or motory. The two roots of the nerve pass together through an aperture in the dura mater into the middle fossa of the base of the skull (fig. 6, Imme- diately afterwards the larger root enters into the Gasserian