DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 294 inferior pro- funda. nutrient of the bone, and anas- tomotic. the tendon of the teres major ; it winds backwards with the musculo-spiral nerve to the triceps muscle, and will be dis- sected with the back of the arm. 2. The inferior profunda branch (fig. 44, ^) arises opposite the coraco-brachialis muscle, and accompanies the ulnar nerve to the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the humerus. In the spot mentioned, it anastomoses with the posterior ulnar recurrent and anastomotic branches, and supplies the triceps. It arises often in common with the superior profunda artery. 3. A nutritious artery to the bone is given off near the preceding branch, and enters the large aperture about the middle of the humerus ; it is distributed to the osseous substance, and to the membrane lining the medullary canal. 4. The anastomotic branch (fig. 44, ') arises from one to two inches above the elbow, and courses transversely inwards through the inter-muscular septum to the hollow between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the humerus. Here the artery inosculates with the inferior profunda and the posterior ulnar recurrent branch, and gives some branches to the triceps muscle: one of the muscular off'sets forms an arch with a branch of the superior profunda across the back of the humerus, near the articulation of the elbow. The anastomotic branch likewise sends an ofi'set in front of the elbow joint, which joins with the anterior ulnar recurrent, and supplies the pronator teres muscle. Veins end in the axillary. The BRACHIAL VEINS are placed along the artery, one on each side, and have branches of communication across that vessel ; they receive contributing veins, which correspond with the branches of the arteries. Superiorly they unite into one which joins the axillary vein near the subscapular muscle. Deviations in position. In place of division Peculiarities of the artery.—The ]Josition.—The brachial trunk may leave the inner border of the biceps in the lower half of the arm, and course along the inner intermuscular septum, with or without the median nerve, * to the inner condyle of the humerus. At this spot the vessel is directed to its ordinary position in front of the elbow, either through or beneath the fibres of the pronator teres, which has then a wide origin. In this unusual course the artery is often found to lie behind a projecting bony point of the humerus. The division.—Occasionally the artery is split for a short distance * I have seen the nerve in this -unusual position without its large companion artery, and accompanied by an offset from th6 superior pro- funda artery.