FEMORAL HERNIA. 681 cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female ; and behind, the pubes covered by fascia lata. Internally is Gimbernat's ligament; and externally, but within the sheath, is the femoral vein. The position of the vessels on the several sides of the ring is stated at p. 510. Septum crurale.—That part of the subperitoneal layer of Cmral sep- fat, which is placed over the opening of the crural ring, has ' been named crural septum from its position between the position; thigh and the abdomen (Cloquet). The situation of the septum is now visible, but its characters are ascertained in how formed, the dissection of the abdomen (p. 509). Femoral Hernia.—This kind of hernia consists in a Femoral protrusion of the intestine into the thigh beneath Poupart's ligament. And the gut descends always in the crural sheath, Definition, being commonly on the inner side of the vein, though it may be placed occasionally on the outer side of the artery. Course.—At first the intestine takes a vertical direction in Course; its progress from the abdomen to the surface of the body, first ver- and passes through the crural ring, and along the crural canal as far as the saphenous opening. At this spot it ^gxt di- changes its course, and is directed forwards to the surface ; I'ected for-^ and should the gut protrude still farther the hernia again then up- alters its direction, and ascends on the abdomen in conse- ^'^^'^s- quence of the resistance being less in this direction than on the front of the thigh. The winding course of the hernia must suggest to the dis- By what sector the direction in which attempts should be made to ™®^e ^ replace the intestine in the abdominal cavity. With the pushed view of making the bowel retrace its course, it will be neces- sary if the protrusion is small to direct it backwards and upwards; but if the hernia is large it must be pressed down first to the saphenous opening, and afterwards backwards and upwards towards the crural canal and ring. The fore- going dissection will have demonstrated the necessity of raising the limb, and rotating it inwards during the manipu- lation to return the displaced intestine to its cavity, in order that the margin of the saphenous opening and the other tissues may be relaxed. Coverings.—As the intestine takes the above specified Coverings course it is clothed by the following structures, which are Uom^hf'*' elongated and pushed before it from within outwards. First is a covering of the peritoneum lining the abdomen. Next peritoneum, one from the septum across the crural ring. Afterwards tumj^cru?ai comes a stratum from the crural sheath, unless the hernia sbeath, bursts through an aperture in the side. Over this is spread