SEMICIRCULAR CANALS. 811 wliicli are situate behind the vestibule, and are named from their form. Dissection.—These small canals will be easily brought into preparation view by the removal of the surrounding bone by means of a file or some cutting instrument. Two may be seen opening near the aperture made in the vestibule, and may be followed thence ; but the third is altogether towards the posterior aspect of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The canals are of unequal lengths, but each forms more Length, than half a circle. They communicate at each end with the Termination vestibule, and the contiguous ends of two are blended together J^^fg^J^ open- so as to give but five openings into that cavity. Each is marked by one dilated extremity which is called the ampulla. One end When a tube is cut across it is not circular, but compressed ^ ^ laterally, and measures about rr^th of an inch, though in the Form and ampulla the size is as large again. From a difi'erence in the direction of the tubes, they have They are been named superior and posterior vertical, and horizontal. The superior vertical canal () crosses the upper border of ^^^1^^°^' ^'^^' the petrous part of the temporal bone, and forms a projec- tion on the surface. Its extremities are more distant than in the other tubes : its outer end is marked by the ampulla (^), whilst the inner is joined with the following. The posterior posterior vertical tube ('^) is directed backwards from its junction with the preceding tow^ards the posterior surface of the temporal bone ; the upper end is united with the superior vertical canal in a common tube (fig. 130, and the lower end is free and dilated (^°). , The horizontal canal (^) has separate and horizon- apertures, and is the shortest of the three. Deeper in posi- tion than the superior vertical, it lies in the substance of the bone nearly on a level with the fenestra ovalis ; its dilated end (^) is at the outer side close above that aperture. Cochlea.—This part of the osseous labyrinth has a posi- Cochlea, tion anterior to the vestibule, and has received its name from its resemblance to a snail's shell. Dissection.—To obtain a view of the cochlea in the dried Dissection bone it will be needful to cut or file away gradually on the preparation before used for displaying the vestibule, the bone above the promontory of the tympanum, v/hich lies between that eminence and the meatus auditorius internus ; or this section may be made on another piece of bone in which the semicircular canals are not laid bare. To dissect the same g^^^ recent parts in the recent state, a softened bone should be used. The cochlea is conical in form, and is placed almost hori- Form and z6ntally in front of the vestibular space. The base of this situation.