DISSECTIOI^ OF THE ITECK. 68 posterior part, are to be studied in the dissection of h^oid^bone^ the back. From the intervening tendon the anterior fleshy part (fig. 9, ^) is directed forwards along the border of the sterno-hyoid muscle, and is inserted into the lower part of the body of the hyoid bone, close to the great cornu. The Connections, anterior belly of the muscle is in contact with the fascia, after escaping from beneath the sterno-mastoid ; and rests on the sterno-thyroid muscle. This muscle crosses the common carotid artery and internal jugular vein on a level with the cricoid cartilage. Sterno- The STERNO-HYOID MUSCLE (fig. 9, ^) is a flat thin band nniscle nearer the middle line than the preceding. It arises from the posterior surface of the sternum and the cartilage of the first rib, and sometimes also from the clavicle. From this named from spot the fibres ascend, and are inserted into the lower border ments!^^' of the body of the os hyoides, internal to the preceding muscle. One surface is in contact with the fascia, and is often marked by a tendinous intersection near the clavicle. Parts above When the muscle is divided and turned aside, the deep sur- andbeneath. . -n i /. i , , n , ,i • i i •■ face will be found to rest on the sterno-thyroideus and its con- tinuation (thyro-hyoid), also on the superior thyroid vessels. The muscles of opposite sides are separated by an interval w^hich is largest below. The origin of the muscle varies much. Stemo-thy- The STERNO-THYEOiD MUSCLE is wider and shorter than isiaamer^^ the stcmo-hyoid, beneath which it lies. Like the other tachments" ^^^^^ muscle, it arises from the posterior surface of the sternum, from the cartilage of the first rib below the former, and sometimes from the cartilage of the second rib ; and is inserted into the oblique line on the side of the thyi'oid cartilage, where it is continuous with the thyro-hyoid muscle. Parts above The inner border touches its fellow for about an inch, and ' corresponds with the middle line of the neck and the thyroid veins, whilst the outer reaches the carotid artery. The superficial surface is concealed by the preceding hyoid * muscles ; and the opposite surface is in contact with the lower part of the carotid artery, the trachea, and the larynx and thyroid body. A transverse tendinous line crosses the muscle near the sternum. Tbyro-hyoid The THYRO-HYOiDEUS (fig. 9, ^) is a Continuation of the tion^of^e- 1^^"^ muscle. Beginning on the side of the thyroid cartilage, h^ides*^ fibres ascend to the inner half of the great cornu of the os hyoides, and to the outer part of the body of the bone. On the muscle lie the omo-hyoideus and sterno-hyoideus ; and beneath it are the superior laryngeal nerve and vessels. This is sometimes considered one of the special muscles of the larynx.