260 DISSECTION OF THE UPPEE LIMB. and the areola. Colour is altered. Skin has glands. Breast of the male. Structure. Investing and fibrous tissue. Texture and form of the vesicles. Vesicles form lobules, and lobules lobes. Lactiferous ducts; is likewise rather redder. Around the nipple is a coloured ring,—the areola, about an inch in width, whose tint is in- fluenced by the complexion of the body ; and it is altered during the times of menstruation, pregnancy, and lactation. The skin of the nipple and areola is provided with numerous papillae and lubricating glands; and on the surface are some tubercles marking the position of the ducts of those glands. In the male the mammary gland resembles that of the female in general form ; for it is prominent though in a much less degree, and it possesses a small nipple, which is surrounded by an areola provided with hairs. The glandular or secretory structure is very imperfect. structure. — In its texture the mamma resembles those compound glands that are formed by the vesicular endings of branched ducts. During lactation the glandular mass is of a reddish white colour. It consists of small vesicles, which are united to form lobules and lobes. Connected with each lobe is an excretory or lactiferous duct; and the whole is surrounded and bound together by areolar tissue. A layer of areolar tissue, containing fat, surrounds the gland, and penetrates into the interior, subdividing it into lobes. Some fibrous septa fix the gland to the skin, and support it; these are the ligamenta suspensoria of Sir A. Cooper. In the ultimate structure of the gland, in the nipple, and in the areola, there is not any fatty substance. Vesicles,—The little vesicles or cells at the ends of the most minute ducts are lenticular or rounded in shape, and when filled with milk or mercury are just visible to the naked eye, being about the size of a small pinhole in paper. (Cooper.) Each is surrounded externally by a close vascular network. Lobules and lobes.—A collection of the vesicles around their duct forms the smallest division of the gland, viz., lobules or glandules, which vary in size from a pin's-head to a small tare. By the union of the lobules the lobes are produced, of which there are about twenty altogether, and each is provided with a distinct duct. The ducts issuing from the several lobes are about twenty in number, and are named from their office galactophorous ; they converge to the areola, where they swell into oblong dilatations or reservoirs (sacculi) of one sixth to one third of an inch in width. Onwards from that spot the ducts become straight, and are continued through the nipple, nearly parallel to one another and gradually narrowing in