24 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. palpebral the outer, occiipy the eyelids, and are fixed at both the outer part, inner angles of the orbit. Internally (origin) they are attached united with the tendo palpebrarum, and externally (inser- Lmi^^^^^^ tion) with the external tarsal ligament and the malar bone, externally, and some few may blend with the orbital part. Close to Ciliary the cilia or eyelashes the fibres form a small pale bundle, bundle. which is sometimes called ciliary. Connection The muscle is subcutaneous, and its circumference is free, ^ound^^^^ except above, where it is blended with the occipito-frontalis. Beneath the upper half of the orbicularis, as it lies on the margin of the orbit, is the corrugator supercilii muscle with the supra-orbital vessels and nerve ; and beneath the lower half is part of the elevator of the upper lip. The outer fibres are joined occasionally by slips to the other contiguous muscles below the orbit. Corrugator The coimuGATOR SUPERCILII is found beneath the orbi- supercilu cularis, near the inner angle of the orbit. Its fibres arise from the inner part of the superciliary ridge of the frontal is blended bone, and are directed thence outwards to join the orbicular Sis muscle about the middle of the orbital arch. It is a short muscle, and is distinguished by the closeness of its fibres. Four Muscles of the Nose.—The muscles of the nose are the muscles of jy ^^ - 'IT • -1.1 nose. foUowmg : pyramidalis nasi, compressor nans, levator alse nasi, with some fibres that dilate the nostril, and depressor alse nasi. Pyramidalis The PYRAMIDALIS NASI (fig. 2, ^) is a small pyramidal slip nasarbone^ that covers the nasal bone, and appears to be a prolongation of the occipito-frontalis muscle. Over the cartilaginous that of the nose its fibres end in an aponeurosis, which joins part of the compressor naris. Along its inner border is the muscle of the opposite side. Compressor COMPRESSOR jN"aris.—This muscle (fig. 2, ^) is not well seen till after the examination of the following one. Tri- angular in shape, it arises by a point from the canine fossa covers carti- of the upper maxillary bone. The fibres are directed lage of nose, jj^^g^j-^jg^ spreading out at the same time, and end in an aponeurosis, which covers the cartilaginous part of the nose, and joins the tendon of the opposite muscle. This muscle is partly concealed by the next one—the common elevator of the ala of the nose and the upper lip. Elevator of The LEVATOR LABII SUPERIORIS AL^QUE NASI (fig. 2, ") is wing of nose placed by the side of the nose, and arises from the nasal process of the upper maxillary bone, internal to the attach- ment of the orbicularis. As the fibres descend from the