732 DISSECTIOlSr OF THE LEG. Is partly suDerficial. Muscles and vessels on sides. Flexor lon- gus digi to- rum lies on tibia; enters an- nular liga- ment. Part is su- perficial be- low soleus. Tibialis covers in- terosseous membrane. Origin : crosses be- neath the flexor of the toes. Insertion. Muscles and vessels In connection with it. The muscle covered by crosses the sole of the foot to reach its place of insertion into the great toe. In part the muscle is covered by the soleiis ; but in part it is superficial, and is in contact with the fascia. It rests on the fibula and the lower end of the tibia, and conceals the peroneal vessels. Along the inner side are the posterior tibial nerve and vessels; and contiguous to the outer margin, but separated by the fascia, are the peronei muscles. The rLEXOR lon'GUS digitorum (flexor perforans) is at- tached to the posterior surface of the tibia, extending from the popliteus to about three inches from the lower extremity, and it takes origin also from the aponeurosis covering the tibialis posticus. Its tendon enters a partition in the annular ligament, which is superficial in this position to the sheath of the tibialis; and escaped from the ligament divides in the sole of the foot into tendons for the outer four toes. The muscle is narrow and pointed superiorly and is placed beneath the soleus ; but in the lower half it is in contact with the fascia, and the posterior tibial nerve and vessels lie on it. The deep surface rests on the tibia and the tibialis posticus. The TIBIALIS POSTICUS occupies superiorly the interval between the bones of the leg, but it crosses over the tibia inferiorly to reach the inner side of the foot. The muscle arises from the aponeurosis separating it from the contiguous muscles, and from all the interosseous membrane except about one inch below ; from an impression along the outer border of the tibia, which reaches from the head of the bone to rather beyond the lower attachment of the flexor longus digitorum ; and from the adjacent inner surface of the fibula for the middle three fifths of its length. In the lower fourth of the leg this muscle is directed beneath the flexor digitorum ; and its tendon entering the inner space in the annular ligament, reaches the inner side of the foot to be inserted into the scaphoid and other bones (p. 747). The tibialis is concealed by the aponeurosis before men- tioned, and is overlapped by the neighbouring muscles ; but in the lower fourth of the leg it is placed between the tibia and the long flexor of the toes. On the muscle are the pos- terior tibial vessels and nerve. The upper part presents two pointed processes of attachment to the bones—that to the tibia being the highest—between wiiich the anterior tibial vessels are directed forwards. The aponeurosis covering the tibialis is attached laterally to the bones, but has a defined border inferiorly over the