756 DISSECTIOIT OF THE LEG. and dorsal artery. Divide ex- tensor longais. Extensor brevis sends ten- dons to four inner toes. Insertion of these. Cut through extensor brevis. Follow up the nerv^es. Nerves of the front of the leg. Eecurrent. Musculo- cutaneous supplies peronei. Suhstitution.—The place of tlie dorsal artery of the foot may be taken by a large anterior peroneal artery. Dissection.—To examine the extensor brevis digitorum on the dorsum of the foot, cut through the tendons of the extensor longus and peroneus tertius below the annular liga- ment, and throw them towards the toes. The attachment of the muscle to the os calcis should be defined. The EXTSNSOR BREVIS DIGITORUM is a short thin muscle on the dorsum of the foot. It arises from the outer surface of the OS calcis in front of the groove for the peroneus brevis muscle, and from the lower band of the anterior annular liga- ment ; the muscle ends in four tendons, which spring from as many fleshy bellies, and are inserted into the four inner toes. The tendon to the great toe has a distinct attachment to the base of the metatarsal phalanx ; but the rest are united to the outer side of the tendons of the long extensor, and assist to form the expansion on the metatarsal phalanx (p. 752). The muscle lies on the tarsus, and is partly concealed by the tendons of the long extensor. Its inner tendon crosses the dorsal artery of the foot. Dissection.—The branches of artery and nerve which are beneath the extensor brevis will be laid bare by dividing that muscle near its front, and turning it upwards. By cutting through this lower band of the annular ligament over the tendon of the extensor pollicis, and throwing outwards the external half of it,—the different sheaths of the liga- ment, its attachment to the 6s calcis, and the origin of the extensor brevis digitorum from it may be observed. The anterior tibial and musculo-cutaneous nerves are to be followed upwards to their origin from the external popli- teal ; and a small branch to the knee joint from the same source is to be traced through the tibialis anticus. Nerves to the front of the leg.—Between the fibula and the peroneus longus muscle the external popliteal nerve divides into the recurrent articular, musculo-cutaneous, and anterior tibial branches. The recurrent articular branch is small, and takes the course of the artery of the same name through the tibialis anticus muscle to the knee joint. The musculo-cutaneous nerve is continued between the extensor longus digitorum and the peronei muscles to the lower third of the leg, where it pierces the fascia, and is dis- tributed to the dorsum of the foot and the toes (p. 749). Before the nerve becomes cutaneous it furnishes branches to the two larger peronei muscles.