745 DEEP PLANTAR ARTERY AND NERYE. where they unite in an arch, and give offsets to the ball of the toe ; and near the front of both the metatarsal and the next phalanx, they form anastomotic loops beneath the ten- dons, from which the phalangeal articulations are supplied. The DORSAL ARTERY OF THE FOOT enters the sole at the Ending of posterior part of the first (inner) intermetatarsal space, and J^rery^of' supplies digital offsets to both sides of the great toe and to the foot; half the next, in the same manner as the radial artery in the hand is distributed to one digit and a half. Besides these, it furnishes a communicating branch to join the plantar arch. The digital branch (art. magna pollicis) extends to the its digital front of the first interosseous space, and divides into col- ^^^'^ches, lateral branches for the great toe and the next. JSTear the front of the metatarsal bone it sends inwards, beneath the flexor muscles, a digital branch for the inner side of the great toe. These arteries have the same arrangement along the toes on the as the other digital branches. digits. External plantar nerve.—The deep branch of this External nerve accompanies the arch of the artery, and ends internally nerve^ends in the adductor pollicis. It furnishes branches to all the deep interossei, one or both in the external space excepted ; to the transversalis pedis; and to the external two lumbrical muscles. Dissection.—It will be needful to remove the transversalis Dissection, pedis muscle, to see a ligamentous band across the heads of the metatarsal bones. The transverse metatarsal ligament is a strong fibrous band. Transverse like that in the hand (p. 327), which connects together the ^gamenr^ anterior extremities of all the metatarsal bones. A thin fascia covering the interossei muscles is connected to its hinder part. It is concealed by the transversalis pedis, and by the tendons, vessels, and nerves of the toes. Dissection.—To complete the dissection of the last layer Dissect the of muscles, the flexor brevis minimi digiti may be detached jj^^emuscies and thrown forwards. Dividing then the metatarsal liga- ment between the bones, the knife is to be carried directly backwards in the centre of each interosseous space except the first, in order that the two interossei muscles may be separated from each other. The fascia covering the muscles should be taken away, and the branches of the external plantar nerve to them should be dissected out. All the interossei are visible in the sole of the foot. Fourth layer of muscles.—In the fourth and last layer Fourth