750 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. External saphenous. Deep fascia of the leg; attach- ments : transverse fibres at the ankle. Take away the fascia. Leave liga- mentous bands. Clean nerves and vessels. Anterior annular ligament : its upper and lower part. Sheaths differ in each. opposed sides of the great toe and the next. The musculo- cutaneous nerve joins it, and sometimes assists in supplying the same toes. The exUrnal saphenous nerve comes from the back of the leg below the outer ankle, and is continued along the foot to the outside of the little toe. Occasionally it supplies both sides of the little toe, and part of the next or more. The fascia of the front of the leg is thickest near the knee joint, where it gives origin to muscles. It is fixed internally and externally into the tibia and fibula. Intermuscular septa are prolonged from the deep surface, and one of these, which is attached to the fibula, separates the muscles on the front from those on the outer side of the leg. Superiorly the fascia is connected to the heads of the bones of the leg, but inferiorly it is continued to the dorsum of the foot. Above and below the ankle joint it is strengthened by some transverse fibres, and gives origin to the two parts of the anterior annular ligament; and below the end of the fibula it forms another band, the external annular ligament. Dissection,—The fascia is to be removed from the leg and the dorsum of the foot, but the thickened band of the annular ligament both above and below the end of the tibia is to be left. On separating the fascia from the subjacent muscles, let the edge of the scalpel be directed upwards. In like manner the fascia may be taken from the peronei muscles on the outside of the fibula, but without destroying the band below that bone. On the dorsum of the foot the dorsal vessels with their nerve are to be dissected, and the short and long extensors of the toes are to be traced to the ends of the digits. In the leg the anterior tibial nerve and vessels are to be followed into their intermuscular space and then cleaned. The anterior annular ligament consists of two parts, upper and lower, which confine the muscles in their position: the former serving to bind the fleshy part to the bones of the leg, and the latter to keep down the tendons on the dorsum of the foot. The upxjer part is attached laterally to the bones of the leg, and possesses a separate sheath for the tibialis anticus. The lower part is in front of the tarsal bones. It is in- serted externally by a narrow part into the upper surface of the OS calcis, in front of the depression for the interosseous ligament ; and internally where it is thin and widened, into the plantar fascia and the inner malleolus. In this part of the ligament there are three sheaths :—the inner one for the