CUTANEOUS NERVES. 727 The two resulting flaps of skin may be raised ; the outer one is to be detached as far as the fibula, and the other as far the inner margin of the tibia. In the fat the cutaneous nerves and vessels are to be fol- Seek cu- lowed. On the inner side, close to the tibia, is the internal Jfgrves hi saphenous vein with the nerve of the same name, together the fat. with twigs of the internal cutaneous near the knee. In the centre is the external saphenous vein, with the small sciatic nerve above the middle of the leg, and the external saphe- nous nerve below the middle. On the outer side are the cutaneous ojffsets of the external popliteal nerve. The superficial fascia or the fatty layer of the back of the Superficial leg is least thick over the tibia. Over the line of the superfi- ^^s^^^- cial vessels it may be separated into two layers as in the thigh. Superficial Yeins.—Two veins appear in the dissection Twosuper- of the back of the leg, which are named saphenous—inner ^^^'^^ vems. and outer. The internal saphenous vein begins in an arch on the internal dorsum of the foot. Ascending along the leg in front of the saphenous, inner ankle, and then behind the inner edge of the tibia, it reaches the thigh where it has been already noticed (p. 673). In the leg the vein is joined by superficial branches, and by deep roots from the tibial veins. The external saphenous vein begins at the outer end of ^J^^^gJ^^J^g the arch on the dorsum of the foot, and appears below the outer ankle. The vein then courses along the back of the leg to the ham, where it ends in the popliteal vein. It receives large branches about the heel, and others on the back of the leg. Cutaneous Nerves.—The nerves in the subcutaneous fat cutaneous of the back of the leg are prolongations of branches already i^erves. examined in part, viz. the internal and external saphenous, cutaneous offsets of the external popliteal, the small sciatic nerve, and offsets of the internal cutaneous of the thigh. The internal saphenous nerve, which has been traced internal before to the knee (p. 694), accompanies the vein of the saphenous, same name in the leg (fig. 108, ^) and. terminates at the Termina- middle of the inner border of the foot. In the leg the nerve tiou. gives off lateral cutaneous offsets, and the outer of these turn over the tibia to the anterior aspect. The external saphenous nerve (fig. 105, ^) is branch of External the internal popliteal (p. 720). Perforating the deep fascia encU^oii^^ about the middle of the leg, it is continued with the external foot; saphenous vein below the outer ankle, and is distributed to the outer side of the foot and little toe. As soon as the