DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEK 586 same way, to form the right half of the oesophageal! open- ing. In the decussation between the aorta and the oesophagus the fasciculus of fibres from the right crus is generally larger than that from the left, and commonly anterior to it. Differences The pillars differ somewhat on opposite sides. The right pillars. C) the larger of the two, and is fixed by tendinous processes to the bodies of the first three lumbar vertebrje, as well as their intervertebral substance, reaching to the intervertebral disc between the third and fourth vertebraj. The left pillar,"^ which is situate more on the side of the spine (^°), is partly concealed by the aorta, and does not reach so far as the right by the depth of a vertebra, or of an intervertebral substance. Two arches, The arches (ligamenta arcuata) are two fibrous bands on each side over the quadratus lumborum and psoas muscles. internal The arch over the psoas (lig. arcuat. internum) is the strongest (^), and is connected by the one end to the ten- dinous part of the pillar of the diaphragm, and by the other to the transverse process of the first or second lumbar ver- external. "^^^bra. The external arch (^) over the quadratus lumborum (lig. arcuat. externum) is only a thickened part of the fascia covering that muscle, and extends from the same transverse process (first or second lumbar) to the last rib. As before said, fleshy fibres take origin from both bands. Apertures Apertures.—There are three large openings in the dia- phragm for the aorta, the vena cava, and the oesophagus; aorta^^ with some smaller fissures for nerves and vessels. The opening for the aorta (^^) is rather behind than in the diaphragm, for it is situate between the pillars of the muscle its contents, and the spinal column : it transmits the aorta, the thoracic For duct, and sometimes the vena azygos. The opening for and nerves, ^^e oesophagus and the pneumo-gastric nerves (^^) is rather above and to the left of the aortic aperture : it is placed in the muscular part of the diaphragm, and is bounded by For the vena the fibres of the pillars as above explained. The opening for the vena cava (^) is situate in the right division of the central tendon, or between the right and middle pieces, and its margins are attached to the vein by tendinous fibres : it is described as being of a square form (foramen quadratum). ttifpiiiars! There is a fissure in each pillar for the splanchnic nerves, and one in the left for the small azygos vein. Sometimes ' * Not very "unfrequently this pillar may be wanting.