DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. 706 border of the muscle, let him carry the scalpel along one bundle of fibres at a time in the direction of a line from the sacrum to the femur, until all the coarse fasciculi are cleaned. If the student has a right limb, the dissection njay be begun at the upper bo'rder ; but if a left limb, at the lower margin of the muscle. Pascia of The fascia of the buttock is a prolongation of that enve- is thi'n an? lopi^g ^^^e ^'^^s'^y and is fixed to the crest of the hip bone, uuimport- and to the sacrum and coccyx. It is much thicker in front of than on the gluteus maximus, and gives attachment ante- riorly to the gluteus medius which it covers. At the edge of the gluteus maximus the fascia is slit to incase it. Gluteus GLUTEUS MAXIMUS is the most Superficial muscle of maximus the buttock, and reaches from the pelvis to the upper part of the femur. Its origin from the pelvis is partly osseous Origin partly aponeurotic:—Thus, the muscle is attached from above from above down to the posterior third of the iliac crest, and to a "^^^^^^' special impression on the hip bone below the crest; next, to the aponeurosis covering the multifidus spinse muscle; and lastly to the back of the lowest piece of the sacrum, and to the side of the coccyx with the great sacro-sciatic ligament. From this origin the fibres are directed outwards to their inserted be- insertio7i:—About two thirds of the upper fibres and a few femur*^ lowest fibres end in the fascia lata of the outer part of the thigh. The remainder are fixed for three inches into the lower part of the line leading from the linea aspera to the great trochanter of the femur. Connections The gluteus forms the prominence of the buttock, and faces^ resembles the deltoid muscle of the arm in its situation and in the coarseness of its texture. Its cutaneous surface is covered by the common investing fascise of the limb, and by the superficial nerves. The parts in contact with the under surface will be seen when the muscle is cut through. The and borders, upper border overlays the gluteus medius. And the lower border, which is longer and thicker than the upper, forms the fold of the nates and bounds posteriorly the perinseal space; beneath the lower border the hamstring muscles and the sciatic vessels and nerves are placed. Divide the Dissection.—The gluteus maximus is to be cut across near maximus. pelvis but external to the sacral nerves perforating it, and without injuring the subjacent sacro-sciatic ligament to which the lower fibres are closely joined. The depth of the muscle will be ascertained by the fascia beneath it, and by some vessels. When this intermuscular layer is arrived at, the outer part of the gluteus is to be thrown towards its