22 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. preceding. A third, the small petrosal nerve, is contained in the substance of the temporal bone. Directions Directions.—The source and the connections of these small vatiorf cTf nerves will be afterwards learnt. It will suffice now for the parts. student to note them, and to see that they are kept moist and preserved fit for examination at a future time. Now the base of the skull has been examined, a preservative fluid should be applied, and the flaps of integuments should be stitched together over all. Section III. DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Directio7is.—The left side of the face may be used for the muscles and vessels, and the right side is to be reserved for the nerves. Position.—The previous position of the body for the ex- amination of the base of the skull will require to be changed. The head is to be lowered, and the side of the face to be dissected is to be placed upwards. Dissection.—As a preparatory step, the muscular fibres of the eyelids, lips, and side of the nose, are to be made slightly prominent by inserting a small quantity of tow or cotton wool into the different apertures. The integument is to be removed from the left side of the face by means of the following incisions :—one is to be made in front of the ear, from above the zygoma to the angle of the jaw ; and another is to be continued from the last point along the base of the jaw to the chin. The flap of skin is to be raised from behind forwards, and left adherent from muscle along the middle line. Much care must be taken in detach- of eyelid, -^^g ^-j^^ ^-j^-^ from the thin, and oftentimes pale fibres of the orbicular muscle of the eyelids, otherwise these will be cut away in consequence of the little areolar tissue that inter- side of nose, venes between the two. On the side of the nose the skin is closely united to the subjacent parts, and must be detached and around with caution. Around the mouth are also many fleshy slips mou . ^^^^ extend both upwards and downwards from the orbicular muscle, but they are all marked so distinctly as to escape injury, except the small risorius muscle that comes from the angle of the lower jaw towards the corner of the mouth. When removing the fat from these muscles, each fleshy slip may be made tense with hooks. Directions. Position of body. Dissection, How to raise the skin