THE PEOSTATE GLAND AND SEMINAL VESICLES. 631 cleaned ; and the duct of the latter, with the vas deferens, is to be followed into the gland. If any of the integument has been left on the penis and the urethra it is to be taken away. THE PROSTATE GLAND AND SEMINAL VESICLES. Prostate Gland.—This is a firm muscular and glandular Prostate body which secretes a special fluid, and surrounds the neck ^^^q an(i of the bladder and the beginning of the urethra. Its con- situation, nections with the surrounding parts have been enumerated (p. 612). This body is conical in form, with the base or larger end Form, directed backwards, and is usually likened to a chesnut, which it resembles much. Its dimensions in different direc- dimensions, tions are the following :—Transversely at the base it mea- sures about an inch and a half ; from apex to base rather more than an inch ; and in depth about three quarters of an inch or an inch : so that an incision directed obliquely downwards and outwards from the apex to the base, at the lateral part, will be the longest that can be practised in the half of this body. Its weight is about an ounce, but in this and weight, respect it varies greatly. The upper surface of the prostate is rounded, but a slight Surfaces; groove lies along the middle. The under surface, which is larger and flatter, is marked by a median hollow that indi- cates the division into lateral lobes. The posterior part, or and base, the base, is thick, and in its centre is an excavation which receives the common ejaculatory ducts. Three lobes are described in the prostate, viz., a middle Three lobes; and two lateral, though there is no fissure in the firm mass. The lateral parts or lobes are similar on both sides, and are two lateral separated only by the hollow on the under surface ; they form the chief part of the prostate, and are prolonged back, on each side, beyond the notch in the base. The middle and a lobe will be brought into view by detaching the vesiculse seminales and the ejaculatory ducts from the bladder ; it is a small piece of the gland between the neck of the bladder and the ejaculatory ducts, which extends transversely between the lateral lobes. Oftentimes this middle lobe is enlarged in old people, and projects upwards into the bladder, so as to interfere with the flow of the urine from that viscus, or the passage of a catheter into it. The urethra and the two common ejaculatory ducts are Gland con- contained in the substance of the prostate. The former ^^be^sJ"^""®^ is transmitted through the gland from base to apex ; and