30 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Irregular in shape; is lodged between the jaw and ear; accessory- part. The duct crosses side of face to reach mouth. Its length and size. Cutaneous surface of gland. Dissection to see deep parts. Deep part sinks behind jaw. glands ; it occupies the space between the ear and the lower jaw, and is named from its position. Its excretory duct enters the mouth through the middle of the cheek. The shape of the gland is irregular, and is determined somewhat by the bounding parts. Thus inferiorly, where there is not any resisting structure, the parotid projects into the neck, and comes into close proximity with the sub- maxillary gland, though separated from it by a process of the cervical fascia ; a line from the angle .of the jaw to the sterno-mastoid muscle marks usually the extent of the gland in this direction. Above, the parotid is limited by the zygoma and the temporal bone. Along the posterior part the sterno-mastoid muscle extends ; but anteriorly the gland projects somewhat on the face, and has a small accessory part, soda parotidis, which is prolonged from it over the masseter. Connected with the anterior border is the excretory duct —duct of Stenson (ductus Stenonis), which crosses the masseter below the socia parotidis, and perforates the cheek obliquely opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. The duct lies between the transverse facial artery and branches of the facial nerve, the latter being below it. A line drawn from the meatus auditorius to a little below the nostril would mark the level of the duct in the face, and the central point of the line would be opposite the opening into the mouth. The length of the duct is about two inches and a half, and its capacity is about equal to a crow-quill, but the opening into the mouth is only large enough to allow a small probe to pass. The cutaneous surface of the parotid is smooth, and has one or two lymphatic glands seated on it; but from the deep part processes are sent into the inequalities of the space between the jaw and the mastoid process. Dissection.—By removing with caution the parotid gland, the hollows that it fills up will come into view : at the same time the dissector will see the vessels and nerves that pass through the gland. An examination of the processes of the gland, and of the number of important vessels that are in relation with it, will demonstrate the impossibility of com- pletely removing this body, and the dangers attending any operation on it. The duct may be now opened, and a probe passed along it to the mouth to show the diminished size of its aperture. Two large processes of the gland extend deeply into the neck. One dips behind the styloid process, and projects