DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. Left part; nerves entering it. Offsets de- scend to left coronary- plexus and to root of lung. Other car- diac nerves from the neck. All on the right side enter deep plexus. On left side one enters the super- ficial, others the deep plexus. h. The left half of the plexus is close to the ligamentum arteriosum, and rather on the left of the trachea. In it are collected the cardiac nerves of the sympathetic cord of the left side of the neck, except the highest, and in addition it has numerous and large branches of the left recurrent nerve of the vagus. J^erves descend from it around the left branch to the trunk of the pulmonary artery, on which they are continued to the heart; and after supplying nerves to the left auricle, they terminate in the posterior coronary plexus (p. 364). A considerable offset is directed forwards to the superficial car- diac plexus by the side of the ligamentum arteriosum ; and some nerves reach the left anterior pulmonary plexus by passing along the branch of the pulmonary artery to the lung. The cardiac branches of the gangliated cord of the sym- pathetic nerve in the neck (p. 123), are now seen at their termination in the thorax. The nerves enter the chest on each side, over or beneath the subclavian artery, and join in the deep cardiac plexus, with the exception of the left superficial cardiac branch. On the right side.—Though usually three in number, there may be but two cardiac nerves on this side, for the highest nerve is blended commonly with one of the other two. The middle and inferior nerves pass beneath the subclavian artery to the right half of the deep cardiac plexus. All three com- municate with the branches of the recurrent laryngeal nerve of the vagus at the root of the neck, or in the upper part of the thorax, as well as with one another. On the left side the superficial or highest cardiac nerve passes for the most part over the arch of the aorta, and ends in the superficial cardiac plexus, but it may give a branch beneath the arch to the deep plexus. Only one other nerve maybe seen entering the left side of the deep cardiac plexus, for oftentimes the middle cardiac throws itself into the lower cardiac nerve. THE TRACHEA AND THE LUNG. trachea^and -Dissection,—To see the bronchi or the divisions of the air its divisions, tube in the root of the lung, it will be necessary to remove the pulmonary artery and its branches, together with the pulmonary veins. When the transverse part of the arch of the aorta, which has been already cut through, is turned to one side, the dissector will be able to clear away the bron-