335 SUPINATOR BREYIS. been divided, the fleshy fibres of the supinator are to be followed forwards to their insertion into the radius ; and that part of the origin of the flexor profundus digitorum, which lies on the outer side of the insertion of the brachialis anticus, is to be removed. The SUPINATOR BREVis arises from the orbicular ligament Origin of of the radius and the external lateral ligament of the elbow uator^^^'^' joint; from a depression below the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna ; and from the external margin of the ulna below that depression for two inches. From this origin the fibres and inser- pass outwards, and are inserted into the upper third or more radi^T*^ of the radius except at the inner part, reaching downwards to the insertion of the pronator teres, and forwards to the hollowed anterior surface. This supinator is concealed altogether at the posterior and Overlyiug external aspects of the limb by the muscles of the superficial layer; and anteriorly the radial vessels and nerve lie over it. The lower border is contiguous to the extensor ossis meta- and con- carpi poUicis, only the posterior interosseous artery inter- pSts^^ vening. Through the substance of the muscle the posterior interosseous nerve winds to the back of the limb. The upper part of the radius is surrounded by the fleshy fibres of the muscle, except at the tubercle and along a slip of bone below it. The posterior interosseous artery is an ofi'set from the com- Posterior mon interosseous trunk (p. 313), and reaches the back of the artery^^^°"^ forearm above the ligament between the bones. Passing between the contiguous borders of the supinator brevis and extensor ossis metacarpi, the artery descends between the is between superficial and deep layers of muscles nearly to the wrist, layerrof where it ends by anastomosing with the carpal and anterior ^^^scies. interosseous arteries. It furnishes many muscular ofisets, and the following recurrent branch:— The recurrent branch springs from the artery near its com- Its recurrent mencement, and ascends through some fibres of the supinator, but beneath the anconeus, to supply the elbow joint, and to anastomose with a long branch of the superior profunda artery in the last named muscle. The posterior interosseous nerve takes its origin from the interosseous musculo-spiral trunk in front of the outer condyle of the hu- merus, and winds backwards through the fibres of the supi- nator brevis. Escaped from the supinator, the nerve is placed between the superficial and deep layers of the muscles as far as the middle of the forearm. Much reduced in size at that spot, it sinks beneath the extensor of the second