158 DISSECTIOI^ OF THE TONGUE. Borders. Kinds of papillae; conical and filiform, situation on front of tongue; fungiform mostly at tip and sides; caliciform, near root of tongue; Secondary papillse. Structure of papillse. bone and tlie jaw ; and in front of these muscles is the fold of the mucous membrane named frsenum linguae. The borders of the tongue are thick and round at the base of the organ, where they are marked by vertical ridges and furrows, but gradually become thinner near the apex. Fapillce.—On the dorsum of the tongue are the following kinds of papilla; the conical and filiform, the fungiform, and the caliciform. The conical and filiform papillse are the numerous small projections, like the villi on the mucous membrane of the small intestine, which cover the anterior twothirds of the dorsum of the tongue. Some of the papillse (conical) are wider at their attached than at their free end, and these are most developed over the central part of the tongue. Others become longer (filiform), especially towards the sides of the tongue. These small papillse are furnished with minuter papillse, and are provided at the tip with hair-like processes of the epithelium. Towards their limit behind, as well as on the side of the tongue, they have a linear arrange- ment. The fungiform papillse are less numerous but larger than the preceding set, amongst which they are scattered. They are wider at the free end than at the part fixed to the tongue, and they project beyond the other set ; they are situate mostly at the tip and sides of the tongue. They are covered with small simple papillse. The caliciform (papillse vallate) are fewer in number and larger than the others, and are placed at the junction of the two anterior with the posterior third of the tongue. Their number varies from eight to ten. These papillse extend across the tongue in a line resembling the letter Y, Each papilla consists of a central truncated part of a conical form, which is surrounded by a fold of the mucous membrane : its wider part or base projects above the surface, whilst the apex is attached to the tongue. Both the papilla and the surrounding fold are furnished with smaller secondary papillse. Minute simple papillse exist in the part of the tongue behind the caliciform kind ; but they cannot be observed till the epithelium is removed.*—(Todd and Bowman.) structure of the FapillcB,—The simple papillse are con- Similar papilla are said, by Mr. Salter, to occupy '' the whole of the under surface of the free portion of the tongue."—Cyclop, of Anatomy: art. Tongue.