26 DISSECTIOI^ OF THE FACE. consists of It consists of two parts, inner and outer, "which differ much two parts, jjj^ ^i^Q appearance and arrangement of the fibres, inner or The inner part (fig. 2, '^), whose fibres are pale in colour circular, texture, forms a rounded thick fasciculus, which reaches outwards from the margin of the lip to the arch of not fixed to the coronary artery. The fibres of this portion of the bone. muscle are unattached to bone, and some pass from lip to lip round the corner of the mouth. Outer The outer part is thin, wide, and more irregular in form, irregular, ^I'dB an attachment to the subjacent bone, besides its con- nection with the adjacent muscles. In the upper lip it is attached, on each side of the middle line, by one slip (naso- labial) to the back of the septum of the nose (fig. 2, '^'^), and by another to the outer surface of the alveolar margin of the upper jaw, opposite the canine and incisor teethj external fixed to the to the depressor of the wing of the nose. And in the lower and to the fixed on each side into the inferior jawbone, on the jawbones. outer aspect, opposite the canine tooth, or external to the levator labii inferioris muscle. To see these attachments the lip must be everted, and the mucous membrane carefully raised. Connec- The inner margin of the muscle is free, and bounds the blends with ^^pe^^ture of the mouth ; whilst the outer edge blends with other the different muscles that elevate or depress the lips and the angle of the mouth. Beneath the orbicularis in each lip is the coronary artery, with the mucous membrane and the labial glands. Elevator of The LEVATOR LABII suPERiORis extends Vertically from upper hp ^j^^ lower margin of the orbit to the orbicularis oris. It arises from the upper maxillary and malar bones, above the passesjrom infra-orbital foramen, and blends with the orbicularis oris mouth. between the middle line and the angle of the mouth. Near the orbit the muscle is overlapped by the orbicularis palpe- Connections. brarum, but below that spot it is subcutaneous. By its inner side it joins the common elevator of the ala of the nose and upper lip ; and to its outer side lie the zygomatic muscles, the small one joining it. Beneath it are the infra- orbital vessels and nerve. Depressor of The DEPRESSOR LABII INFERIORIS is Opposite the elevator lowei hp upper lip, and has much yellow fat mixed with its fibres. The muscle takes its origin from a depression on the front of the lower jaw, reaching backwards from near the symphysis to a little beyond the hole for the labial vessels and nerve ; ascending thence it is blended with the is in the Orbicularis in the lower lip. Its inner border joins the