BRANCHES OF CERYICAL PLEXUS. 59 and instead of the vessel being beneath, it may be in front of, or even between the fibres of that muscle. Commonly there is not any branch connected with the artery in this part of its course ; but the posterior scapular branch (fig. 8) may take origin from it at difierent distances from the scalenus, or there may be more than one branch (Quain). The subclavian vein rises upwards not unfrequently as high as the artery, or it may even lie with the artery beneath the anterior scalenus in some rare instances. The position of the external jugular vein with regard to the subclavian artery is very uncertain, and the branches connected with its lower end may form a kind of plexus over the arterial trunk. The occipital part of the posterior triangular space is of Part of larger extent than the other. Its boundaries in front and spac?near behind are the sterno-mastoid and the trapezius, and it is ^^^^ separated from the clavicular portion by the omo-hyoid muscle. In it are contained chiefly the ramifications of the contains cervical plexus ; and a chain of lymphatic glands lies along lymphatics; the sterno-mastoid muscle. Beneath the spinal nerves is the middle scalenus, and still farther behind are some muscles of the back before seen. The spinal accessory nerve, 10, is also spinal directed obliquely across this interval from the sterno- nerve^^^*^ mastoid muscle, which it pierces, to the under surface of the trapezius ; and a communication takes place between this cranial nerve and the spinal nerves in the triangular space. Superficial Branches of the Cervical Plexus. — Nerves of Behind the sterno-mastoid muscle appear some of the rami- piex^us^^^^^ fications of the cervical nerves in the plexus of the same name, and superficial branches are furnished from these both upwards and downwards. A. The ASCENDING SET (fig. 8) are three in number, viz. that ascend, small occipital, great auricular, and superficial cervical. 1. The small occipital branch comes from, the second Small occi- cervical nerve, and is directed upwards to the head along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. At first the nerve is beneath the fascia ; but near the occiput it becomes cutaneous, and is distributed between the ear and the great occipital nerve (p. 8). Occasionally there is a second cutaneous nerve to the head. 2. The great auricular nerve is a branch of that part of Great auri- the plexus which is formed by the second and third cervical nerves. Perforating the deep fascia at the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, the nerve is then directed