DISSECTIOI:^^ OF THE THIGH. 670 neighbouring regions, so tliat it may be followed inwards to the scrotum or labium, and upwards on the abdomen. Its thickness thickness varies in different bodies, according to the quan- varies, ^-^^ deposited in it ; and at the upper part of the it is divided thigh it is divided into two strata (superficial and deep) by strataJDy some cutaneous vessels and inguinal glands. The super- vessels, ficial of the two layers is apparent after the removal of the skin, but its connections will be made more evident by the following dissection. To raise the Dissection,—To reflect the superficial stratum of the stSfmr^ fascia, incisions similar to those in the skin are to be em- ployed, though they are not to reach so low on the thigh ; and the separation from the subjacent structures is to be begun at the lower part, where the large saphenous vein, and a condensed or membranous appearance on the under surface, will mark the depth of the stratum. The handle of the scalpel may be advantageously employed in raising the fascia along the middle line of the limb ; but, where vessels and glands are not found, viz. along the outer and inner borders of the thigh, the separation of the superficial fascia into two layers cannot be easily made without the knife. Subcutane- The suhcutaneous layer of this fascia decreases in thick- the fascia^^ near Poupart's ligament, becoming more fibrous at the same spot; and at its under aspect is a smooth and mem- branous surface. It conceals the superficial vessels and the ^ inguinal glands, and is separated by these from Poupart's with Pou- ligament, so that it is unconnected to that band as it passes meiit^ ^^^^^ upwards to the abdomen, and is readily moved on it either upwards or downwards. Dissection. Dissection.—The inguinal glands and the superficial vessels are to be next laid bare by the removal of the sur- rounding fat; but the student is to be careful not to destroy the deeper, very thin layer of the superficial fascia which is beneath them, and is visible chiefly on the inner side of the centre of the limb. To see the Three sets of vessels are to be found in the dissection, vesseis^^ (artery and vein) is directed inwards to the pubes, and is named external pudic; another, superficial epigastric, ascends over Poupart's ligament ; and the third, or the superficial circumflex iliac, appears at the outer border of the limb. The large vein in the middle line of the thigh to which the branches converge, is the internal saphenous, lymphatics, Some of the small lymphatic vessels may be traced from one inguinal gland to another, and nerves. A small nerve, the ilio-inguinal, is to be sought on the