DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 276 Attiiis Directions,—The dissector of the upper limb now waits tholax and the appointed time for the examination of the thorax. But dissected ^^^^ body is turned he is to take his share in the dissection of the back, and to proceed with the parts marked for him in Chapter Y. After the back is finished, the limb is to be detached from the trunk by sawing the clavicle about the middle, and cutting through the soft parts connected with the scapula. Section II. SCAPULAH MUSCLES, VESSELS, NERVES, AND LIGAMENTS. Position. Fosition.—After the limb has been separated from the trunk, it is to be placed with the subscapularis uppermost. Dissection Dissection.—The different muscles that have been traced of muscles. j^-]^Q scapula in the dissection of the front of the thorax and the back, are now to be cleaned, and to be followed to their insertion into the bone. A small part of each, about an inch in length, should be left for the purpose of ascertaining more exactly the osseous attachment. Muscles in- The borders and the angles of the scapula have the following serted muscles connected with them :— into upper ^he upper margin of the scapula has but one muscle, the theTcapida • ^^^^'^Y^i^? attached to it. At its origin that muscle is about ' half an inch wide, and is connected to the edge of the bone behind the notch, but sometimes to the ligament (posterior special) which converts the notch into a foramen, into lower The lower margin, or costa, gives origin to the long head margin; ^-j^^ triceps, and to some fibres of the teres major; but these attachments to the bone will be ascertained in the pro- gress of the dissection, into the The base of the bone has many muscles inserted into it. base; Between the superior angle and the spine, the levator anguli scapulse is inserted. Opposite the spine, the rhomboideus minor is fixed. And between the spine and the inferior angle the rhomboideus major is attached : the upper fibres of this muscle end often in an aponeurotic arch, and are connected indirectly to the bone by means of an expansion from it. Internal to these muscles, and inserted into the whole extent of the base of the scapula, is the serratus magnus muscle.