740 DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. partly su- perficial, partly deep, Superficial part. Connec- tions. Veins and nerve. Branches. Plantar nerves also two. Inner is largest. Internal nerve to three toes and a half. Other branches. Digital nerves are divided ex- cept first; muscular branches: give cu- taneous is directed outwards across the sole, and then obliquely inwards towards the root of the great toe, so that the vessel crosses the foot twice. In the first half of its extent, viz, from the inner side of the calcaneum to the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, the artery is comparatively superficial; in the other half, between the little and the great toe, it lies deeply in the foot, in contact with the interosseous muscles, and forms the plantar arch. Only the first part of the artery is now laid bare ; the remaining part, supplying the digital branches, will be noticed after the examination of the third layer of muscles (p. 744). As far as the metatarsal bone of the little toe, the vessel is concealed by the abductor pollicis and the flexor brevis digitorum, and for a short distance near its termina- tion it lies in the interval between the last muscle and the abductor minimi digiti. In this extent it is placed on the OS calcis, and the flexor accessorius : and it is accompanied by vense comites, and the external plantar nerve. It supplies ofisets to the muscles betv»^een which it lies, and some branches to the outer side of the foot for anasto- mosis with the peroneal artery. The PLANTAR NERVES are derived from the bifurcation of the posterior tibial nerve behind the inner ankle. They are two in number, like the arteries, and have the same con- nections as those vessels, for each accompanies a plantar artery; but the larger nerve is found with the smaller bloodvessel. The internal 'plantar nerve courses with its artery between the short flexor and the abductor pollicis, and divides into four digital branches for the supply of both sides of the inner three toes, and half the fourth; it resembles thus the median nerve of the hand in the number and distribution of its digital branches. Offsets are given by it to the short flexor and the abductor pollicis, and a few superficial twigs perforate the fascia. The four digital nerves have a numerical designation, and the first is nearest the inner border of the foot. The branch to the inner side of the great toe is undivided, but the others are bifurcated at the clefts between the toes. Muscular branches are furnished by the nerves before they reach the toes ; thus, the first (most internal) supplies the flexor brevis pollicis; the second, the inner lumbrical muscle; and the third, the next lumbrical muscle. Digital nerves on the toes.—Each of the outer three nerves, being divided at the spot mentioned, supplies cutaneous-