PECTORAL MUSCLES. 265 the axilla. The parts covered by the muscle will be seen subsequently. Dissection.—The great pectoral muscle is to be cut across Dissection, now in the following manner. First, only the clavicular part is to be divided, so that C^^t c^^Y^f^' branches of a nerve and artery to the muscle may be looked the pTctoral. for, and a thin membrane around the bloodvessels may be prepared. By raising the cut part of the muscle, and care- fully removing the fat, and a piece of fascia prolonged from the upper border of the small pectoral muscle, the mem- branous sheath (costo-coracoid), which covers the axillary vessels and nerves, will be seen close to the clavicle ; at the same time the cephalic vein will be detected as it crosses inwards to the axillary vein, A branch of nerve (anterior thoracic), and the acromial thoracic artery perforate the tube of membrane, and are to be followed to the pectoral muscles. The remaining part of the pectoralis major may be cut Divide the about its centre, and the pieces may be thrown inwards and m Jscle^and ' Outwards. Any fat coming into view is to be removed, see its and the insertion of the tendon of the pectoralis is to be followed to the humerus. The parts beneath the pectoral muscle are now laid bare. Insertion of the pectoralis.—The tendon of the pectoralis Tendon of^ consists of two parts, anterior and posterior, at its attach- pectoralis. ment to the bone ; the anterior receives the clavicular and upper sternal fibres, and joins the tendon of the deltoid muscle ; and the posterior gives attachment to the lower ascending fibres. The tendon is from two inches to two inches and a half wide, and sends upwards one expansion over the bicipital groove to the capsule of the shoulder joint, another backwards to line the groove, and a third to the fascia of the arm. Parts covered by the pectoralis.—The great pectoral muscle Parts covers the pectoralis minor, and forms alone, above and the^musde. below that muscle, the anterior boundary of the axilla. Between the pectoralis minor and the clavicle it conceals the subclavian muscle, the sheath containing the axillary vessels, and the branches that perforate the sheath. Below the small pectoralis it lies on the side of the chest, on the axillary vessels and nerves, and, near the humerus, on the biceps and coraco-brachialis muscles. The PECTORALIS MINOR resembles the preceding muscle in Pectoralis shape, and is extended like it from the thorax to the arm. chesf Its origin is connected by slips with the front and the upper border of the third, fourth, and fifth ribs, external to