SACRAL PLEXUS. 627 excepted), the nerves receive short filaments of communica- tion from the gangliated cord of the sympathetic. The first are^peculiar three nerves and part of the fourth enter the sacral plexus, ^i'® but the fifth ends on the back of the coccyx. The peculiarities of the fourth and fifth sacral, and the coccygeal nerve, will be noticed before the plexus formed by the other nerves is described. The fourth nerve divides into two parts, as above stated :— fourth, one communicates with the sacral plexus ; the other dis- tributes the following branches to the viscera and the which gives surrounding muscles, and joins the fifth nerve. a. The visceral branches supply chiefly the bladder and the viscera- vagina, and communicate with the sympathetic nerve to form the pelvic plexus. Sometimes these branches come from the third sacral nerve. h. The muscular branches are three in number. One and mus- rather long branch enters the levator ani on its visceral ^^^^^^^^^^^ aspect ; another supplies the coccygeus ; and the third reaches the perinaeum by piercing the coccygeus muscle. (See page 460). The fifth nerve comes forwards from the lower end of the Fifth is be- spinal canal through the coccygeus muscle. As soon as it iures?^' appears in the pelvis it receives the communicating branch sacrum, from the fourth nerve ; it is then directed downwards in front of the coccygeus, where it is joined by the coccygeal nerve, and perforates that muscle near the tip of the coccyx, coccyx^ to end on the posterior surface of the bone. The coccygeal nerve (sixth sacral), after leaving the lower Coccygeal end of the spinal canal, appears through the coccygeus muscle, and joins the fifth sacral nerve in the manner above stated. Sacral Plexus.—This plexus is a large flat band, in Sacrai which are united the lumbo-sacral cord, the first three sacral P^®^^^ > nerves, and part of the fourth sacral nerve. It is situate on situation the pyriformis muscle, and beneath the sciatic and pudic branches of the internal iliac artery. From the spot where and form, the nerves join, the plexus becomes gradually smaller towards the lower end ; and, leaving the pelvis below the pyriformis, it terminates in branches for the lower limb. Branches.—Most of the branches of the plexus arise out- Branches to side the pelvis, and are distributed to the back of the lower inSde the Hmb. Only two internal muscles of the pelvis (pyriformis P^^^is; and obturator internus) receive nerves from the sacral plexus. The nerve of the obturator internus muscle arises from the o^ie to obtu- part of the plexus formed by the union of the lumbo-sacral s s 2