SUPEASPmATUS MUSCLE. 283 The anterior part (fig. 40,trapezoid ligament, is larger and a squar than the conoid piece : it is connected inferiorly to the ^^^^^* inner border of the coracoid process along the hinder half, and superiorly to the line on the under surface of the clavicle which extends outwards from the tubercle before mentioned. The two parts of the ligament are united posteriorly, but are separated by an interval in front. Acromio-clamcidar articulation.—The articular surfaces of Jomtwith the clavicle and acromion process of the scapula are retained acromion, in contact by some scattered fibres, which form a kind of capsule for the joint. Some of the fibres are stronger above superior and and below, and are considered to constitute a superior and bands:^ an inferior ligament. An inter articular fihro-cartilage is generally found between Fibro-carti- the bones only at the upper part of the joint ; but some- times it forms a complete interarticular septum. If the fibro-cartilage is perfect, there are two synovial membranes ; and synovial if it is imperfect, there is only one present in the joint. The joint should be opened to see the cartilage and the synovial membrane. Scapular Ligaments.—The special ligaments of the i^igamenta T ^ !)• 1 of scapula. scapula are two m number, anterior and posterior, and ex- tend from one to another part of the bone. The posterior ligament (fig. 4.0, is a round fasciculus of Posterior fibres stretching across the notch in the upper costa of the scapula. By one end it is attached to the base of the coracoid process, and by the other to the costa behind the notch. It converts the notch into a foramen, through which the suprascapular nerve passes. The anterior ligament (fig. 40, ^) is triangular in form, and anterior, .extends transversely between the acromion and the coracoid process (coraco acromial). Externally it is inserted by its point or apex into the tip of the acromion ; and internally, where it is much wider, it is attached to all the outer border of the coracoid process, reaching backwards to the attachment of the capsule of the shoulder joint. This liga- ment overhangs the shoulder joint ; it consists usually of This is two thickened bands, anterior and posterior, with a thin twopieces intervening part. Dissection.—To lay bare the supraspinatus muscle, the Dissection, acromion process is to be sawn through, and to be removed with the outer end of the clavicle. A strong fascia covers the surface of the muscle ; this is to be taken away after it has been observed. The SupRASPiiirATUS muscle has the same form as the Supraspina-