DISSECTIOIT OF THE ABDOMEK 518 The under surface is in contact with the stomach and the duodenum, with the ascending colon, and with the right kidney and suprarenal body. Attached to this surface is a fold of the peritoneum (small omentum) containing the hepatic vessels. Borders. The anterior border is thin, and is constantly varying its position to the wall of the thorax according to the distension of the stomach, and the position of the body and the dia- phragm. This edge, except a small part near the xiphoid cartilage, lies in adult males usually within the margin of the ribs, but in women and children it reaches below that line. The gall bladder projects beyond this edge. The posterior border is thick, and is connected to the diaphragm by certain ligaments or folds of the peritoneum : it lies on the large vessels (aorta and cava), and on the pillars of the diaphragm. The liver is constantly changing its situation with the ascent and descent of the diaphragm in respiration ; thus in inspiration it descends, and in expiration it regains its former level. In the upright and sitting postures this viscus descends lower than in the horizontal condition of the body; so that when the trunk is erect, the anterior border may be felt underneath the edge of the ribs, but when the body is reclined it is withdrawn within the margin of the thorax. The connections of the liver with the surrounding parts may be changed by the growth of tumours, by collections of fluid in the chest or in the abdomen, or by constricting the space for its lodgment, as in tight-lacing. The spleen (fig. 79, ^).—The spleen lies deeply in the left hypochondrium, between the stomach and the ribs, and is connected by peritoneum to the great end of the stomach on the one side, and to the diaphragm on the other. Its position is almost vertical. The outer surface is convex : it touches the diaphragm, and is opposite the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs. At the inner surface, which is concave, the vessels enter, and to it a fold of peritoneum, the gastro- splenic omentum, is attached : the part in front of the vessels touches the stomach ; and the part behind them is in contact with the left crus of the diaphragm, the suprarenal capsule, and the tail of the pancreas. Below the spleen are the kidney and the beginning of the descending colon. When the stomach is distended the spleen is somewhat behind it. Kidney The kidney.—The kidney should be examined on the left side of the body, so that the duodenum may not be displaced. Position is claanged by diaphragm, by posture of body, and by dis- ease in other parts. Situation of the spleen. Connec- tions.