mTERIOR OF THE URETHRA. 639 fclie eminence of the uvula vesicee. In front of this is a central longitudinal ridge of the mucous lining, about three quarters of an inch in length and larger behind than before, which is prolonged anteriorly towards the membranous part of the canal, and is named crest of the urethra (veru mon- tanum, caput gallinaginis) ; it is formed like the uvula by a bundle of the submucous muscular fibres. In the central in the crest fold or crest of the mucous membrane, near its posterior ^ pouch, extremity, is a slight hollow named vesicula prostatica or sinus pocularis. The depression in the mucous fold, or the vesicula pro- vesicuia statica, is a csecal appendage to the urethral canal, and is 1^^^^^^^'^ directed backwards and downwards in the substance of the prostate, prostate, for the distance of a quarter of an inch or less, passing beneath the middle and between the lateral lobes. Its orifice in the urethra is about a line wide, and its closed extremity is dilated. In its wall, on each side, is contained and in it the common eiaculatory duct, which opens by a narrow slit . r J ejaculatory oh or within the free margin of the mouth of the sac. ducts. Small glands open likewise on the surface of the mucous membrane lining it. Some bristles should be introduced into the ejaculatory ducts, to render evident their position and apertures. On each side of the central ridge or crest is an excavation Prostatic which is named the prostatic sinus. Into this hollow the pi^^^ses also in noor. greater number of the ducts of the prostate open ; whilst the apertures of others are seen at the posterior part of the central ridge, behind the hollow in it. The membranous part of the urethra is nearly an inch in Membra- length, and intervenes between the apex of the prostate ^^^^ P^^*- gland and the bulb of the corpus spongiosum urethraj. In its interior are slight longitudinal folds. This is the nar- Dimensions, rowest portion of the whole tube, with the exception of the orifice, and measures rather less than a quarter of an inch across. It is the weakest of the three portions of the canal, p^rts and is supported by a thin stratum of erectile tissue, by a around, thin layer of involuntary circular fibres (p. 468), and outside all by the compressor urethras muscle. The spongy part reaches onwards to the end of the penis. Spongy It is about six inches in length. And its strength depends P^^^* upon a surrounding material, named corpus spongiosum urethrse. The average size of the canal is about a quarter Dimensions of an inch in diameter, though at the vertical slit (meatus urinarius), by which it terminates on the glans penis, the tube is smaller than elsewhere. Two dilatations exist in the Two dilata-