751 MUSCLES ON THE FRONT OF THE LEG. tibialis anticus ; the next for the extensor pollicis ; and the outer one for the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius. Separate synovial membranes line the sheaths. The external annular ligament is attached on the one side External to the outer malleolus, and on the other to the outer surface naament. of the OS calcis; it contains the two lateral peronei muscles in one sheath lined by a synovial membrane. The MUSCLES GIST THE FRONT OF THE LEG are three in Musclef? on number; they are flexors of the ankle and extensors of the ^^iq toes. The large muscle next the tibia is the tibialis anticus, and that next the fibula, the extensor longus digitorum ; whilst a small muscle, apparently the lower part of the last, with a separate tendon to the fifth metatarsal bone, is the peroneus tertius. The muscle between the tibialis and ex- tensor digitorum, in the lower half of the leg, is the extensor pollicis. On the dorsum of the foot is only one muscle, the extensor and foot, brevis digitorum. The TIBIALIS ANTICUS reaches the tarsus : it is thick and Tibialis fleshy in the upper, but tendinous in the lower part of the ^^^^^^^' leg. It arises from the outer tuberosity and the upper two- origin, thirds of the tibia; from the contiguous part of the inter- osseous ligament; and from the fascia of the leg and the intermuscular septum between it and the next muscle. After passing through the innermost compartments in the annular ligaments, the tendon is inserted into the under surface of insertion, the internal cuneiform bone, and sends forwards a process to the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The muscle is sub-aponeurotic. It lies at first outside the Parts be- tibia, resting on the interosseous membrane, but it is then ^^scie and placed successively over the end of the tibia, the ankle joint, on the sides, and the inner line of the tarsal bones. The outer border touches the extensor muscles of the toes, and conceals partly the anterior tibial vessels as low as the foot. The EXTENSOR PROPRIUS POLLICIS is deeply l^laced at its Extensor origin between the former muscle and the extensor longus po^^i^is digitorum, but its tendon becomes superficial on the dorsum of the foot. The muscle arises from the middle three-fifths of the narrow anterior part of the inner surface of the fibula, attached to and from the interosseous ligament for the same distance. The tendon comes to the surface through a sheath in the and great lower part of the annular ligament, and continues over the inner part of the tarsus to be inserted into the last jphalanx of the great toe. The anterior tibial vessels are to the inner side of the it crosses