541 SYMPATHETIC ATO YAGUS I^ERYES. The EPIGASTRIC or solae, plexus is tlie largest of the Soiar prevertebral plexuses of the sympathetic, and furnishes nerves pi^xus; to all the viscera of the abdomen above the pelvis. It is a large network of nerves and ganglia, which lies in front of appearance, the aorta and the pillars of the diaphragm, and extends from the suprarenal capsule of one side to that of the other. It surrounds the coeliac axis and the superior mesenteric extent; artery, and extends downwards to the pancreas. The plexus is connected on each side with the large and small splanchnic nerves, and it is joined also by some twigs from the right gives offsets pneumo-gastric nerve. Large offsets are furnished to the ^ggseis^^" different viscera along the vessels. The semilunar ganglia of the solar plexus, one on each Semilunar side, are the largest ganglia in the body. Each is situate at the upper and outer part of the plexus, close to the situation; suprarenal capsule, and on the side of the pillar of the diaphragm. The ganglion on the right side is beneath the vena cava. Irregular in shape, the mass is sometimes oval, and at other times divided into smaller ganglia. From the Nerves outer side nerves are directed to the kidney and the supra- with each, renal capsule, and to the inner side the cords of the solar plexus are connected. At the upper end it is joined by the great splanchnic nerve. Offsets of the plexus.—The nerves supplied to the viscera Several off- are conveyed on branches of the aorta, forming plexuses pig^us^^^ around them; thus there are coeliac, mesenteric, renal, sper- matic, and other plexuses. The diaphragmatic artery has also a separate plexus on it. Diaphragmatic plexus. —The nerves that form this plexus Plexus to come from the upper and outer part of the semilunar gan- phragm glion. They are placed at first on the phrenic artery, but they soon leave it to enter the substance of the diaphragm. A communication takes place between the phrenic nerve of the cervical plexus and the branches of the sympathetic. On the under surface of the diaphragm is a small gan- has a glion where the plexus joins the spinal nerve, and from f^ift sMe°^ it filaments are supplied to the vena cava and the supra- renal body. The ganglion is absent on the left side.— (Swan.) The suprarenal nerves are very large and numerous, in Suprarenal comparison with the mass supplied, and are directed almost horizontally outwards to the suprarenal body, which they enter at the upper part. One of the splanchnic nerves communicates with this plexus. The renal plexus is derived from the semilunar ganglion, l^enai ° ° ^ plexus