548 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. as the muscular, fibrous, and mucous. The different layers are stomach. examined on pieces taken from the duodenum, from the upper part of the jejunum, from the lower end of the ileum, and from the middle of the small intestine. After the pieces of intestine have been cut off, they are to be dis- tended with air. Serous coat The serous coat is closely connected with the subjacent muscular layer. To the greater part of the small intestine (jejunum and ileum) it furnishes a covering, except at the like that of attached part where the vessels enter : at this spot the peri- the stomach, ^^^j^g^j^ reflected off to form the mesentery, and a space exists resembling that at the borders of the stomach. The except in peritoneum surrounds the duodenum only partly ; this pecu- dennm' liarity has been described at p. 523. Muscular The muscular coat is constructed of two sets of fibres, a coat is superficial or lonsjitudinal, and a deep or circular. The fibres formed by a ^ ° ' . , • x i are pale m colour, and are not striated, longitudinal a. The longitudinal fibres will be seen only by a careful removal of the peritoneum, for they are generally taken away with that membrane. They form a thin layer which is most marked at the free border of the gut. and a circu- b. The circular fibres are much more distinct than the larlayei. others, and give the chief strength to the muscular coat : they do not appear to form complete rings around the intestine. Fibrous coat The fibrous coat has the same position and the same use stomacif corresponding layer in the stomach. Dissect Dissection.—On the removal of a part of the muscular stra- fibrous coat ^-^j^ from the jejunum or the ileum, the submucous fibrous layer will come into view. Glands of In the upper part of the duodenum the student is to Brunner, ^^^-^ some small compound glands—those of Brunner, which are imbedded in the submucous tissue. They lie beneath the mucous membrane, and will be seen shining through the fibrous layer, when the muscular coat has been taken away. and mucous The pieces of intestine may be opened and washed, to coat. show the mucous coat, but the gut should be cut along the line of attachment of the mesentery, so as to avoid Peyer's glands on the opposite side. Thickness, Mucous coat.—The lining membrane is thicker and more vascular at the beginning than at the ending of the small folds, intestine. It is marked by numerous prominent folds (val- vules conniventes). The surface of the membrane is soft, and is covered with small points (villi) like the pile of