132 DISSECTION" OF THE PHARYNX. Lower c?on- strictor muscle arises from larynx and ends in the middle line. Parts in contact with it. Middle stricter passes from hyoid bone to the middle line behind. Connec- tions. Stylo-pha- ryngeus. Upper con- strictor. Origin in front. the pharynx, where the muscular fibres are absent, to connect the tube to the base of the skull, and to complete the pos- terior boundary. Superiorly it is fixed to the basilar process of the occipital bone, and the petrous part of the temporal bone, as well as to the cartilage between them ; but inferiorly it becomes thin, and extends between the muscular and mucous strata. On this membrane some of the fibres of the constrictor muscles terminate. The INFERIOK, CONSTRICTOE,, the most superficial of the muscles of the pharynx, arises from the side of the cricoid cartilage, from the oblique line and the upper and lower borders of the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and from the part of the last cartilage behind the oblique line. The origin is small when compared with the insertion, for the fibres are directed backwards, radiating, and are inserted along the middle line, where it meets the corresponding muscle of the opposite side. The outer surface of the muscle is in contact with the sheath of the carotid artery, and with the muscles covering the spinal column. The lower border is straight, and is continuous with the fibres of the oesophagus ; whilst the upper border overlaps the fibres of the middle constrictor. The recurrent nerve enters beneath the lower border. The MIDDLE CONSTRICTOR MUSCLE has nearly the same shape as the preceding, that is to say, it is narrov*^ed in front and expanded behind. Its fibres arise from the great cornu of the OS hyoides, from the small cornu of the same bone, and from the stylo-hyoid ligament. From this origin the fibres radiate, and are blended along the middle line with the other muscles. The surfaces of the muscle have con- nections similar to those of the preceding constrictor. The upper border is separated from the superior constrictor by the stylo-pharyngeus muscle and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and ends on the aponeurosis of the pharynx, about an inch from the base of the skull. The lower border descends beneath the inferior constrictor ; and opposite the interval between the two is the superior laryngeal nerve. The stylo-pharyngeus muscle may be read over again with the pharynx. Its description is given at p. 109. The SUPERIOR CONSTRICTOR is the least strong of the three muscles, and wants the same regular or conical form. Its origin is extensive, and is connected successively, from above down, with the inner surface of the internal pterygoid plate (the lower third), with the pterygo-maxillary ligament, with the posterior part of the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower