DISSECTIOlSr OF THE THORAX. 864 and opens into sinus. Small ante- rior and posteripr cardiac veins. Smallest cardiac. Cardiac nerves. Superficial plexus ends in anterior coronary. Anterior coronary- plexus, posterior plexus, ending in the heart. ventricles. From this origin the vessel turns to the back of the heart in the sulcus between the left auricle and ventricle, and opens into the coronary sinus. It receives collateral branches in its course, and its ending in the sinus is marked by two valves. h. Anterior and posterior cardiac veins.—Some small veins on the anterior part of the right ventricle open sepa- rately, by one or more trunks, into the lower part of the right auricle. Similar small veins exist over the back of the ventricles ; and one, larger than the rest, lies over the septum ventriculorum : they enter the coronary sinus by separate valved openings. c. Smallest cardiac. —A third set of veins (veins of The- besius, venae minimte) lie in the substance of the heart : these are noticed in the description of the right auricle. Cardiac nerves.—The nerves for the supply of the heart are derived from a large plexus (cardiac) around the roots of the aorta and the pulmonary artery. Part of this plexus is superficial to the pulmonary artery, and part beneath it; and an offset is sent from each with a coronary artery. Only the superficial part of the plexus can be now seen. The small superficial cardiac plexus is placed by the side of the ductus arteriosus, and below the arch of the aorta. The nerves joining it are the left superficial cardiac nerve of the sympathetic, the small (cervical) cardiac branch of the left vagus (p. 118), and a considerable bundle of nerves from the deep cardiac plexus. A small ganglionic mass is sometimes seen in the plexus. Inferiorly the plexus ends in nerves to the heart with the right coronary artery. A few filaments pass on the left division of the pulmonary artery to the front of the root of the lung of the same side. a. The anterior or right coronary plexus passes downwards from the plexus above described, to reach the right coronary artery, and receives near the heart a communicating offset from the right half of the deep cardiac plexus. h. The posterior or left plexus is derived, as will be subse- quently seen, from the deep cardiac plexus, and accompanies the left coronary artery to the heart. On the heart the nerves at first surround the arteries, but they soon leave the vessels, and becoming smaller by subdi- vision, are lost in the muscular substance of the ventricles. On and in the substance of the heart the nerves are marked by small ganglia. Four cavi- The CAVITIES OF THE HEART may be examined in the order