422 DISSECTIOIT OF THE BACK. Origin and termi- nation. Connec- tions. Supra- scapular artery of tlie subcla- ends on back of scapula. Supra- scapular nerve panics artery. Transverse cervical artery of the subcla- divides into superficial cervical and posterior scapular. 85 The muscle arises from the upper border of the scapula, behind the notch, and from the ligament that con- verts the notch into a foramen. The fibres form a thin riband-like muscle, which is directed forwards across the lower part of the neck, and ends anteriorly in a tendon beneath the sterno-mastoideus. The fleshy belly of the muscle is placed partly beneath the trapezius ; and is partly superficial in the posterior triangular space of the neck, where it lies above the clavicle and the subclavian artery. It lies on the brachial plexus, and on the suprascapular vessels and nerve near the scapula. The suprascapular artery is a branch of the subclavian trunk (p. 74), and is directed almost horizontally outwards across the lower part of the neck to the back of the scapula. The vessel lies behind the clavicle, and courses along that bone with the suprascapular nerve, but beneath the trapezius and omo-hyoid muscles, to the supraspinal fossa of the scapula. Before entering the fossa it furnishes a small branch (supra-acromial) to the upper surface of the acromion. The suprascapular nerve is an ofi'set of the brachial plexus (p. 78), and is inclined backwards to the superior costa of the scapula. It passes through the notch in the upper costa of the bone, and beneath the supraspinatus muscle ; its termination in the muscles on the dorsum of the scapula will be seen in the dissection of the arm (p. 284). The transverse cervical artery is also a branch of the sub- clavian, and has the same direction as the suprascapular branch, viz., towards the upper part of the scapula, but it is placed at a greater height above the clavicle. Crossing the upper part of the space in which the subclavian artery lies, this branch passes beneath the trapezius, and divides into the two following branches—superficial cervical and posterior scapular :— a. The superficial cervical branch is distributed chiefly to the under surface of the trapezius, though it furnishes ofisets to the levator anguli scapulae and the cervical glands. h. The j^osterior scapular branch crosses beneath the elevator of the angle of the scapula, and turns downwards along the base of the scapula beneath the rhomboid muscles. If the rhomboid muscles are divided, the artery will be seen to furnish branches to them ; and to give anastomotic twigs to both surfaces of the scapula, which join the other arteries distributed on the bone. This branch arises very frequently as a separate artery from the third part of the subclavian trunk. ,