428 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. Insertion. Its acces- sory piece. Connec- tions. Dissection of the nerves of tlie neck and the Nerves and vessels in the dorsal region: more vertically than the superior, to be inserted into an impression between the curved lines of the occipital bone, which reaches outwards nearly two inches from the middle line. The hiventer cervicis is but a part of the preceding, in- ternal to which it lies. It is often described as a separate muscle ; and it has received its name from having two fleshy bellies with an intervening tendon. The conjoined complexus and biventer cervicis muscles are concealed by the splenius and the trapezius ; and on the cutaneous surface is a tendinous cross intersection towards the upper end. Two or three of the cervical nerves per- forate the complexus. Along the inner side is the semispi- nalis muscle, with the ligamentum nuchse. Beneath it are the small recti and obliqui muscles, the semispinalis, and the cervical nerves and vessels. Dissection.—In the neck the nerves and vessels will be brought into view by detaching the complexus from the occipital bone and the spines of the vertebras, and raising it with care from the subjacent parts. Beneath the muscle is a dense fascia, in which are contained the ramifications of the internal branches of the four or five highest cervical nerves. All the nerves should be sought with some care, though the first or suboccipital is the most difficult of the set to find : this little nerve is a short trunk, which is con- tained in an interval between the recti and obliqui muscles near the head, and does not branch into two (inner and outer pieces) in the same regular way as the others ; it will be best found by looking for the small twigs furnished by it to the recti muscles. The inner branches of the others are partly above and partly beneath the fibres of the semispinalis muscle. The external branches are very small ; they are given off" close to where the trunks appear, and enter the prolonged parts of the erector spinse. In the dissection of the nerves the deep cervical artery is met with on the semispinalis muscle ; a part of the vertebral artery will be found in contact with the suboccipital nerve ; and the occipital artery will be seen crossing the occipital bone. ^ Opposite the thorax the dorsal nerves and vessels will be readily displayed on the inner side of the longissimus dorsi muscle, on the removal of a little fatty tissue from between the transverse processes. External and internal branches are to be traced from each nerve and vessel into the muscles ; some of the former have been seen in the interval between the sacro-lumbalis and longissimus dorsi.