DISSECTION OF THE EXTEPJOE OF THE HEAD. 4 Its connec- tions. How to see temporal fascia. Temporal fascia. Attach- ments, and layers. To see tem- poral muscle. Temporal muscle. Origin. Insertion and connections. How to reflect skin on right side. Superficial to the occipito-frontalis are tlie cutaneous vessels and nerves of the scalp. In front, the fleshy fibres of opposite sides are joined above the root of the nose. Dissection.—After the removal of the superior auricular muscles and the temporal vessels, together with the epi- cranial aponeurosis and its lateral prolongation, the attach- ment of the temporal fascia on the side of the head may- be seen. The temporal fascia is a white, shining membrane, which is stronger than the epicranial aponeurosis, and gives attach- ment to the subjacent temporal muscle. Superiorly it is inserted into the curved line that limits the temporal fossa on the side of the skull; and inferiorly, where it is narrower and thicker, it is fixed to the zygoma. By its cutaneous surface the fascia is in contact with the muscles already examined, and with the superficial temporal vessels and nerves. An incision in the fascia, a little above the zygoma, will show it to consist there of two layers, which are fixed to the margins of that process of bone. Between the layers is some fatty tissue, with a small branch of the temporal artery, and a slender twig of the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve. Dissection.—The temporal fascia is now to be detached from the skull, and to be thrown down to the zygoma, in order that the origin of the subjacent temporal muscle may be examined. A soft areolar tissue that lies beneath it near the zygoma is then to be taken away. The difi'erence in thickness of parts of the fascia will be evident. The TEMPORAL MUSCLE is Only in part laid bare. Wide and thin above, it becomes narrower and thicker at the lower part. The muscle arises from the temporal fascia, and from all the surface of the impression on the side of the skull, which is named the temporal fossa. From this origin the fibres descend converging around a tendon, and are in- serted by its means into the under surface of the coronoid process of the lower jaw. On the cutaneous surface is the temporal fascia, with the parts superficial to that membrane ; and concealed by the muscle are the deep temporal vessels and nerves which ramify in it. The insertion of the muscle underneath the zygoma will be afterwards followed. Dissection.—For the dissection of the vessels and nerves, let the head be turned now to the left side, and let an incision be carried along the eyebrow and zygoma to a little behind the ear, so as to allow the piece of skin on the opposite half of the head to be reflected. The flap of