BRANCHES OF THE CCELIAC AXIS. 535 pancreas, and spleen ; it subdivides into three chief branches, —coronary, hepatic, and splenic, whose destination is ex- pressed by their names. The veins corresponding with the arteries are collected into one trunk—the vena portae. The nerves are supplied from the vagus and sympathetic trunks. Dissection.—The vessels have been in part laid bare by Howtodis- the previous dissection, and the preparation of them will be coeliac completed by the removal of the loose tissue and the peri- toneum from each. Before beginning this rather difficult task the student should take care that the liver is well raised; and whilst completing it he should spare the plexuses of nerves that surround the vessels. Starting from the coeliac axis, he may first follow to the and its left side the small coronary artery, and clear its branches to branches, the oesophagus and the stomach. Next the hepatic artery, with the vena portse and the bile duct, may be traced to the liver and the gall bladder ; and a considerable branch of it should be pursued beneath the pylorus to the stomach, duodenum, and pancreas. Lastly, the splenic artery, which lies along the upper border of the pancreas, is to be cleaned ; and its branches to the pancreas, stomach, and spleen should be defined. The veins will be dissected for the most part with the Veins, arteries, but the origin of the vena portse is to be made out beneath the pancreas. The CCELIAC AXIS is the first visceral branch of the abdo- This trunk minal aorta, and arises between the pillars of the diaphragm, three fol-*^^ It is a short thick trunk, about half an inch long, which lowing projects above the upper border of the pancreas^ and is ^^^^^^^^ surrounded by the nerves of the solar plexus of the sympa- thetic. Its branches—coronary, hepatic, and splenic— radiate from the trunk (whence the name axis) to their distribution to the viscera in the upper part of the abdomen. 1. The coronary artery is the smallest of the three Coronary, branches, and passes between the layers of the little omen- ^^^^^ ^^^^^ turn to the left end of the stomach. At that spot it fur- nishes some oesophageal branches, and turns from left to right, along the upper border of the stomach, to anastomose with a branch (pyloric) from the hepatic artery. Its ofisets to the oesophagus and the stomach are thus distributed :— a. The oesophageal branches ascend on the gullet through offsets to the opening in the diaphragm, and after supplying that tube, p^l^^s" anastomose on it with branches from, the thoracic aorta. h. The gastric branches are given to both sides of the and to the stomach as the artery lies along it, and those on the left