394 DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. Dissection of the parts above meu- ticaied, and of sym- pathetics. Thoracic aorta. Extent. Course, and connec- tions. Branches. Arteries of the lung. Distribu- tion. Two left. as lying in tlie interpleural space of the posterior lialf of tlie mediastinum, yiz. the aorta, azygos veins, thoracic duct, oesophagus, and splanchnic nerves. Dissection.—The thoracic duct should be found first near the diaphragm, and on the right of the aorta : this slender vessel may be injected with tallow, i^ext, the areolar tissue is to be cleared away from the different parts before men- tioned ; and the thoracic duct is to be followed upwards beneath the arch of the aorta and along the oesophagus, till it leaves the upper aperture of the thorax. The azygos or intercostal veins, one on the right and two on the left of the aorta, should be likewise dissected. After raising the pleura from the inner surface of the thorax, the gangliated cord of the sympathetic nerve will be seen lying along the side of the spinal column, over the heads of the ribs. Branches should be followed outwards from the ganglia to the intercostal nerves, and others should be traced inwards over the bodies of the vertebrse to form the three trunks of the splanchnic nerves. The DESCENDING THOHACic ACUTA is the part of the great systemic vessel which is above the diaphragm. Its extent is from the lower border of the third dorsal vertebra (the left side), where the arch ceases, to the front of the last dorsal vertebra. Contained in the interpleural space in front of the spine, the vessel is rather curved, lying at its upper part on the left, but at its lower part on the front of the spinal column. Beneath it are the vertebrse and the smaller azygos vein. In front of the vessel is the root of the left lung with the pericardium. On the left side it is covered by the pleura in all its length ; and on the right side are the oesophagus and the thoracic duct, but near the diaphragm the former is placed over the aorta. The branches of the vessel are distributed to the sur- rounding parts, and are named from their destination, viz. bronchial, pericardial, oesophageal, mediastinal, and inter- costal. 1. The hronchial arteries supply the structure of the lungs, and arise from the front of the aorta, but their number and place of origin are liable to vary. These vessels adhere to the posterior part of the bronchial tubes, and so enter the interior of the lung, in which 'they ramify (p. 393) ; they give some twigs to the bronchial glands and the oesophagus. For the left lung there are two arteries (superior and inferior), which arise from the aorta at a distance from each other.