STRUCTURE OF THE BREAST. 261 size, to open on its summit by apertures varying from the open on end size of a bristle to that of a common pin. ofmppie. Like many other excretory ducts, the milk tubes consist Structure, of an external or fibrous, and an internal or mucous coat; "they are sheathed also by a scaly or pavement epithelium, but in the reservoirs the epithelial lining is said to be columnar. In the nipple the ducts are surrounded by elastic fibrous tissue. Some of the lubricating glands beneath the skin of the Small nipple and areola are simple sebaceous glands, but others are f^iu^^ larger aggregate glands that open in the tubercles before mentioned. Bloodvessels, nerves, and lymphatics.—The arteries of the breast Arteries of are supplied by the axillary, internal mammary, and intercostal the gland arteries, and enter both surfaces of the organ. The vessels on the cutaneous surface supply branches to the nipple, which pass from base to apex, being nearly parallel. The veins, after issuing from the substance of the breast, are thus and veins: disposed :—some form a plexus on the anterior aspect with a circle around the areola, and end principally in the axillary and internal mammary trunks ; but others enter one or more of the intercostal veins, or ascend over the clavicle to join the veins of the neck. In the nipple the veins have an arrangement like that of the in nipple, arteries. The nerves are supplied from the anterior and lateral cutaneous Nerves, nerves of the thorax, viz. those of the third, fourth, and fifth inter- costal nerves. The lymphatics pass froih either the inner or the outer part of the Lymphatics, gland : those at the inner side accompany the branches of the in- ternal mammary artery, and open into the anterior mediastinal glands : but those on the outer side reach the axillary glands. Dissection.—With the arm in the same position with Dissection respect to the trunk, the student is first to remove the fascia ^[uscle^^^^ and the fat from the surface of the great pectoral muscle. In cleaning the muscle the scalpel should be carried in the direction of the fibres, viz., from the arm to the thorax ; an^ the dissection may be begun at either the upper or lower border of the muscle, according as the one or the other may be the most convenient on the opposite sides of the body. The fascia and the fat are then to be taken from the arm- and the pit, but the numerous vessels, nerves, and glands contained ^^^^-pit. in the space are to be left uninjured. The dissection will be best begun at the outer part, by removing the fascia from the large axillary vessels, where these are about to quit the space and enter the arm. Following upwards those bloodvessels, the student will find the branches that are