SUPEEIOR PROFUTOA VESSELS. 299 fibres of the outer head are continuous with the anconeus— one of the muscles of the forearm. The intermuscular septa are processes of fibrous structure, Two inter- continuous with the investing aponeurosis of the arm, which ^^pta^^^^ are fixed to the ridges leading to the condyles of the humerus : they intervene between the muscles on the front and back attached to of the lower half of the arm, and give attachment to the humerus, fleshy fibres. The internal is the strongest, and reaches as high as the An inner coraco-brachialis muscle, from which it receives some tendi- nous fibres. The brachialis anticus is attached to it in front, and the triceps behind ; and the ulnar nerve and the inferior profunda and anastomotic arteries pierce it. The external septum is thinner, and ceases at the deltoid outer, muscle. Behind it is the triceps ; and in front of it are the brachialis anticus, and the muscles of the forearm arising above the condyle of the humerus (supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longus) : it is pierced by the musculo- spiral nerve. Dissection.—To follow the superior profunda vessels and Dissection the musculo-spiral nerve, the middle head of the triceps and^ie?ve. should be cut across over them, and any fatty tissue that may obscure their position should be removed. To trace out the branches of the nerve and artery, which descend to the olecranon and the anconeus muscle, the triceps is to be divided in its whole length, and along the line of union of the outer with the middle head. The trunks of the pro- funda vessel and musculo-spiral nerve are to be afterwards followed beneath the outer head of the triceps to the front of the humerus. The superior profunda branch of the brachial artery ^^^^^^J^ (p. 293) is the chief vessel for the supply of the triceps artery muscle. Accompanying the musculo-spiral nerve, it turns to the back of the humerus in the interval between the lies behind inner and outer heads of the triceps. In this position the y^l^ ^^"^^^ artery supplies large muscular branches, and is continued onwards beneath the external head of the triceps to the outer part of the arm, where it divides into its terminal ofi'sets :— One of these courses on the nerve to the front of the elbow joint, anastomosing with the recurrent radial artery : whilst others continue to the elbow along the intermuscular septum, and join the interosseous recurrent artery. Branches.—The musculo^r ofi'sets of the vessel descend to Supplies the olecranon, supplying the triceps, and communicating forms a cir^ with the other branches of the brachial artery, viz. inferior cie around ''^ jomt.