THE HYPO-GLOSSAL OR NIOTH ITERYE. 105 the tongue, whilst the gustatory lies near the margin : the middle of ninth supplies branches to the muscular structure, and the gustatory ends chiefly in the papillae. Branches.—On the hyo-glossus the ninth nerve furnishes its branches branches to the muscles of the submaxillary region, except ^^s^Jies the mylo-hyoid and the digastric, viz., to the hyo-glossus, stylo-glossus, genio-hyoideus, and genio-hyo-glossus. Fur- ther, some offsets ascend on the hyo-glossus to communicate with the gustatory nerve. Along the middle of the tongue the nerve sends upwards long filaments with the branches of the ranine artery, which supply the structure of and the the tongue, and communicate with the gustatory nerve. tongue. The duct of the submaxillary gland, or Wharton's duct, Wharton's issues from the deep part of the glandular mass that turns ^^^^ round the border of the mylo-hyoid muscle. It is about two inches in length, and is directed upwards on the hyo- glossus muscle, and beneath the gustatory nerve, to open on opens by the side of the frsenum lingua3 in the centre of an eminence, linguae. The duct consists of three coats,—an external thin and fibrous, a middle or muscular, and an internal or mucous structure, with cylindrical epithelium ; and its opening in the mouth will be seen if a bristle be passed along it. The deep part of the submaxillary gland extends, in some instances, even to the sublingual gland. The sublingual gland is somewhat of the shape of an Sublingual almond, and the longest measurement, which is about one beneath inch and a half, is directed backwards. It is situate tongue, beneath the anterior part of the tongue, in contact with the inner surface of the lower jaw, close to the symphysis. Separated from the cavity of the mouth by the mucous membrane, the gland is prolonged across the upper border of the genio-hyo-glossus muscle, so as to touch the one of the opposite side. The sublingual resembles the other salivary glands in its Structure, composition (p. 31). The ducts of the lobules (ductus Ducts open Riviniani) are from eight to twenty in number, of which i^o^th. some open beneath the tongue along a crescentic-shaped fold of the mucous membrane; others join the AVhartonian duct; and one or more form a larger tube, which either joins that duct or opens near it.