415 OUTAITEOUS NERYES. by the dissectors of the head and upper limb. The remain- ing piece of integument is to be detached by a transverse incision opposite the ihac crest, and to be reflected by the dissector of the upper limb in the same direction as the other flap. Under the upper flap of skin is the trapezius, and underneath the lower one is the latissimus dorsi muscle. The cutaneous nerves may be now sought in the super- Seek ficial fatty layer. Small cutaneous arteries accompany the nerves^'^^ nerves, and guide the student to their position. These nerves vary much in size in the difierent parts of the back, and their number is also irregular : as a general rule, there is one over each vertebra. In the neck, and opposite the upper part of the thorax, the nerves will be foimd near the spines of the vertebrae, and beneath the superficial layer of fat; but at the lower part of the thorax, and in the loins, they issue in a line with the angles of the ribs. The cutaneous branches of the sacral nerves come into the dissection of the lower limb. Cutaneous Nerves.—The tegumentary nerves of the Cutaneous back are derived from the posterior primary branches of the ^erive^d^°^ spinal nerves. At first these subdivide amongst the deep parts into two branches, inner and outer, from which the •cutaneous oflsets are derived,—at one spot from the external, and at another from the internal branch. Small arteries accompany the greater number of the nerves ; they bifur- cate like the nerves, and the cutaneous ofisets are derived from the one or the other branch. Cervical nerves.—In the neck the nerves are derived from in the neck, the inner of the two pieces into which the primary branches bifurcate : they perforate the trapezius, and supply the neck Source, and the back of the head. They are four in number, viz., one from each nerve, except the first and the three last. The hranch of the second nerve is named large occipital, Second and accompanies the occipital artery to the back of the head (p. 8). The hranch of the third cervical nerve supplies a transverse and third ofiset to the neck, and then bends upwards to the lower part of the head, where it is united with the great occipital nerve, and is distributed nearer the middle line. Dorsal nerves.—These are obtained, from both the inner inthedor- and the outer ofisets of the primary branches—the upper region, six from the inner, and the lower six from the outer. On the surface they are directed outwards in the integument over the trapezius and latissimus dorsi muscles.