DISSECTIOIS' OF THE NECK. 124 Branches to Swelling of the knotted cord in the thorax. One or two vessels filaments around the trunk of the subclavian artery likewise connect these ganglia, and supply filaments to that blood- vessel. Its branches are very similar to those of the other ganglia. and spinal 1. Connecting branches join the last two cervical nerves. nerves, Other nerves accompany the vertebral artery in its canal, forming a plexus—vertebral, around it, and communicate with the spinal nerves as high as the fourth. and one 2. Only one branch for distribution, the inferior cardiac dfac plexus^ rier^Je, issues from the lower ganglion. It lies beneath the subclavian artery, joining in that position the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and enters the thorax to terminate in the deep cardiac plexus behind the arch of the aorta. Directions.—The remains of the right half of the head and neck should be carefully preserved during the time occupied in the examination of the left half. Section X. DISSECTION OF THE LEFT SIDE OF THE NECK. Directions.—In repeating the dissection of the left half of the neck, the differences observable between it and the right side are specially to be studied. When the description of the right side will suffice, reference will be made to it. Dissection of After the neck has been made tense over a narrow block, the anterior triangle and the anterior part of the neck are to be prepared as on the opposite side. The description of the right side (p. 63) is to be used for both those regions, for the sterno-mastoideus, and for the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone. Next the scaleni muscles and the subclavian vessels are to be taken. The dissection and description of those parts on the right side (p. 69), will serve for these on the left, except that the student will meet on the left side with the thoracic duct. This little tube will be seen in connection with the part of the subclavian artery internal to the scalenus muscle, and crossing in front of the scalenus to join the subclavian vein. On this side, too, the clavicle may remain articulated. The LEFT SUBCLAVIAN ARTEEY ariscs from the arch of the aorta, instead of from an innominate trunk, and ascends anterior tri angle of neck, of scaleni and subcla- vian artery. Subclavian artery