336 DISSECTION OF THE FOREARM. Termination on back of the carpus. Its muscular offsets. Eadial artery on back of wrist. Connections witli parts around. Brancbes are small. To back of carpus. Metacarpal branch. Dorsal arte- ries of the thumb and fore finger. Sheaths of the annular ligament Position from with- out inwards. phalanx of the tli-amb, and runs on the interosseous mem- brane to the back of the carpus. Finally the nerve enlarges beneath the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum, and terminates in filaments to the ligaments and the articu- lations of the carpus. Branches.—This nerve furnishes offsets to all the muscles of the deep layer ; and to those of the superficial layer with the exception of the three following, viz., the anconeus, the supinator longus, and the extensor carpi radialis longior. Radial Artery at the Wrist.—At the wrist the radial artery winds below the end of the radius to the back of the carpus, and enters the palm of the hand at the first inter- osseous space, between the heads of origin of the first dorsal interosseous muscle. At first the vessel lies deeply on the external lateral ligament of the wrist joint, and is beneath the tendons of the extensors of the metacarpal bone and first phalanx of the thumb ; but afterwards it is more superficial, and is crossed by the tendon of the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb. Offsets of the external cutaneous nerve entwine around the artery. Its branches are nume- rous, but inconsiderable in size :— a. The dorsal carpal branch passes transversely beneath the extensor tendons, and forms an arch with the corresponding offset of the ulnar artery. From this arch branches descend to the third and fourth interosseous spaces, and constitute two of the three dorsal interosseous arteries. b. The metacarpal or first dorsal interosseous branch reaches the space between the second and third metacarpal bones, and anastomoses, like the corresponding arteries of the other spaces, with a perforating branch of the deep palmar arch. Finally it is continued to the cleft of the fingers, where it ends by joining the digital artery of the superficial palmar arch, and giving small dorsal branches to the index and middle fingers. c. Two small dorsal arteries of the thumb arise opposite the metacarpal bone, along which they extend, one on each border, to be distributed on its posterior aspect. d. The dorsal branch of the index finger is distributed on the radial edge of the metacarpal bone of that digit. The different compartments of the oMnular ligament may be seen more completely by dividing the sheaths of the liga- ment over the different tendons passing beneath. There are six different spaces, and each is lubricated by a synovial membrane. The most external one lodges the first two extensors of the thumb. The next is a large hollow for the