STEKNO-CLEIDO-MASTOID MUSCLE. 67 external jugular. In the neck the anterior and external joins subcla- jugular veins communicate. There are two anterior veins, ^^^^ one for each side, though one is usually larger than the other, and at the bottom of the neck they are joined by a transverse branch. The STERNO-CLEIDO-MASTOID MUSCLE (fig. 9, ^) formS the Sterno-mas- superficial prominence of the side of the neck, and divides ^^^scie the lateral surface of the neck into two triangular spaces. The muscle is narrower in the centre than at the ends, and is attached below by two heads of origin, which are separated by an elongated interval. The inner head is fixed by a has its origin narrowed tendon to the anterior part of the first piece of'^^^^^j^^^'^. the sternum, and the outer head has a wide attachment to the sternal third of the clavicle. From this origin the heads are directed upwards, the internal passing backwards, and the external almost vertically, and are blended aboufc the middle of the neck in a roundish muscle. Near the skull the muscle ends in a tendon, which is inserted into the and iuser- base of the mastoid process at the outer aspect, and by ^ ^^^^ thin aponeurosis into a rough surface behind that process, as well as into the outer part of the upper curved line of the occipital bone. The borders of the muscle limit the Guide to triangular spaces of the neck, and the anterior one is aJtery^ the guide to the position of the common carotid artery. On its cutaneous surface the sterno-mastoid is covered by Position to the common integuments and the platysma, by the external jugular vein and superficial branches of the cervical plexus (across the middle part), and by the deep fascia. If the muscle be cut through below and raised, it will be seen to lie on the following parts ;—^the clavicular origin lies over the anterior scalenus and omo-hyoid muscles; and the sternal head conceals the depressors of the hyoid bone, and the common carotid artery with its vein and nerves. After the union of the heads, the muscle is placed over the cervical plexus, the middle scalenus, and the elevator of the angle of the scapula ; and near the skull, on the digastric and splenius muscles, with the occipital artery, and a part of the parotid gland. The spinal accessory nerve perforates the muscular fibres about the upper third. The extent of the attachment to the clavicle varies, and in some bodies it may reach even to the trapezius. The OMO-HYOID MUSCLE crosscs beneath the sterno-mas- Omo-hyoid toideus, and consists of two fleshy bellies united by a small ^gfng^at round intermediate tendon (fig. 8, The origin of the the scapula, muscle from the scapula, and the connections of the F 2