DISSECTION OF THE BEAIK 210 are much mixed in medulla, and pass deeply. Decussation of pyramids formed by lateral columns. Mr. Clarke's view of the decussation formed by lateral column, posterior column, and gray substance. Restiform body enters cere- bellum and cere- brum. Commis- sural fibres. Superficial set; ficial and deep, and, joining the restiform body, reacli tlie cerebellum. The internal offset enters the pyramid of the opposite side. Whilst the middle fibres, the continuation of the column (fig. 33, t), ascend beneath the olivary body, and leaving the surface of the medulla at the pons, incline backwards and inwards to the floor of the fourth ventricle (where they form the eminentia teres), in their course to the cerebrum. The decussation of the pyramids (fig. 31, h) is formed chiefly by the crossing of the internal fibres of the lateral columns of opposite sides before they enter the pyramids. This interweaving of the fibres occupies the anterior groove of the medulla oblongata, at the distance of three quarters of an inch from the pons ; and it is about a quarter of an inch in length. In it will be found three or four bundles of fibres from each side. According to Mr. Clarke, fibres enter the decussation not only from the lateral column, but also from the posterior column, and from the central gray substance of the cord :— Thus the fibres from the lateral column, blended with a network of fibres from the contiguous gray substance, form the chief portion of the decussation ; whilst the fibres from the posterior column and the adjoining part of the gray substance enter the upper part; and other fibres from the front of the gray matter (anterior commissure) are most conspicuous at the lower part. The restiform body (fig. 33, e) is divided between the cere- brum and the cerebellum. Inferiorly it is continuous with the posterior column of the cord ; and accessory fibres are re- ceived by it in front from the anterior pyramid, and from the lateral column. Superiorly its fibres are continued to both the large and the small brain in the following manner :— The main part of the restiform body bends outwards to the cerebellum without entering the pons ; whilst the inner and smaller part, or the posterior pyramid, is continued along the floor of the fourth ventricle, joining the fasciculus teres of the same side, into the peduncular fibres of the cerebrum (p. 219). Arched or commissural fibres of the medulla.—In each half of the medulla oblongata are fibres directed almost horizontally from behind forwards, both on its exterior, and through its substance. And in the middle line the fibres of opposite sides unite and form a septum or commissure between the halves. The superficial transverse fibres (fig. 34, s, and fig. 31)