DISSECTION" OF THE ABDOMEK 562 on under marily into two lobes, a right and a left, by the antero- are five, posterior or longitudinal fissure ; and on the under surface of the right lobe are three others, viz. the square, the Spigelian, and the caudate lobe, left, The left lobe is smaller and thinner than the right, and has a slight depression inferiorly where it touches the stomach. right; The right lobe forms the greater part of the liver, and is last sub- separated from the left by the longitudinal fissure on the one surface, and by the suspensory ligament on the other. To it the gall-bladder is attached ; and the following lobes are projections on its under surface, square, The square lobe (lobulus quadratus) is situate between the gall-bladder and the longitudinal fissure. It reaches anteriorly to the margin of the liver, and posteriorly to the fissure (transverse) by which the vessels enter the interior of the viscus. Spigelian, The Spigelian lobe lies behind the transverse fissure, and forms a roundish projection on the surface. On its left side is the longitudinal fissure, and on its right, the vena cava inferior. loS^^^^^^^^ "^"^^ caudate lobe is a slight elongated eminence, which is directed from the Spigelian lobe behind the transverse fissure, so as to form the posterior boundary of that sulcus. Where the fissure terminates this projection subsides in the right lobe. Three .Fissures.—Extending horizontally half across the right fissures, viz. ^-^^ liver, between the Spigelian and caudate lobes on the one hand, and the square lobe on the portal or other, is the transverse or portal fissure. It is nearer transverse, tJie posterior than the anterior border, and contains the vessels, nerves, ducts, and lymphatics of the liver. At the left end it is united at a right angle with the longitu- dinal fissure. longitudi- The longitudinal fissure extends from the front to the back of the liver between the right and left lobes. In the part anterior to the transverse fissure (fissure for the umbi- lical vein) is the remnant of the umbilical vein, which is called round ligament, and is oftentimes arched over by a piece of the hepatic substance (pons hepatis). In the part behind the transverse fissure (fissure for the ductus venosus) is a small obliterated cord that remains from the vessel named ductus venosus in the fetus, one for the The fissure or groove for the vena cava is placed on the right side of the Spigelian lobe, and is frequently bridged nal vena cava.