THE lOTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 109 ryngeal nerve and its branches may be prepared. The side of the jaw is still to be drawn upwards and forwards, as in the dissection of the submaxillary region. The STYLO-PHARYNGEUS MUSCLE resembles the other sty- styio- loid muscles in its elongated form. The fibres arise from the root of the styloid process on the inner surface, and Origin, descend between the superior and middle constrictors to be inserted partly into the pharynx, and partly into the upper insertion, border (hinder border, Merkel"^) of the thyroid cartilage. The muscle lies below the stylo-glossus, and between the is between carotid arteries ; and the glosso*pharyngeal nerve turns arteries, over the lower part of its fleshy belly. The stylo-hyoid ligament is a fibrous band, which extends styio-iiyoid from the tip of the styloid process to the small cornu of the OS hyoides. Its position is between the stylo-glossus and lies by side stylo-pharyngeus muscles, and over the internal carotid Sigl^^^^^ artery, whilst the lower end is beneath the hyo-glossus muscle. To the posterior border the middle constrictor muscle is attached. It is frequently cartilaginous or osseous in part of, or in all its extent. Occasionally a slip of fleshy fibres is continued along it. The INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY SUpplieS partS within the internal head, viz. the brain, and the eye with its appendages ; and ^^[ery^ takes a circuitous course through, and along the base of the skull before it terminates in the brain. The part of the arterial trunk in the base of the skull, and Some parts its ofiset to the orbit, have been already examined; but the I^qq^^^ parts in the neck and the temporal bone remain to be dissected. The branches of the carotid to the brain are described with the encephalon. Dissection.—For the display of the cervical part of the Dissestion artery there is now but little dissection required, since by the^neck^ detaching the styloid process at the root, and throwing it with its attached muscles to the middle line, the internal carotid artery and the jugular vein may be followed upwards to the skull. Only a dense fascia now conceals them, which is to be taken away carefully, so that the branches of the eighth and ninth nerves in contact with the vessels near the base of the skull may not be injured. In the fascia, and directed inwards over the artery near the skull, are the pharyngeal branch of the vagus, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve and its branches ; whilst the superior laryngeal branch * Anatomie und Physiologie des Menschliclieii Stimm niid Sprach Organs. Leipzig, 1857. Voa Dr. Merkel.