DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 76 Superior intercostal artery in neck. Deep cervi- cal artery. Subclavian veiu. Its branches: opening of lymphatic ducts. Position may vary. external jugular vein. But the inferior thyroid vein begins in a plexus connected with the thyroid body, and descends in front of the trachea, beneath the muscles covering this tube, to end in the innominate vein. 4. The superior intercostal artery arises from the posterior part of the subclavian, and bends downwards over the neck of the first rib to the thorax. Its distribution to the first two intercostal spaces will be seen in the thorax. Arising in common with this branch is the deep cervical artery (art. profunda cervicis). Analogous to the dorsal branch of an intercostal artery (Quain), it passes backwards between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the first rib, and ends beneath the complexus muscle at the posterior part of the neck. The SUBCLAVIAN VEIN has nearly the same limits as the artery of the same name, viz., from the lower border of the first rib to the sterno-clavicular articulation. It is a con- tinuation upwards of the axillary vein, and ends by joining the internal jugular to form the innominate vein. Its course is nearly straight, and commonly below the level of the artery, from which it is separated by the anterior scalenus muscle. The anterior and external jugular join this vein outside the scalenus, and the vertebral vein enters it inside that muscle. Into the angle of union of the subclavian and jugular veins the right lymphatic duct opens ; and at the same spot, on the left side, is the entrance of the large lymphatic duct. A pair of valves exists in this vein at about an inch from its ending, and outside the opening of the external jugular vein."^ It should be borne in mind that not unfrequently the vein is as high in the neck as the third part of its companion artery ; and that the vein has been seen twice with the artery beneath the anterior scalenus. Cervical nerves. number. The ANTERIOR PRIMARY BRANCHES OF THE CERVICAL NERVES spring from the common trunks in the interver- Position and tebral foramina, and appear on the side of the neck between the intertransverse muscles. These spinal nerves are eight in number, and are equally divided between the cervical and the brachial plexus ; the highest four being combined in the former, and the remaining nerves in the latter plexus. * See a Paper on the Valves in tlie Veins of the Neck, in the Edin. Med. Journal of Nov. 1856, by Dr. Struthers.