MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 209 to consist of a thin wavy yellowish layer of gray substance surrounding a centre or nucleus of Avhitish matter. The zigzag bounding layer is named corpus dentatum. Itisanincom- forms a thin capsule or bag, which is convoluted, and is opcnbe- placed obliquely with the dilated part towards the surface, and the narrowed part or neck open and directed backwards near the raphe. A transverse commissural part unites the ^ olivary bodies across the middle line, as is seen in fig. 34, g, commissure. where it blends with the raphe, and is close to the anterior median sulcus (Clarke). Structure.—The bounding layer (fig. 34) is about-g^^ the'^rrT'^ an inch thick, and consists of small nucleated and ramified layer.^^"^ nerve cells, which give origin to fibres. Longitudinal it has longi- fibres, continuous with the lateral column, surround and pass through the gray layer (Clarke) ; and numerous trans- and trans- verse fibres of the arciform system pass by and through it (fig. 34 h), A band of fibres issues from the nucleus through the ?iyier fibres aperture in the neck of the capsule, and enters the trans- verse olivary commissure (Clarke) (fig. 34, g) ; whilst other the commis- fibres from the front and outer part of the sac unite with the longitudinal fibres around the corpus olivare, and form and assist to the olivary fasciculus or the Jillet which ascends to the ^iHf^ ^^^^ cerebrum (fig. 33, c). Dissection.—For the purpose of seeing the arrangement Dissection of of the fibres of the lateral column and restiform body, the rfstifoVm anterior pyramid is to be cut across on the left side, between pieces, its decussation and the olivary body, and to be raised together with this body towards the pons. Afterwards the remaining part of the pyramid is to be separated by dividing the fibres it receives from the decussation. The lateral tract of the medulla is continuous inferiorly Lateral with the portion of the spinal cord between the anterior and covd" posterior roots of the nerves (fig. 31, 7i), and is prolonged superiorly in greater part to the cerebrum, but it gives an offset to the cerebellum. Soon after entering the medulla oblongata it is divided into three sets of fibres, external, internal, and middle. The external fibres are both super- fasciculus or the fillet, d. Olivary body. e. Eestiform body. / and g. Corpora quadrigemina. h and i. Parts of the fillet, m and m'. Trans- verse fibres of the pons. n. Inferior peduncle of the cerebellum, r. Superior peduncle of the cerebellum. * The arrangement of the fibres in the sac is most complicated, and a fuller account may be obtained by consulting Mr. Clarke's Paper in the Philosophical Transactions for 1858. p