DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 112 feriorly sub- clavian. Is on out- side of caro- tids. Size. It is joined by branches below OS hyoides. Different names. Ascending pharyngeal artery ends near skul], in a branch to meninges. and another to pharynx and palate. part of the neck it has been seen to join the subclavian, to form the innominate vein (p. 80). As far as the thyroid cartilage this vein accompanies the internal carotid, but below that point it is with the common carotid artery ; and it lies on the outer side of each. Its contiguity to the artery is not equally close in all its extent, for near the skull there is a small interval between them, containing the eighth and ninth nerves ; and at the lower part of the neck there is a still larger intervening space, in which the pneumogastric nerve is found. The size of the upper part of the vein remains much the same till near the OS hyoides, where it is suddenly increased by the addition of those branches of the head and neck, corresponding with branches of the external carotid artery, which do not join the external jugular vein. Its lower dilatation and its valves have been before referred to, p. 80. The following branches open into the internal jugular, viz. the facial, lingual, thyroid (superior), occipital, and pharyn- geal ; and at the lower part of the neck it receives the middle thyroid vein. Sometimes the term internal cephalic is applied to the vein between the skull and the hyoid bone ; whilst the name internal jugular is given to the part below that bone and the junction of its large branches. The ascending pharyngeal artery is a long slender branch of the external carotid, which arises near the commencement, of that vessel. Directed upwards on the spinal column between the internal carotid and the pharnyx, the artery becomes tortuous near the skull, and divides into branches for the pharynx and the cranium. In the neck the artery gives some small offsets to the surrounding parts, viz. the muscles on the vertebrae, the nerves, and the lymphatic glands ; and other branches anastomose with the ascending cervical artery. a. The meningeal branch enters the cranium through the foramen lacerum (basis cranii), and is distributed on the meninges of the middle fossa of the skull. 6. The pharyngeal branch, which is larger than the preceding, turns inwards to the pharynx, and dividing into several twigs, supplies the muscular structure of the pharynx, the soft palate, and the Eustachian tube. The size of the, palatine branch depends upon that of the inferior palatine branch of the facial artery ; it courses above the upper con- strictor, and ends in branches that are distributed on the front and back of the soft palate, beneath the mucous membrane.