DISSECTIONS^ OF THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. Course and extent of the radial artery. Situation in the forearm. Connections with, parts over it, on the sides. behind, and with the radius. and its tendon may be taken as tlie guide to the ulnar artery, since it can be felt readily through, the skin. To its radial side at first are the palmaris and flexor digitorum sublimis muscles, but below the middle of the forearm the ulnar artery and nerve are placed along it. When the attachment to the inner condyle has been divided, and the parts cleaned underneath, the muscle will be seen to conceal the flexor digitorum sublimis and flexor profundus, the ulnar nerve, and the ulnar vessels in part. Between the attach- ments to the condyle and the olecranon the ulnar nerve enters the forearm. The HADiAL ARTERY (fig. 45, ^) is One of the vessels derived from the bifurcation of the brachial trunk, and its destination is the palm of the hand. It is placed first along the outer side of the forearm as far as the end of the radius ; it winds backwards next below the extremity of the bone; and it enters finally the palm of the hand through the first interosseous space. In consequence of this circuitous course the artery will be found in three dififerent regions : viz. the front of the forearm, the back of the wrist, and the palm of the hand. In the front of the forearm. —In this part of the limb the position of the artery will be marked, on the surface, by a line from the centre of the hollow of the elbow to the fore part of the styloid process of the radius. This vessel is smaller than the ulnar artery, though it appears in direction to be the continuation of the brachial trunk. In all its extent the radial artery is quite superficial, being covered mostly by the common tegumentary investments and the deep fascia, and during life it can be felt beating as the pulse near the wrist. Its connections with the surrounding muscles and the radius are these :—In the upper half of the forearm the vessel is placed between the supinator longus externally and the pronator teres internally, the former overlapping it; but in the lower half it lies between the tendons of the supinator longus and flexor carpi radialis. At first the artery is on the inner side of the radius, but afterwards over that bone. It is placed successively over the following parts, viz. the fleshy supinator brevis, the tendon of the pronator teres, the thin radial origin of the flexor sublimis, and on two other muscles of the deep layer, dial artery with its nerve outside. 2. Ulnar artery and nerve where tliey are superficial. 3. Pronator teres. 4. Flexor carpi radialis. 5. Palmaris longus. G. Flexor sublimis, 7. Flexor carpi ulnaris. 8. Supinator longus. 9. Biceps. 10. Palmaris brevis. 11. Palmar arch of the ulnar artery.