INTERIOE OF THE BLADDER. 637 mucous fibrous stratum ; and it is thrown into numerous has folds folds in the flaccid state of the viscus, except over a small except on triangular surface behind the opening into the urethra. The membrane is soft and smooth to the feel, and of a pale rose colour in the healthy state. Its surface is studded with Follicles, small mucous follicles, particularly towards the neck of the Epithelium, bladder. A laminar epithelium covers the surface, of which the superficial cells are roundish and flattened, but the deeper are conical or cylindrical (KoUiker). Interior of the bladder.—Within the bladder the following interior of parts are to be remarked, viz., the orifices of the ureters and bladder, urethra, with the triangular space (fig. 71). •ces.—At the lower and anterior part of the bladder Opening of is the orifice of the urethra, surrounded by the prostate gland. The mucous membrane presents here some longi- tudinal folds ; and the aperture is partly closed by a small prominence below, uvula vesiccE, occasioned by a thickening with its of the submucous muscular and fibrous layer. This eminence is placed in front of the middle lobe of the prostate, and from its anterior part a slight ridge is continued on the floor of the urethra. About an inch and a half behind the orifice of the urethra, Openings of and rather more than that distance apart, are the two narrow ^J^eterb. openings of the ureters. These excretory tubes for the urine perforate the wall of the bladder obliquely, lying in it for the distance of half an inch, and therefore the reflux of fluid through them towards the kidney is prevented as the bladder is distended.. They terminate on each side by a contracted slit-like opening in the centre of a prominence. Triangular surface. —Immediately behind the orifice of Trigone of the urethra is a smooth triangularly-shaped part of the ^^^^^^^' bladder, which is named trigone (trigonum vesicae). Its apex reaches the prostate, and its base the ureters. Its how bound- boundaries may be marked out by a line on each side from ' the urethra to the ureter, and by a transverse one behind between the openings of the ureters. This space corresponds part corre- with the interval, at the base of the bladder, between the e^ternaUy. prostate in front and the vesicul^e and vasa deferentia on the sides ; and over it the mucous coat is more closely united to the fibrous and muscular, so as to prevent the accidental folds found in the other parts of the empty bladder. Dissectiorb.—The ending of the ureters will come into To expose view on the removal of the mucous membrane from the ureters! lower third of the bladder : the fibres are best marked in a muscular bladder.