EXTEENAL CAEOTID AETEEY. 83 filaments, so as to construct an arch with the concavity fibres, upwards ; and an interchange of filaments between the two nerves has been described. The EXTERT^-AL CAROTID ARTERY (fig. 9) Springs from the External bifurcation of the common carotid at the upper border of vessel, the thyroid cartilage, and furnishes branches to the face, the neck, and the outer parts of the head. From the place of origin the vessel ascends to the interval Extent, between the jaw and the mastoid process, and ends near the condyle of the jaw in the internal maxillary and temporal branches. In this course the artery lies at first to the inner Course and side of the internal carotid, but it afterwards becomes ^^^'^c^^^^^- superficial to this vessel ; and its direction is somewhat arched forwards, though the position would be marked sufficiently by a line from the front of the meatus of the ear to the cricoid cartilage. At first the external carotid is comparatively superficial. Parts snper- and easily reached from the surface, being overlaid only by ^^^^ the sterno-mastoideus and the common coverings of the anterior triangular space, viz. the skin, the superficial and deep fascise with the platysma, and the superficial nerves. But above the situation of a line extended from the mastoid process to the hyoid bone, the carotid artery is crossed by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles with the hypoglossal nerve; and still higher it enters the substance of the parotid gland, where it lies beneath the facial nerve and the external jugular vein. The external carotid is also crossed by the facial and lingual branches of veins joining the internal jugular trunk. At first the artery is situate over beneath it, the superior laryngeal nerve, and is unsupported by muscular fibre, though it rests against the pharynx ; but above the angle of the jaw it is placed over the styloid process and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, which separate it from the internal carotid. To the inner side of the vessel and on inner at first is the pharynx, and still higher are the ramus of the jaw and the stylo-maxillary ligament. In certain conditions a companion vein from the temporal and internal maxillary branches (p. 31) will accompany the arterial trunk. The branches of the external carotid are numerous, and Its are classed into an anterior, posterior, and ascending set. aJe^^^^^ The anterior set comprise branches to the thjrroid body, anterior, the tongue, and the face, viz. superior thyroid, lingual, and facial arteries ; in the posterior set are the occipital posterior, and posterior auricular branches ; and the ascending set J^^.^^^®^^' G 2