240 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIISr. cord. down in front and behind, forming thus a layer which is concave on the under side. Fibres not Their extent—All the fibres of the peduncle do not reach tSoughoiit ^^^^ surface of the brain, nor are all those at the circum- ference derived originally from the peduncle : for some of the fibres of the crus cerebri end in the corpus striatum and the optic thalamus, especially in the former ; and others extend only from those ganglionic bodies to the surface of the hemisphere.* Thus, in addition to the fibres that extend throughout, viz. from the crus to the surface, some connect the peduncle of the cerebrum with the ganglia, and others connect the ganglia with the convolutions on the exterior. Source from Their source.—The fibres thus entering inferiorly the cerebrum through its peduncle, and continued thence to the periphery of the hemisphere, are derived from all three components of the medulla oblongata (fig. 38), viz., anterior pyramid, lateral column, and restiform body ; and there- fore indirectly from all the divisions of the spinal cord (p. 207). Dfecussation. The decussation between the fibres of opposite sides have been before referred to (p. 210, 220). Commissu- B. The transverse or commissural fibres connect the hemi- verse^fibres. spheres of the cerebrum across the middle line. They give rise to the great commissure or the corpus callosum (fig. 38, g and s) (p. 225), and to the anterior and posterior commis- sures (p. 235). These bodies have been already examined. Commis- C. Longitudinal fibres.—Other connecting fibres pass from tudtnal^^^" backwards, uniting together parts of the same hemi- libres sphere, and having mostly a circidar arrangement, are found in The chief fibres of this system are collected in the foUow- fornix and . • , i r. . i • • • i • its accessory mg bands, VIZ. the fornix, the tsenia semicircularis, and the and on peduncles of the pineal body. Other longitudinal fibres and under may be enumerated on the upper and under surfaces of the losum.^^" corpus callosum, along the middle line; together with the band of the convolution of the corpus callosum : the fibres in contact with the corpus callosum are connected with the anterior perforated spot of the base of the brain. Optic thala- Structure of the optic thalamus.—On making sections of abov^and^ the optic thalamus on the side on which it is entire (the below. left), this body will be found to consist of layers of gray and white substance, at the upper and inner parts ; and of * According to Kolliker and others, none of the fibres of the peduncle reach farther than the corpus striatum and the optic thalamus.