DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 70 Scalenus anticus. Origin from first rib; connections with muscles, and nerves. Scalenus medius. Origin. Insertion. Parts in contact with it. Scalenus posticus. Attach- ments. middle, and posterior ; they extend from the first two ribs to the transverse processes of certain cervical vertebrae. The SCALENUS ANTICUS (fig. 10, ^) extends from the first rib to the lower cervical vertebrae, and is somewhat conical in shape. It is attached by its apex to the inner border and the upper surface of the first rib, so as to surround the rough surface or projection on this aspect of the bone ; and by its base it is inserted into the anterior transverse processes (parapophyses) of four of the cervical vertebrae, viz. sixth, fifth, fourth, and third. More deeply seated below than above, the muscle is concealed by the clavicle and the sub- jacent muscle (subclavius), and by the clavicular part of the sterno-mastoid : the phrenic nerve lies along the cutaneous surface of the muscle, and the subclavian vein crosses over it near the rib. Along the inner border is the internal jugular vein. Beneath the scalenus are the pleura, the sub- clavian artery, and the nerves of the brachial plexus. The insertion into the vertebrae corresponds with the origin of the rectus capitis anticus major muscle. The SCALENUS MEDIUS MUSCLE (fig. 10, ^) is larger than the anterior, and extends farthest of all on the vertebrae. Inferiorly it is attached to the inner border of the first rib ; and to a groove on the upper surface of the rib, which extends obliquely forwards for one inch and a half from the tubercle to the anterior border. The muscle ascends behind the spinal nerves, and is inserted into the tips of the posterior transverse processes (diapophyses) of the six lower cervical vertebrae. In contact with the anterior surface are the subclavian artery and the spinal nerves, together with the sterno-mastoid muscle; whilst the posterior surface touches the posterior scalenus, and the deep lateral muscles of the back of the neck. The outer border is perforated by the nerves of the rhomboid and serratus muscles. The SCALENUS POSTICUS is inconsiderable in size, and appears to be but part of the preceding. It is attached below by a slip, about half an inch wide, to the upper border of the second rib, in front of the elevator of that bone ; and it is inserted above with the scalenus medius into two or three of the lower cervical vertebrae. Subclavian The SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY (fig. 10) is a given part of the artery; large vessel supplying the upper limb with blood, to which this name has been applied from its position beneath the extends to clavicle. This vessel, 8, is derived from the branching of upper hmb, innominate artery behind the sterno-clavicular articula-