342 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. anterior and posterior ligament. Dissection. Surface of radius. Of first row of carpal bones. Surfaces touching. Synovial sac. Lower ends of radius and ulna joined by up]Der part of the cuneiform bone. Some of tlie anterior fibres are continued to tlie pisiform bone. The anterior ligament (fig. 51,') takes origin from the end of the radius, and is inserted into the first row of carpal bones, except the os pisiforme, at the anterior surface. The posterior ligament (fig. 53, ^) is membranous, like the anterior, and its fibres are directed downwards and inwards. Superiorly it is attached to the lower end of the radius; and inferiorly it is fixed, after the manner of the anterior liga- ment, to the first row of carpal bones on the posterior aspect. Dissection.—To see the form of the articulating surfaces, the joint may be opened by a transverse incision through the posterior ligament, near the bones of the carpus. Articular surfaces.—The end of the radius, and the fibro- cartilage uniting it with the ulna, form an arch for the re- ception of the carpal bones (fig. 52) ; and the surface of the radius is divided by a prominent line into an external trian- gular, and an internal square impression. The three bones of the first carpal row constitute a convex eminence, which is received into the hollow before mentioned, and the difierent surfaces correspond in this way ;—The scaphoid bone is oppo- site the external mark (4) of the radius ; and the semi- lunar bone touches the square impression (5), and all the triangular fibro-cartilage (Henle"^), or the greater part of it; whilst the cuneiform bone is in contact with the capsule, and sometimes with a part of the triangular fibro-cartilage. The synovial membrane has the arrangement common to simple joints. This joint communicates sometimes with the lower radio-ulnar articulation by means of an aperture in the fibro-cartilage separating the two. Lower Radio-ult^"AE, Articulation.—In this articulation the convexity of the end of the ulna is received into a * Handbuch der Systematischen Anatomie des Menschen, von Dr. J. Henle, 1855. Anatomists describe the pyramidal bone as being opposite the trian- gular fibro-cartilage of the joint; but in the above cited treatise half of the semilunar bone is said to correspond with the fibro-cartilage, and the pyramidal bone with part of the capsule of the joint. My attention was directed by Dr. Sharpey to the statement of Pro- fessor Henle, whilst this sheet was passing through the press; and I have been able to examine since three wrist joints. In two the semi- lunar bone corresponded with the fibro-cartilage ; but in one joint both the semilunar and the pyramidal bones were opposite the cartilage— the part of the semilunar being about a third of its wrist joint surface. In the dried pyramidal bone there is also a diff'erence in the size of the wrist joint articular surface, as if it entered sometimes more largely into the joint.