DISSECTION OF THE l^ECK. 120 crosses inwards to tongue. Branches join it with the vagus. sympathetic and spinal; and supplies muscles. Dissection of rectus lateralis. Rectus lateralis is first inter- transverse muscle. Dissection of first nerve. Sub-occipi- tal nerve lies on atlas, deeply beneath the internal carotid artery and the jugular vein. It then comes forwards between the vein and the artery, turning round the outer side of the vagus, to which it is intimately united. The nerve next descends in the neck, and becomes superficial below the digastric muscle in the anterior triangular space. From this spot the nerve is directed inwards to the tongue and its muscles. The branches of this nerve are furnished to the muscles on the fore part of the neck, and to the muscular substance of the tongue ; but there are also some branches joining it with other nerves near the skull to be now considered. Connecting branches.—a. Near the skull the hypoglossal is connected by branches with the vagus nerve, the two being almost inseparably united. b. Rather lower down the nerve has connecting offsets with the sympathetic, and with the loop of the first two spinal nerves. The cervical branches for distribution to parts around are included in the description of the dissections of the neck, the submaxillary region, and the tongue. Dissection.—The small rectus capitis lateralis muscle, between the transverse process of the atlas and the base of the skull, is now to be more completely cleaned. At its inner border the anterior branch of the first cervical nerve, which joins in the loop of the atlas, is to be found. The RECTUS CAPITIS LATERALIS (fig. 23, ') is a small thin muscle, which is the representative of an intertransverse muscle. It arises from the anterior process (parapophysis), and the tip of the united transverse processes of the atlas ; and is inserted into the jugular eminence of the occipital bone. On the anterior surface rests the jugular vein ; and in contact with the posterior is the vertebral artery. To the inner side is the anterior primary branch of the first cervical nerve. Dissection.—For the purpose of tracing backwards the anterior branch of the first cervical nerve to its ganglion, divide the rectus lateralis muscle, observing the branch of nerve to it; then cut off the end of the lateral mass of the atlas, and remove the vertebral artery, so as to bring into' view the nerve as it lies on the first vertebra. The anterior primary branch of the first or sub-occipital nerve is slender in size, and arises from the common trunk on the neural arch of the atlas. From that origin it is directed forwards on the arch, beneath the vertebral artery, to the inner side of the rectus lateralis. Here the nerve