DISSECTIOIT OF THE FOOT. 770 The last is strongest, aud divided into two parts. Fig. 115/' Synovial sac. Dissection. Union of the scaphoid bone to the cunei- form. Synovial To the cu- boid bone. Synovial sac sometimes. of the OS calcis from near the tuberosities to the tubercle in front, and its fibres pass forwards to be connected with the ridge on the under part of the cu- boid bone ; but some of the inner fibres are prolonged over the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle, assisting to form its sheath, and are attached to the bases of the third and fourth metatarsal bones. The deep piece of the ligament (") will be seen, on division of the super- ficial, to extend from the tubercle and the pit in front of it on the fore part of the under surface of the OS calcis, to the portion of the cuboid bone internal to the ridge. A simple synovial membrane be- longs to the articulation. Dissection. — The interosseous ligament uniting the astragalus and the OS calcis is now to be cut through, to demonstrate the articu- lar surfaces, the synovial sacs, and the attachment of the ligament. Articulations of the scaphoid bone.—The scaphoid bone articulates in front with the three cuneiform bones, and laterally with the os cuboides, by dorsal and plantar bands. In the articulation with the cuneiform hones there are three small dorsal ligaments, one to each bone, but the inner- most is the strongest. The place of plantar bands is sup- plied by processes of the tendon of the tibialis posticus. A synovial membrane lines the articulation, and sends for- wards prolongations between the cuneiform bones. In the articulation with the os cuboides there is a dorsal oblique band of fibres between the contiguous surfaces of the bones ; a plantar transverse band, which is concealed by the tendon of the tibialis posticus ; and a strong interosseous ligament. When the bones touch, the surfaces are tipped with carti- lage, and are furnished with a prolongation from the common synovial membrane of the tarsus. * Plantar ligaments of the foot (Bourgery and Jacob).—1. Long plantar ligament. 2. Deep portion of the inferior calcaneo-cuboid ligament. 3. Tendon of the peroneus longus muscle.