VLNAR ARTERY ANB BRATTCHES. 313 In the forearm tlie vessel has an arched direction, and its depth from the surface varies in the first and last parts ^PP^r of its course. In the upper half of the forearm the artery is inclined obliquely inwards, between the superficial and deep layers of muscles, and is covered by the former, viz. by the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, and flexor sublimis. But below the spot mentioned, the P'",^^^^?^ ^ ^ half of the vessel is superficial between the tendons of the flexor sub- forearm, limis and flexor carpi ulnaris, and is concealed by the com- mon integuments and the proper fascia of the limb, though the flexor ulnaris overlays it and serves as the guide to its position. Beneath the artery will be found first the brachialis anticus for a short distance, and afterwards the flexor profundus. The two companion veins are situate on the sides of the Position of artery. The median nerve lies to the inner side of the ^^^^^ T „ ^ . T , . nerves. vessel for about an inch, but then crosses over it to gain the outer side. About the middle of the forearm the ulnar nerve approaches the artery, and continues thence on the inner side. A small branch of the ulnar nerve descends on the lower part of the vessel to the palm of the hand. On the annular ligament of the wrist the artery lies close Position on to the pisiform bone, and is crossed by a band of fibres pro- i^ament.^^^ longed from the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris to the ligament. The ulnar nerve still accompanies the vessel, having the same position, viz. on the inner side. Branches. —The greater number of the collateral branches its branches of the artery are distributed to the muscles. But the ^^^ZT"^^' named branches are the following :— 1. The anterior ulnar recurrent branch arises generally in anterior and common with the next, and ascends on the brachialis anticus muscle to inosculate with the small anastomotic artery beneath the pronator radii teres. It gives ofisets to the contiguous muscles. 2. The posterior ulnar recurrent branch, of larger size posterior than the anterior, is directed inwards beneath the flexor sublimis muscle to the interval between the inner condyle and the olecranon. Here it passes with the ulnar nerve between the attachments of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and joins the ramifications of the inferior profunda and anas- tomotic arteries on the inner side of the elbow joint. Some of its offsets enter the muscles, and others supply the articulation and the ulnar nerve. 3. The interosseous branch is a short, thick trunk, about interos- an inch loug, which is directed backwards towards the