YEITA POET^ AND BILE DUCTS. 539 that has been circulated through the following chylo-poietic V'ena portse T , 1 II 1 ji resembles an Viscera, viz., the alimentary canal, the pancreas, and the artery in its spleen. This vein commences by roots in the viscera above ^ranching^. mentioned, like any other vein, but it is deficient in valves ; and it ramifies through the structure of the liver in the same manner as an artery before it ends in the hepatic veins. Its radicles communicate with small systemic veins on some parts of the intestinal tube, more particularly on the rectum. The vein is formed by the union of the splenic and supe- its origin, rior mesenteric veins (p. 627) ; and its origin is placed in front of the vena cava, but beneath the pancreas and about two inches from the right end. This vessel is about four length, inches long, and is directed upwards in the small omentum, behind the bile duct and the hepatic artery, to the trans- and termi- verse fissure of the liver, where it divides into a right and a left branch. In its course it is joined by the coronary or gastric vein, Accessory and by the cystic vein near the liver. The right branch is sometimes joined by the cystic vein. Terminal and enters the transverse fissure to ramify in the liver, branches. The left branch is distributed to the left part of the liver, and gives a small branch to the Spigelian lobe. Bile Ducts (fig. 79).—Two ducts issue at the transverse common fissure of the liver, one from each lobe, and unite to form hepatic . . . . duct; the common hepatic duct: this common tube is an inch and a half long. At its termination it receives the duct of the how gall bladder, and the union of the two gives origin to the formed. common bile duct. The commofo bile duct (ductus communis choledochus). Common which is formed as above said, is about three inches long. ' It descends almost vertically beneath the upper transverse length and portion of the duodenum ; then passing between the pan- course. creas and the vertical piece of the duodenum, it opens into this part of the intestine at the inner side, and above the middle. Before piercing the coats of the intestine it is Termina- joined commonly by the pancreatic duct, but the two may enter the duodenum separately. Whilst in the small omentum the duct lies to the right of the hepatic artery, and somewhat before the portal vein. SYMPATHETIC AND VAGUS NERVES. Sympathetic Nerve.—In the abdomen the sympathetic General dis- nerve consists, as in the thorax, of a gangliated cord on each p^^^^^^^^-