738 DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. Section V. THE SOLE OF THE FOOT. Position of the part. Raise the skin and dissect cutaneous nerves. Subcu- taneous fat. Lay bare the plantar fascia. and the digital ves- sels and nerves. Define the ligament of the toes. Plantar fascia. Division into parts. Central part Fosition. —The foot is to be placed over a block of little thickness with the sole towards the dissector^ and the part is to be made tense by fixing the heel with hooks, and by- fastening down and separating the toes. Dissection.—The skin is to be raised as two flaps, inner and outer, by means of one incision along the centre of the sole from the heel to the anterior part, and by another across the foot at the root of the toes. Afterv/ards the skin is to be removed from each toe, and the lateral digital vessels and nerves are to be dissected out at the same time. In the fat near the heel the student should follow the cutaneous nerve of the sole of the foot (p. 735) ; and he may trace out, at a little distance from each border of the foot, some small branches of the plantar nerves and arteries. The subcutaneous fat of the sole of the foot is very abundant, and forms the thickest cushion over the parts of the surface that press most on the ground in standing, viz., over the os calcis, and the line of the metatarso-phalangeal articulations. JDissection.—The fat should be now removed, and the plantar fascia laid bare. Beginning the dissection near the heel, follow forwards the fascia towards the toes, to each of which a process is to be traced. In the intervals between these processes the digital nerves and arteries will be detected amongst much fatty and fibrous tissues; but the vessels and nerves to the inner side of the great toe and outer side of the little toe, will be found piercing the fascia farther back than the rest. The student is next to define a transverse fibrous band between the toes, over the digital vessels and nerves ; and when this has been completed he may remove the superficial fascia from the toes to see the sheaths of the tendons. Plantar fascia.—The special fascia of the sole of the foot is of a pearly white colour and great strength, and sends septa between the muscles. Its thickness varies in different parts of the foot; and from this circumstance, and from the existence of longitudinal depressions where the two chief intermuscular septa are attached, the fascia is divided into a central and two lateral parts. The central part, which is much the thickest, is pointed 1