205 MEDULLA OBLONGATA. limit is the lower border of the pons in one direction, and Situation the level of the upper margin of the atlas in the opposite direction. This part of the cord is pyramidal in form, and and form, measures about one inch and a quarter in length, half an inch in thickness, and three quarters of an inch in breadth at its widest part. The larger part or the base of the medulla joins the pons. Base, the transverse fibres of the latter marking its limit; and the apex is blended with the spinal cord at the spot before men- Apex, tioned. The anterior surface is irregularly convex, and is in Surfaces contact with the hollowed basilar process of the occipital bone. The opposite surface is somewhat excavated superiorly, where it forms the floor of the fourth ventricle, and rests in the fissure between the halves of the cerebellum. On the poste- rior aspect there are not any cross fibres of the pons, as in front, to mark the extent of the medulla. The medulla oblongata is divided into halves by a median Division fissure in front and behind. The fissures are in a line with fissures, those along the cord, and their extent is influenced by the cross fibres before alluded to on the surface ; for whilst the anterior one ceases at the pons in a dilated part (foramen caecum), the posterior is prolonged behind the pons, and into the groove in the fl oor of the fourth ventricle. Each half of the medulla is constituted of the three segments components of the spinal cord, which are continued into it ; and indi- cations of these are still to be seen on the surface, though the names are changed, and the fibres difi"erently arranged. Thus at the middle line in front is the anterior pyramid corresponding with the anterior column ; at ihe middle line behind is the restiform body with its pyramidal part, continu- ous with the posterior column ; and between these are the fibres of the lateral tract, with an oval projecting body (corpus olivare) on their exterior. a. The anterior pyramid (fig. 31, a) is the most internal Anterior eminence, and receives its name from its position and form. ES^nter- Situate on the side of the median fissure, it is internal to the olivary body, from which it is separated by a slight groove. Inferiorly the pyramid is continuous with the anterior column of the cord (g), and internally it is connected with some and is joined decussating fibres from the opposite side across the anterior fibres^ median fissure (decussation of the pyramids) (6). Enlarging as it ascends, this body enters the pons, but, before disap- body. c?. Restiform body. e. Arciform fibres. /. Fibres to the resti- form body from anterior pyramid, g. Anterior column, h. Lateral column, i and jp. Fibres of the pons (superficial).