728 DISSECTIOIT OF THE LEG. branches to the leg. Branches of the pop- liteal ; communi- cating and cuta- neous. Termina- tion of small sciatic. Termina- tion of in- ternal cu- taneous. Take away the fat. Deep fascia. Continua- tion and attach- ments. nerve appears it is joined by the communicating branch of the external popliteal, and near the heel it gives large long branches to the integuments. Cutaneous nerves of the external popliteal. —One branch of the external popliteal trunk, viz. communicating peroneal (p. 721), joins the external saphenous nerve Fig. 105.* about the middle of the leg: but not un- ^ commonly this branch extends as a distinct nerve, unconnected with the other, as far as the heel.f The other small cutaneous offsets of the external popliteal terminate over the outer side of the leg. The small sciatic nerve (fig. 105, perfo- rates the fascia near the popliteal space, and reaches with the external saphenous vein to about the middle of the leg : it ramifies in the integuments, and joins the external saphenous nerve. Offset of the internal cutaneous (fig. 105, —Behind the internal saphenous nerve, near the knee, is the inner branch of the internal cutaneous nerve of the thigh (p. 694) ; this extends to the middle, some- times the lower third of the leg, and com- municates with the internal saphenous /I nerve. Dissection.—The deep fascia will be seen by removing the fat. The superficial vessels and nerves may be either cut or turned aside. The special or deep fascia on the pos- terior aspect of the leg covers the muscles, and sends a thick process between the deep and superficial layers. Above, it is continuous with the investing membrane of the thigh, and receives offsets from the tendons about the knee; below, it joins the internal annular ligament. Externally it is continued uninterruptedly from the one aspect of the limb to the other, but internally * Cutaneous nerves of the hack of the leg.—1. Inner branch of the internal cutaneous. 2. Branches of the internal saphenous. 3. Small sciatic, giving higher up a branch through the fascia. 4. External saphenous. 5. Peroneal communicating branch of the external pop- liteal. + Occasionally the junction may take place in or near the popliteal space.