529 INFERIOR MESENTERIC VESSELS. from it, and the branches should be traced outwards to the remaining half of the large intestine : a part of the artery enters the pelvis, but this will be dissected afterwards. On the artery and its branches is the inferior mesenteric plexus of nerves. The mesenteric vein is to be followed upwards to its junction with the splenic, or with the superior mesen- teric vein. On the aorta the dissector will meet with a plexus of nerves which is to be left uninjured. The inferior mesenteric artery (fig. 78, supplies branches inferior to the part of the large intestine beyond the transverse colon, ^^tery.*^^^° and communicating with the superior mesenteric, assists to maintain the chain of anastomosis along the intestinal tube. This vessel is of smaller size than the superior mesenteric, and arises from the aorta from one to two inches above the bifurcation. At first the vessel descends on the aorta, and Place of crosses the left common iliac artery in its course to the pelvis, where it ends in branches to the rectum (superior heemo- Course rhoidal). The following branches are furnished by it to the and descending colon and the sigmoid flexure. branches. The left colic artery (e) ascends in front of the left kidney. Left colic and divides into an ascending and a descending branch for thTdescend- the supply of the descending colon. By the ascending ing colon, offset it anastomoses with the middle colic branch of the superior mesenteric artery. The sigmoid artery (/) is distributed to the sigmoid flexure, sigmoid Passing almost transversely outwards it divides into branches ^^^^^^^ which anastomose above with the preceding colic branch, and below with the hasmorhoidal. Here, as in the rest of the intestinal tube, arches are formed by the arteries for the supply of the intestine. The superior hcemorhoidal artery (g) enters between the Branch to layers of the meso-rectum, and is distributed to the lower I'ectum. part of the great intestine : it will be described in the dissection of the pelvis. The inferior mesenteric vein (fig. 79, d) begins in the part inferior of the great intestine to which its companion artery is dis- tributed, and ascends along the psoas muscle, away from the artery, to open into the splenic vein beneath the pancreas. Occasionally it joins the superior mesenteric vein. The mesenteric veins are without valves, and may be in- Veins of jected from the trunk to the branches like an artery. wiSioutf - Lymphatic glands are found by the side of the descend- calves, ing colon and the sigmoid flexure. The lymphatics from giaud?^^^"^ the intestine, after passing through the glands, enter the left lumbar lymphatic glands.