722 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. Situation, number, viz., biceps, semitendinosus, and semimembranosus. The first of these lies on the outer, and the others on the inner side of the popliteal space. Biceps The BICEPS has two heads of origin, long and short, which foiiP^^ ^ are attached to the pelvis and the femur. The long head arises from an impression on the back of the ischial tubero- sity, in common with the semitendinosus muscle. The "and a shorfc head is fixed to the femur below the gluteus maximus, short head; yj^., to all the linea aspera, and nearly the whole of the line leading inferiorly to the outer condyle ; and to the external intermuscular septum. The fibres from these sources are collected together to form the belly of the muscle ; and end is inserted inferiorly in a tendon, which is inserted into the head of the fibuia^and ^^'^^^ ^7 "^^^ processes that embrace the external lateral tibia. ligament, and slightly into the head of the tibia. Connections The muscle is Superficial, except at the origin where it is onhe mus- covered by the gluteus ; and it rests on the upper part of the semimembranosus, on the great sciatic nerve, and on the adductor magnus muscle. On the inner side is the semi- tendinosus muscle as far as the ham. Its tendon gives ofi*sets to the deep fascia of the limb. Semi-tendi- The SEMITENDINOSUS is a slender muscle, and receives its attached to name from its appearance. It arises from the tuberosity of pelvis and the hip bone with the long head of the biceps, and by fleshy fibres from the tendon of that muscle. Inferiorly it is inserted into the inner surface of the tibia, close below the gracilis, and for a similar distance. Surround- Tliis muscle, like the biceps, is partly covered by the nig parts m grl^teus maximus. About its middle a tendinous intersection contact with it. may be observed. It rests on the semimembranosus, and on the internal lateral ligament of the knee joint. The outer border is in contact with the biceps as far as the pop- liteal space. As the tendon turns forwards to its inser- tion, an expansion is continued from it to the fascia of the leg ; and it is attached with the gracilis below the level of the tubercle of the tibia, the two being separated from the tendon of the sartorius by the bursa before referred to (p. 688). Semimem- The SEMIMEMBRANOSUS muscle is tendiuous at both ends, reachoT^ and its name is taken from the membraniform appearance to ub?a^^^^ of the upper tendon. The muscle is attached above to the highest impression on the back of the tuber ischii, above and external to that for the semitendinosus and biceps ; and it is inserted below into the hinder and inner part of the head of the tibia.