DISSECTION" OF THE UPPER, LIMB. 280 circumflex artery. It supplies branclies likewise to the teres minor, the long head of the triceps, and the integu- ments. Onecircum- The circumflex nerve, at its origin (p. 271), is placed ' beneath the axillary artery, and leaves the arm-pit by turning round the border of the subscapular muscle (fig. 44), with the artery of' the same name. Behind the neck of the humerus the nerve divides into two parts, which supply the surrounding muscles, the integuments, and the shoulder joint. Before the circumflex nerve bifurcates it gives an brancJf-^ ar^ici(-?a^' filament to the under part of the shoulder joint. cutaneous, Oj. One branch turns forwards beneath the deltoid nearly to the anterior border, and ends in the muscle, with the ex- ception of one or two cutaneous filaments that pierce the fibres. andmuscu- h. The other branch gives an offset to the teres minor lar branches. j]fx-Qgcle, wliich is remarkable in having a gangliform swelling on it ; and it becomes cutaneous over the deltoid (fig. 42, ^) (p. 278), after supplying the posterior part of the muscle, infraspina- The INFRASPINATUS MUSCLE occupies the infraspinal part arfses^from scapula, and extends to the head of the humerus, fossa of that "^^^ muscle arises from the infraspinal fossa of the scapula, name; except nea.r the neck, and except at the inferior border and lower angle of the bone where the teres muscles are attached ; it arises also from the lower side of the spinous process, and from the special fascia covering the surface. Insertion Its fibres converge to a tendon, which is inserted into the middle impression on the great tuberosity of the humerus, and joins with the tendons of the supraspinatus and teres minor muscles. is partly P^^^ of the muscle is subcutaneous, and the fibres ^ovei^dby arising from the spine of the scapula overlay the others and the tendon : the upper portion is concealed by the deltoid, and the lower end, by the latissimus dorsi. The other con- lower border is parallel to the teres minor, with which it nections. jg sometimes united. The muscle lies on the scapula and the humero-scapular articulation, but between it and the joint is a small bursa. The subsequent dissection will show how far the muscle is separated from, the bone, at the front of the infraspinal fossa, by the vessels and nerve, and the fat (p. 284). Teres minor '^^^ TERES MINOR is a narrow fleshy slip, which is often j^on^back of united inseparably with the preceding muscle, along whose lower border it lies. It arises on the dorsum of the scapula from a special surface along the upper two thirds of the in-