DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 764 of the tibia, and of the patella. Ai'ticiilation of tibia and fibula. Dissection of the liga- ments. Upper ar- ticiilation, by anterior and poste- rior band. Synovial sac. Lower ar- ticulation has anterior, posterior. and inferior ligament. like surface formed by both : at the posterior part eacb is rounded and convex, but the inner one most so; whilst the intervening part of each is flattened. On the head of the tibia are two articular surfaces, but the inner one is deepest, and has the greatest extent. Tha surface of the patella is divided into two parts, but unequally, by a vertical ridge, so that the outer, which cor- responds with the wider face on the external condyle of the femur, is the largest. Peroneo-tibial articulations.—The tibia and fibula are united by ligamentous bands at the extremities, where they touch ; and by an interosseous ligament between the shafts of the bones. Dissection.—The muscles are to be taken away from the front and the back of the interosseous ligament ; and the loose tissue is to be removed from a small band in front of, and behind both the upper and lower articulations between the tibia and fibula. The UPPER ARTICULATION", like the lower, is almost im- movable, and therefore the structures between the ends of the bones are slight and simple. Only two small bands, anterior and posterior, are present. The anterior ligament extends over the joint from the outer tuberosity of the tibia to the head of the fibula. The posterior ligament, thinner than the anterior, is attached to corresponding parts of the bones behind the joint, and is covered by the tendon of the popliteus muscle. The articular surfaces are covered with cartilage ; and a synovial membrane lines the articulation, projecting upwards so as to touch that of the knee joint. The LOWER ARTICULATION possesses an anterior and a pos- terior band, together with an inferior ligament between the ends of the bones. The anterior ligaw^ent reaches obliquely from the lower end of the tibia to that of the fibula ; and the posterior has attachments behind the joint similar to those of the band in front. The inferior ligament closes the space between the con- tiguous ends of the tibia and fibula, and consists of trans- verse yellowish fibres. It is distinct from the posterior ligament, and is fixed on one side to the end of the fibula above the pit ; and on the other it is inserted into the con- tiguous surface of the tibia, as well as into part of the pos- terior edge of the articular surface, so as to assist in deepen- ing the hollow into which the astragalus is received.