718 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. part is in the ham, and part be- yond. The part in the space; course and connections. Position of vein and of the nerve. Cut the head of the gastrocne- mius. Connections of the artery farther on. Position of vein and nerve. Branches. Muscular branches and cuta- neous. the anterior and posterior tibial vessels. A portion of the vessel lies in the ham, and is uncovered by muscle; but the rest is beneath the gastrocnemius, and beyond the limits of the popliteal space as above defined. The description of the artery may be divided therefore into two parts, corresponding with the difference in the connections. In the ham the vessel is inclined obliquely from the inner side of the limb to the interval between the condyles of the femur, and it is then directed along the middle of the space over the knee joint. In this course it is overlaid at fi.rst by the belly of the semimembranosus muscle, but thence on- wards to the gastrocnemius it is covered only by the fat, the fascia lata, and the integuments. Beneath it is the femur with the posterior ligament of the knee joint. In contact with the vessel and somewhat on the outer sied, lies the popliteal vein, so that, on looking iDto the space, the arterial trunk is almost covered by it ; but lower down, in the interval between the heads of the gastrocnemius, the vein and its branches altogether conceal the artery. More superficial than the large vessels, and slightly external to them in position, is placed the internal popliteal nerve, which however, like the vein, lies over the artery between the heads of the gastrocnemius. Dissection.—To see the deep part of the artery the inner head of the gastrocnemius should be cut through, and raised from the subjacent parts. On removing the areolar tissue the vessels and nerves will appear. The lower articular branches of the vessels and nerves are now brought into view ;—the inner artery is below the head of the tibia, and the outer higher up between the tibia and fibula, each with a vein and a nerve. Whilst the artery is beneath the gastrocnemius it sinks deeply into the limb, and is crossed by a small muscle, the plantaris. It is placed on the popliteus muscle. Both the vein and the nerve (internal popliteal) change their position to the artery, and gradually cross over it, so as to lie on its inner side at the lower border of the popliteus. Brandies are furnished by the artery to the surrounding muscles, and to the articulation ; those that enter the joint are five in number, and are called articular, viz., two superior, inner and outer ; two inferior, also inner and outer ; and a central or azygos branch. The muscular branches have not received separate names, with the exception of those to the gastrocnemius and soleus which are called sural. One superficial or cutaneous branch