703 OBTURATOR EXTERNUS. between the ilio-pectineal eminence and the anterior superior iliac spinous process,—the iliacus resting on a small bursa ; and below the pelvis the mass covers the capsule of the hip joint and a larger intervening bursa. On the front of the psoas is the femoral artery, and between the two muscles lies the anterior crural nerve. The pectin.eus and the internal circumflex artery are contiguous to the inner border ; and the sartorius and vastus internus touch the outer edge. The OBTURATOE, EXTERNUS is triangular in form, with the Obturator base at the pelvis and the apex at the femur. The fibres of > the muscle take origin from the outer surface of the obtu- origin, rator membrane for the anterior half; and from the inner half or more of the bony circumference of the thyroid fora- men, the attachment being an inch wide opposite the sym- physis pubis, but lower down only half that width. From the origin the fibres are directed obliquely outwards and backwards to be inserted by a tendon into the pit at the insertion, root of the great trochanter. This muscle is concealed by the pectineus, adductor brevis. The adduc- and adductor magnus. It covers the obturator membrane and artery, and is pierced by part of the obturator nerve. As it courses backwards it is in contact with the inner and lower and it parts of the hip joint. The insertion of the muscle will be j^J^t^^^ seen in the dissection of the buttock. Dissection.—By detaching a small part of the obturator Detach ob- muscle from the pelvis, the branches of the artery and nerve of the same name will be seen amongst its fibres. Less injury will be done to the part if the dissection of the vessel and nerve is deferred till after the limb is detached. The obturator artery is a branch of the internal iliac in Obturator the pelvis (p. 622), and enters the thigh through the upper ''^^^^^^ part of the thyroid foramen. Whilst in its aperture the artery divides into two parts, which inosculate, and form a divides iuto circle beneath the muscle around the obturator membrane. The upper branch extends along the inner half of the upper and membrane, and anastomoses inferiorly with the other. The branch- lower perforates the membrane below the upper branch, and turns downwards to form a circle by uniting with it. An arti- this gives cular twig to the hip joint is supplied from the lower branch, twig. Off'sets of the obturator artery are furnished to the obtu- Muscles, rator muscles ; and some small twigs extend to the upper part of the adductors. Branches of nerve to the obturator muscle come from the Branches of deep portion of the obturator trunk, and perforate the mem- brane with the lower branch of the artery.