166 DISSECTIOI^ OF THE LARYITX. Crico-arytse- noideus posticus is on back of cricoid cartilage. from the middle line ; also, for a short distance (a line), into the inner surface of that cartilage. The muscle rests on the crico-thyroid membrane, and is concealed by the sterno-thyroid muscle. The Cinco-ARYT^NOIDEUS POSTICUS MUSCLE (fig. 21, h) lies on the posterior part of the cricoid cartilage. Its origin is from the depression on the side of the vertical ridge at the posterior aspect of that cartilage. From this origin the fibres are directed outwards, and converge to be inserted by fleshy and tendinous fibres into a projection at the outer part of the base of the arytsenoid cartilage. MusculusKerato-cricoideus (Merkel).—This muscle is a small fleshy slip below and close to the preceding muscle, which arises from the cricoid cartilage, and is inserted into the back part of the lower cornu of the thyroid cartilage. * Arytre- iioideus : deep or tians verse fibres, superficial or oblique. Dissection of internal muscles. The ARYMKOiDEUS is a single muscle in the middle line (fig. 21, s), and is placed in the concavity on the posterior aspect of the arytsenoid cartilages. Two sets of fibres v/ith difierent directions, viz., superficial and deep, are seen in the muscle. The deep fibres are transverse; they are inserted into the outer border and the posterior surface of the carti- lages, and close the interval between the cartilages. The superficial fibres consist of two oblique fasciculi, which cross like the parts of the letter X, each passing from the base of one cartilage to the apex of the other. A few of the oblique fibres of the muscle are usually continued round the cartilage to join the thyro-arytsenoid muscle, and the depressor of the epiglottis. Dissection.—To bring into view the remaining muscles, which are somewhat concealed by the thyroid cartilage, it will be necessary to remove the right half of the thyroid, by cutting through it near the middle line, after its lower cornu has been detached from the cricoid cartilage. By the removal of a little areolar tissue, the dissector will define inferiorly the lateral crico-arytssnoid muscle ; above it, the thyro-arytsenoideus muscle ; and still higher, the thin mus- * A series of observations lias been made on this muscle by Dr. Turner, Demonstrator of Anatomy in tbe University of Edinburgh. He found the muscle seven times in thirty two bodies ; and in one instance it was present on both sides, although Dr. Merkel asserts that it is an " unsymmetrical muscle," and " exists only on one side."—See Remarks on the Musculus Kerato-cricoideus, by Wm. Turner, M.B in the Edinl. Med. JournalioY Feb. 1860.