429 BRAITCHES OF SPmAL NERYES. * The lumbar nerves and vessels resemble the dorsal, and in the lum- are found in the same line ; but the inner branches are more ^^g^o"- difficult to recognise. ^ The sacral nerves are beneath the multifidus spinse, and will be dissected after the examination of that muscle (p. 436). * PosTERTOE, Primary Branches of the Spinal Nerves, posterior —The spinal nerves, with a few exceptions in the cervical ^^^^^^"^^ and sacral, bifurcate in the intervertebral foramina into nerves, anterior and posterior primary branches. The posterior supply the integument and the muscles of the back, and are now to be learnt. In the neck.—The posterior primary branches of the In the neck cervical nerves are eight in number. All, except those of the first two, appear beneath the posterior intertransverse they divide Inuscles, and subdivide into internal and external branches. In the first and second nerves, the posterior primary branch crosses the arch of the vertebra next beneath, after leaving its trunk. The extemal tranches are very inconsiderable in size, and External end in the muscles inserted into the transverse processes, ai-rsmail viz., the splenius, and the prolongations from the erector None to the spinse muscle. There is not any external branch to the first, or the suboccipital nerve. The internal branches are larger than the external. All Internal are directed inwards beneath the complexus towards the above^tifrce spinous processes ; and those of the lowest three nerves pass last, in addition beneath the semispinalis muscle. By the side of the spines of the vertebrse cutaneous branches are furnished to the neck and the head, but only by the nerves that are give cuta- superficial to the semispinalis ; these superficial ofi'sets ascend gets^^ to the surface through the splenius, the complexus, and the trapezius muscles, and are distributed as before seen (p. 415). In their course to the spine the nerves supply the surround- ing muscles, viz., the complexus, semispinalis, multifidus spinse, and interspinales. The inner branches of the second and third nerves end on Those of the occiput, and require a separate notice. third.^ That of the second nerve, named great occipital, appears second ends beneath the inferior oblique muscle to which it gives ofi'sets : it is then directed upwards to the head through the com- plexus and the trapezius, and ends on the occiput (p. 8). The branch of the third nerve supplies an ofiset to the in- Third sup- tegument of the neck ; and ascending to the head through ^^1^^^? the trapezius, is distributed to the lower part of the occiput,