DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 586 Section VII. IXTERXAL MUSCLES AND THE LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. Two muscles. Pyriformis. Origin in the pelvis. Insertion. Its connec- tions with parts around. Obturator muscle is bent over pelvis. Origin in the pelvis. Archinpr of its tendons Muscles.—The two following muscles, pyriformis and obturator internus, have their origin within the cavity of the pelvis. The PYRIFORMIS muscle is w ide and fleshy within the pelvis, and is directed outwards through the great sacro-sciatic notch to the great trochanter of the femur. The muscle has received its name from its form. In the pelvis the pyriformis arises hy three slips from the second, third, and fourth pieces of the sacrum, both between, and external to the anterior apertures; as it passes from the pelvis, it takes origin also from the surface of the hip bone forming the upper part of the large sacro-sciatic notch, and from the great sacro-sciatic ligament. From this origin the fibres converge to the tendon of insertion into the trochanter. (See Dissection of the Buttock.) The anterior surface is in contact with the rectum, but more on the left than the right side; with the sacral plexus, and with the sciatic and pudic branches of the internal iliac vessels. Whilst the opposite surface rests on the sacrum, and is covered by the great gluteal muscle outside the pelvis. The upper border is near the hip bone, the gluteal vessels and the superior gluteal nerve being between; and the lower border is contiguous to the coccygeus muscle, only the sciatic and pudic vessels and nerves intervening. The OBTURA.TOR INTERN us MUSCLE, like the preceding, has its origin in the pelvis, and its insertion out of the cavity at the great trochanter of the femur ; but the part outside is almost parallel in direction with that inside the pelvis. The muscle arises by a broad fleshy attachment from the inner surface of the obturator membrane, except a small part below, and from the fibrous arch bounding the canal con- taining the obturator vessels and nerves ; slightly from the surface of bone internal to the membrane ; and largely from the smooth inclined surface of the pelvis behind the thyroid hole,—reaching upwards to the brim, downwards to the outlet, and backwards to the great sacro-sciatic notch of the pelvis, though opposite the small sacro-sciatic notch a thin layer of fat separates the fleshy fibres from the bone. The fibres are directed backwards and somewhat downwards, and end in four or five tendinous pieces, which turn over the