207 MEDULLA OBLOisTGATA. funiculus cuneatus (Burdacli). Between the restiform bodies is the space of the fourth ventricle at the back of the medulla. The posterior pijramid (funic, gracilis) is a con- Posterior tinuation of that part of the spinal cord which is close to ciose'^to the posterior median fissure. By drawing forwards the ^^^^^^^ ^' medulla, or using a separate piece of hardened medulla, the fissure, pyramid will be seen to be slightly enlarged (clava) at the apex of the fourth ventricle, where the restiform bodies diverge, and then to become gradually indistinct along the inner, part of the corpus restiforme. A little higher than the lower end of the fourth ventricle is a Tunica thin lamina of nervous substance on each side (taenia, ligula), of pyramid, which is about a line in width, and forms part of the roof of the fourth ventricle ; this membranous piece is attached by one edge to the hinder part of the restiform body, but is free by the other, where it is connected with the vascular fold of the ventricle. Structure.—The components of the spinal cord, viz. anterior, middle, and posterior columns, are continued into the lower part of the medulla oblongata, where at first they can be recognised ; but they soon become mixed together, and have an arrangement difierent from that of the cord. Dissection.—In the pyramid two sets of fibres have to be Dissection shown,—one from the same, and one from the opposite pyramfd^^^ side of the cord. The fibres from the opposite half of the cord will appear in the median fissure, when the pyramids are gently drawn from one another, where they are named the decussating fibres ; and to lay these bare more com- pletely, the small part of the anterior column of the cord on their side, which remains below the cross fibres (for the cord has been cut through near these), may be forcibly turned outwards. The fibres to the pyramid from the same half of the cord will be demonstrated by everting the anterior column below the decussation, as on the other side. The anterior pyramid (fig. 32, h) receives fibres, in- Fibres of feriorly, from the anterior column of the cord of its own pyraS. side, and, internally, from the lateral column and the oppo- site half of the cord. The inner set of fibres are deep at Derivation their origin, but they become superficial in the median fissure, and are then directed upwards, close to that fissure, joining the fibres continued from the anterior column ; and as the inner fibres of each pyramid are derived from the opposite side, they cross each other in the anterior median fissure of the spinal cord :—thus they form the decussation of the pyramids. The pyramid is continued into both the cerebrum and ^^ti^jj^^^*^"