DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 274 Dissection of internal mammary Triangularis sterni is ill the thorax and attached to the ribs. Connec- tions. Internal mammary is a branch of subcla- vian ; courses through thorax to abdomen. Branches approacb. nearer than the middle set ; and, in front, in the two lowest spaces, the muscular fibres are continuous with those of the internal oblique of the abdomen. One surface is covered by the external muscle and by the intercostal vessels and nerve ; and the opposite surface is in contact with the pleura. Dissection.—To bring into view the triangularis sterni muscle and the internal mammary vessels, the cartilages of the true ribs, except the first and seventh, are to be taken away on the right side of the body;*^ but the two ribs mentioned are to be left untouched for the benefit of the dissectors of the abdomen and the head and neck. Small arteries to each intercostal space and the surface of the thorax, as well as the intercostal nerves, are to be preserved. The surface of the triangularis sterni will be made apparent, after the removal of the cartilages, by cleaning the loose tissue and fat from it. The TRIANGULARIS STERNI is a thin muscle inside the cavity of the thorax, and beneath the costal cartilages. It arises internally from the side of the xiphoid cartilage, from the side of the sternum as high as the third cartilage, and from the lower three or four true costal cartilages. Its fibres are directed outwards, the upper being most oblique, and are inserted by fleshy fasciculi into all the true ribs except the last two and the first, at the junction of the bone and car- tilage, and into an aponeurosis in the intercostal spaces. The muscle is covered by the ribs and the internal inter- costal muscles, and by the internal mammary vessels and the intercostal nerves. It lies on the pleura ; its lower fibres are continuous with those of the transversalis abdo- minis. The internal mammary artery is a branch of the subclavian (p. 74), and enters the thorax beneath the cartilage of the first rib. It is continued through the thorax, lying beneath the costal cartilages and about half an inch from the sternum, as far as the interval between the sixth and seventh ribs ; here it gives externally a large muscular branch (musculo- phrenic), and passing beneath the seventh rib, enters the sheath of the rectus muscle of the wall of the abdomen. In this course in the chest the artery lies on the pleura and the triangularis sterni, and is crossed by the intercostal nerves. It is accompanied by two veins, and by a chain of lymphatic glands. The following branches take origin in the thorax:— * On the left side the vessels and tlie muscle will have been destroyed by the injection of the body.