DISSECTION OF THE BEAm. 244 Two other lobes in valley; amygdaloid and fio cuius. Dissection. Position and structure of flocculus. Posterior medullary velum. Form and attach- ments. The two other lobes, thougli smaller, are more evident, and appear between the biventral lobe and the medulla oblongata :—One of these is the amygdaloid lohe (fig. 39, ^), which projects into the vallecula opposite the uvula, and touches the medulla oblongata. The other is a small pyra- midal slip, which is directed outwards over (the under surface of the cerebellum being uppermost) the crus cere- belli, and is named flocculus, or subpeduncular lobe (fig. 39, I), Dissection.—To see the flocculus and the posterior me- dullary velum, the biventral and slender lobes of the under surface are to be sliced off, on the left side, so that the amyg- daloid lobe may be everted from the valley. The flocculus is laid bare by this proceeding, and passing from it to the tip of the uvula is the thin white layer of the posterior velum ; beneath the lasfc a bit of paper may be inserted. The furrowed band on the side of the uvula can be fully seen now. Flocculus and medullary velum.—The position of the flocculus to the crus cerebelli, and in front of the biventral lobe, has been before mentioned. This body resembles the other lobes in structure ; and it may be considered a rudi- mentary lobe, for it is divided on the surface into laminae (fig. 39, T), and contains a white medullary centre, from which offsets are furnished to the laminse. Passing from the flocculus to the tip of the inferior vermi- form process (nodule) is the half of a thin white layer (fig. 39, x), the medullary 'velum (inferior or posterior), which serves as a commissure to the flocculi. On each side this band is semilunar in form. Its anterior edge is free, but its posterior border is attached in front of the transverse furrowed band. In front of the nodule the pieces of oppo- site sides are united, and form the membranous velum. Cerebellum is solid in- ternally. Dissection of laminae. of centre, Interior of the Cerebellum. —In the cerebellum there is not any cavity or ventricle enclosed as in the cerebrum. In the interior there is a large white centre, corresponding with that of the cerebrum, which furnishes offsets to the laminse, and to other parts of the encephalon. The space of the fourth ventricle is between the cerebellum and the me- dulla oblongata. Dissection.—For the purpose of seeing the structure of the laminae, an incision may be made across them on the upper surface of the left hemisphere. And the medullary centre, with its contained corpus den-