544 DISSECTION" OF THE ABDOMEK Section IV. ANATOMY OF THE VISCERA OF TFIE ABDOMEN. Definition. Separate and blow up the stomach. Form, direction, size, divisions. Left end and right. Cardiac and pyloric openings ; last has a valve. Surfaces rounded or fiat. Upper border; lower border. THE STOMACH. The stomach is the dilated part of the alimentary tube between the oesophagus and the small intestine, into which the masticated food is received to be changed into chyme. Dissection.—To see the form of the stomach this viscus must be blown up moderately, and the surface should be cleaned ; but previously let the student detach the spleen and cut through the duodenum near the pylorus. Form and Divisions. —The stomach is somewhat conical in form (fig. 84, s), with the base or wider part to the left, and the apex to the right side ; and it is directed obliquely across the abdomen. Its size varies much in difierent bodies, and is sometimes much diminished by a constriction in the centre. When it is moderately distended, it is about twelve inches long and four wide. The stomach presents for examination two ends, two orifices, two surfaces, and two borders or curves. Extremities.—The left end or tuberosity (fundus ventri- culi) is the largest part of the stomach, and projects about three inches to the left of the opening of the oesophagus. The right or pyloric end, much smaller than the other, is cylindrical, and forms the apex of the cone to which the stomach is likened. Openings.—The left opening (cardiac), which communi- cates with the oesophagus, is at the highest part of the stomach, and is funnel-shaped towards the cavity of the organ. The right or inferior orifice (pylorus) opens into the duodenum, and is guarded internally by a valve : at the same spot the stomach is slightly constricted externally, where a firm circular ring may be felt. Surfaces.—The surfaces are somewhat flattened when the stomach is empty, but rounded when it is distended. The parts in contact with the sides have been referred to (p. 516). Borders.—The upper border, or small curve of the stomach, is concave towards the left opening, but convex at the opposite end ; and the lower border, or large curve, is convex, except near the right end where it is concave :—