DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 464 layers of the triangular ligament and will be subsequently Central point: ■where mus- cles join. Erector penis. Origin. Insertion. Accelerator urinse. Origin at middle line. Insertion by three parts. Covers the urethra, and surrounds it as in a sling. Compressor of the bulb. Central point of the perinceum (fig. 70).—Between the urethra and the rectum is a white fibrous spot, to which this term has been applied. It occupies the middle line, being, as the name expresses, nearly in the centre of the perinseum. In it most of the muscles acting on the rectum and the urethra are united ; and it serves as a common point of support to the space. The ERECTOK, PENIS (fig. 70, c) is the most external of the three muscles, and is narrower at each end than in the middle. It covers the crus penis, and its fibres arise from the inner surface of the ischial tuberosity farther back than the attachment of that part of the penis, and from the bone on each side of the crus. Superiorly the muscle ends in an aponeurosis, and is inserted into the inner and outer surfaces of the crus penis. The muscle rests on the root of the penis and the bone. The ACCELERATOii URiN^ (fig. 70, 6) muscle lies on the urethra in the middle line of the perinseum. The muscles of opposite sides unite through the interposition of a median tendon ; and each is attached (its origin) to the tendon along the middle, and to the central point of the perinseum. The fibres are directed outwards, curving around the convexity of the urethra, and give rise to a thin muscle which has the following insertion:—The most pos- terior fibres are lost on the anterior surface of the triangular ligament. The anterior fibres, which are the longest and best marked, turn round the penis to be inserted on its outer aspect anterior to the erector; and, according to Kobelt,^^ they send a tendinous expansion over the dorsal vessels of the penis. Whilst the middle or intervening fibres turn round the urethra, passing between the spongy and cavernous bodies of the penis, and join by a tendon the muscle of the opposite side. The accelerator muscle covers the bulb and the urethra for two inches in front of the triangular ligament. If the muscle be cut through on the right side, and turned oflf the urethra, the junction with its fellow above that tube will be apparent. Some of the deeper fibres which immediately surround the bulb, have been described as a separate stratum by Kobelt. These are separated from the superficial layer by a thin * Die Mannliclien und WeibHclien Wollust-Organe, von Gr. L. Kobelt 1844.