THE DURA MATER. 11 directed likewise from behind forwards, so that the current Cun-ent of of the blood in them is evidently opposed to the current in the sinus. This disposition of the veins may be seen on the left side of the brain, where the parts are undisturbed. Dissection.—Before the rest of the dura mater can be Dissection seen, the brain must be taken from the body. To facilitate of brain, its removal, let the head incline backwards, whilst the shoulders are raised on a block, so that the brain may be separated somewhat from the base of the skull. Cut across now the anterior part of the falx cerebri, and the different cerebral veins entering the longitudinal sinus ; raise and throw backwards the falx, but leave it uncut behind, where it is connected with the rest of the dura mater. For the division of the nerves of the brain, a sharp scalpel will be necessary ; and the nerves are to be cut longer on the one side than on the other. Removal of the train.—Begin the removal of the brain Modeofpro- by gently raising with the fingers the anterior lobes and the partr<St^iif olfactory bulbs. Next cut through the internal carotid succession, artery and the second and third nerves, which first present themselves to the dissector ; the large second nerve is on the inner, and the round third nerve on the outer side of the artery. A small branch of artery to the orbit should likewise be divided at this time. The brain is now to be supported in the left hand, and the pituitary body to be dislodged with the knife from the hollow in the centre of the sphenoid bone. Afterwards a strong horizontal process of the dura mater (tentorium cerebelli) comes into view ; and along its free margin will be seen the small fourth nerve, which is to be cut at this stage of the proceeding. Next make an incision through the tentorium on each side, close to its attachment to the temporal bone, without injuring the parts underneath. The following nerves, which now appear, are to be divided in succession. Near the inner margin of the tentorium is the fifth nerve, consisting of a large and small root ; whilst towards the middle line of the skull is the long slender sixth nerve. Below the fifth, and some- what external to it, is the seventh nerve with its facial and auditory parts, the former being anterior and the smaller of the two. Directly below the seventh are the three trunks of the eighth nerve in one line :—of these, the upper small piece is the glosso-pharyngeal; the flat band next below, the pneumo-gastric ; and the long round nerve ascending from the spinal canal, the spinal accessory. The remaining nerve is the ninth, which consists of two small pieces. After