DISSECTIOISr OF THE ABDOMEK. 650 Compo- sition. Several kinds of Simple tubes as in the stomach, but not so close; their size, and contents. Solitary simple glands; size and situa- tion. Fig. 81.^'^ ■Closed sacs. Olands of Peyer ; size; situation; number; peculiari- ties. Eacli villus is an extension of the mucous coat, whicli contains a capillary network of arteries, usually a single vein, and absorbent vessels. The entire surface of each is invested with columnar epithelium. Glands. —In the glandular apparatus of the small intestine are included the crypts of Lieberkiihn, some solitary glands, and Peyer's and Brunner's glands. The crypts of LieherMthn (^g. 82) are minute simple tubes, similar to those in the stomach, though not so closely aggre- gated, which are found throughout the small intestine. They open on the surface of the mucous membrane by small orifices between the villi, and around the larger glands ; but at the opposite end they are closed, and project into the submucous layer. Their length is from ^V^h to -^-'q th of an inch, and their diameter is ^--J^th of an inch. They are filled with a fluid that contains granules, and are lined by a columnar epithelium. The solitary glands (fig. 81) are roundish white eminences, about the size of mustard seed if distended, which are scat- tered along the small intestine, but in greatest numbers in the jejunum. Placed on all parts of the intestine, and even on or between the valvulse conniventes, these bodies are covered by the villi of the mucous membrane, and have at their circumference the apertures of the crypts of Lieberkiihn. The glands are small sacs, which con- tain an opaque whitish granular fluid, but are not provided with an aperture into the intestine. The glands of Peyer (glandulae agminatse) are found chiefly in the ileum (fig. 82), in the form of oval patches, which measure from half an inch to two inches or more in length, and about half an inch in width. The groups of glands are situate on the part of the intestine opposite to the attach- ment of the mesentery, and their direction is longitudinal in the gut. Usually they are from twenty *to thirty in number. In the lower part of the ileum the patches are largest and most numerous ; but they decrease in number and size upwards from that spot, till at the lower part of the jejunum they become irregular in form, and may con- sist only of small roundish masses. ^ A solitary gland of the small intestine enlarged, crypts of Lieberkiihn are also represented (Boehm). The villi and