433 FIFTH LAYER OF MUSCLES. * h. The external branches supply the erector spinse, and outer some are continued onwards to the integuments with the superficial nerves. Veins.—With the deep cervical artery is a large vein, Veiiis ve7ia profunda 'cerviciSy which communicates with the occi- 'c^vtcai^ pital and other deep veins in this region, forming the pos- terior plexus of the neck ; and then passes forwards between the transverse processes with its companion artery to join the vertebral vein. The occipital vein lies with its artery, and communicates occipital, sometimes with the lateral sinus of the skull through the mastoid foramen. The dorsal and lumbar veins correspond in their branching dorsal and and distribution with the arteries they accompany, and end lumbar, in the intercostal veins. In contact with the spinous processes and plates of the and deep vertebrae is a deeper set of veins (dorsi spinal), which anas- tomose freely together, and enter the veins in the interior of the spinal canal. Dissection of the fifth layer. —Most of the remaining fifth Dissection layer of muscles of the back are uncovered by the previous i^ayer*^of^^^ dissection. Thus, between the first two vertebrse and the muscles, occipital bone lie the small straight and oblique muscles. * In the cervical and dorsal regions the semispinalis muscle will be seen, with the small interspinal muscles internal to it; and occupying a corresponding position in the loins is the multifidus spinse. The small intertransverse muscles of the lumbar region will be found by cutting through the erector spinse. Fifth Layer.—In this layer are the following small Muscles of muscles ;—the recti and obliqui, the semispinales, inter- layer, spinales, multifidus spinse, and intertransversales. The RECTUS CAPITIS POSTICUS MAJOR is the largest of the Rectus capi- three muscles between the occipital bone and the first two ^^i^^^ > vertebrae. It arises from the side of the spine of the second ^xirand vertebra, and is inserted into the outer part of the inferior occipital curved line of the occipital bone for about an inch, as well as into the surface below it. Its upper attachment is beneath the superior oblique muscle. This muscle is directed outwards Direction, very obliquely, and forms one side of the triangular space which contains the suboccipital nerve. The RECTUS CAPITIS POSTICUS MINOR is internal to the Rectus capi- preceding, and is much smaller than it. Arising from the neural arch of the atlas, the muscle ascends to be inserted, passes from close to the middle line, into the inferior curved ridge of the ^^J.^^ ^011^^"