267 AXILLAEY ARTEEY. After the costo-coracoid membrane has been examined, the Clean the remains of it are to be taken away ; and the upper part of the axillary vessels and nerves, with their branches, should be carefully cleaned. The suBCLAVius muscle (Fig. 72, ^) is roundish in form, and Subciavius is placed between the clavicle and the first rib. It arises by a tendon from the first rib, at the junction of the osseous and cartilaginous parts, and in front of the costo-clavicular ligament. The fibres ascend obliquely, and are mserted into is attached a groove on the under surface of the clavicle, which reaches f^^^^}^.. ° . ' and first no. between the two tubercles (internal and external) for the attachment of the costo and coraco-clavicular ligaments. The muscle overhangs the large vessels and nerves of the limb, and is enclosed, as before said, in a sheath of fascia. The AXILLARY AETERY (fig. 44) is the continuation of the Axillary subclavian trunk to the upper limb. The part of the vessel ^^^^^^ ^® to which this name is applied, is contained in the axilla, and extends from the lower border of the first rib to the lower border of the teres major muscle. In its course through the axillary space, its direction will depend upon the position of the limb to the trunk ; for when the arm arched in lies by the side of the body the vessel is curved, its con- axilla. vexity being upwards ; and in proportion as the limb is removed to a right angle with the chest the artery becomes straight. In the upper part of the axilla the vessel is The depth deeply placed, but it becomes superficial as it approaches the arm. Its connections wdth surrounding parts are numerous ; Has foilow- and the description of these will be methodised by dividing tions°— the artery into three parts—one above, one beneath, and one below the small pectoral muscle. Above the small pectoral muscle the artery is contained in above small the axillary sheath of membrane. On its thoracic side is muscle, the axillary vein ; and on its acromial side lies the brachial plexus, but the cords of the nerves are separated from it by a slight interval. In this part it is covered by the clavicular portion of the great pectoral muscle, and is crossed by the cephalic vein. Behind it are the intercostal muscles of the first space and the first digitation of the serratus magnus muscle, together with a small nerve to the serratus. Beneath the pectoralis the artery is surrounded by the beneath the large cords of the brachial plexus, and is thus separated ' from the surrounding muscles, and from the vein which is still to the inner side. Superficial to the vessel is the pec- toralis minor, with part of the pectoralis major. But there