SCIATIC NERVES. 723 The muscle presents a thick fleshy belly inferiorly, where it bounds the popliteal space. On it is the semitendinosus, which is lodged in a hollow in the upper tendon ; and Parts beneath it is the adductor magnus. Along the outer border is ^^'^"^^ the great sciatic nerve ; and below the place of division of that nerve, is the internal popliteal trunk. Between its tendon and the inner head of the gastrocnemius is a large bursa. The insertion of the muscle will be dissected with the tendons in connection with the knee joint. The GREAT SCIATIC NERVE lies on the adductor magnus Great between the buttock and the popliteal space, and divides into "^^^ the two popliteal nerves about the middle of the thigh, thigii though its point of bifurcation may be carried upwards as far as the pelvis. In this extent the nerve lies along the outer border of the semimembranosus, and is crossed by the long head of the biceps. Branches.—At the upper part of the thigh it supplies supplies branches to the flexor muscles and the adductor magnus. adductor Small sciatic nerve.—Between the gluteus maximus muscles, and the ham this small nerve is close beneath the fascia, but ^^^}} . ' sciatic in it becomes cutaneous below the knee, and accompanies the the tMgh; external saphenous vein for a short distance. Small cutaneous filaments pierce the fascia of the thigh, cutaneous and the largest of these is near the popliteal space. offsets. Dissection. —To see the posterior surface of the adductor Detach the magnus, and the branches of the perforating arteries, the g^^j^^^'g-g hamstring muscles must be detached from the hip bone and thrown down, and the branches of arteries and nerves they receive may be cut through if it is necessary. The parts referred to are to be cleaned. Adductor magnus muscle.—At its posterior aspect the Posterior large adductor is altogether fleshy, even to the opening for addu^ctor^ the femoral artery; and the fibres from the pubic arch magnus. appear to form a part almost distinct from those connected with the tuberosity of the hip bone. In contact with this surface are the hamstring muscles and the great sciatic nerve. Ending of the perforating arteries. —These arteries are Number of four in number, and the spots at which they pierce the adductor muscles have been referred to before (p. 701). On the back of the thigh all of them supply ofisets to the Muscles flexor muscles of the knee, and end in the vastus externus. end^n^vas- The lowest three are directed outwards to the vastus close to exter- the bone, and usually through the short head of the biceps, though the second perforating artery may run higher up than the attachment of the head of the biceps. 3 A 2