DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 720 Popliteal Peculiarities in the division of the artery.—The cMef peculiarity artery may of the popliteal artery consists in its early division into terminal divide soon, "branches. In some bodies the artery will be found divided as high as the back of the knee joint; and in such instances the anterior tibial artery may lie beneath the popliteus muscle. Vein may Course and ]30sition of the vein.—Occasionally the vein will be leave the placed on the inner instead of the outer side of the artery. And the popliteal vein may pass through the adductor magnus at a spot higher than the common opening, and enter the profunda vein, or be split. Double vein.—There may be a venous trunk on each side of the artery for a certain distance, in consequence of the venae comites of the tibial arteries not blending together as soon as is usually the case. Popliteal nerves are two, inner and outer. The inter- nal nerve in the space. Branches are tvv^o or three articular; muscular: external saphenous nerve. External popUteal nerve. The POPLITEAL NERVES are the two large trunks derived from the division of the great sciatic in the thigh ; they are named internal and external from their relative position. In the popliteal space each furnishes cutaneous and articular offsets, but only the inner one supplies branches to muscles. The INTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE (fig. 104, ^) is larger than the external, and occupies the middle of the ham. Its connections are the same as those of the artery, that is to say, it is partly superficial and partly covered by the gastro- cnemius. Like the vessel it extends through the back of the leg, and retains the name popliteal only to the lower border of the popliteus muscle. Its position with reference to the vessels has been already noticed. The branches that arise from it here are the following :— Two or three small articular twigs are furnished to the knee joint with the vessels. One with the lower internal articular artery is of considerable size ; and another takes the same course as the azygos artery. Occasionally a third may be found with the upper internal articular artery. Muscular branches arise from the nerve between the heads of the gastrocnemius. One supplies both heads of the gas- trocnemius and the plantaris. Another descends beneath the gastrocnemius and enters the cutaneous surface of the soleus. And a third penetrates the popliteus at the under aspect, after turning round the lower border. The external saphenous nerve (ram. communicans tibialis) is the largest branch, and is a cutaneous offset to the leg and foot. It lies on the surface of the gastrocnemius, but beneath the fascia as far as the middle of the leg, where it becomes cutaneous, and will be afterwards seen (p. 727). The EXTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE (peroneal) lies along the outer boundary of the ham (fig. 104, ^) and follows the biceps muscle to the head of the fibula. Below the head of