368 DISSECTION" OF THE THORAX. position; form; is guarded by the tri- cuspid valve. Tricuspid valve; how formed; divisions; attachment to tendinous cords. Its use. Mouth of pulmonary artery; position ; has three semilunar valves: costal cartilages: it is slightly larger tlian the corresponding aperture of the left side of the heart. It is oval from side to side, and its shape is maintained by a strong fibrous band that surrounds it. Prolonged from the circumference of the opening is a thin membranous valve, which projects into the cavity of the ventricle. Near its attachment to the heart the valve is undivided, but it is serrated, or divided into three chief points at its lower margin, and is named tricus- pid ; to this margin are attached small tendinous cords (chordae tendinese), which unite it to the muscular bundles of the ventricle. The tricuspid valve is constructed by the lining membrane of the heart, which encloses some muscular fibres, as well as fibrous tissue. Its three slips or tongues are thus placed :— One is next the front of the ventricle ; another is in contact with the posterior wall ; and the remaining part, the largest and most moveable, is interposed between the apertures into the auricle and pulmonary artery. The central part of each tongue is strong, whilst the edges are thin and notched ; and between the primary divisions there are sometimes secondary points (Kiirschner). The tendinous cords that keep the valve in position ascend from the musculi papillares in the intervals between the pieces of the valve, and are connected with each segment. They end on the surface of the valve turned away from the opening in three difierent ways ; some reach the attached upper margin of the valve ; others enter its central thickened part; and the rest, which are much finer, end in the thin point and edge of the tongue of the valve. During the contraction of the ventricle the valve is raised by the blood, so as to close the opening into the auricle, but the farther protrusion of it into the latter cavity is arrested by the small tendinous cords. The mouth of the pulmonary artery will be seen when the incision in the anterior wall of the ventricle is prolonged upwards into it. It is situate on the left of the opening into the auricle, and is opposite the upper border of the third costal cartilage of the left side, close to the sternum. Into it the funnel-shaped part of the right ventricle or the infundibulum is prolonged, and in its interior are three ^ The papillary muscles are collected into two principal groups, whose tendons enter the interval on each side of the right or anterior tongue of the valve. In the interval between the left and posterior segments of the valve the tendinous cords are very small, and are con- nected with the septum.