108 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. number, and are distributed cliiefly to the surfaces of the lip, though they supply as well the labial glands and the muscles. Infraorbital The infraorbital artery is one of the terminal branches of artery ^-^^ internal maxillary artery in the spheno-maxillary fossa, and accompanies the superior maxillary nerve. Taking the course of the nerve through the infraorbital canal, the vessel appears in the face beneath the elevator muscle of the upper lip ; and ends in branches, which are distributed, like those of the nerve, to the parts between the eye and mouth. In ends in the face its branches anastomose with the facial and buccal face: , arteries. has a branch a. In the canal in the upper maxilla this artery furnishes branches to the orbit, and one to h. Another branch, anterior dental, runs with the nerve teetT^^ of the same name, and supplies the incisor and canine teeth. This gives offsets to the antrum of the maxilla, and near the teeth it anastomoses with the posterior dental artery. Infraorbital The vein, accompanying the artery, communicates in front with the facial vein ; and behind, with a plexus of veins corresponding with the offsets of the internal maxillary artery in the spheno-maxillary fossa. vein. Section IX. DEEP VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE NECK. Parts in this In this Section are included the deepest styloid muscle, the section. internal carotid and ascending pharyngeal arteries, and the eighth, ninth, and sympathetic nerves. Position. Fosition.—The position of the part is to remain as before, viz. the neck is to be fixed over a small block. Dissection Dissection.—To see the remaining styloid muscle, the pharyngeus. posterior belly of the digastric, and the stylo-hyoid muscle should be detached from their origin and thrown down. At this stage, a filament of the facial nerve may be sometimes seen to perforate the digastric muscle, and join the glosso- pharyngeal nerve beneath. The trunk of the external carotid artery is to be removed by cutting it through where the hypoglossal nerve crosses it, and by dividing those branches that have been already examined, as well as, if it is Glosso- necessary, the veins accompanying the arteries. In cleaning nerTZ"^^^^ the surface of the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, the glosso-pha-