DISSECTIOlsr OF THE BEAIN. 224 is gray out- side and white within. Its struc- ture. Sulci. The deepest where found. Externally it consists of gray cerebral substance as a cortical layer, which is continued from one eminence to another over the surface of the hemisphere ; and internally it is com- posed of white brain substance—its medullary part, which is derived from the fibrous mass in the interior. On a closer examination the cortical layer is found to be composed of three strata:—an outer white stratum, an inner reddish-yellow one, and an intervening gray lamina. The outer white stratum differs in development in different parts of the brain, and is most marked over the hinder and lower portions of the convolution of the corpus callosum, where it is pierced by minute holes. The inner stratum equals in thickness the other two, and has on its external surface also a thin white lamina, so that white and gray laminae will alternate with one another in the gray matter of the convolutions. The sulci, or the intervals between the convolutions, vary in size in different parts of the brain ; they are deepest generally on the outer aspect of the hemisphere, where they measure about an inch. There is one of considerable depth on the inner surface of the hemisphere, on a level with the corpus callosum, which projects inwards beneath an eminence (hippocampus minor) in the floor of the lateral ventricle. From it another sulcus is directed vertically upwards to the convex part of the hemisphere. Compo- sition. Outline of hemi- sphere. Centrum Interior of the Cerebrum.—When viewed from the outer surface, the cerebrum appears like a twisted tube, but when a cut has been made into it, it will be found to be solid, with a convoluted crust or exterior. Each half of the cerebrum consists of a stalk or peduncle, and of a dilated part or hemisphere. Connected with the base of the foot stalk, Avhere it joins the hemisphere, are certain central or fundamental bodies ; and in the interior are some connecting pieces joining together distant parts of the brain. In the middle is a large central space, which is subdivided into smaller hollows or ventricles by the before- mentioned connecting pieces. And the whole, except the peduncle, is surrounded by a convoluted crust. In conducting the dissection of the cerebrum, the student will have to learn the form and situation of the several constituent parts, and afterwards to trace the connections between these by means of fibres. Hemisphere above the ventricles.—In the right hemisphere,