STRUCTURE OF THE CORD. 449 ing :—The anterior, c, reaches from the anterior roots of the nerves to the median fissure in front. The lateral column, b, is limited before and behind by the roots of the nerves. The posterior, with its small segment, is placed between the posterior roots and the median fissure behind. Structure of the Cord.—A horizontal section of the Cord con- medulla shows more distinctly its division into halves, with aiid^whUe^"^ the commissural or connecting piece between them. The matter, same cut demonstrates the existence of a mass of gray matter in the interior, which is arranged in the form of two crescents (one in each half of the cord) united by a cross piece (Fig. 68), and is surrounded by white substance. The commissure consists of two parts, viz. a transverse The com- band of gray matter, and a white stratum in front. missme. a. The gray transverse band (Fig. 68, e), or the gray Structure of commissure, which connects the opposite crescents, consists ^^^^ * of nerve cells, and of transverse nerve fibres derived from the halves of the cord and the roots of the nerves. In its centre is the shrunken canal of the spinal cord (Fig. 69, which is fully developed in the fetus about the sixth month. A cross section of the cord shows the canal as a round spot, canal It is lined by a columnar epithelium (cihated, KoUiker), lined by the and is obstructed by a granular material near the floor epitteimm; of the fourth ventricle (Clarke). h. The anterior white piece of the commissure is formed ^^j^^Q^p^rt partly by fibres of the anterior column ; and partly by fibrils of the anterior roots of the nerves, which here decussate as they cross from the one half to the other. It is best marked opposite the enlargements on the cord, and least developed in the dorsal region. The half of the medulla. —In the half of the cord as in The half of the commissure, gray and white portions exist; the former c^^'^- is elongated from before back, being crescentic in shape as before said, and is quite surrounded by the latter. a. The graij crescent has the same general structure as the The cres- commissural piece, and is semilunar in shape, with the horns of the crescent directed towards the roots of the nerves, and the convexity to the middle line (Fig. 68). The crescentic masses in opposite halves of the cord are united by the gray commissure. The posterior extremity or cornu is long and slender posterior (Fig. 69, ^), and reaches to the fissure along the attachment co^^^"- of the posterior roots (Fig 6T, ^). At its extremity, where it * A posterior white layer or commissure is described by some anato- mists.