DISSECTIOISr OF THE LEG. 752 Extensor longus arises from fibula; inserted into four outer toes. Arrange- ment of the tendons on the toes. Connections of the mus- cle. Peroneus tertius. Origin. Insertion. Anterior tibial artery ; course and extent. muscle as low as the sheath in the ligament, but afterwards to the outer side of its tendon, so that they are crossed by- it beneath the ligament. The EXTENSOR LONGUS DiGiTORUM (fig. 109), like the tibial muscle, is fleshy in the leg and tendinous on the foot. Its origin is from the external tuberosity of the tibia ; from the head and three-fourths of the narrow surface of the fibula; from a small part (about an inch above) of the interosseous membrane ; and from the fascia of the leg and the inter- muscular septum on each side. The tendon enters its sheath in the annular ligament with the peroneus tertius, and divides into four pieces. Below the ligament these tendons are continued to the four outer toes, and are inserted inta the middle and ungual phalanges. On the phalanges of the toes the tendons have the same arrangement as in the hand. For on the metatarsal phalanx, the tendons of the long and short extensor join with pro- longations from the interossei and lumbricales to form a mem- branous expansion. At the further end of this phalanx the expansion is divided into three parts—a central and two lateral; the central piece is inserted into the base of the middle phalanx, while the lateral unite at the front of that bone, and are fixed into the ungual phalanx. In the leg the muscle is placed between the peroneus on the one side, and the tibialis anticus and extensor proprius poUicis on the other. It lies on the fibula, and on the lower end of the tibia and the ankle joint. On the foot the ten- dons rest on the extensor brevis digitorum ; and the vessels and nerve of this part are internal to them. The peroneus tertius is situate below the extensor longus digitorum, from which it is seldom separate at its origin. It arises from the lower fourth of the surface of the fibula, from the lower end of the interosseous ligament, and from the intermuscular septum between it and the peroneal mus- cles. And it is inserted by a tendon into the upper surface of the metatarsal bone of the little toe near the tarsal end. This muscle has the same connections in the leg as the lower part of the long extensor, and is contained in the same space in the annular ligament. The ANTERiOE, TIBIAL ARTERY extends from the bifurcation of the popliteal trunk to the front of the ankle joint. At this spot it loses the name tibial, and is called the dorsal artery of the foot. The course of the artery is forwards through the aperture in the upper part of the interosseous membrane, and then along the front of that membrane and