DISSECTION" OF THE UPPER LIMB. 268 and beyond the muscle. Position of nerves and vein to it. Branches are supplied to the tho- rax and the shoulder. Upper thoracic. Acromial thoracic is large, and supplies thorax and shoulder. Inferior acromial is not any muscle immediately in contact with it beliind, for the artery is placed across the top of the axillary space, particularly when the limb is in the position required by the dissection. Beyond the pectoralis minor the artery is concealed in part by the lower border of the great pectoral muscle, but thence to its termination it is covered only by the integu- ments and the fascia. Beneath it are the subscapularis muscle and the tendons of the latissimus and teres. To the outer side is the coraco-brachialis muscle. Here the artery lies in the midst of the large trunks of nerves into which the brachial plexus has been resolved :—On the outer side is the median nerve, with the external cutaneous for a short distance ; and on the inner side are the ulnar, some- times the internal cutaneous, and the nerve of Wrisberg. Behind are the musculo-spiral and circumflex nerves, the latter extending only as far as the border of the subscapular muscle. The axillary vein remains as above on the thoracic side of the artery. The branches of the axillary artery are furnished to the wall of the thorax and to the shoulder. The thoracic branches are four in number ; two of these (superior and acromial thoracic) arise from the artery above the pectoralis minor, one (alar thoracic) beneath the muscle, and one (long thoracic) at its lower border. Three branches are supplied to the shoulder, viz., one subscapular and two cir- cumflex ; the first springs opposite the edge of the muscle of the same name, and the others wind round the neck of the humerus. 1. The superior thoracic branch is the highest offset of the artery, and arises opposite the first intercostal space ; it is very small generally, and ramifies on the side of the chest anastomosing with the intercostal arteries. 2. The acromial thoracic branch (fig. 44) is a short trunk on the front of the artery, which appears at the upper border of the pectoralis minor, and opposite the interval between the large pectoral and deltoid muscles. Its branches are directed inwards to the two pectoral, and outwards to the deltoid muscle. a. The inner or thoracic set, besides supplying the thoracic muscles, give a few ofisets to the side of the chest, which anastomose with the intercostal and other thoracic arteries. h. The outer or acromial set end mostly in the deltoid ; but one small artery which is derived from them accompanies