DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL COED. 452 some fibres vesicular and lateral column: by other fibres, the gray commissure. the cres- cent, and lateral column. 3 of the spinal canal. Source of the intra- spinal arteries. Distribution to the verte- brae and the cord by loops; and a cen- tral vessel. Intraspina veins are Anterior longitudinal cular column (fig. 69, some fibres enclosing, and others interlacing in the part called cylinder ; whilst the rest escape into the lateral column of the cord, becoming longitudinal. The second bundle proceeds to the vesicular column along the inner side of the cornu. Some of its fibres interlace in the column. Others sweep round the outer side and are prolonged forwards into the crescent and the inter- mediate tract, as well as into the transverse commissure behind the central canal. Before the bundle reaches the vesicular column, a few fibres are reflected to the gelatinous substance, and escape into the lateral column of the cord. Intraspinal Vessels.—Arteries supply the cord and its membranes in the interior of the spinal canal, and the bodies of the vertebrse. The veins form a remarkable plexus within the canal, but this will not be seen unless the veins have been specially injected. The intraspinal arteries are derived from the vessels along the sides and front of the spinal column, viz. from the vertebral and ascending cervical in the neck, from the inter costal in the back, and from the lumbar and lateral sacral below. They are distributed after the following plan :— As each artery enters the spinal canal by the interver tebral foramen, it divides into two branches, upper and lower. From the point of division the branches are directed, one upwards and the other downwards, behind the bodies of the two contiguous vertebrse, but outside the edge of the posterior common ligament, and join in anastomotic loops with offsets of the intraspinal artery above and below. And from the loops extending from one intervertebral foramen to another, offsets are furnished to the periosteum and the bodies of the vertebrse on their posterior surface, as well as anastomotic twigs to connect the arches across the vertebrse. Besides forming loops, the intraspinal vessels produce a central longitudinal artery, like that on the front of the spinal cord, which lies on the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrse, and is reinforced at intervals by offsets from the loops. The intraspinal mins consist of two anterior longitudinal vessels, which extend the whole length of the spinal canal behind the bodies of the vertebrse ; of veins from the bodies of the vertebrse ; and of a plexus of veins beneath the neural arches of the vertebrse. The anterior longitudinal veins are close to the bodies of the vertebrse, one on each side of the posterior common