585 PILLAES OF THE DIAPHRAGM. and a second interval exists sometimes between the fibres from the last rib, and those from the arch over the quad- ratus himborum muscle. In the diaphragm are certain apertures for the transmission of parts from the thorax to the abdomen, viz., one for the oesophagus, another for the vena cava, and a third for the aorta between the pillars of the muscle and the spinal column : moreover, the pillars are perforated by the splanchnic nerves. The muscle is curved across the interthoracic space, being Arch, convex towards the chest, and concave to the abdomen ; and the arch reaches higher on the right than the left side (p. 352). The height of the arch is constantly varying Height in during life with the change in the condition of the diaphragm expiration in respiration. In forced expiration the muscle ascends and reaches the upper border of the fourth rib on the right, and the fifth rib on the left side. In forced inspiration it JaUo^^^^" descends, and its slope would be represented by a line drawn from the ensiform cartilage towards the tenth rib. The following parts, which have been mentioned only Special incidentally in describing the diaphragm, are now to be examined^^ noticed more fully ; they are the central tendon, the pillars, the arches, and the apertures. The central tendon (tendo diaphragmatis, cordiform ten- Central don), occupying the middle of the diaphragm (fig. 90), is surrounded by muscular fibres, and the large vena cava pierces it. It is of a pearly white colour, and its tendinous fibres cross in difierent planes and difi'erent directions. In like a tre- form it resembles a trefoil leaf ; of its three segments the right one (') is the largest, whilst the left is the smallest. The pillars (crura, appendices) are two large muscular and Two pillars^ tendinous processes (fig. 89, ^' ^"),- one on each side of the abdominal aorta. They are pointed and tendinous below, with certain where they are attached to the upper lumbar vertebree, but fiances large and fleshy above; and between them is a tendinous arch over the aorta. In each pillar the fleshy fibres pass upwards Arrange- and forwards, diverging from each other ; and the greater ^^^^es il number join the central tendon without intermixing. But each, the internal fibres of the opposite sides cross one another in the following manner :—Those of the right side for instance as thej^ (^) ascend by the side of the aorta, and pass to the left of tJeTendou. the middle line, decussating with their fellows between that vessel and the opening of the oesophagus ; having changed sides, the fibres are directed upwards to the central tendon around the oesophagean opening, which they limit on the left. The fibres of the other crus (^") may be traced in the