DEEP MUSCLES OF URETHRA. the membranous part of the urethra. And below the urethra are the glands of Cowper. Beneath the bone (pubic arch) are the pudic vessels and nerve, the former giving its branch to the bulb ; and below the pubes is the subpubic ligament. Deeper than all, the student will be able to recognise the posterior layer of the ligament, continuous with the pelvic fascia, Avliich separates these parts from the cavity of the pelvis. Muscles.—The muscles between the layers of the tri- Muscles of angular ligament, which are connected with the membranous part of the urethra, are two in number, viz. a deep trans- verse muscle, and a constrictor of the urethral passage. The DEEP TKANSVERSE musclc of the perinseum (elevator Deep trans- urethrae, Santorini) is a thin flat band, on a level with the base of the triangular ligament. It arises externally from Origin, the pubic arch of the innominate bone, and is directed inwards below the tip of the bulb and the membranous part of the urethra to the middle line, where it joins (sometimes Termina- by a tendon) the muscle of the opposite side, and is inserted into the central point of the perinseum. The muscle conceals Cowper's gland, and is frequently placed over the artery of the bulb. The transverse muscle is not always separate from the following. The CONSTRICTOIl MUSCLE (constrictor isthmi Urethralis) Constrictor encloses the membranous part of the urethra (fig. 71). It passage.'^''^ consists of transverse fibres, both above and below the urethral tube, which are connected on each side to the pubic arch. The muscle dfises by aponeurotic fibres from the pubic Transverse arch above the precedinsf, but this attachment is not evident P^^* arises , irom. pubic unless the muscle has been dissected from behind. From arch, this origin the fibres pass inwards, and separate near the urethra into two layers, of which one (Fig. 71, ') passes and ends in over, the other (8) under that canal; in the middle line they unite, sometimes by tendinous bands, with the like parts of the muscle of the opposite side. It may be described as a single muscle extending across over and the perinaeum from one lateral attachment to the other, and urethra, enclosing the tube of the urethra, like the sphincter ani encircles the rectum."^ * Further information respecting this muscle may be obtained in the Septemdecim Tabulae of Santorini; in a Paper by Mr. James Wilson, in the first volume of the Med. Chirur. Transactions; in the Work of Mr. Guthrie, On the Anatomy and Diseases of the Neck of the Bladder and Urethra; and in the Treatise of J. Miiller, Ueber die Organischen Kerven der erectilen Mannhchen Geschlechts-Organe, &c. H H 2