DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 38 And one muscle at back of con- cha. Clean the cartilage. Cartilage forms only- part of ex- ternal ear. Deficient in^ feriorly and at upper part Its fissures. Ligaments : external; special. The transverse muscle of the auricle (fig. 5, ^) is found at the back of the ear, in the depression between the antihelix and the convexity of the surface. It arises from the con- vexity of the cartilage that forms the concha, and is inserted into the back of the antihelix. The muscle is mixed with much fibrous tissue, but it is well seen when this is removed. Dissection.—The pinna may now be detached by cutting it as close as possible to the bone. "When the integuments are entirely taken off, the cartilage of the pinna will be apparent; but in removing the integuments, the lobule of the ear, which consists only of skin and fat, will disappear. The cartilage of the pinna resembles much the external ear in form, and presents for notice nearly the same parts. The rim of the helix, however, subsides posteriorly in the antihelix about the middle of the pinna ; whilst anteriorly a small piece projects from it, and a fissure will be found near that projection. The antihelix is divided posteriorly into two pieces ; one of these is pointed, and is joined by the helix, the other is continued into the antitragus. Infe- riorly the cartilage is fixed to the margin of the external auditory aperture in the temporal bone, and forms the outer part of the meatus auditorius, but it does not give rise to a complete tube, for the upper and posterior part of that canal is closed by fibrous tissue. On the posterior aspect of the concha is a strong vertical process of cartilage. In the piece of cartilage that forms the under part of the meatus are two fissures (Santorini), one is at the base of the tragus, the other passes from before backwards. Ligaments connect the pinna with the head, but others pass from one point of the cartilage to another. The external ligaments are the condensed bands of fibrous tissue that extend between the same points as the external muscles (p. 2), though commonly only an anterior and posterior are described. The chief special ligament crosses the interval between the tragus and the beginning of the helix, and completes the tube of the meatus. Outline of The FACIAL NERVE (portio dura) is a part of the seventh facial nerve, cranial nerve, and confers motor power on the muscles of the face. Numerous communications take place between it and the fifth nerve, and the chief of these are found above and below the orbit, and over, the side of the lower jaw. Dissection of Dissection,—The facial nerve is to be displayed on the right side of the face if there is time sufficient before the