354 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Outer sur- face. Inner sur- face. Disposition in thorax. Difference in sac of right and left side. The con- tinuity is here traced over the lung and above it. Alonpr mid- dle of chest the sacs form a par- tition. Fart of sep- into the neck above the first rib, and whose base is in contact with the diaphragm. Its outer surface is rough, and is connected to the lung and the wall of the chest by areolar tissue, but its inner surface is smooth and secerning. Sur- rounding the lung, and lining the interior of one half of the cavity, the serous membrane consists of a parietal part or the pleura costalis, and of a visceral part, the pleura pulmonalis. The bags of the pleurae approach one another in the middle line, as before said, and form a partition called mediastinum between the two sides of the cavity of the chest. There are some differences in the shape and the extent of the two pleural bags. On the right side the bag is wider and shorter than on the left; and on the latter it is narrowed by the projection of the heart to the left side. The continuity of the bag of the pleura over the lung, and along the wall of the chest, may be traced circularly from a given-point to the same, in the following manner :— Supposing the membrane to be followed outwards from the sternum, it may be traced on the walls of the chest as far as the spinal column ; here it is directed forwards to the root of the lung, and is reflected over the lung, covering its surface, and connecting together its different lobules. From the front of the root the pleura may be seen to course over the side of the pericardium to the sternum. Below the root the pleura gives rise to a thin fold, the ligamentum latum pv2monis, which intervenes between the inner surface of the lung and the side of the pericardium. If the serous sac be traced above the root of the lung, it will be found to describe a circle without deflection over the viscus. The mediastinum.—The median thoracic partition, or the mediastinum, is formed by the approximation of the pleural bags along the middle line, and is constructed of two mem- branes,—one being derived from each sac. But the two strata do not approach equally near throughout; for about midway between the sternum and the spine they are widely separated from one another by the heart. In front of the heart and behind it, however, the contiguous strata of the mediastinum may be distinctly seen near one another ; and to the parts before and behind that viscus the terms anterior and posterior mediastinal are sometimes applied, but it should not be forgotten that they are only portions of one great mediastinum or septum reaching from the sternum to the spine. The part in front of the heart (anterior mediastinum)