VISCERAL OR PELVIC PLEXUSES. 629 nerve, but the white one is continued over the ganglion to the plexuses for the viscera.* The internal branches are smaller than those of the other to the hpyo- parts of the cord, and communicate in front of the sacrum, pi^l^^g^j^^ and around the middle sacral artery, with branches from the the viscera, opposite side. From the first, or first two ganglia, some filaments are furnished to the hypogastric plexus ; and from the terminal connecting branches and the ganglion impar, in front of the coccyx, ofisets descend over that bone. The VISCERAL or pelvic plexuses (lateral inferior hypo- piexuses of gastric) are two in number, right and left, and are continuous with the lateral prolongations of the hypogastric plexus (p. 531). Each is situate by the side of the bladder and situation ; the rectum, or by the side of the vagina in the female, and how formed, is united with offsets from the third and fourth sacral nerves to constitute the above-named plexus. Numerous ganglia are found in the plexus, especially at the points of union of the spinal and sympathetic nerves. •From each plexus offsets are furnished to the Offsets to viscera of the pelvis, and to the genital organs, along the of the^maie branches of the internal iliac artery. These different viz.,— secondary plexuses have the same name as the vessels on which they are placed ; but as they may not be seen in the dissection, a mere enumeration of them will be sufficient. The inferior hcemorrJioidal plexus is an offset to the rectum to the from the back of the plexus, and joins the sympathetic on ^^^^^"^' the superior haemorrhoidal artery. The vesical plexus contains large offsets, with many white to the fibred or spinal nerves, and passes forwards to the side and ^^^^^^^ > lower part of the bladder. It gives one plexus to the vesi- cula seminalis, and another to the vas deferens. The prostatic plexus leaves the lower part of the pelvic to the pros- plexus and is distributed to the substance of the prostate tht^^ gland. At the front of the prostate an offset (cavernous) penis, is continued onwards to the dorsum of the penis, to supply the cavernous structure. On the penis the cavernous nerves join the pudic nerve. In the female there are the following additional plexuses Offsets in for the supply of the viscera peculiar to that sex :— the female : Ovarian plexus.—The principal nerves to the ovary are to the derived from the renal and aortic plexuses, and accompany the artery to that body ; but the uterine nerves supply also some filaments to it. * See a Paper on the "Nerves of the LTterus," by Dr. T. S. Beck, in the "Philosophical Transactions" for 1846,