DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 782 with inter- vals be- tween. Its tissue continued into that of the sclerotic, Fig. 118.^ •characters; attachment at margin; has an epi- thelium. This structure possesses great toughness; and its trans- parency depends upon the parallelism of the different strata, and their distance from one another being duly maintained, for if they are disarranged by compression or other means, the translucency is destroyed. The laminae of the cornea are formed of fibrous tissue, continuous with that of the sclerotic coat, and containing ramified nu- cleated corpuscles, but here flat- tened into membranous layers, and arranged one over another. The tissue when boiled gives chondrin. The membrane at the back of the cornea (fig. 118)—membrane of IJemours—consists of a basement layer (posterior elastic lamina, Bowman) covered by epithelium. The posterior elastic layer (d) may be peeled off after a cut has been made across the cornea. It is a thin, but dense and hard mem- brane, -n-Q^^j-Qth to -^^'^^th of an inch in thickness, Vv^hich tears readily when an attempt is made to detach it, and curls up with the attached surface innermost when it is separated. It is always transparent, and remains so after boiling, after the action of acids, and even after maceration. At the edge of the cornea this lamina breaks up into pro- cesses Cpillars of the iris") which turn backwards, and become blended with the outer margin of the iris, and with the choroid and sclerotic coats. Though very elastic, this membrane is apparently without a definite structure. A laminar epithelium, like that on serous membranes, clothes its free surface. are obtained from Mr. Bowman's " Lectures on the Eye," and from the "Physiological Anatomy," part third, 1847, of Dr. Todd and Mr. Bowman. * Vertical section A of the cornea.—h. Anterior elastic layer with the conjunctival epithelium on it. c. Oblique fibres from it to the layers of the cornea, d. Posterior elastic lamina : e. Epithelium on it (membrane of Demours). B, Surface view, and c. side view of the epithelium of the membrane of Demours.