NERVES AT THE BASE OF THE SKULL. 19 ganglion ; wliilst the smaller root passes beneath the ganglion, their ar- without communicating with it, and joins only one of the ^^"gemeiit. three trunks derived from the ganglion. The ganglion of the root of the fifth nerve (Gasserian Gasserian ganglion) is placed in a depression on the point of the fai^l^root?^ petrous part of the temporal bone. The upper surface of the ganglion is closely united to the dura mater, and presents a semi-lunar elevation, whose convexity looks for- wards. Some filaments from the plexus of the sympathetic on the carotid artery enter its inner side. Branches.—From the front of the ganglion proceed the gives three three following trunks :—The ophthalmic nerve is the first ^^'^^^1^®^- and highest, and is destined for the orbit and face. "Next in order is the superior maxillary nerve, which leaves the skull by the foramen rotundum, and ends in the face below the orbit. And the last, or the inferior maxillary nerve, passes downwards through the foramen ovale to reach the lower jaw, the lower part of the face, and the tongue. If the ganglion be raised, the small root will be seen passing beyond it to enter the trunk of the inferior maxillary nerve. In consequence of this partial blending of the roots, those Difference in branches of the ganglion that are unconnected with the branches.^^^^ smaller or motor root, viz. the ophthalmic and superior maxillary, are solely nerves of sensibility ; but the inferior maxillary, which is compounded of both roots, is a nerve of sensibility and motion, like a spinal nerve. It is not, how- ever, the whole of the inferior maxillary nerve that has this double function, for the motor root is mixed almost exclu- sively with the part of the trunk which supplies the muscles of the lower jaw ; and it is, therefore, chiefly that small part of the nerve which possesses a twofold action, and resembles a spinal nerve. The ophthalmic nerve is the only one of the three trunks Ophthalmic that needs a more special notice in this stage of the dissec- g^J^^^^ tion. It enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, enters orbit and is continued through that space to the forehead. In form it is a flat band ; and in its course to the orbit the nerve is contained in the wall of the cavernous sinus, where it lies below the third and fourth nerves. In this situa- supplies tion it is joined by filaments of the cavernous plexus of the in"[ts?ourse sympathetic, and gives a small recurrent filament to that part of the dura mater which forms the tentorium cerebelli (Arnold). JS'ear the orbit it divides into three branches. (See p. 44). c2