DISSECTIOlSr OF THE HEAD. 150 external palatine. Nasal branches are Superior nasal, Naso-pala- tine. Branches backwards are to pharynx and the facial and sympathetic nerves tbroxigh the vidian. smaller canal, and ends inferiorly in tlie soft palate and the levator palati muscle ; it supplies the uvula and tonsil. 3. The external palatine nerve, 7, is smaller than the other two, and descends in the canal of the same name. Leaving the canal, the nerve is distributed to the velum palati and the tonsil. Branches to the nose.—The nasal branches, from three to five in number, are for the most part very small and soft, and pass inwards through the spheno-palatine foramen. One of these is the naso-palatine nerve. Their distribution is mentioned below. 1. The superior nasal branches (anterior) are distributed in the mucous membrane on the two upper spongy bones, and a few filaments reach the back part of the septum nasi. 2. The naso-palatine nerve (nerve of Cotunnius) (fig. 17,^) crosses the roof of the nasal fossa to reach the septum nasi, and descends on this partition to near the front. The nerve now enters a special canal by the side of the septum, that of the left side of the body being anterior to the other, and is conveyed to the roof of the mouth, where it lies in the centre of the anterior palatine fossa. Finally, the nerves of opposite sides are united in the moutb, and are distributed in the mucous membrane behind the incisor teeth ; at their distribution they are connected with the great palatine nerves. On the septum nasi filaments are supplied by the naso-palatine nerve to the mucous membrane. To follow the nerve to its termination, the canal in the roof of the mouth ought to be opened. The posterior branches are two : a pharyngeal branch, and the vidian nerve. 1. The pharyngeal branch is very small, and is directed through the pterygo-palatine canal to the mucous membrane of the pharynx near the Eustachian tube, in which it ends. 2. The vidian nerve, 6, passes backwards through the vidian canal, and sends some small filaments, through the bone, to the membrane of the back part of the roof of the nose (upper posterior nasal branches). At its exit from the canal, the nerve furnishes a soft reddish ofi'set (carotid branch) to join the sympathetic on the outer side of the carotid artery. The continuation of the nerve enters the cranium through the cartilaginous substance closing the fora- men lacerum (basis cranii) and is directed backwards in a groove on the surface of the petrous part of the temporal bone, where it takes the name of large superficial petrosal nerve (fig. 19, ^). Lastly it is continued through the hiatus