DIGASTRIC MUSCLE. 8] ending below it becomes contracted, and is provided witb a pair of valves (Strutliers). In this part of its course the vein receives the superior Brauches. and middle thyroid branches. Peculiarities.—Some of the following peculiarities of the com- Differences mon carotid may be met with. Its origin on the right side may in origin; be above or below the point here stated ; or it may be transferred to the arch of the aorta, or to the left carotid in the thorax. Men- tion has been made of the difference in the place of bifurcation, and of the fact that, occasionally, the common carotid artery is not divided into two. (See page 65.) Instead of one, there may be two trunks issuing from beneath in number, the hyoid muscles, for the common carotid has been found divided in one case after an extent of one inch and a half As an extremely rare occurrence its usual terminal branches, the external and internal carotids, may arise as distinct arteries from the arch of the aorta. Usually the common carotid is without branch, but it may give its origin to the superior thyroid, the inferior thyroid, or the vertebral branches, artery. Dissection.—The dissector may next trace out completely Dissection, the trunk of the external carotid, and follow its branches until they disappear beneath different parts. Afterwards he may separate from one another the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, which cross the carotid; and may define their origin and insertion. The DIGASTRIC MUSCLE (fig. 10, ^) COnsists of two fleshy Digastric bellies, united by an intervening tendon, whence its name, beines The posterior belly, the larger of the two, arises from the groove beneath the mastoid process ; whilst the anterior belly takes origin from the base of the lower jaw, on the side of the symphysis. From these places of origin the fibres are directed to the intervening tendon :—those of the posterior belly are the longest and are inclined obliquely forwards, and those of the anterior belly pass more vertically downwards. The tendon of the muscle is surrounded by which are fibres of the stylo-hyoideus ; it is united to its fellow and to {gndon^^ ^ the OS hyoides by means of an aponeurotic expansion, which keeps in position the arch of the muscle, and is attached to the body and a part of the great cornu of the hyoid bone. The arch formed by the digastric is superficial, except at Position to the outer part, where it is beneath the sterno and trachelo- ^^^^^ parts, mastoid muscles. The posterior belly crosses the carotid vessels and the accompanying veins and nerves ; and is placed across the anterior triangular space of the neck in the position of a line from the mastoid process to a little above the hyoid bone ; along its lower border will be found