DISSECTIO]^ OF THE EXTERIOR OF THE HEAD. 6 posterior brancli. Occipital artery. anterior and The anterior branch runs forward with, a serpentine course to the forehead, supplying muscular, cutaneoms, and peri- cranial offsets, and anastomoses with the supra-orbital artery. This is the branch that is opened when blood is taken from the temporal artery. The posterior branch is larger than the other, and arches backwards above the ear towards the occipital artery, with which it anastomoses. Its offsets are similar to those of the anterior branch, and it communicates moreover with the artery of the opposite side over the top of the head. Occipital artery.—The terminal part of this artery, after perforating the trapezius, divides into large and tortuous branches, which spread over the back of the head and the occipito-frontalis muscle. Communications take place with the artery of the opposite side, with the posterior part of the temporal, and with the following artery. Some offsets pass deeply to supply the occipito-frontalis muscle, the peri- cranium, and the bone. The posterior auricular artery appears in front of the mastoid process, and divides into two branches. One (mas- toid) is directed backwards to supply the occipito-frontalis, and anastomose with the occipital artery. The other (auri- cular) is furnished to the retrahent muscle and the back of the pinna of the ear ; and an offset from it pierces the pinna to be distributed on the opposite surface. Posterior auricular. Veins of the The VEINS of the exterior of the head are so similar to the scalp, arteries, that a full notice of each is not required. All the veins corresponding with branches of the internal carotid artery enter the facial vein, whilst the rest open into the jugular veins. These superficial veins communicate both with the sinuses in the interior of the skull by means of small branches named emissary, and with the veins occupy- ing the spongy substance (diploe) of the cranial bones. The frontal vein is directed towards the inner angle of the orbit, where it receives the supra-orbital vein, the two giving rise to the angular vein of the face. Both the superficial temporal and posterior auricula.r veins open into the external jugular ; and the occipital joins the internal jugular vein. how they join other veins. Nerves of the scalp are Cutaneous Nerves.—The several nerves are furnished from the terminal parts of both the cranial and spinal nerves. The half of the head anterior to the ear receives branches from the three trunks of the fifth cranial nerve, and a few offsets from the facial nerve. All the rest of the head is