785 STRUCTUEE OF THE CHOROID COAT. side by side, and consist of larger and smaller folds, but the differently sized pieces do not alternate regnlarly. At their inner extremities they are united by loops or Fig- 119.* transverse ridges. The plaits are thin externally at the com- mencement, but increase in depth internally, be- coming convex, and pro- ject inwards around the lens. By their free ends they bound circumfe- rentially the space (pos- terior chamber) behind the iris. Internally or beneath, the ciliary pro- cesses are closely con- nected with the membrane (suspensory ligament) on the front of the vitreous humour, and fit into hollows between eminences on the anterior surface of that membrane. In front or externally they correspond with the back of the iris, but are separated from it by pigment. Structure.—The choroid coat and its ciliary processes are formed principally of bloodvessels, whose branches are so arranged as to form an outer and an inner layer. Ramified pigment cells make up the rest of the coat. In the outer layer (fig. 121) the larger branches of both arteries and veins are contained, and the veins (/) form parallel curves {vasa vorticosa) as they end in four or five chief efferent trunks. In the interspaces of the vessels towards the outer surface there are ramified irregular pig- ment cells (fig. 120, a), which contain a nucleus and molecular grains of dark brown colouring matter. The off- sets of these cells imite together, and form a fibrous web or stroma for this tunic (Kolliker). In the inner part of the choroid the vessels form a net- work of capillaries with meshes smaller than elsewhere, whose interstices are rather less towards the back than the Two kinds small, and large. Parts enter- ino into tlie structure. A plexus of blood-ves- sels with- large meshes and pigment cells exter- nally. Capillaries internally. * Inner view of the front of the choroid coat with its ciliary pro- cesses, and the back of the iris.—1. Iris with the fibres radiating from the inner to the outer edge : the circular band at the inner edge is the sphincter of the pupil. 2. Front of the choroid coat. 3. Ciliary pro- cesses inside the anterior terminal part of the choroid : the processes are connected at their inner ends by loops.