DISSECTION OF THE UPPEE LIMB. 258 where thickest. Dissection of cutaneous nerves of the chest, and of the nerve of Wrisberg. Descending cutaneous nerves of cervical plexus. Cutaneous brandies of the inter- costal nerves are in two rows. One along middle line. side of tlie cliest, but becomes much tliicker where it is stretched across the axilla. An incision through it, over the arm-pit, will render evident its increased strength in this situation, and its connections with the muscular folds of the axilla which it incases ; and if the fore finger be introduced through the opening, some idea will be gained of its capa- bility of confining an abscess in that hollow. Dissection. —The cutaneous nerves of the side of the chest are to be next sought in the fat. Some of these (from the cervical plexus) will be found crossing the clavicle at the middle, and at the inner part. Others (anterior cutaneous of the thorax) appear at the side of the sternum,—one from each intercostal space. And others (lateral cutaneous of the thorax) should be looked for along the side of the chest, about one inch below the anterior fold of the axilla, there being one from each intercostal space except the first : as soon as the last mentioned nerves appear through the muscles, they are divided into an anterior and a posterior branch. In the highest two nerves the posterior branches are larger than in the rest ; they are to be followed across the arm-pit, and a junction is to be found there with a branch (nerve of Wrisberg) of the brachial plexus. Cutaneous nerves of the cervical plexus.—These cross the clavicle, and are distributed to the integuments over the pectoral muscle. The most internal branch (sternal) lies near the inner end of the bone, and reaches but a short distance belov/ it. Other branches (clavicular), two or more in number, and of larger size, cross the centre of the clavicle, and extend to near the lower border of the pectoralis major ; these join one or more of the anterior cutaneous nerves of the thorax. The cutaneous nerves of the thorax are derived from the trunks of the intercostal nerves between the ribs. Of these there are two sets :—One set, the lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax, arise from the trunks of the nerves about mid-way between the spine and the sternum. The other set, the anterior cutaneous nerves of the thorax, are the termi- nations of the same intercostal trunks at the middle line of the body. The anterior cutaneous nerves, after piercing the pectoral muscle, are directed outwards in the integuments as slender filaments. The ofiset of the second nerve joins a cutaneous branch of the cervical plexus ; and the others supply the mammary gland and the integuments. Small cutaneous