190 CEITICAL ESSAY OJST THE PHYSIOLOGY a motor nerve of blood-vessels; secondly, that it originates chiefly from the cerebro-spinal axis; thirdly, that its paralysis is characterised by a dilatation of blood-vessels and afflux of blood, “M. Vulpiau uow thiuks the phenomenon in question can be best explained by supposing that the dilator nei’ves exert an in- hibitory action on the constrictors. These latter are always in action, and the condition of mean contraction of the vessels thus kept up is called the vascular tonus. This is probably maintain- ed by the nervous centres acting through periphex’al ganglia, with which both constrictor and dilator fibres are in connexion. The dilators are not constantly in action, and their section is without effect; but when they are irritated they exert an inhibi- tory action on the ganglia (just as the vagus fibres do on the intracardiac ganglia), destroying the vascular totixts, and the ves- sels dilate under the pressure of the blood. So that although the process is active in the nerves, it is jxassive in the vessels. That the dilation caused by irritation of the dilators is greater than that following section of the constrictors, is no objection to this theory, for it is difficult to cut all the constrictor fibres of a part which often run in various chamiels, and by the section the peripheral ganglia are untouched, and may be effective in keej> ing up some contraction; but when the dilators are called into action, they make inactive all the constricU'rs, and exert their paralysing influence on the ganglia at the terminations of the nerves. “ This view, or one like it, is, we believe, that uow generally held by physiologists to explain the vaso-dilatory action of cer- tain nerves. It was developed most ably, some years ago, by Professor Rutherford, who called special attention to the fact that the inhibitory nerves ‘ appeared to end in vaso-motor nerve- cells whose evolutions of energy they are capable of diminishing. M. Vulpian does not allude to Professor Rutherford’s researche.s on this subject.”