The figures THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. A portion of the transverse colon comes into view in this specimen, on account of the contraction indicate:— ABDOMINAL CAVITY—No. 1. ABDOMEN. ABDOMEN ABDOMINAL CAVITY. The anterior abdominal wall has been removed, and the costal margin exposed. The usual subdivision of the abdominal cavity into nine regions by two horizontal and two vertical planes is shown by wires. The vertical wires extend upwards from the middle of Poupart’s ligament. The lower horizontal ones extend between the tubercles on the outer lip of the crest of each ilium, and the upper ones pass between the lowest points of the tenth costal arches. The position of the umbilicus is indicated by the letter U. The great omentum is a double fold of peritoneum, attached to the greater curvature of the stomach on the one hand, and passing downwards for a variable distance. It then turns upwards, and envelopes the transverse colon, and is continued on to the nosterior abdominal wall as the trans- verse meso-colon. of the stomach and the distension of the colon, but in many cases, the transverse colon is not at once seen when the abdominal cavity is opened. The general disposition of the omentum and viscera is seen. In this subject the stomach is empty and contracted, and the transverse colon, which is distended, passes upwards in front of the stomach and conceals it from view. The superficial contents of the different regions are seen to be as follows.— 1. Right hypochondrium—hepatic flexure. 2. Epigastric region—liver, transverse colon cover- ing the stomach and omentum. 3. Left hypochondrium—splenic flexure. 4. Right lumbar—ascending colon. 5. Umbilical—omentum covering coils of intestine. 6. Left lumbar—omentum covering small intes- tine and descending colon. 7. Right iliac—caecum. 8. Hypogastric—pelvic colon and bladder. 9. Left iliac—iliac colon 1. Ligamentum teres. 2. Lower margin of liver. 3. Transverse colon in front of the stomach. 4. Omentum. 5. Hepatic flexure of colon. 6. Upper part of caecum. 7. Apex of urinary bladder. U. position of umbilicus.