7. Ureters crossing the common ternal cutaneous nerve. abdominis externally. THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. 3 and 4. Left and right renal vessels. ABDOMINAL AORTA—No. 1. 8. Gangliated cord of the sym- 1. Oesophagus. ABDOMEN. The figures indicate— 11. External cutaneous nerve. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. ABDOMINAL AORTA. TO SHOW THE ABDOMINAL AORTA, THE BED OF KIDNEYS, ETC. The kidneys, the upper parts of the ureters, the ovarian vessels, and a portion of the inferior vena cava have been removed, to show the bed of the kidneys, the gangliated cord of the sympathetic, and the branches of the lumbar plexus in relation to the psoas muscles. The three principal foramina in the diaphragm are seen, the oesophageal to the left side, the aortic in the mesial plane and lowest, while the inferior caval opening is to the right and is the highest of the three. The bed of the kidneys is seen to be formed by the diaphragm above, the crus of the diaphragm and the psoas muscle internally, and the quadratus lumborum and tendon of the transversalis The abdominal aorta enters the abdomen under cover of the ligamentum arcuatum medium of the diaphragm, and runs down in front of the vertebral column as far as to the fourth lumbar vertebra, where it terminates by dividing into the two common iliac arteries. The coeliac axis and the superior mesenteric arteries are seen arising from the commencement of the aorta and, from its anterior aspect, lower down the inferior mesenteric. The middle sacral which arises from the posterior aspect of the aorta is seen between the two common iliacs. Some lumbar branches, which arise rather from the posterior aspect are also seen. 2. Ligamentum arcuatum medium. 5. Inferior mesenteric artery. 6. Right common iliac artery crossing the left common iliac vein. iliac arteries. pathetic. 9. Last dorsal (subcostal) nerve. 10. Uio-inguinal and ilio-hypogastric nerves. 12. Accessory nerve to the ex- 13. Genito-crural nerve. There is a well-marked psoas minor muscle here also.