5. Ascending portion of duodenum. THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. indicate— 3. Second part of duodenum. ABDOMINAL CAVITY—No. 4. The figures 11. Terminal part of pelvic colon. 14. Iliac colon. ABDOMEN. EDINBURGH : T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 54 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C: ABDOMEN ABDOMINAL CAVITY. No. The small intestine and the pelvic colon have been removed, and the caecum opened, and the peritoneum has been removed from the front of the descending portion of the duodenum. The peritoneum, covering the posterior abdominal wall, is seen; and also the root of the mesentery, passing from the duodeno-jejunal junction, on the left side of the second lumbar vertebra, downwards and to the right. The root of the transverse meso-colon is seen, from which that mesentery projects forwards, dividing the abdominal cavity into a supra-mesocolic and an infra-mesocolic compartment. The latter passes upwards as a deep recess below the stomach, and behind the left costal margin. The V-shaped attachment of the pelvic meso-colon should be noticed. In the interior of the caecum, the orifice of the ileum is seen, and it may be noted that in this specimen the terminal part of the ileum enters the caecum practically at a right angle, and not in the usual oblique manner from below upwards. The vermiform appendix arises from the inner and back part of the caecum, and in this specimen it is directed upwards and inwards, towards the umbilicus. It has a mesentery, derived from the lower part of the mesentery of the ileum. The small orifice of the appendix is here guarded by a small crescentic fold resembling a valve. 1. Pylorus. 2. Duodenum and reflection of transverse meso-colon. 4. Root of the mesentery. 6. Peritoneal fold for appendix. 7. Termination of ileum. 8. Opening of ileum into the caecum. 17. Duodeno-j 9. Opening of appendix into the caecum. 10. Vermiform appendix. 12. and 13. Pelvic meso-colon. 15. Peritoneum covering left kidney. 16. Branch of the inferior mesenteric artery cross- ing the left kidney. junal flexure.