84 than the right, and the preinsnlar portion is so redundant that the surrounding opercular parts have been crowded apart and a small triangular portion of the insular pole is thus made visible upon the lateral aspect. If one be permitted to indulge in such an expression I would say that the physiognomy of each of these brains reproduces that of the other, much as the outer physiognomy of their bearers did in life. By the metaphoric term u physiognomy” used in this connection, I mean the general feature of the arrangement, relations and molding of the convolutions, diffi- cult to describe in so many words and renderable only through photographic or other reproduction, and even through these imperfectly. Every brain I have yet examined had its dis- tinct features, as much distinct as the outer ones of its owner. One may distinguish brains resembling each other as a group, and as distinguishable from other groups as are different fam- ilies and races of men. No more striking instance of a pre- vailing typical difference can be adduced than that of the Mon- golian brains recently studied by Dercum and others. It were futile to attempt basing a discrimination on any single factor. It is the general physiognomy that seems to be so peculiar to the race, but by this I do not mean that given a certain brain an investigator could declare it to belong to such and such a race or sex. We are not advanced far enough for that yet, if we ever attain such a point; and how mistaken we may be in regard to the outer features I need not remind the reader. We are much like the traveler who merely touching the shores of a new land is struck by the, to him, strangely and strik- ingly uniform character of a new race—yet whose individuals are as distinguishable to their fellow tribesmen as that travel- er’s companions are to him. Perhaps the most significant feature common to both brains is the exposure of the insula, and although this feature formed the theme of a special paper7 a brief summary thereof may not be out of place here. Heretofore it was only in the brains of deaf-mutes, of ne- groes, of idiots, and of the defective classes generally, where the opercula are commonly atrophied, that the insula has been found visible. It was therefore regarded as an indication of inferior development. The brains of the Seguins, however, present the very reverse of low form or defective type. Nor are the opercular regions at all defective, though they fail