70 A PRELIMINARY COMMUNICATION OF A STUDY OF THE BRAINS OF TWO DISTINGUISHED PHYSICIANS, FATHER AND SON.* By Edward Anthony Spitzka, of New York City. Student of Medicine, College of Physicians and Surgeons. [Reprinted, with a few additions, from the Philadelphia Medical Journal, April 6, 1901.] To a great extent, the more recent studies of human brain anatomy may be termed one-sided, inasmuch as the numerous examinations made of individual cerebra were of such derived from criminals, lunatics, and other defectives, nay, most fre- quently from subjects whose life history and characteristics were and remained unknown, or were unworthy of record. On the other hand, the brains of public men of professional or scientific eminence, whose actions and attainments were u writ large upon the pages of history” are seldom obtainable. In the words of Wilder, this is u both illogical and unprofit- able. * * * It is at once a reproach and. an irreparable loss to science that the community has not yet been convinced that the preservation and study of one’s brain is an honor to be coveted. Who can set a limit to the result that might have been attained from the examination of the brains of soldiers like Grant, Sherman and Sheridan ; of preachers like Beecher, Brooks and Howard Crosby; of naturalists like Agassiz, Gray and Jeffries Wyman ; of lawyers like Tilden, Conkling and Benjamin Butler. How long must science wait for a general sentiment such as is embodied in the declar- ation of an eminent historian, that science is as welcome to his brain as his old hat, and that he wishes he had ten of them.” To this day only a few brains of eminent men have been studied and described : among these may be mentioned that of Chauncey Wright, a philosophical writer; of George Grote, * Read also, by invitation, before the Section on Anthropology and Psy- chology, New York Academy of Sciences, February 15, 1901. In view of a monographic study, the publication of which is contemplated, the writer refrains from an enumeration of those details essential to the latter and whose reproduction were unnecessarily repetitious.