211 extensor muscles, to the adductor longus muscle and the gracilis, to the adductor brevis muscle, and to the adductor magnus and external obturator muscles. To illustrate the method of using these charts a few ex- amples may be given. Fig. 1 represents the outline diagram used for the abdomen and the lumbar region. Fig. 2 shows the distribution of the main ventral trunks of the abdominal nerves as dissected out and recorded by two students. Fig. 3. represents the lumbar plexuses and the distribution of the “ border nerves ” found in the same subject. The lateral branches of the abdominal nerves are shown in another chart (Fig. 4). Of course one cannot hope to get from students the com- plete and accurate records which one could get by personal dissection. It is only rarely that perfectly satisfactory records are obtained of the peripheral distribution of all the nerves. On the other hand, it would he a physical impossibility by personal dissection to get the same number of records in the same space of time. Mistakes are more likely to he those of omission than of a positive nature. The student may destroy some fine nerve twig before it has been seen by an instructor, and thus it may escape record. The conditions that the average student finds and records are, however, of great value. Thus only may we hope to get that large number of records from which a curve of frequency may be determined. In addition to the outline diagrams I have devised a simple printed scheme for keeping record of the race, sex, age, size, skeletal peculiarities and marked variations from the normal in the various organs of the body. This latter set of records is made out by the instructor who verifies the charts. The verification of the charts is one of the most important features of the undertaking. Without careful verification by one man who gives his time in the dissecting room mainly, if not wholly, to this task the charts can be of little value. Active co-operation on the part of all the instructors and of the students in the dissecting room is also essential. The conditions which at present prevail in our medical department render it also perhaps more than usually easy to get the co-operation of the students in carrying out work of