43 THE VALUE OF THE X-RAY IN THE STUDY AND DEMONSTRATION OF NORMAL ANATOMY. By Dr. Eugene R. Corson, Savannah, Georgia. I have long felt that the X-ray would prove of value in certain lines of anatomical research, both human and com- parative. Before we had the modern perfected coil and tube the value of the X-ray amounted to little, for only poor shadows of the bones were obtained ; but, as the X-ray inten- sity became greater with a more perfect apparatus, the value of the method in the demonstration of normal anatomy was at once apparent. And as, without doubt, there is still much room for improvment of apparatus and technique, we can assuredly look for a still wider field of usefulness in the future. With the present X-ray efficiency at our disposal, its value is evident in the following lines of work. 1. In the study and demonstration of bone development, the growth of the epiphyses, the schema of their development, and the study of joints as joints, with their movements. 2. The demonstration of the internal structure of the bones 3. In the study and demonstration of the exact spacings and positions of the bones in the skeleton as a guide to its proper articulation and mounting. This would find its widest appli- cation in comparative osteology. 4. In the study and demonstration of the arteries on the cadaver where, properly injected, they can be skiagraphed in their absolute relations to other structures. During this year I have devoted much time to the demon- stration of bone development by this method, for it has a large practicial bearing in its surgical application. Most of the skiagraphs which I present for your inspection have been reproduced in a paper which appeared in the November num- ber of Annals of Surgery, on the inembral epiphyses at the thirteenth year, and my excuse for showing you these prints is, that they are superior to the reproductions, and will give you a better idea of what we can expect from the X-ray findings. It is, perhaps, in this line of work that the X-ray will give us the greatest assistance, because we can really watch the bones grow, and there are many subtle problems of