fibre stain furnished the most accurate and delicate picture. For the blood-vessels ordinary carmine gelatin mass and lamp-black or cinnabar gelatin mass were all that were neces- sary. For the lymphatics a saturated aqueous solution of Prussian-blue proved to be the best, notwithstanding a careful trial of a number of more complicated and presumably better masses. The thickness of the wall of the gall-bladder varies accord- ing to its state of distention. In an adult human subject it is from § mm. thick in a state of distention to 2 mm. in a state of contraction. The distended gall-bladder of a new- born infant is nearly j mm. thick. In the pig it may be from f to 3 mm. thick, and in a dog of medium size from 4 mm. to 1J mm. thick. The wall of the gall-bladder is made up of the following coats: 1. mucous; 2. fibro-muscular; 3. sub- serous and on the free part covered by peritoneum; 4. serous.. The relative thickness of these coats can be seen in Fig. G, which shows the gall-bladder of the dog contracted. The relations are essentially the same in man as in the dog. The mucous layer is thrown into a series of folds from -j- to 4 mm. high in man. These folds of mucous membrane cover corresponding ridges of connective tissue of the fibro- muscular layer and contain an exceptionally rich capil- lary network. The irregular spaces surrounded by these folds are much larger at the fundus than at the duodenal end of the gall-bladder. In man the measurements in the dis- tended gall-bladder are 3 mm. X 5 mm. in the fundus and 1 mm. X I mm. oi’ smaller near the beginning of the cystic duct. In the crypts formed by the folds solitary lymph folli- cles are found. These arc more numerous in the dog than in the pig, .and in this regard there seems to be a great deal of individual variation. The mucous layer is composed of sim- ple columnar epithelium, which rests upon an incomplete muscularis mucosa. In the dog these cells are from 25-42 /* thick. These cells seem to secrete a thick mucous material but no goblet cells are present. R. Virchow (1), in an article published in 1857, finds fine fat-drops in the ends of these cells of the gall-bladder and ducts during or just after the absorption of chyle. These droplets gradually became larger