149 ayeff," all of which agree with the present case in general structure but differ from it in the absence of muscle. In two other cases, however, described by Pyatnitzki 23 and Ger- lach,24 respectively, striated muscle fibres were found, and it is to be assumed that such tissue was present in Neumaycr’s case, for the tail in this instance could be excited to reflex contraction by stimulation of the sacral region. The compli- cated arrangement of the muscles found in some instances is associated with the occurrence of bone, as in the case de- scribed by Hennig and Rauber,25 and especially in Ivohl- brugge’s case.20 The tail described by Gerlach in a foetus of 4.6 cm. also contained a continuation of the notochord, which has as yet never been seen in older subjects. The Tail in the Human Embryo. The caudal region in human and other mammalian embryos has already been described by Ecker, His, Iveibel, Fol, Braun and others. These accounts, while agreeing in the main, bring out considerable differences of opinion as to details. For this reason I give here a further description of the tail region in several human embryos. This I am enabled to do through the kindness of Dr. Mall, who placed at my disposal his fine collection of human embryos. Two specimens, four- teen and sixteen millimeters long respectively, were found to be especially adapted for this purpose, for it is at this stage that the tail reaches the highest point in its development. The study of these was greatly facilitated on account of their excellent state of preservation, and by the fact that they were cut into perfect series of sagittal sections. Beriicksiclitigung cler caudalen Anbange des Mensclien. Inaug.-Diss., Freiburg i. Br., 1898. 22 W. Sclieboldayeff: Tailed Men. Zernsk. Vrach, vol. vi, 1893 (Russian). 23 Inaug.-Diss., St. Petersburg, 1893. 24 L. Gerlach : Ein Fall von Sellwanzbildung bei eineni menscbliclien Embryo., Morphol. Jalirb., Bd. vi, 1880. 25 C. Hennig and A. Rauber : Ein neuer Fall von geschwanztem Men- schen. Virchow’s Archiv, Bd. 105, 1886. 26 Natuurkund. Tijdschr. v. Ned. Indie, Deel. lvii, 1898.