100 hidden position of the eyeballs, and the few complications with other variations. Dareste, with whom began most of our systematic knowl- edge of cyclopian monsters, despite the earlier work of Geof- froy Saint-Hilaire, stated that its probable cause was pressure of the amniotic sac. In the case here presented, the amniotic fluid was sufficient at birth, and membranes carefully ex- amined showed no old adhesions. Rudolph’s case of placenta adherent to brow, with normally formed eyes and nose, would seem; unless this attachment was secondary, to disprove this assertion. Phisalix, a student of Dareste, thought a throm- bus of the vessel passing into the cleft or constriction between the primary fore-brain and primary mid-brain, to be responsi- ble for the condition. The vessels in this subject, although uninjected, seem normal so far as the dissection has gone. Cleland thought a hydrops of the pineal body or epiphysis was regularly responsible for the condition. In this case the epiphysis was much enlarged, but certainly contained no collection of fluid as was described in Cleland’s ease. Ahlfeld surmised that in some of his cases hydrocephalus was responsible for the condition occurring before the differ- entiation of the primary fore-brain, as seems confirmed in Rochi’s case with twins. It cannot be denied that this may be possible, but many cases of apparently early hydrocephalus without this anomaly would lend doubt to such supposition. Kundrat has shown that there may be an absence of the olfactory lobes and nerves without as necessary corollary the deformity of cyclopia. No ease of cyclopia seems to have oc- curred where these two cerebral vesicles were present even if the corpus callosum was deficient and the two halves were more or less fused, as in Knox’s fourteen cases of imperfectly divided brains. Von Hippel has shown that the eye may be single ; fused with one lens, two imperfect halves ; fused, with two pupils, two lenses and one globe, fusion of two eyes, or, as in this case, two eyes with single stalk and embryonal tissue be- tween, or two eyes with separate tracts and only the union of the fronto-nasal process to indicate the condition. In the Museum of the Presbyterian Hospital, of New York City, I have seen a well developed foetus of about the thirty- eighth week, a cyclops with fusion of two eyeballs on the mesial aspect. There is synotie as an additional abnormality