a zygon of variable length to deal with and one directed gen- erally transversely to the course of the exoccipital fissure. Let us assume that the growth of both the premiere and deuxieme plis de passage takes place simultaneously ; if we begin with the conditions as they exist in most of the simiadae, as in Fig. i, such development will result in the isolation of a segment of the exoccipital situated between the two plis and forming the u proton” (anlage) for a paroccipital zygal fissure. Parker has shown (p. 335, loc citi) how a combination of ex- pansive forces and resisting forces controls the development of such zygal as well as of the triradiate and quadriradiate fis- sures, applying for this purpose the principles deduced by the eminent physicist Plateau6. In brief, he finds a stable equi- librium in the zygal form due to the apposition of four plastic spheres (Plateau’s experiments were done by means of soap- bubbles floating on water or upon a glass plate). In the brain the four spheres which are here crowded together are repre- sented in the following four elements : I. Premiere pli de passage. II. Deuxieme pli de passage. III. Occipital lobe. IV. Parietal lobe. Development and growth takes place more forcibly and more rapidly on the part of elements I and II, and hence these crowd together before III and IV could, the result being a zygal fissure whose zygon or stem runs in a transverse direc- tion to the course of the interrupted exoccipital. A rapid review of these developments resolves itself into the following : First: An unbroken continuity of the mesial occipital with the exoccipital fissure, (as in most forms of Simiadae). Second: A simultaneous up-growth of the premiere and deuxieme plis de passage of Gratiolet, bridging the exoccipital and including between them a fissural segment of the exocei- pital, forming the basis or anlage for the future paroccipital. Third: An increased growth of these two plis, crowding upon each other while at the same time pushing apart the occipital and parietal lobar parts at this site, giving rise to the zygon or stem. Fourth: The accompanying, though lesser, resistance of the parietal and occipital elements, situated cephalad and can-