190 rapidly from the liver. Were there a direct channel from the perilobular lymph spaces the blue should flow through it at once without further filtration through the interlobular connective tissue spaces. The course the cinnabar granules take also speaks against a direct channel between the peri- lobular lymph spaces and the interlobular lymph channels. A few of the granules enter the perilobular lymph spaces, hut none of them reach the main lymph channels. All of my specimens without exception force me to the conclusion that there are no direct channels connecting the perivascular and perilobular lymph spaces with the lymphatics proper other than the ordinary spaces between the connective-tissue fibrils of the capsule of Glisson. These spaces, however, are rela- tively large, permitting of a rapid diffusion through them. Interstitial injections into the walls of the interlobular veins naturally fill the surrounding lymphatic vessels, and when no valves are in the way the injected fluid passes to the origin of the vessels, or lacunae, which are only in part lined with endothelial cells. From here the fluid passes through the main connective-tissue spaces to the periphery of the lobule into the perilobular and perivascular lymph spaces, and frequently from them into the blood capillaries. When the injection is made through the bile ducts I have always found tliat there is an extravasation of the fluid from these at the periphery of the lobule which immediately enters the lymph radicals, although the bile capillaries are often injected well into the lobule. The extravasation does not take place from the bile capillaries, only from the duct as it communicates with the capillaries; also it does not take place from the larger bile ducts. Such extravasations naturally are picked up by the lymphatics and are at once carried from the liver. If after ligature of the bile duct the bile enters the perivascular lymph space within the lobule it may still be carried to the lymphatics, as the direction of the current of lymph is con- stantly from the blood capillaries to the lymphatics. It is well known that the liver cells arise from the em- bryonic bile ducts, and that in the further growth of the liver the bile ducts must elongate in order to adjust themselves