209 of these records. I discarded to a considerable extent the use of the printed schemes. The students were encouraged to record the distribution of the nerves by making free-hand diagrammatic sketches to illustrate the conditions found in the parts dissected. Many of the drawings thus made were well executed. Yet few of the students are sufficiently skill- ful draughtsmen to make even these simple sketches without a great expenditure of time. I therefore devised a set of simple outline diagrams on which the nerve distribution can be recorded. These diagrams are arranged for the various parts of the body. Thus there is one for the abdomen, which can be used either for the nerves of the abdominal walls or for the lumbar plexus (see Figs. 1-3); another for the nerves of the front of the thigh; one for the sacral plexus; one for the perineum; one for the back of the thigh, etc., in all 26 charts.2 Separate charts are used for the right and left sides of the body. In these diagrams the bones and the surface outline of the body after the removal of the skin and the superficial fascia are indicated by fine lines printed in brown ink. The scale of the charts varies from one-half to full life size, according to the region to be charted. In this way the general average proportions of the various parts of the body are furnished the student. Marked variations from these proportions can readily be indicated by changing the faint outlines of the skeletal scheme. After removing the skin from a given part of the body the student draws on the appropriate diagram the course of the superficial nerves as he finds them running in the fascia. When the muscles have been dissected out the nerve supply of the various muscles is charted. Muscles and other structures are drawn in to show the general relations of the nerves. The best records have been obtained when the student has attempted to record only a few simple conditions on a single chart. Thus in charting the nerves of the front of the thigh separate charts are used to record the distribu- tion to the sartorius muscle, to the rectus muscle, to the deep 2 These charts have been published in pamphlet form : “ Outline Record Charts.” The Johns Hopkins Press, Baltimore, 1900.