113 lobule, or gyrus, because this structure is not really “ para- central.’' For the terms cephalic paracentral limb and caudal paracentral limb, we might very well adopt prcparacentral and postparacentr'al, retaining the name paracentral for the longitudinal stem. In Fig. 9 the writer presents a schema, provisional, of course, of the fissures upon the mesial surface. It is a modification of Wilder’s well-known schema, the changes being based upon the newer features which have become known and more or less accepted within the last decade. It remains for the writer to express his indebtedness to many valuable hints given by Professor Wilder in correspond- ence while engaged upon this work, and to Professor Hunt- ington and Dr. Gallaudet for the exceptional opportunities which their material and aid afforded me. i EXPLANATION OF THE FIGURES. Fig. I. Observed in sixty-three per cent. The inflected lies caudad of the only cephalic limb of the paracentral. Fig. 2. Observed in twenty-two per cent. An additional ramus springs from the paracentral, just caudad of the in- flected ; this is probably one of the intraparacentral elements shown in Fig. 7, which has effected a superficial junction with the paracentral stem. FiR- 3- Observed in eight and three-quarters per cent. Here the cephalic paracentral limb has been separated from the main stem by a narrow isthmus. I11 such cases this isolated limb is confluent with the supercallosal, as is indi- cated in the figure. Fig. 4. The arrangement shown in this figure, i. e., two intraparacentral rami, as well as other (unclassified) features, occurred in six per cent. Fig- 5- Observed in nine out of one hundred and sixty hemicerebrums. (Less than six per cent.) The junction of the inflected with the paracentral commonly took place by means of the element Z, generally shallow. Fig. 6. Observed in only two hemicerebrums, or one and one-quarter per cent. Eberstaller claims to have found this junction in fifty-five per cent! Fig- 7- This figure shows the intraparacentral fissural ele- ments, of which the writer has so far found five more or less definite types. Almost any combination or variation of these