105 THE MESIAL RELATIONS OF THE INFLECTED FISSURE. OBSERVATIONS UPON ONE HUNDRED BRAINS. By Edward A. Spitzka, New York City. Student of Medicine, Medical Department, Columbia University. [Reprinted, with revision, from the New York Medical Journal, January 5, 1901.] SeYeral cerebral morphologists have paid special attention to the so-called inflected fissure. Lussana of Padua first named it so/co inflesso, while in America it was first noted by Professor Wilder1, in 1885. The latter says of this fissure that it “ indents the dorsi-mesal margin just cephalad of the pre- central fissure and paracentral lobule. In the brain exhibited (from an adult mulatto) it is particularly distinct, and is shown in the outline figure in the New York Medical Journal, February 23, 1884, Fig. 42. It seems to have been described by Lussana and Lemoigne (Fisiologia dei centri nervosi encefalici, Padova, 1871) under the name of solco injlesso; paronymized, in Latin this becomes Jissura inflect a, and in English the inflected fissure.” More recently, Eberstaller2, in his work Das Stirnhirn, gives to this fissure the long name sulcus praecentralis medialis, which Wilder3 considers a “needless and unwarranted change of names,” an opinion with which critical students will agree. However, Eberstaller commits another error, more grave, per- haps, than the one Professor Wilder has unearthed, inasmuch as it has misled many writers and perpetrated a misinterpreta- tion which has existed in our literature to the present day. His error consists in the identification of Lussana’s4 and Wilder’s inflected (or Eberstaller’s sulcus praecentralis med- ialis) with the fissure named by Broca incisure pre-ovalaire, and by Schwalbe sulcus paracentralis. On referring to the writings of Broca and Schwalbe, it be- comes evident that the pre-oval incisure and paracentral sulcus of these two writers does not correspond to the so-called inflected, but that both designations refer to the cephalic limb of Wilder’s paracentral, a ramus for which Eberstaller himself