220 advanced in development than No. XII. The embryo is from an ovum measuring 17 x 17 x 10 mm., found in the uterus at an autopsy. When the uterus was cut open the knife entered the ovum and possibly distorted the embryo, for when it came into my hands it was found that the embryo was floating in the cavity of the ovum but it was still adherent to its walls. This mechanical injury undoubtedly caused the body of the embryo to straighten and at the attachment of the umbilical vesicle the body of the embryo is bent towards the ventral side, as is the case in a number of the His em- bryos (for instance, BB). The ventral wall over the heart was also slightly torn. The entire uterus and ovum had been preserved on ice for 24 hours, and when it was given to me by Dr. MacCallum the entire specimen was placed in strong formalin. The sections of the embryo show that the tissues are slightly macerated but in general they are well preserved. The spinal cord is closed throughout its extent but the neuropore is still open. The thyroid gland, optic and otic vesicles, heart and veins, are but slightly more developed than in No. XII. If this embryo were curled up as Xo. XII it would measure from 2.5 to 3 mm., while if the two had been hardened in the same way (Xo. XII was hardened in alcohol) they would probably measure alike. The figures given show the general relation as seen in Embryo XII with each of the structures but slightly advanced. The septum transversum is much the same as it is in XII, while the pericardial coelom is pushed more to the ventral side of it and the diverticulum to form the liver is more marked. The umbilical vein has extended somewhat (Fig. 9) and the jugular vein has made its appearance (Fig. 7). The tissue of the septum transversum in the two embryos is formed of irregular round cells, between which there are numerous vessels, of irregular diameter, which communicate freely with the veins to the heart. The next stage of the development of the septum trans- versum is found in an embryo 4.3 mm. long (CXLVII), ob- tained from Dr. Hoen.3 The specimen is perfect and normal. 5 A photograph of this embryo is given in the Welch Festschrift.