ISO vasates from the periphery of the lobule, invades the connec- tive tissue until it reaches the beginning of the lymphatics, when of course it is carried rapidly from the liver. The near- est course from the lobules to the lymphatics is between the lobule where the amount of connective tissue is small, so when colored fluid is beginning to enter lymph channels the tips of the capsule of Glisson are entirely colored, while larger portal spaces are encircled by a zone of the color. Furthermore it is found that in certain instances when the injection was not continued long enough the blue did not enter the lymphatics. In such specimens it is found that all the interlobular spaces are surrounded by a zone of colored gelatin which does not enter the main lymph channels. A successful injection of the lymphatics is illustrated in the accompanying figure. The section was stained with Van Gieson’s stain which gives a very satisfactory result. The granular blue enters the capillaries of the lobule, c, with ease, and from them the liquid blue is filtered through the capillar}1 walls to enter the perivascular lymph space. This space communicates at the periphery of the lobule directly with a large lymph space between the liver cells and the capsule ot Glisson, which I shall term the perilobular lymph space. These spaces in turn communicate with the lymph radicals. Injection of the blood-vessels of the liver with aqueous Prussian blue fills the capillaries only, and in all cases it is shown that there are no capillaries between the periphery of the lobule and the interlobular connective tissue. The liver cells come directly against the capsule of Glisson. An injection of brief duration with blue gelatin soon fills the peri- lobular lymph spaces, so that it appears as if all groups of liver cells at the periphery of the lobule were separated from the interlobular connective tissue with capillaries. In case cinnabar granules are mixed with the blue a few of these granules are found in the perivascular and perilobular lymph spaces. The openings in the walls of the capillaries are large enough to allow a few of the smaller granules to pass through. As the injection is continued the blue invades the connective tissue spaces from the lymphatic radicals more and more until a lymph channel is reached, when of course it flows