86 self is, without a single exception in the series that 1 have studied, of inferior development, indicated not only by the soundings of the Sylvian cleft, but also by the flatness of con- figuration and lesser area of the insular cortex. In the paper referred to, the writer said : “Among the re- flections which occur in the course of such a study, is the possibility of some paternal influence exerted on the brain of the offspring under circumstances such as the following : Dr. Edouard Seguin (the father) was most actively engaged in the teaching of the idiot children at the Hospice de Bicetre, wrote many treatises, and delivered many lectures upon the subject in the six years prior to the younger Seguin’s birth. If physio- logical tendencies are transmitted from father to son, and if such transmission of function finds structural expression, one would expect it to be demonstrated where the circumstances are so favorable as here. Of course, all such statements are made tentatively ; yet what would be a more natural concep- tion when we view the circumstances, the visible evidences in the two brains, and the corroborative soundings of the Sylvian fissure of both sides. Both men were of high intellectual capacity ; both were facile writers and speakers—if anything the son excelled the father; and both were polylinguists, speaking and writing three languages fluently. The teach- ing capacities of both men were remarkable, in the one case being especially devoted to the patient efforts required in the training of the feeble-minded, in the other developed in the highest degree in didactic lecturing and clinical teaching.” This unexpected exposure of the insula has been noted on both sides in the brain of Chauncey Wright, now in the care of Prof. Burt G. Wilder. In his Handbook article,8 written in 1889, Wilder called attention to the fact that possibly pres- sure may have caused sufficient displacement to artificially expose the insula. In a letter to me (March 12, 1901,) in re- sponse to a communication in which I suggested the expla- nation here advanced, Dr. Wilder states that probably the ex- posure of Wright’s insula was also natural. This investigator proposes to review the matter as soon as he returns to Ithaca. There are a number of facts which, naturally grouping themselves together, justify as a strong surmise, if not a scien- tific probability, this anticipation: that hereditarily transmit- ted and identifiable individualities in gyral disposition will be first satisfactorily determined in the region of the insula. To attempt sustaining this proposition by the experience of the