88 atypy—heterotypy—found in grossly asymmetrical and patho- logical brains. Just as it is the simplest brains that are more symmetrical than the higher one, so the simplest arrangement of gyres is also the one which is most purely and symmet- rically typical. With higher development, a certain degree of deviation from the type seems an inseparable accompaniment of the luxuriant development, contorted foldings, and deep as well as complicated fissuration, which represent a struggle for surface and expansion, in which the interests of neighboring formations often balance unevenly. This irregularity is reg- ular even in its irregularity, however, of the surface only, and in this respect parallel to those perhaps not unrelated mani- festations of the living organ of the mind, which in the shape of originality or ingenuity are often misapprehended and in- terpreted as evidence of unbalancing and eccentricity. It is because the simple mind has not breadth enough that it neither indulges in excursions into a field of original thought, nor understands such when indulged in by others. So it is because there is little rivalry of growth interests in an unex- pansive organ that its simple gyres repose in the rough and comprehensible simplicity of the Bechuana folds. “To certain minds fate narrow bounds has set, In vain the} try beyond those bounds to get.” In reality all these qualities are but expressions of a strong individuality ; and individuality is not conceivable otherwise than as an expansion beyond the average mediocrity,—expan- sion in the direction of deviation from that of the common rut. In the case of the two Seguin brains it is safe to say that if they had been scattered among a hundred other brains, and these had been grouped according to the type of gvral disposi- tion, they would have come together as the classification became finer and finer until ultimately they probably would have con- stituted a group by themselves. The asymmetry of the halves of liighly^-developed brains must therefore form the basis for demonstratino- hereditary transmission in the brains of parent and child before us ; and it is for such unilateral features that w^e must search. They are present in sufficient number to establish the proposition, and while I am prepared to enumerate these at length, their presentation and discussion woidd require more space than it is my privilege to occupy. Briefly stated, the most important of these features common to both brains are :