5 the Congress is assessed five dollars, which he has to pay as an individual. The Secretary would ask the Association to consider the question whether it would not be more satisfac- tory to have an intercallary meeting with the Association for the Advancement of Science than triennially with the Con- gress. This would give ns two meetings a year, like the Anthropological Section of that Association, which is now also to meet with the Naturalists and affiliated societies. The members will observe that the difference between the subscriptions received for the Journal of Anatomy and Physiology and the expense of ordering the same is this year a balance of fifty-four cents in favor of the Association, a part of which must be debited to postage, showing that the cost to the subscriber and to the Association are nearly evenly balanced. The Secretary would therefore suggest that the arrangement continue by which subscribers may order through the Secretary’s office. At the close of the May meeting there were on the rolls 118 active, and io honorary members; total, 128. Since then we have lost Prof. Wm. Anderson, F. R. C. S., Eng., &c., Lecturer on Anatomy, St. Thomas’ Hospital, London, an honorary member. Dr. Woods Hutchinson, late Professor of Comparative Pathology, &c., at University of Buffalo, has been dropped because the Secretary has been unable to estab- lish any communication with him, and he is also in arrears for dues. Dr. A. L. T. Schaper has removed to Breslau, Germany, where he has been appointed a Professor in the University of that city. The membership is now, therefore, 116 active, 9 honorary members; total, 125. I may note in passing that 18 members are also members of the Society of Naturalists. Seven members of this Association are in arrears for two years and five for three years; total arrearages $225.00. Respectfully submitted, D. S. Lamb, Secretary and Treasurer. No reports were received from the Delegate to the Executive Committee of the triennial Congress of American Physi- cians and Surgeons, nor from the Committee on Anatomical