1 70 thalamus; I think I may say in the thalamus of both sides. A careful study of the brains of a large number of animals, mostly monkeys, the subjects of experimental lesions of the cortex, leads me to conclude that this anatomical connection of each thalamus with the cortex of both hemispheres is most evident in those instances in which the area excised was that in which movements more or less bilateral are represented. These movements are mostly facial; such as are called into play in the expression of the emotions. May not this have some bearing on the function of the thalamus? It has been suggested that the thalamus is the centre for reflex or emo- tional movements.8 In unilateral facial palsy the escape of the emotional paths has long been a puzzle. According to present conceptions the cortex is concerned in all reflexes in- volving consciousness. Many cortical reflexes are purely vol- untary. The part played by volition in those cortical reflexes termed emotional, such as the play of the features in facial expression, is open to discussion, but it can hardly be doubted that they are as much cortical reflexes as any of the so-called voluntary movements. The interposition of the thalamus in such an arc and the anatomical connection of each hemis- phere with both thalami, as here demonstrated, may explain the play of the features as the result of emotion when vol- untary movement is impossible. In many extensive lesions of the internal capsule fibres passing into the thalamus, even on the side of the lesion, might easily escape injury, even if bilateral control of the thalami were improbable. As to the functions, other than motor, of projection fibres from the motor cortex, it is at least possible that some serve the purposes of inhibition, voluntary or otherwise It seems altoo-ether reasonable that voluntary inhibition of certain visual reflexes might be essential to holding the eyes fixed upon a given object. This is suggested as a possible explana- tion of the presence of degenerated fibres in the lateral genicu- late bodies in this case (Figs. 5 and 6). There is certainly no reason why the reflex might not be inhibited in the genicu- late body before it reaches the motor oculi nuclei. 8 Bechterew. Leitungsbahnen im Geliirn und Riickenmark. Zweite A ullage.