21G stomach; this is added to the general peritoneal cavity and I shall term it the peritoneal coelom. In the early embryos the whole coelom lies far out of place; in Embryo XII nearly the entire coelom lies in the region of the head and neck and in the further development of these parts the coelom with the surrounding organs wanders away from the head to its per- manent location. As long as the serous cavities arising from the coelom are in the process of wandering and are not fully separated from one another I shall term them pleural, peri- cardial and peritoneal coelom; when they are fully established I shall call them cavities. In Embryo XII, Fig. 1, the coelom of the embryo forms a free space encircling the heart and extending on either side of the body over the omphalo-mesenteric veins to the root of the umbilical vesicle. This canal of communication has de- veloped within it the lung, stomach and liver, and throughout its earlier development it measures in length about one-fourth of that of the body (Embryos XII, CXLYIII, LXXYI, LXXX, II and CLXIII). The appearance of the lung and liver marks the subdivision of the coelom into the pleural and peritoneal coelom. With the development of the liver, lung and stomach the coelom containing them gradually dilates until the embryo is about 9 mm. long, when the canal evaginates, so to speak, and turns the liver and stomach out into the general peritoneal cavity. The Wolffian body, which occupied the dorsal wall of this canal, gradually degenerates and the lung takes its place. From these state- ments it is readily inferred that the canal extending from the pericardial coelom, His’s recessus parietalis, gives rise to the pleural coelom on its dorsal side and to the peritoneal coelom on its ventral side. The line of division is formed by the pleuro-peritoneal membrane extending from the ductus Cuvieri to the adrenal. The earliest embryo in my collection in which the septum transversum is well formed is No. XII, 2.1 mm. long, and about two weeks old.2 The specimen is very valuable for the 2 Different pictures of this embryo will be found in the Journal of Morph., vol. 12; His’s Arcliiv, 1897; Johns Hopkins Hospital Bulletin, 1898; and the Welch Festschrift, Johns Hopkins Hospital Reports, vol. 9.