152 vertebral column near the dorsal surface of the last vertebral body and passes thence dorsally to the ventral side of the medullary cord, accompanying this nearly to the tip. In contrast to the vertebral portion, the terminal portion is scarcely differentiated and not well defined in the surround- ing mesenchyme. The continuation of the aorta (ao.), i. e. the a. sacralis media, at first ventral to the vertebras, passes out into the caudal filament as an cl candalis. From this are given off the segmental arteries, one for each vertebra down to and including the last or thirty-sixth. (The last two are not shown in the figure.) These pass up on each side of the vertebral bodies, but it is doubtful if the more distal ones are as yet fully open. In the same way the vena cava continues into the tail, as the v. sacralis media and the v. cauclalis, which lies ventral and to the right of the artery. At their termina- tion in the caudal filament the artery and the vein meet. The vein is of large calibre to the region of the thirty-second vertebra; here it narrows down very suddenly. There are numerous small blood-vessels throughout the mesenchyme of the tail. Embryo 1±3. Greatest Length 16 mm.; Neclc-Breech Length Id mm.—The relations of the tail to the trunk are about the same as in the younger embryo first described, i. e. it is free from the thirty-third vertebra on. The vertebral portion of the tail is longer, but the caudal filament is shorter and more shrunken. It bends sharply on itself to the dorsal side, almost through an angle of 180°. Thirty-seven vertebrae are present, with possible indications of a thirty-eighth; eight of these belong beyond doubt to the coccygeal region. The thirty-fourth and thirty-fifth are partly fused in the middle.# The hypapophyses of each are distinct. The spinal ganglia number thirty-two. The relations of the notochord, medullary cord and blood-vessels are the same as in the embryo first described. There is a slight irregularity in the notochord in the form of a process which extends ventrally into the substance of the thirty-sixth vertebra.