74 having- at that early age served as a medical cadet in the regular army. Among other appointments which he received, was that of house physician at the New York Hospital. He developed a pulmonary trouble which was recovered from during a sojourn at Forts Craig and Selden, in New Mexico. From 1871 to 1885 he was lecturer at the College of Physi- cians and Surgeons on diseases of the nervous system and insanity. In 1873 ^ie founded the clinic for nervous diseases in that college. He was a member of many societies in both hemispheres, and his contributions to the pathology and therapeutics of nervous disorders are especially valuable and rendered his position in the literature of the medical world a very prominent one. He will always be distinguished as one of the pioneers of American neurology. An indefatigable worker, his labors were all characterized by a methodicity which has become traditional among his friends and pupils. He died on February 19, 1898. BRAIN OF DR. EDOUARD SEGUIN. The elder Seguin’s brain was removed within 24 hours after death by Dr. K. C. Spitzka, assisted by Dr. R. W. Amidon, on October 29, 1880. Its appearance and texture were normal, but there appeared to be a trifle less cerebro- spinal fluid than usual. The brain-weight was recorded as 2 pounds, 12 ounces, 5^ drams, equivalent to 44.344 ounces or 1,257 grams. At the present time, after over 20 years’ im- mersion in alcohol, this weight is reduced to 880 grams, the loss amounting to 377 grams, or 30 per cent, of the original weight. The weights of the different parts of the brain * on Decem- ber 3, 1900, were as follows : Left hemicerebrum, . Right hemicerebrum, Cerebellum,. . . . Isthmus, 365 grams. 367 grams. 84 grams. 64 grams. Total, 880 grams. * The division of the cerebral segments was not made strictly in accordance with Meynert’s plan, but according to a modification which utilizes the ectal border of the optic tract, and the taenia thalami (ripa) as guides for a single simple incision ; those of either side converge forward to meet in front of the chiasm ; the usual cut through the callosum and lamina terminalis com- pletes a trisection which leaves the prosencephalon and brain-axis separated as nearly the ideal as can be.