125 ON THE TEACHING OF THE NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM OF HUMAN BEINGS TO LARGE CLASSES OF MEDICAL STUDENTS. By Lewellys F. Barker, M. B., and Preston Kyes, M. D. The writers had this past autumn to meet the problem of teaching 220 sophomore students the anatomy of the brain and spinal cord of human beings, in the absence of a sufficient amount of illustrative anatomical material, and with a corps of instructors of inadequate size. Less than twenty human brains were obtainable, and only four instructors, in addition to the lecturer, were available for laboratory teaching. The class was dealt with in the following way: Two lectures were given weekly for three months. A few extra lectures were arranged for toward the end of the course. The lectures consisted of brief descriptions of the parts actu- ally to be studied in the laboratory, accompanied by demon- strations of the parts and colored blackboard drawings. At the end of the courses, lectures upon the various conduction paths were given. The nomenclature employed was that of the B.N.A. For the laboratory work two sessions of from one and a-half to two hours each were available weekly for each of the four sections into which the class was divided. An instructor was placed in charge of each laboratory section, and to make up for the lack of additional trained instructors, laboratory out- lines were printed on library cards and distributed from time to time to each member of the class. No attempt was made to make one laboratory card correspond to one session of labo- ratory work. On the contrary, each card contained an outline of a certain portion of the course. This card was used until the corresponding portion of the work had been completed, a new card then being given out. The number of brains, though small, was made to suffice, in that one brain was given to each twelve students. It was cut into four parts (1, right cerebral hemisphere ; 2, left cerebral hemisphere ; 3, cerebellum ; 4, brain stem). Three students worked on each part, making drawings of the external form from different aspects, the parts being exchanged until each