184 Geflecthen des Darmes und der Gallenblase des Menschen und der Saugethiere. Archiv f. Anat. u. Phys., 1899. (9) G. Carl Huber: Observations on sensory nerve-fibres in visceral nerves, and on their modes of terminating. Jour- nal of Comparative Neurology, vol. x, No. 2, 1900. DESCRIPTION OF PLATES XXV-XXVI. Fig. 1.—The gall-bladcler of a pig; natural size. The lymphatics were injected by placing the needle just under the peritoneal covering of the liver near the edge of the gall-bladder at (iV). The blurred mass in the centre represents the injection mass showing through and the lymphatic vessel coming up from the deeper layer to join the large superficial one. N= Needle of syringe. Fig. 2.—Reconstruction of the wall of the partially contracted gall- bladder of a dog, magnified GO times, showing the blood-vessels on the right and the lymphatic vessels on the left. Lymph follicles are shown on the right as two rounded eminences just under the epithelium. The vena comites shown is quite characteristic for the larger arteries. The large lymphatic vessel is shown partially collapsed. Fig. 3.—Gall-bladder of adult man, showing superficial lymphatics. X natural size. Fig. 4. — Gall-bladder of man 19 years old, dead of chronic nephritis, showing the large superficial lymphatics. This gall-bladder gave evidence of having been through an inflammatory process, and so the lymphatics are probably abnormally numerous. Fig. 5.—Gall-bladder of dog, showing the superficial lymphatic ves- sels. Natural size. Fig. 6.—Section through the contracted gall-bladder of a dog, magnified 80 times, showing the arrangement into coats and the relations of the blood-vessels. Fig. 7.—The lymphatics of the subserous layer of a dog. (Camera drawing.) Fig. 8.—The lymphatics of the fibro-museular layer of a dog, showing their relation to the folds on its surface. These folds are represented narrower and less complicated than in the specimen in order not to hide the lymphatics. (Outlines made with the aid of a camera.)