39 university system. The human material necessary for the completion of the museum series is to be obtained from the supply of the medical school. The typical preparations are, of course, from specially selected subjects set apart for the purpose. Besides this, however, one of the important func- tions of the museum is to supervise the records of the dis- secting room, to collect and arrange the statistical information afforded by the constantly repeated examination of the human body, to acquire for its own purposes the preparations which either illustrate normal structures unusually well or demon- strate important and significant variations. Part of this material is capable of direct incorporation in the museum series after removal from the cadaver and proper preparation. For other objects the method of plastic reproduction by means of casts is invaluable. This applies especially to the great group of myological variations. Not only are the objects bulky and not well adapted for preservation as moist speci- mens, but casts actually better serve the purposes of the mu- seum in exhibition and instruction. In the comparative myological series, with which human muscular variations are necessarily brought into intimate relation, the method of plastic reproduction is an essential. The full utilization of rare and valuable animals requires this method because super- ficial structures must be removed before the deeper parts can be reached. As the superficial muscles are exposed casts of the different regions are taken in various positions. In the same way, by casting the deeper layers as they are successively reached, permanent records of the greatest value for myologi- cal study and reference are attained. The casts, together with the notes and drawings of the dissection, form a com- plete and readily accessible record far exceeding in value and accuracy any other method of illustration. Again, for ex- ample, in dealing with the development and modifications of the extremities in the vertebrate classes, each group is accom- panied by casts of the entire hand and foot, forming, together with the preparations of the soft parts, muscles and ligaments and the skeleton of the extremities, a complete series. For purposes of instruction this method has proved itself very valuable. Thus a carefully prepared and hardened liver show- ing the natural surfaces and impressions, which are ordinarily lost in the organ removed from the body before hardening, and which are hence not ordinarily recognized, has been cast