The Renal Vein.—Concerning the veins, I shall here record /vuU terior pyramid (P'), while the posterior branch (a") supplies only the remaining portion of the posterior pyramid (P'). The arrow indicates the division between the two vascular trees, c represents a section of the long lateral column of cortical substance, which is situated between the anterior and posterior rows of pyramids P and P\ The greater part of the arterial circulation of the kidney follows this system. The entire region from calices 2 to 7 has this arrangement. Around the uppermost (1) and lowest (8) calyx, however, the arteries have a somewhat different arrangement (Fig. 4). They are derived from the anterior group of vessels and run either as a single trunk, having a diameter of 2-3 mm., to the base of the major calyx, or divide before they reach the calyx into three branches, I, II, III. Branch I and branch III run courses similar to those of branches a' and a" in Fig. 3 B, i. e. anteriorly and poste- riorly to the calyx. It is obvious that their arrangement must prolong the arterial division, existing in the central portion of the kidney, upward and downward. Branch II may be short, as in Fig 3 A (upper pole), and vessels coming from branches I and III partially may take its place. Or it may be of considerable length, as in Fig. 5, where it makes a long sweep around the inner border of the pole. Branch II is the one that generally plays the role of the supernumerary artery; it may arise from the renal artery near its aortic < origin (Fig. 5 a and b) or even from the aorta (Fig. 5 c); in the latter case it must be considered a supernumerary artery. Although separate arteries are found in kidneys with smooth surfaces, they are much more frequently met with in those that have preserved their foetal lobulation. This ab- normal arrangement of the arteries is, perhaps, the cause of the persistence of the lobulated form. When he meets with a kidney having a distinctly lobulated form, the operator may expect to find a long hilum with separate arteries and an abnormal renal pelvis. The further course of the arteries, the irregularities that may occur and to what extent they affect the above described schema, will be dealt with in a fuller communication.