222 as it was obtained through mechanical means. The entire ovum was hardened in 80 per cent alcohol shortly after it was expelled from the uterus. This of course fixed the embryo in its natural shape, as was the case with Xo. XII. Both embryos are curved, but in the embryo 4.3 mm. long the branchial region occupies relatively more space than it does in the embryo 2.1 mm. long. In proportion to the length of the embryos this distance has increased 3 times. The pericardial coelom has receded from the head in propor- tion to the increase of the growth of the branchial arches. In the embryo 2.1 mm. long the head end of the pericardial coelom is opposite the otic vesicle, while in the embryo 4.3 mm. it is opposite the first occipital myotome. The point of communication between the peritoneal coelom (encircling the liver) with the exocoelom has also receded. In the embryo 2.1 mm. long it is opposite the second cervical myotome; in embryo 4.3 mm. long opposite the second thoracic myotome (compare Figs. 1 and 10). His's embryo Lr (4.2 mm. long) is intermediate between the two embryos just compared. In Lr (see His’s Atlas, Pis. IX and XI) the pericardial, pleural and peritoneal coelom encircling the liver extends from the first occipital myotome to the sixth cervical, and the omphalo- mesenteric veins protrude into these canals of the coelom. The liver has extended into the septum transversum but does not yet encircle the omphalo-mesenteric veins as it does in my embryo 4.3 mm. long. This detailed description is given to show the fate of the coelom 4 of the head and neck. It gives rise to the pericardial and pleural cavities, and that por- tion of the peritoneal cavity encircling the liver of the adult. Sections of the embryo 4.3 mm. long (Xo. CXLYIII. Figs. 11 and 12) show the liver sprouts growing in all direc- tions through the septum transversum, encircling and ramify- ing through the omphalo-mesenteric veins, making a condition slightly in advance of that in Flis’s embryo Lr. The sections of this embryo show clearly that the heart, lungs, liver and lower peritoneal cavity arise in tissues surrounded by that por- tion of the coelom extending into the head in Embrvo XII. 4Kopfh6hle; Ilalsliohle; Parietalliolile and recessus parietalis.