144 inson. The majority of the embryonic tails contain;, how- ever, no prolongation of the vertebral column blit are classed as what Virchow12 calls soft tails (weiche Schwdnze). Description of Case. About a year ago Dr. Watson exhibited before the Johns Hopkins Hospital Medical Society a baby with a tail, which is an example of the last-named class.13 The tail was removed later, and through the kindness of Dr. Watson, who gave me the specimen as well as his notes of the case, I am enabled to make a fairly complete report on it, including a description of its histological structure. The child, which was the third in the family, was a healthy, well-developed male. In its family history there is nothing which throws any light upon the case. Aside from the tail the baby presented only one other slight deformity, and that was in the four outer toes of the right foot. These toes were shorter than the normal ones of the left foot, their tips were fumed up and the nails were small and thick. The phalanges of these toes were short and there were but two in each toe. The great toe of this foot was normally developed. The tail appendage was attached in the mid-line about one centimeter below the tip of the coccyx. Examination of the sacro-coccygeal region showed a well marked foveola coccygea (Ecker) (Figs. 1 and 2), but owing to the extreme fineness of the hairs of this region, which to the unaided eye were quite invisible, it was impossible to distinguish any particular coccygeal bald spot or glabella coccygea (Ecker). Beginning a little to the right and below the foveola is a sharply defined groove, which runs obliquely downward and to the left be- tween the buttocks and passes to the left of the root of the tail. The appendage itself was of firm consistency, though con- '2 R. Virchow : Schwanzbildung beitn Mensclien. Deutsche med. Woch- enschr., 10. Jahrg., 1884. 13 W. T. Watson: Exhibition of a Three-months’ Infant with a Caudal Appendage. Proc. J. H. IT. Med. Soc. Johns Hopkins Hospital Bulletin, vol. xi, 1900.