257 the position of the plane of arterial division can also be determined. Let ns consider briefly the principal landmarks. The anterior surface (Fig. 7 B) of a normally shaped kidney is convex and has its greatest prominence at the lower portion at the point indicated by a. The posterior surface (A) is somewhat flattened. A lateral view of the organ (C) shows this very clearly; there is also rendered visible a depression (b b'), which indicates the position of the lateral column above referred to, or the line of division between the anterior and posterior rows of pyramids. This depression, however, by no means indicates the division between the arterial systems, as below it is situated the greatest number of large vessels contained in the kidney. This line (b b') is therefore a most important landmark and in every neph- rotomy should be thoroughly mapped out. The other depres- sions on the surface indicate the positions of the margins of the individual pyramids or subdivisions of such. Fig. 8 shows the same kidney as Fig. 7, with its pyramids and calices schematically drawn. The posterior pyramids (A 3, 5, 7) are long and slender, while the anterior ones (B 2, 4, 6) are more rounded at their base, thicker and do not extend so far laterally as the posterior pyramids. Con- sequently, the line of division (D b and b') between the pyra- mids leans more towards the anterior surface of the kidney, so that the anterior surface of the organ bulges, while the posterior is flat. Between the pyramids are the columns of Bertini which carry the larger vessels. Fig. 8 C shows that these columns join in a longitudinal column (b b'), in which all of the largest vessels of the kidney (three-fourths of the arteries and all of the veins) are found (see also Figs. 3 and 6). As was said before, in lobulated kidneys this column is indicated as a distinct depression on the surface. The cap- sule seems thickened along this line and frequently forms a whitish band, to which the perirenal fat appears to be more intimately attached than elsewhere. Lobulation of varying degrees of distinctness is found in the great majority of cases. The trained eye can detect this lobulation in kidneys which a novice would pronounce per-