51 Let me quote two remarks that I have heard of as coming from two well known scientific anatomists— (1) “There is nothing new in human anatomy; it is all in the books.” (2) “A man who has a book, a subject and a scalpel ought to be able to work it all out for himself”—* two as damnable heresies as ever were anathematized in a papal bull. Following this has come a neglect of teaching method, so that in many instances the arrangements for instruction in anatomy are no better than they were twenty-five years ago. One of the most obvious improvements is the teaching of anatomy in small sections, which has not been put in practice in the dissecting room for want of time, because the roster is overcrowded with subjects that belong more properly to the post graduate work and because it requires an increase in the corps of instructors. Next to small numbers is the methodical apportionment of the work. There is no reason why on a certain day, in chemis- try the class should work on certain elements, or in physiology on certain reactions, or in histology on certain tissues, while in dissecting it is a “hop scotch,” “happy-go-lucky,” “go as you please.” If it were possible, we would not only assign the same dissection for the same section hour, but we would have the scalpels ply together, with the same unison as the violin bows in a well trained orchestra. If the task for the period is the deep fascia of the thigh, it would be a delight at the end of the hour to go around the room and see it thoroughly defined on every cadaver, with its subdivisions, its saphenous opening and the superficial veins and nerves lying neatly in view. To be ahead of the assignment is a crime, to be behind is far better if it implies not sloth nor ignorance, the most care- less students being the most rapid slashers. Methodical and trim dissection implies a foreknowledge of the structures, exacting preparatory work at home; but it is difficult to impress the fact that the dissecting room is a laboratory and not a library alcove. Didactic reading should be done at home, the only use of the book here being in con- nection with the cadaver. We would mark “ absent” those who are away from their “ part” for any considerable interval longer than to ask a