154 mammalian and bird embryos are of importance in showing that the caudal filament is of general occurrence and not a peculiarity of the human tail. Again, the occurrence of spinal nerves and ganglia in a number of the coccygeal seg- ments, as shown by Fol,3' Phisalix 83 and Keibel, the continu- ation of the aorta and vena cava into the caudal filament, together with the presence of segmental arteries and the hypapophyses or rudimentary haemal arches in all of the coccygeal segments as described in the present paper, show that the caudal region of the human embryo resembles that of other mammalian embryos in all respects except in size and in the number of its segments. Concerning the regressive development of the tail consid- erable difference of opinion has been expressed. Rosenberg, who holds that, strictly speaking, the caudal rudiment in man is not the homologue of the tail of other animals, but is the result of a precocious growth of the medullary cord,34 con- siders that the appendage disappears in consequence of the increase in volume of that end of the embryonic body and not through absorption. His,30 in supporting Rosenberg, makes the statement that no reduction in the number of seer- o ments takes place during the development of the human embryo, but that the regressive changes are confined to the caudal filament; this view is confirmed in the agreement with Ecker. On the other hand, Fol and Phisalix find thirty-eight segments in embryos of 8-10 mm., with indications that sev- 32 H. Fol : Sur la queue de l’embryon humain. Comptes Rendus, T. 100, Paris, 1885. 33 C. Phisalix: Etude d’un embryon humain de 10 millimetres. Ar- chives de Zool. Exp. et Gem IInie S., T. vi, 1888. 34 E. Rosenberg: Ueber die Entwickelung der Wirbelsaule und das centrale carpi des Menschen. Morphol. Jahrb., Bd. i, 1876. “ . . . dass die Gestaltuug des liinteren Leibesendes ebenfalls von dem Medulla- rohr derart beeinflusst wird, dass letzteres, indem es in seinem Langen- wachsthum dem der anderen, un der Zusammensetzung des hinteren Leibesendes Theilhabenden Bestandtlieile vorauseilt, an demselben einen Vorsprung erzeugt. ...” p. 128. 3£> “ Es werdeu demuach beim menschlichen Embryo keine iiberzahligen zur Riickbildung bestimmten Segmente angelegt.” Anatomie men- schlicher Embryonen, i, p. 92.