63 ences on the ribs from the third downward are quite frequent and apparent in whites ; no deformities of this nature were found in the ribs of Indians. NOTCHED RIBS. In a moderate percentage of the longer ribs (4th to 10th) the inferior border shows one, two or even more notches. The notches are of varying size and depth ; some form as much as a half-foramen. They are most frequently situated some- what anteriorly to the angle of the rib. These notches are undoubtedly due to blood vessels passing across the inferior border of the rib. PERFORATED AND BICAUDAE OR FORKED RIBS. Two specimens, both third ribs and both right, show each in their sternal extremity a vascular foramen. In one of the ribs the foramen measures five by eight millimeters in diam- eter, is situated in the sternal border of the ribs and encroaches slightly on the cartilage ; in the second specimen the foramen is smaller (2 by 3.5 millimeters) and situated one centimeter from the sternal border of the ribs. In both cases the foramen is somewhat nearer the superior than the inferior border of the rib ; and in both cases the sternal end of the rib is somewhat broadened. It is possible that in these two specimens we have an indication as to the mode of causation (vascular obstruction in the path of the ossification) of at least some instances of the bicaudal or forked ribs. Among the 14,000 ribs other than the first and second there are six specimens that show a forking of the sternal ex- tremity ; besides these there is one among the 1,200 second ribs that presents a considerable broadening of its sternal ex- tremity and two articular facets on the same. In the longer ribs the forking extends from one to five centimeters from the sternal border. The forks diverge somewhat except in one specimen, where they run parallel. In all the forked ribs the sternal extremity is broadened, and this broadening ex- tends usually considerably beyond the division. The two branches differ in all the specimens in breadth as well as in length. In all the cases the superior branch is the narrower and shorter (compare the perforated ribs). Four of the bicaudal ribs are right and one left. Two, pos-