METHOD OF UTILIZING FROZEN SECTIONS FOR CLASS DEMONSTRATIONS OF VISCERAL ANATOMY AND ANATOMY OF THE EPIPHYSES. By Dr. A. Primrose, Toronto, Canada. The exhibition of lantern slides which was given before the Association of American Anatomists was that of a series of photographs made from sections through the trunk and ex- tremities of children. The sections were prepared in a special manner so as to present a perfectly smooth surface with clear outlines of the various structures. These sections were photo- graphed, and lantern plates made from the negatives. They were cut in sagittal, coronal and horizontal planes through the trunk, and in longitudinal and transverse directions through the extremities. The method adopted in the Univer- sity of Toronto is that permanent preparations are made of the sections, which are mounted in flat dishes and thus ex- posed so that they are accessible to the students at any time in the Anatomical Department. The lantern demonstration of these sections is given from time to time at the close of a lecture. It proves to be a very useful adjunct to the ordinary methods of demonstration, and the student always has the opportunity of studying the actual sections in the dissecting room, the photograph of which is thrown upon the screen in the lecture theater. It is claimed that these photographs of actual sections are of much greater value from an educational standpoint than drawings reproduced from the sections. My method of making the frozen sections referred to is as follows : The subject must not be injected with alcohol, as that, of course, prevents freezing, but, if you wish, a colored injection may be thrown into the arteries. A wooden box is made, perforated with many holes so that water drains away from it readily. The subject is placed in the box and suspended in the position in which you wish to have it while cutting. The box must be sufficiently large to allow of about 18 inches of freezing mixture around the subject on all sides. The