126 of the twelve members of the group had made drawings of the naked-eye appearance of the whole external surface of the brain. Subsequently each brain was cut into a series of coro- nal sections at the levels indicated in the cards. Each of these sections was imbedded in a flat disk of plaster of paris and kept in a weak solution of formaline. These sections were distributed among the students, who drew them, the various sections being exchanged until each student had drawn all of them. The students were advised to use the lecture notes, an atlas (preferably Spalteholz’ Toldt’s), and a good text as guides to their laboratory work. The most discouraging part of the course for the student was the drawing of the long series of coronal sections, espe- cially through the region of the mid-brain, pons and medulla. During this period the student has to learn a large number of names for the various objects which are visible before he ap- preciates the significance of this knowledge for the conception of the nervous system in the three dimensions of space neces- sary for the proper understanding of the various conduction paths. When the series of drawings had been completed lectures were given upon the various conduction paths, especially upon those of most importance to practical medical men, and the student was required to make diagrammatical sketches illustrating these various paths and the neurone systems com- posing them, relating each of the masses of nerve cells and each of the bundles of medullated axones to the structures which he had seen and drawn when passing through the series of coronal sections. The following is the series of cards furnished each student, indicating the outline of the course as given : OUTLINE NO. I. SYSTEMA NERVORUM CENTRALE OF THE DOG. Gross Study. Directions : Identify the following structures by a study of the pro- sected animal : Syst. New. Centrale. Meninges Cerebrum Cerebellum Medulla oblongata Medulla spinalis Syst. New. Periphericum. Nervi cerebrates Nervi spin ales Rami communicantes Syst. New. Sympathici. Truncus sympathicus Ganglia trunci sym- pathici Plexus sympathici Ganglia plexuum synlpa th i corum