42 der-girdle of the armadillo assumes its proper place in the series demonstrating the structure of this portion of the verte- brate skeleton, and is numbered accordingly on a green disk, so that its own place in the series is preserved, green being the color of that division of the museum which deals with the development of the pectoral and pelvic arches. If the arma- dillo’s number in the series is 17, and an additional prepar- ation enters the series next to it, it receives green number 17a, etc. In addition to the green number a small red disk on the armadillo preparation carries a number which refers the pre- paration to its proper place in the series illustrating the gen- eral anatomy of the Edentates, red being the serial color of that division. So if it is desired to put together at once for comparison all the material contained in the museum for illus- tration of the Edentate type, every preparation carrying a red disk is taken out of its own series and the resulting group, when arranged in the sequence of the red numbers, forms the logical series treating of Edentate anatomy. This plan makes every portion of the museum easily and at once accessible, and arranges the series in such a manner that each shall prove complementary to all the others. By varying the shape of the colored labels and the charac- ter of the numerals sufficient range is obtained to meet all requirements. In addition—as the series develop—more extensive type- written tablets are introduced, giving the general features of the group and indicating the purpose for which it was assembled. Photographs and drawings of the preparations, carefully labeled, are used for indicating points of special importance, in such a manner that they can be readily identified in the actual preparation. These accessories prove of aid in the use of the museum for individual study and during informal demonstrations and conferences. I have attempted to outline for your consideration the present status of the morphological museum and its relation to the system of the university. I am convinced that the practical value of the institution will continue to make itself more and more felt, and its general adoption and develop- ment will be one of the prominent features marking our edu- cational and scientific progress during the next decade.