95 cent, formaldehyde in water. Injection was not very success- ful, and entire body was then put in alcohol and formaldehyde, the strength of which I do not know. I then obtained the body, decapitated it and froze the head for a median section to mount. Head divided with saw y2 mm. in width, i mm. approximately to left of median line. Body then was examined. There was no sternalis muscle, as has been so frequently found by Dr. Shepard in anence- phalic monsters, but from the axillary borders of both pectoral groups, a single muscular sheet extended backward envelop- ing the outer wall of the axilla to the axillary border of the latissimus dorsi, with fibrous arch from insertion of pectoralis major to insertion of latissimus dorsi. Through the arch passed the axillary vessels. The attachment was caudad to 5th, 6th and 7th ribs and fascia over intercostals. The nerve supply was from the external anterior thoracic, as has been pointed out by Dr. Shepard 011 this anomaly. On removal of the sternum and costal cartilages, the thymus presented approximately normal as were the lungs, heart and great vessels. Lungs somewhat atelectatic. The thyroid body seemed somewhat large, 6 cm. by 5 cm. by 4 cm. ; the lateral lobes embraced the trachea and oesophagus, impinging upon the vertebral column dorsally. Over right lobe of liver, beneath peritoneum of supero-external surface, was a large sub- peritoneal hemorrhage. Liver otherwise normal. Stomach normal save for attachment of omentum to transverse colon, which attachment had not taken place on left side for approxi- mately 8 cm. Duodenum enclosed by peritoneum save for 4 cm., beneath attachment of mesocolon. Small intestines otherwise normal with exception of attachment of ileum to caecum shown in photograph, ileum passing behind caecum. Ascending and descending colon both have long mesenteric attachment, caecum is unrotated and appendix is on outer aspect of caecum, vessels and folds otherwise normal. Kid- neys and adrenals normal, no hemorrhages within them; pancreas also normal. Right testis compressed by neighbor- ing viscera into small triangular mass beneath right kidney, left testis just at outer ring, and not in scrotum. Ureters and bladder not dissected, but seem normal. No extra muscles apparent to accessory fingers or toes. Mesial section of skull and brain shown in photographs and diagram drawn by Mr. E. A. Spitzka from the dissected