37 of the dog’s own order, the Carnivora, bnt through the entire mammalian class, and beyond this limit, so as to include the homologous structures, in other vertebrate classes, the result of the investigation becomes potentially amplified to a corre- sponding degree. The investigator can not only reason from analogy as to the results of similar experiments extended as far as deemed advisable through the vertebrate classes and orders, but he can also, guided by the morphology of the structure under consideration, select types which, from their anatomical con- figuration, promise unequivocal confirmation and extension of the results yielded by the first experiment. How frequently the success of an investigation depends on details of anato- mical structure every physiologist will attest. It is often the question of the length of an arterial vessel without branches, or the arrangement of a duct, or the combination of several peripheral nerves. The museum of comparative morphology converts a hap-hazard search for a suitable form into one which will select the most desirable type with certainty. In turn the generalized view of organized structure obtained in the comprehensive system of the museum will afford to the morphologist the aid which is to be found in the broad physiological interpretation of the modifications exhibited. Thus these two fundamental departments will be brought into closer contact with each other, a contact which cannot fail to redound equally to the benefit of both. I believe that a closer association of anatomy and physiology, such as is afforded by the link of the museum, is of very distinct advantage in undergraduate instruction. The modern development of science inevitably leads to a high degree of specialization, which naturally becomes apparent in the teaching of any de- partment. The general advantage of this is obvious, pro- vided touch is not lost with cognate branches. The morphological museum preserves this vital connection between anatomy and physiology more than any other single factor in the university equipment. Moreover, the museum has important relations to the practical departments of medi- cal teaching and to pathology. Nearly all important ad- vances, especially in departments such as diseases of the eye and ear, the diseases of women, surgery in general and in its specialized branches, depend primarily on some morphological