142 While careful investigation of the many travellers’ stories has invariably given negative results regarding the existence of tailed races, so many individual instances of homo caudatus have been observed, that the popular belief in them has been kept alive without difficulty. With the growing interest shown by anatomists and anthropologists in the subject, the number of cases which have been reported has become considerable, and the fact that the human embryo at a certain period of de- velopment is provided with a tail-like appendage has lent color to the discussion of the question. Bartels in 1884 referred to one hundred and sixteen persons who had recorded observations upon tailed men. Of these, over sixty cases had been more or less completely described. In 1892 Schaeffer * * * 4 5 collected additional cases, adding in all twenty-five. Pyat- nitskiJ has also given an elaborate account of the subject, and still more recently Ivohlbrugge,6 7 in connection with an admirable description of a very interesting case, has made valuable comparisons with previous work. From the United States five cases have, to my knowledge, been reported.' community of tailed men in Turkestan. These were held in the utmost contempt the other people, and were therefore condemned to con- stant inbreeding. They were referred to as “Kuju rukly Tatar,” which in German is rendered “ St inice rules Ungeziefer mit Schwiinzen.” The tail was supposed to be a special curse in that it hindered the possessor from sitting properly on his horse. 4Oskar Schaeffer: Beitrag zur Aetiologie der Schwanzbildungen beim Menschen. Archiv f. Anthropol., Bd. xx, 1S92. 5 I. S. Pyatnitski : On the Question of the Formation of a Tail in Man, and of Human Tails in General, according to Data from Literature and Personal Researches. Dissertation. St. Petersburg, 1893 (Russian). 6 J. H. F. Kohlbrugge: Schwanzbildung und Steissdriise des Menschen und das Gesetz der Rucliscklagsvererburg. Natuurkundig Tijdsclirift voor Nederlandsch-Indie, Deel lvii, 1S98. 7 Dickinson: A Child with a Tail. Brooklyn Medical Journal, yoI. viii, 1894. Halsted Myers: A Caudal Appendage. Proceedings of the New York Pathological Society, (1893) 1894. Julian Berry : Baby with a Tail. Memphis Medical Journal, vol. xiv, 1894. A. Ecker: Der Steisshaarwirbel (vertex coccygeus), die Steissbein- glatze (glabella coccygea) und das Steissbeingrubclien (foveola coccygea).