90 The last item is one to which I am not prepared to attach too much importance, for observations upon the weight of the halves of a dissected brain come within the range of error usually ascribed to the “personal equation.” The history of inheritable peculiarities, such as sex, poly- dactylism, abnormalities of the external ear, and the like, shows that the problematical mechanism of their transmission acts without regard to any other plan, in this respect, than that of u symmetry in asymmetry namely, it impresses the same or similar variation from the typical, if not on both sides, on either side alone, and indifferently as to correspondence with the one parentally involved. Any declaratory explanation for the contralateral situation of the same or similar atypy in the brains of parent and child must rest on conjecture. The influences at work in molding organic forms are profoundly mysterious ; particularly is this the case where symmetrical relations are in question. I need but refer to the possible relations of this fact to the more familiar ones just referred to, such as one-sided peculiarities of the pinna, the digits, or the orbits ; and that these influ- ences act contralaterally as well as unilaterally, and as har- moniously in their inversion as in those rare cases of complete transposition of the viscera. Let me instance an authentic case of maternal impression reported by Dr. W. L. Swift {New York Medical Journal, October 9, 1886, p. 407), where the birthmark not only repeated the original one-sided maternal impression, but was also duplicated, both sides of the body showing it. * * * Brown-Sequard demonstrated the hered- itary transmissions of lesions in the nervous system of guinea- pigs, the change in the descendants often being bilateral where they had been unilateral in the animals experimented upon. (Comptes rendus, Vol. xciv, 627.) The deformities of “ham- mer-toe” and “ syndactylism” may likewise exhibit unilateral, bilateral or even contralateral transmission. Lastly, I would allude to the mirror-like reproductions of physiological and pathological phenomena on opposite sides in certain forms of hysteria. If such modes of transmission be wonderful and mysterious how much more so is that of the hereditary influences of which we speak. When we remember that we are dealing here with the one organ of the body that is so variable that 110 two individuals possess it exactly alike, so far as exter-