85 to come into typical apposition. The explanation of this anomaly is that the left preinsula is far better developed than its fellow on the right side, corroborating the findings of Waldsclnnidt (in 1887) upon the brains of two professors of the University of Freiburg. But in the Seguin brains this redundancy of development upon the left side is so pro- nounced, that the insula in a ^^/-struggle to reach the gen- eral cerebral surface, has virtually thrust apart the opercula and made itself visible. The interpretation of this exposure as due to the relative hypertrophy of the insula is sustained by. the results of u soundings” taken at various points, and given in millimeters in the following table. The terms pre-, medi-, and post-insular depth refer to the three points at which the Sylvian cleft was sounded, the pre- insular point being the junction of the Sylvian with its pre- sylvian ramus, the medi-insular point being at the middle of the course of the Sylvian, the post-insular being at the junc- tion of the Sylvian cleft with its episylvian ramus. DEPTHS OF THE SYLVIAN FISSURE IN THE FOUR HEMI- CEREBRUMS OF THE TWO SEGUINS. Edouard Seguin (Father). Left. Right. Pre-insular depth, . . 11 mm. 18 mm. Medi-insular u . . . . . 22 “ 22 “ Post-insular “ . . . . 24 “ 22 “ Edward C. Seguin (Son). Left. Right. Pre-insular depth, . 7 mm. 15 mm. Medi-insular u . . . . 20 “ 23 “ Post-insular u . . . . 25 “ 25 “ The conclusions naturally to be drawn from the above are that the causes potential in insular exposure must be discrim- inated or classified as follows: Class /.—In the highly intellectual (for example, the two Seguins), owing to the excessive growth and development of the left pre-insula, causing a displacement of the opercula, thrusting them apart, as it were, and even though the latter be very well developed. Class 2.—In the defective, exposure of the pre-insula is due to deficient development of the opercula and because these fail to approach each other. In such cases the insula it-