96 liemi-seetion. The latter is presented through his kindness. The skin, scalp and oeeipito frontalis are normal, as are the portions of parietal and occipital bones then apparent. There is no horizontal plate to frontal bone. The body of the ethmoid is represented by a small cartilaginous plate, through intervals in which pass two, possibly more, attenuated olfac- tory fibers. The basio-sphenoid is normal, but the sella turcica seems deficient anteriorly. Nasal bones are cartila- ginous and misshapen, extending forward into protuberance, extending in front of lower end of frontal bone. Scattered bits of cartilage beneath the lower lid, irregularly separated by embryonal and irregularly-placed muscle fiber, seem to represent the unformed vomer, median plate of the ethmoid, the turbinate and palate bones. Tooth cavity normal in superior and inferior dental process. Spinal cord is normal in gross appearance. Inferior medullary velum is a thin veil between the peduncles of the flocculus. The nodulus is ab- sent, or represented by the velum only. The metapore is a wide, open space uncovering the 4th ventricle. The small size of the cerebellar peduncles makes the floor of the 4th ventricle considerably larger than normal. The obex is ill defined. In the floor of the 4th ventricle can be seen a well defined median sulcus, continuous with a dilated iter e tertio ad quartam ventriculam above and in front of it. The funiculi gracilis and cuneati are well developed and apparently normal. The cuneate tubercle of Schwalbe is enlarged as in all young human brains. The restiform bodies are poorly developed. The striae acusticae and eminentia teretes are very prominent. I11 consequence the superior and inferior foveae are very deep. The ligula is thick and well developed. The pons varolii of the mesencephalon is normal in gross appearance, but somewhat small. The iter is dilated evenly throughout its length (15 mm. in diameter), entering the third ventricle in relatively its normal position. The corpora quadrigemina, 20 mm. long, seem larger than normal and not differentiated in gross appearance into separate surface markings. Above the corpora quadrigemina is a flattened epiphysis, 10 mm. long by 1 mm. deep, over twice its normal size. A stalk passes cephalad from the epiphysis 1 mm., then ventrad and eaudad to posterior commissure dorsad to entrance of iter to the 3d ventricle.