His, but also in the reduction of all essential structures of the vertebral portion of the tail, i. e. the vertebrae, muscle segments, spinal ganglia and blood-vessels. It is interesting to note that in this tendency to reduction the resemblance between human and other mammalian tails also holds. The caudal filament, as Braun has shown, is present in other embryos and atrophies as development proceeds. The ten- dency to fusion of the distal vertebrae has been observed in the embryos of various long-tailed animals. And in short- tailed varieties, as Bonnet has shown, this tendency is merely accentuated.87 The view that a great many of the anomalous caudal appen- dages found in man are, as stated in the beginning, due to the persistence of the embryonic tail, is warranted by the facts gathered both from the study of the former as well as of the latter. Many of the differences in form are explained by the hypothesis of Bartels that the embryonic tail may be arrested in any stage of its development. The soft or boneless tails are clearly not due to the multiplication of vertebrae or even to the persistence of all which are developed in the embryo, but, as His 38 first suggested, are to be regarded as persisting caudal filaments. The usual position of these appendages as well as their structure support this conclusion. The fact that they are not always attached exactly over the tip of the coccyx cannot be regarded as conflicting with this view, for, as has long been recognized, the curvature in the vertebral column, especially m the sacral and coccygeal regions, changes markedly during development, and the caudal filament not being firmly united to the tip of the coccyx might easily be shifted slightly in relation to the latter. In the action of amniotic adhesions Schaeffer3D has sug- gested a cause which may undoubtedly bring about the per- sistence of the caudal filament, for it is a fact that in many, 37 R. Bonnet : Die stummelsckwauzigen Huntle im Hinblicb auf die Vererbung erworbener Eigenscbaften. Zeigler’s Beitrage z. path. Auat. u. allg. Patbol., Bd. iv, 1889. 38 Anatomie menseblieber Erabryonen, i, p. 95. 39 Arcbiv f. Antbropol., Bd. xs, 1892, p. 219.