and instructive deductions which a series of significant vari- ations of normal structures will enable the student to make. Moreover, in many respects the museum fulfills one of its most important practical functions in enabling the teacher to direct the student’s attention, at the proper points in any lab- oratory course, to the corresponding structures and their mod- ifications in selected preparations ranging throughout the entire vertebrate series. The broad and general application of the knowledge gained by the detailed study of any indi- vidual form can only by these means be impressed on the student, and it is thus that the anatomical museum accom- plishes one of the main purposes of morphological study. II. RELATION OF THE MUSEUM TO ORIGINAL RESEARCH AND ADVANCED STUDY. Of equal importance with the value of the museum for undergraduate instruction is its influence in promoting origi- nal investigation and advanced morphological study. Its very existence carries this with it. It constantly opens up, in creating the nucleus around which the institution is to grow, lines of investigation and research which ultimately return their products to the museum as permanent records of the work accomplished, and thus prove sources of continual and valuable additions. The museum in itself forms the basis for a progressive ex- tension of morphological investigation. It accomplishes this in several directions. In the first place, the generalization of the structures presented by different types, which marks the central purpose of the institution, forms a circle from whose circumference at any point the line of a new and more ex- tended investigation can be drawn. In fact, if the museum is to grow and develop according to its original intent, it is re- quisite that such enlargement should take place. As the museum grows the vital questions of derivation and ancestry of forms must be investigated on the hand of con- stantly increasing material, which will open up points of view heretofore unattained. With each new accession to any group the capacity of the museum for extension of original thought and investigation increases. Any research opens at some point in its course side lines which may be of the utmost value. It is here that the immediate possibility of serial comparisons on a large scale afforded by the museum becomes of the