31 the nervous system, the genito-urinary tract, the pelvic and pectoral girdles, the mammalian temporal, periotic and tympanic bone, etc. Special attention is given in this department of the museum to the demonstration of human anatomy. Eventually it is hoped that every portion of man’s structure will be fully and exhaustively illustrated by perfect preparations. The museum should afford the medical student the opportunity of directly verifying his text-book information and should be a most valuable guide and aid to the practical anatomical study of the individual in the dissecting room. Moreover, many struc- tures, as we all realize, are never fully examined or completely demonstrable to the student in the dissecting room. Aside from the individual differences in the cadaver in respect to development and state of preservation, and in the element of alteration of structure by diseased conditions, certain parts require special methods of preparation, such as the auditory apparatus ; others necessitate for their exposition the sacrifice of surrounding structures to a degree not warranted by the practical requirement of getting the greatest amount of detail from the dissection of a single cadaver. Moreover, even the structures which are ordinarily fully examined and demon- strated in the dissecting room on the fresh subject, can be shown with great profit in the museum in various prepara- tions by different methods. For example, the museum con- tains hardened situs preparations, organs hardened, distended and fenestrated, injection and corrosion preparations, etc., to illustrate fully the anatomical structure of each part and to enable the student to extend and amplify his observations on the cadaver. Again, in connection with this department of the museum, I find it of distinct advantage to establish small comparative series designed to illustrate the development and normal an- atomy, as well as the more important variations, of certain adult human conditions. These groups are accompanied by tablets, describing as fully as necessary the purpose of the ex- hibit, and drawings which emphasize the points at issue. Thus, for example, under the heading of the cardinal sinus of the adult human heart—as part of the series exhibiting cardiac anatomy—the following group is placed with full ex- planatory text: i. Heart and vascular system of Raja ocellata—various *