29 lation existing between the museum and the undergraduate instruction in anatomy. The following considerations present themselves : i. The fundamental plan of the museum includes in the first place a general exposition of the vertebrate classes, whose purpose is to present the cardinal points in the anatomical structure of the great vertebrate classes and subclasses. Each vertebrate class, subclass and order is represented by one or more typical forms in preparations illustrating as fully as possible the skeletal and locomotory apparatus, the circula- tory and nervous systems, and the alimentary, respiratory and uro-genital tracts. This display forms the guiding thread to the study of the individual forms—in respect to typical structures, i. e., the fundamental anatomical characters of the mammal, bird, reptile, amphibian and fish are grouped together to afford a comprehensive view of the entire organism, from which start- ing point the detailed investigation of characteristic structures in their various modifications is to be followed through the series of species belonging to the same class. To illustrate : the typical structure of the avian pectoral girdle is represented in the collection by the girdle of Pala- medea cornuta, the horned screamer. It is here shown to contain three elements—the scapula, coracoid and furcula. Turning to the corresponding series demonstrating the suc- cessive modifications of this structure, we find it as a link in the group devoted to the development of the vertebrate shoulder girdle. The various modifications in shape, extent and sternal attachment of the complete furcula are first illus- trated, together with preparations of the membranous and ligamentous structures, which have a bearing on the general morphology of the episternal apparatus. In the next place the avian girdle is found to pass from the type represented by Palamedea, in which all three skeletal elements are fully developed, to the intermediate condition seen in the toucan, where the furcula is developed as a bilateral structure, the two segments not fusing over the sternum, until we come to the brevipennate group of birds, of which Dromceus still has rudimentary anterior collar bones, whereas in Struthio, Rhea and Casuarins these have lost their identity by becom- ing fused with the scapula. In the second place this division of the museum affords the