153 General Considerations. Ecker2‘ and His28 were the first to give detailed descrip- tions of the caudal region of the human embryo. Their con- clusions regarding its definition and ultimate development may be taken as the starting point in the discussion of the subject. The agreement reached by Ecker and Elis may be rendered in part as follows:20 (1) The term “tail” may be applied only to that portion of the embryo which projects free beyond the cloaca. (2) The tail consists of a portion containing vertebras and a portion without vertebras (caudal filament). The latter contains only notochord and medullary cord. (3) Only the non-vertebral portion atrophies. The vertebral portion remains for some time as the coccygeal prominence (Steisshocker), which, however, gradually disap- pears in consequence of the increase in the curvature of the sacrum and coccyx, and of the progressive development of the pelvic girdle and its musculature. Two matters which have a bearing upon the morphological significance of the persisting caudal appendages in man are brought up in the above for consideration. The one concerns the structure of the tail in the human embryo in comparison with the tail in lower forms; the other is the nature and amount of regressive change which takes place in the human tail during development. Regarding the first, Iveibel30 discovered an additional fact of importance in the presence of a post-anal gut in the human embryo. Braun’s31 observations on the caudal filament of 27 A. Ecker: Archiv f. Anthropol., Bd. xii, 1880. A. Ecker: Besitzt der menschliche Embryo einen Schwanz ? Arckiv f. Anat. u. Physiol, anat. Abtlieil., 1880. 28 W. His: Anatomie menscklicker Embryonen, I, Leipzig, 1880. W. His: Ueber deu Sclnvanztheil des menschlicken Embryo. Archiv f. Anat. u. Physiol, anat. Abtlieil., 1880. 29 A. Ecker: Replik nnd compromissitze nebst Schlusserkarung von W. His. Archiv f. Anat. u. Physiol, anat. Abtlieil., 1880. 30 Fr. Keibel: Ueber den Schwanz des menschlichen Embryo. Archiv f. Anat. u. Physiol, anat. Abthiel., 1891. 31 M. Braun: Entwicklungsvorgange am Sclnvanzende bei einigen Saugethieren mit Beriicksiclitigung der Verhaltnisse beim Menschen. Archiv f. Anat. u. Phys. anat. Abtlieil., 1882.