174 the side of the cover, as shown in (Fig. 1, A). Between the cover and base of the freezing stage an asbestus washer is placed. The expanding gas therefore can absorb little heat from the base of the stage. Almost all heat absorption must take place from the cover. This heat absorption is greatly facilitated by the metallic spiral which projects down from the cover so as to give rise to the spiral passage through which the gas escapes. Through the mechanism here described far the greater part of the heat-absorbing power of the expanding gas is utilized to lower the temperature of the surface of the cover of the freezing stage. The temperature of the rest of the machine is but little altered. Good control of the temperature of the freezing stage can be thus maintained. This control is far- ther rendered possible by the valve of the tank. If this valve is turned on full the temperature of the cover of the freezing .stage is quickly reduced to a very low point. Tissue placed on it is quickly frozen. On the other hand, if the gas is not allowed to escape from the tank with full force the difference in pressure in the two sides of the brass plate is less and heat absorption from the cover is less marked. In this way tissues placed on the cover may be slowly frozen without subjecting them to severe cold. Thus, too, a constant low temperature may be maintained by opening the tank-valve to the required point. The mechanism for controlling the thickness of the sections is equally simple. On the lower end of the axial tube a movable wheel (I, Fig. 1 and Fig. 2) is placed. This wheel moves up and down the axial tube on a screw thread cut twenty-five threads to the inch. A complete revolution of the wheel therefore raises or lowers it a millimeter. The margin of the wheel is divided into fifty spaces, each of which therefore represents twenty microns. A pointer (AT. Fig. 1) serves to indicate the number of spaces passed in a partial revolution of the wheel and thus to show the thickness of the sections cut. The knife-stage (F-B, Fig. 1 and Fig. 2) consists of a tubal base (F), which surrounds the axial tube and rests on the movable wheel; and of two flanges (B) which extend above