122 dad, giving rise to the rami and stipes of Professor Wilder’s description. The questions involved are, then : Is the paroccipital a true fissnral integer or not; if not, of what fissure is it a part ? Turner and Cunningham evidently consider its main por- tion a part of the intraparietal while its caudal rami represent a segment of the “Ajpenspalte”, equivalent to Ecker’s trans- verse occipital and Eberstaller’s ►S', occipitalis anterior. Wild- er’s idea of integrality has already been referred to. Parker strongly urges that it is a part of the external perpendicular fissure (exoccipital) with an accompanying modification of its junction, at that site, with the “ intraparietal” (parietal f.) but he likewise believes the caudal transverse piece to represent a persistent segment of the fundamental exoccipital as his Fig. 19 (Fig. 2 of this article) shows. Nevertheless, Parker’s idea, with the elaborations and modifications of the present writer, appears to be the true one, and the comparative frequency of confluence or separation of the parietal and paroccipital fissures involves a question of only secondary importance. In the second part of this paper these relations are considered at length. In the endeavor to explain the causation of this zvgal fis- sure, it is just possible that this writer may be understood to advocate the old theory advanced by Ecker, that the formation of convolutions is the necessary consequence of mechanical processes. This theory, so far as the typical cerebral pattern is concerned, has been abandoned by most morphologists, and rightly so. u Mechanical packing,” as a cause of the cerebral configurations is probably by far the least important, physio- logically as well as morphologically. But I do maintain, how- ever, that so far as zygal fissures are concerned, especially if they represent gaps in what was once a continuous fissure or cleft, the dynamic factors are of great, if not of paramount importance. The importance of seeking corroborative evidence for these propositions in an extended research upon the appearances and conditions existing in the brains of foetuses, both human and anthropoid, will have become as apparent to the reader as it did to the writer. The essays of various investigators so far published while all of great value and deserving of much praise, ai'e still insufficient for accurate generalizations and deductions. However, macroscopic and developmental en-