G2 cartilage, showing none, or but very irregular interruptions or defects. On the cartilage of the first rib, the bone forms generally in more or less irregular, concentric segments. There are ordinarily three, four or five such segments, and they join by their serrated borders. Each segment may consist of several pieces of forming bone. In rare cases the ossified cartilage of the first rib becomes united to the sternum ; this process may possibly be in- fluenced by some pathological condition. (e.) A number of first ribs were found showing one or two pronounced deformities on their superior surfaces. THE SECOND RIB. (a.) The bone differs in size as well as shape. In shape there is a tendency to an angular form, the angle being situ- ated at the tuberosity, but the modification is not as plain as in the first rib and not pronounced enough to constitute a distinct type of the second rib. Pathological (rachitic) influences are more manifest on the second than on the first rib ; they affect mostly the sternal extremity of the bone. (A) The tuberosity of the second rib is subject to much variation ; it is almost absent in some and very pronounced in other specimens. Anteriorly to the tuberosity, we find occasionally a more or less pronounced notch on the external border of the bone. (c.) The ventral border of the second rib presents in some cases, in a location corresponding somewhat to that of the “ scalene” tubercle on the first rib, one or two distinct small spines or tubercles. More frequently we find in this location a roughness or a dentation of the border. RIBS BELOW THE SECOND. In health, the fourth to tenth ribs show comparatively but little variation in form. The third rib, particularly its sternal half, is more subject to modifications. The eleventh and twelfth ribs differ much more in size than in shape. Occa- sionally the anterior extremity of one of the longer ribs will be unusually broad, or, again, tapering. In some cases a part of the inferior border of the rib shows an unusual development, and in others the head is much broadened. The results of pathological (rachitis) and mechanical influ-