48 movement of the perinaeum and feels the pulsation of the adjacent arteries, so that with the vascular beat and the res- piratory rythms at hand, he should not be entirely ignorant of the aetherized status of his patient. The muscular fibers of the levator ani are distributed in a series of curves, arching downwards and inwards, those from the pubes extending posterior to the prostate. I cannot find that any part of this muscle is actually attached to this gland, only the fibrous sheaths coalescing, but the muscular fibers go behind it to conjoin with the opposite muscle, constituting a compressor as well as a levator prostatae. The radiations from the “ white line” go directly to the perineal center and the sphincter ani, and to the sphincter vaginae in the female. We cannot trace muscular fibres to the walls of either of these canals, as again only the fibrous capsules are continuous. In fact, the upper edge of the levator ani can be traced to the edge of the sphincter ani, to that of the sphincter vaginae, the main support of both of these columns being the recto- vesical fascia and not the muscle. In the interval between the prostate, rectum and coccyx and in the corresponding parts in the female, the levator ani meets its fellow of the opposite side. The architectural plan of the pelvis is that of an ellipse ; roughly speaking, the inlet and the outlet of the true pelvis may be regarded as two ovoids almost touching at the sym- physis, widely separated by sacrum and coccyx behind, with “ Cams” curve as the axis or stem. The bladder with its urethra curves downwards and then forwards to emerge anteriorly ; paralleled by the vagina, and then by the rectum, though later the anal canal curves away almost in the opposite direction. The vagina was never intended to be a straight canal, but curves forward. In the erect posture, the weight of the abdominal viscera is thrown upon the symphysis and the upper circle of the bony arch, the fundus of bladder and uterus having a similar direction ; the rectum curves parallel to the uterus following the hollow of the sacrum. The whole mechanism, I need hardly say, showing in the female, nature’s intention to direct the foetal vertex under the pubic arch, the curve of the sacrum, the inclined plane of the pyriformis and of the obturator interims also having this tendency. The fibers of the levator muscle are practically, therefore,