being imperatively on the cadaver and not u didactic” nor from the book. One of the aggravations in a demonstrator’s life is the oo , alumnus dissector. He has graduated under the old regime ; finds, to his sorrow, his weakness in anatomy, the lack of which there is nothing that he regrets more ; so he comes back and says he has forgotten his anatomy (in reality lie cannot forget it because he never knew it, if for no other reason than as a student he dissected the body only once, and no child could learn a simple puzzle that way), and declares he returns to his Alma Mater firmly determined to learn it—in a week. He “ cares not for details and only wants the main facts.” “ How many parts can you give me?” “All you want!” “Well, send me up a leg.” As he has taken a whole week off from practice to come to the city, he must see some of the perform- ances of the theaters at night, and also some of the clinics by day, for of course by this time he is a specialist, having studied abroad six weeks, of which two were on the ocean. After two days’ work he becomes tired of the tedium of dissecting, and if he is allowed, he will ligate the arteries, amputate the extremities, and operate on the appendix, thereby precipitating an epidemic of similar operative procedures among the student body. For such hurried practitioners we unqualifiedly recommend the wet specimen. With a book on applied anatomy, with the dissected subject before him, he can get ten times more practical benefit than he can by the hurried, untidy labors of his own hand. Thus for both student, graduate and teacher the wet speci- men is most admirable, enabling of rapid review upon a series of preparations far more elaborately and completely worked out than could possibly be accomplished bv the individual not an expert. In the average medical curriculum there are apt to be two great humbugs, the clinic and the dissecting room ; that is, the large clinic where you see nothing, and the large dissecting class where you do nothing. If we were given the choice, with the average student, between a course of study upon the cadaver, with carefully prepared wet specimen, and the average hacked-up dissection, we would without hesitation recommend the former. Therefore for intelligent comprehension based on sound pedagogical principles, instruct your student first as to