238 After the pulmonary ridge is well formed (as in Embryo II) it begins to widen at its dorsal end hand in hand with the rotation of the liver. Up to this time the septum trans- versum is parallel with the vertebral column, with the heart on its ventral side and the liver on its dorsal side projecting into the peritoneal coelom, as shown in No. II. This condh tion was brought about at the time of the bending of the head when the viscera were forced towards the tail and into this position. The cephalic end of the pericardial coelom is thus bent over the septum transversum but the main part of the head coelom remained parallel with the spinal column on either side of the body. This process may be termed the rolling over of the heart. In the next stage the heart rolls in a dorsal direction and the liver in a ventral direction. This process has already begun in embryo CLXIII and CXIII. In so doing the lung huds become buried deeper in the body of the embryo and the liver gradually changes its position from the dorsal side ■of the septum transversum to its ventral side. The septum transversum undergoes almost a half-revolution. The coelom containing the liver lobe evaginates and becomes incorporated with the general abdominal cavity. With the rolling of the heart the coelom connecting the pericardial with the pleural space is kinked at the points of juncture between these cavities. At this point the duct of Cuvier enters the heart. Soon from its dorsal border the pulmonary ridge arises which is semicircular in form and reaches from the liver to the dorsal walls of the coelom as described under Embryo II. It is shown in section in Fig. 24, and in a lateral reconstruction in Fig. 29. The pulmon- ary ridge is really an extension of the septum transversum from the lobes of the liver to the tip of the Wolffian body. As the heart moves in the dorsal direction and the liver in the ventral direction it is the dorsal end of the septum trans- versum which moves most rapidly in the direction of the tail. In so doing the pulmonary ridge grows rapidly and divides at its dorsal end into two membranes, one containing the duct of Cuvier and phrenic nerve, and the other still encirc- ling the lung bud. In this division we have the beginnings of O O C? O