77 inn’s position is rather a low one, but the idea that intellectu- ality always presupposes a heavy brain has long ago been demonstrated as groundless. Still, such a table has its value in showing that the maximum frequency of brain-weights of eminent men occupies a distinctly superior position as com- pared with those of ordinary individuals, and that the signifi- cance of brain-weight as an index of intellectual capacity must depend upon the proper collation of a sufficiently large number of cases, and the correlation of contributory and com- plicating factors. Concerning the general form of the cerebrum the reader is reminded that during its immersion in alcohol for a score of years there has naturally been considerable shrinkage and flattening. Giving due allowance to this unavoidable distor- tion, its striking features can be enumerated as follows : Marked development, with great breadth and fulness of the frontal lobes. A great width and ample development of the parietal and temporal lobes. Relatives smallness of the cuneus in both halves, especially the left. General tortuosity of the fissures and gyres. A full and ample development of the left insula, especially of its cephalic (anterior) portion, the insular pole being very fully developed, and far better than on the right side. A por- tion of the left preinsula is visible. The sylvian cleft is more horizontally directed than in most brains. This approach to the horizontal is more marked on the left side, and is generally considered an important indi- cation of superior development. The left parietal and paroccipital fissures are separated while on the right side they are confluent. This arrange- ment is quite rare, having been found in 6 per cent, of cases by Wilder1 and the writer.2 The fissures on the whole are characterized by their gener- ally tortuous paths, by their great depth, and perhaps by a greater frequency in their deep interruptions by vadums and interdigitating subgyres. In general the gyres are neither of maximum nor minimum width ; their size seeming to be de- termined by a tendency to crowd the greatest number—more or less regularly and evenly—into the available space. They are bold and massive, so that in spite of the intricate fissura-