156 From this it may be seen that the number of vertebrae or their equivalent is fairly if not quite constant in embryos between eight and sixteen millimeters in length. We have, then, seven vertebrae in the embryonic tail at its highest period of development. The stages studied by His and by Rosenberg were either too young or too far advanced to show the maximum number of vertebrae. That the reduction takes place by fusion, as is maintained by Fol, is confirmed by the study of the embryos described above. In the oldei embryo (16 mm.), in which an exceptionally large number of segments was present, partial fusion between several of the adjacent vertebrae had taken place. In still older embryos, as seen in the table, the number of segments is inconstant; most probably this is due to the varying extent to which fusion has taken place, though it is possible that it may be due in part to a difference in the original number. As Stein- bach 38 shows, the usual number of segments is thirty-four, i. e. five coccygeal, although the number may be less or, in rare instances, even increased by one. The spinal ganglia of the caudal region, as Keibel has shown, also suffer reduction. There are never quite so many ganglia developed as vertebrae, and the last ones are always more or less rudimentary; hut there are always more formed than persist in the adult. For instance, in an embryo of 10 mm. Phisalix described thirty-six ganglia; in an embryo of 11.5 mm. Iveibel found thirty-four; in the embryo of 14 mm. described above there were thirty-three, and in the embryo of 16 mm. thirty-two, while in the adult there are but thirty- one. The segmental arteries of the distal caudal segments also become obliterated as development proceeds. We conclude, then, with Iveibel that, while as far as out- ward form is concerned the embryonic tail disappears largely as a result of the growth of the extremities and the gluteal region, a certain amount of regressive change takes place in the caudal appendage itself. This is manifest not only in the absorption of the caudal filament, as supposed by Ecker and 36 E. Steinbach : Die zalil tier C’audalwirbel beim Menscheu. Inaug. Diss., Berlin, 1889.