28 “ The Educational Museums of Vertebrates,” an address before the Section of Biology of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, at Ann Arbor, August, 1885, by Professor B. G. Wilder. “The Synthetic Museum of Comparative Anatomy as the Basis for a Comprehensive System of Research,” by John A. Ryder, Professor of Comparative Embryology at the Univer- sity of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia. 1893. As I look over the list of these and other contributions to the literature of the anatomical museum I am tempted to characterize the period between 1885 and 1895 as the pro- phetic era, foreshadowing the establishment and recognition of the most essential and valuable aid to scientific anatomical instruction and research which our universities to-day possess. When we analyze the great and radical changes which our methods of morphological teaching have experienced since that time, we shall, I believe, agree that the demonstrative and objective instruction which has replaced so largely the old didactic lecture is intimately and organically connected with the evolution of the modern anatomical museum. It will perhaps best serve the purpose of my communication if in the following I confine myself to the facts as they are most familiar to me in the ease of my own university, which, I be- lieve, may fairly be taken as a concrete example of the gen- eral progress which has marked the period in question in the scientific institutes throughout our country. The establishment of a museum of vertebrate comparative anatomy, on lines designed to illustrate and demonstrate to the fullest extent possible the morphological truths embodied in the doctrines of evolution, heredity and descent is an under- taking requiring years of careful and successful work before even a satisfactory beginning is made. The foundation of the museum at Columbia University was laid in 1889, and, while in many directions our progress has been rapid and the results gratifying, yet we feel that to-day but the outlines exist along which future growth is to take place. I. PLAN AND SCOPE OF THE MUSEUM AND ITS RELATION TO ANATOMICAL INSTRUCTION. I may in the first place call your attention to the general plan and purpose of the museum, in accordance with which the objects have been collected and prepared, and to the re-