181 the middle line of the body. There also may be a smaller branch on the side away from the middle line. This is cov- ered at first by peritoneum and then penetrates the outer part of the fibro-muscular layer and gives off the branches which supply the viscns. Most of the larger vessels are in the fibro-muscular layer near the dividing line between it and the subserous layer. See Fig. 6. If the needle of a hypo- dermic syringe be introduced into one of the smaller arteries and the mucous surface be watched while the fluid is slowly injected the arterioles and capillaries can be seen to be filled in areas about 2\ mm. in diameter at a time from a single centrally placed artery. The capillaries under the mucous membrane are very numerous and in the folds the capillary network is especially thick. See Fig. 2. The blood from these is collected into the veins and returned to the larger and deeper lying ones accompanying the arteries. The subserous layer has a comparatively poor blood-supply. The arteries are small and the capillaries widely separated. Some of the capillaries run out between this layer and the serous layer, and thus provide for the nourishment of the peritoneal covering. Some veins of considerable size are also found in this layer. On the surface of the gall-bladder in contact with the liver the veins communicate with the branches of the portal vein and the arteries in part come from the hepatic artery. The large lymphatic vessels running over the gall-bladder bring lymph from the liver and the coats of the gall-bladder. They follow the inner side of the cystic duct and end in mesenteric lymph glands in the dog. In the pig and in man we have either one or two systems of the large lymph vessels. In almost all cases both are represented but the territory may not be equally large and there is wide variation in their method of distribution. In cross-section these vessels are always flattened although the degree of flattening varies with the completeness of the injection. Sappey (7) figures a mass of them running over the gall-bladder in a manner somewhat resembling Fig. 4, but he only mentions the fact that they bring in the lymph from the liver and deeper layers of the gall-bladder. In my preparations they run down eventually