161 belongs the credit of priority. These results have since been confirmed by other investigators, and Dejerinc and Thomas' and Risien Russell2 3 have proved the existence of the same conditions in man. At the same time I was able to demonstrate the passage of fibres from the pyramid of one side directly to the motor nuclei of both sides in the pons and medulla.4 The following experiment enlarges still further the scope of bilateral representation and adds another to those paths already demonstrated by which one hemisphere may control more or less both halves of the body. It by no means stands alone, but is presented as the type of a considerable group which will be considered individually in a later publication. On September 20, 1898, I operated in Mr. Victor ITors ley’s laboratory at University College, London, on a small but apparently healthy bonnet monkey (Macacos sinicus). The animal being etherized, the cortex of the left hemisphere was exposed under strict aseptic precautions, the centre for thumb movements determined by electrical stimulation and that portion of the cortex carefully excised. Care was taken not so much to remove every portion of cortical substance as to avoid injury to the underlying white matter. I therefore passed the knife under the cortex with the flat surface of the knife parallel to the convexity of the hemisphere, bringing it out at a right angle to the line of incision. Then lifting the cut edge with a pair of small forceps the excision was easily completed. The slight hemorrhage was controlled with hot saline solution, the wound closed with horsehair sutures and dressed with borated cotton smeared with collo- dion. This monkey got diarrhoea and died on the tenth day after the operation (September 30) of marasmus. The wound in the scalp had healed well and there was no trace of sepsis. The brain and cord were removed, kept for four days in formalin and then transferred to Muller. The brain 2 Dejerine and Thomas. Archives, de physiol, norm, et patholog. 1890, No. 2. Review in Neurologisches Centralblatt, 1897, p. 503. Risien Russell. Brain. Summer, 1898. 4Proc. Roy. Soc. vol. 58.