207 nerve trunk was assumed to contribute. In the preparation of this table the standard anatomies were consulted. A few lines from the “ Cervicobrachial Chart ” may suffice to make clear the general nature of this scheme: C. VI. Post-br. Ant-bk.—Post-thoracic. Subclavius. Supra- scap. Com. C. VII. C. VII. Post-br. Ant-br.—Ext-ant-thoracic. Com-post. cord. Outer Cord. Musc-cut.—Cor-brach. Biceps. By-ant. Ant. Post. Outer-head-median.—Ant-interos. Balm-cut. Thumb-br. 5 Digitals. C. VIII. Post-br. Ant-br. Inner Cord. Post. Cord. Sub- scaps.— Upper. Middle. Lower. Circumflex. — Sup. Inf. Art. Muse. Spiral:—Muse. Int-cut. Ext-up-cut-br. Ext-low-cut-br. Muse. Radial.— Ext-br. Int-brs. 4. Post-interoS. — Muse. Art. Com. I). I. The students were requested to compare carefully the nerves in the part dissected with the outline scheme, to underline the names of those nerves which were found to correspond with the scheme, to cross out the names of the nerves which did not thus correspond, and to insert these names in the proper place. Complex conditions, such for instance as are found in the cervicobrachial and the lumbo- sacral plexuses, were illustrated by diagrams drawn on the backs of the charts. These outline schemes were well arranged and theoretically should have worked well. Yet they did not prove a success in the hands of the students. The suggestion induced by print seemed continually to lead the student into reading the scheme into his “ part.” The task of verifying the charts thus became a severe one. Another difficulty came from the fact that names can mean little so long as the “ normal ” is unknown. While the larger nerves are so con- stant in position that the names current in the text-books could be used without confusion it was found that many of the smaller nerves could be definitely recorded only by attach- ing a special definition to the name. The iliohypogastric and the genitocrural nerves may be mentioned as examples. The value of these earlier charts lies rather in the illustrative diagrams of the plexuses placed on the backs of the charts than in the records made on the tabulation schemes. In the fall of 1897 I undertook the immediate supervision