34 points can be accentuated and the attention properly and immediately directed to the important facts which the prepa- ration is designed to illustrate. b. In connection with the class-room demonstration it is at times desirable to deal with general problems of vertebrate morphology from the higher standpoint which, on the hand of a more extensive series, affords a wider view of the struc- tures concerned. I find that this can best be accomplished by a photographic lantern slide demonstration, in which a very considerable number of forms can be exhibited to the class in a comparatively short time. It has been our practice to photograph the preparations when finished, but before they are permanently mounted or included in the museum series. As a practical matter the best results are obtained by vertical exposure, the object being placed in suitable trays and covered by clear fluid—water or alcohol. In this way the disadvant- age, resulting from the distortion and reflection of the jar con- taining the specimen when finally mounted, is obviated. The resulting photograph forms part of the museum record and is useful in many ways. Properly labeled, it forms an excellent guide to the study of the preparation, and it can be used directly for reproduction in publications, or be made the basis of the drawing. Finally, as the completion of the series warrants it, the negatives yield a set of lantern slides which can be used in the teaching of the department as well as in ex- tending the use of the museum material in other institutions. 3. The special courses in comparative anatomy and embry- ology, which are offered as optionals, electives, or for the higher university degrees, make demands which the museum should meet as fully as possible. In the first place, I find that the forms which can readily be obtained in numbers, and supplied to the students for their actual personal use in the laboratory courses, require in many cases comparison with allied types which, by reason of their rarity and value, can only be represented in the permanent collection of the mu- seum. The courses can thus be extended and made infinite- ly more valuable and instructive. Again, every practical laboratory teacher will know the value of placing before the * student a carefully and clearly executed preparation and re- viewing the structures which he is to expose and determine for himself by the dissection of the fresh material on hand. This use of the museum is entirely apart from the valuable