49 arranged in concentric layers, none of which are directly in- serted into the vaginal or rectal walls. The recto-vesical fascia which forms the proximal side of the muscular sheath blends with the fibrous coat of each canal. But the only direct interlacement of muscular fiber is with the sphincters. By contraction the levator ani antagonizes the sphincter and thus opens the orifice of the vagina or rectum, while the remaining fibers attached to the median raphe, may in con- junction with its fellow, compress each canal and coapt the posterior to the anterior wall slightly, but such action must be very slight, it more likely acting as a tensor to the fascia. For this double function we find a sure sign—a double nerve supply—the inferior hemorrhoidal and the fourth sacral, and in further confirmation the latter nerve (fourth) supplies the compressor urethrae, which is also compressor in function. Similarly, as a result of its insertion into the vaginal sphincter, its fibers have onlv an indirect relation to the vaginal outlet by keeping the fascia tense, and to a slight degree coapting the posterior wall against the anterior. In parturition, there- fore the vaginal sphincter tear is immaterial, but laceration of the supporting fascia a very serious matter. The origin of our muscle being admitted, we concern our- selves, then, more particularly with its insertion. It would seem as if the authors are in error in asserting that the levator ani is inserted “ into the lateral aspect of the prostate,” “ into the side of the rectum” or u into the walls of the vagina but, like its origin, the muscle is attached to a narrow linear insertion, the median raphe and the two sphincters. Prob- ably through the fibers supplied by the inferior hemorrhoidal antagonizing the sphincters, at the same time rendering tense those inserted into the median raphe, while through these fibers encircling the bladder and prostate, or in the female the vagina, and supplied by the fourth sacral, it compresses these organs. It is more a tensor of the fascia either at its origin or in- sertion, the fixed point being interchangeable, so that it should be called “tensor perinei” rather than “levator ani.”