67 sibly three, of the right ribs are the third ; one, at most two, the fourth ; the left specimen is apparently also the fourth rib. The bodies and heads of the forked ribs are normal with this exception : In one of the specimens the non-articular part of the tuberosity is very prominent. In one (the same charac- ter is also present in both of the perforated ribs, and un- doubtedly has no connection with the anomaly) this part of the tuberosity is surrounded outwardly by a marked exostosis. Several upper thoracic (3d, 4th) ribs were found showing a marked broadening of the sternal extremity, but no division of the same. BICIPITAL AND FUSED RIBS. Among the 1,000 first ribs there are four joined specimens ; and I have found two similar specimens among the Indian ribs examined. Only two of these six specimens are alike in their features, and five times out of the six the anomaly has occurred on the left side. In two of the six cases we have a junction of a cervical with the first rib, in three a junction of the first with the second rib, and in one case a junction of the third with the fourth rib. In both cases of the union of the cervical with the first, and in one of union of the first with the second rib, the more superior rib descends to the more inferior one and is fused with this ; the sternal part of these specimens shows no abnormality. These are true bicipital ribs. In the remaining three specimens the anomaly consists in an extension and more or less extended fusion of the neigh- boring borders of the ribs. In these cases we have seemingly a combination of a bicipital and bicaudal rib ; the production, however, of the bicaudal condition in this and the variety of ribs previously described differs radically. The fusion of ribs seems to be wholly restricted to the upper part of the thorax. DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE RIBS OF THE TWO SIDES. A set of ribs from a skeleton is demonstrated. Beginning with the fourth rib, the bones on the two sides show very considerable differences in strength and shape of the body, not due to curvatures. The nth and 12th ribs differ remarkably, the more superior ribs slightly, in length.