36 greatest importance. The museum represents in its complete condition a morphological reference depository. It functions in connection with the morphological library, but it possesses the inestimable advantage of presenting the actual objects in- stead of plates and descriptions, often at variance with each other, incorrect and incomplete in detail and failing to eluci- date just the question which it is desired to solve. In this sense the museum fulfills its highest functions, stimulating and directly promoting investigation and render- ing such investigation fruitful and effective by contributing the series necessary for comparison and reference. It may hardly be necessary to touch on the effect of this work on those who are engaged in it. It attracts men whom the university is glad to number among its students and graduates, and who in other institutions—as teachers and investigators—will reflect credit on their training. If from among the growing numbers of our medical students even a few are made to develop into scientific workers, I should yet hold those few—in their prospective value to the university and to science—as balancing the long list of medical gradu- ates whom we annually send out at our commencement. in. relation of the museum to other departments OF THE UNIVERSITY. There is scarcely a department of biological or medical in- struction and investigation which is not in intimate relation with some portion of morphology, and which will not benefit by a connection with the museum and by access to its collec- tions. In physiology, the science dealing with the function of the machine which itself is the object of the study in morphology, the connection is obvious. But the tremendous advantage which will accrue to each of these sciences by closer mutual association, through the link of the comparative anatomical museum, can scarcely be estimated. Morphology offers in the series of modifications which different forms present in their structure, a field of nearly unlimited choice for the interpre- tation of the physiologist. The physiological study of an or- gan in a certain form—as the dog—may lead the investigator to certain results which apply in the first plan to the species examined. If now the morphology of the organ is accessible to the physiological investigator not only in a complete series