80 “ intraparietal sulcus” as a mark of superiority in brain evolu- tion. The paroccipital fissure, which is of the true zygal type, is absolutely separated from the parietal fissure by a well- developed “paroccipital isthmus.” (See Figs. 2 and 3.) Upon the right half there is a confluence of the corresponding fissures. This brain, therefore, presents an additional example of a rare arrangement hitherto unnoticed in the brains of moral and educated persons, at least so far as the writer knows. Of the six cases recorded by Wilder1 there were three of unknown history, while the remaining three whose history was known, were insane, one a Swiss woman, one an engineer, and one a negro. The writer2 has since found a similar arrangement in six of the one hundred brains of dissecting-room subjects, de- rived mainly from the pauper class dying in the municipal hospitals and charitable institutions. As stated above, the occipital index on the left half is as 17.4 : 100, and on the right half as 21.4 : 100, according to Cunningham’s method. This index averages 20.8 for human adult males, and 21.7 for females; and it increases as we de- scend to the anthropoids and apes. The following are Cun- ningham’s figures: Orang, . . . . . . 23.2 Chimpanzee, ..... 24.2 Hamadryas, . . . . . 29.5 Cynocephalus, . . . . 29.7 Mangaby, 30.5 Macaque, ..... 31. Cercopithecus, . . . . 32.9 Cebus, ...... 33.1 It was recognized as being of considerable importance by even so early an observer as Gratiolet, and it would seem to indicate, other things being equal, that relative smallness of the cuneus, measured in this manner, signified superiority. Its exemplification upon the better developed left half of both of the Seguins’ brains would seem to lend force to this hypo- thesis. Notable for its extent and well-marked course is the ex- occipital fissure on the left side. (Fig. 2.) It begins very near the zygon of the paroccipital, at its caudal part and sep- arated from it by a narrow (3 millimeters) “ deuxieme pli de passage.” Morphologically speaking, therefore, the fissure