93 PRELIMINARY REPORT ON A CASE OF CYCLOPIA. By Dr. Churchill Carmalt, New York City. The Society of the Lying-In Hospital, of New York City, present through me, their representative, the following sub- ject and its history, case number 20,484, in their records. No similar monster in records of 20,484 cases. Deformed foetus born at 36-7 weeks. Father’s history.—Russian Jew, 35 years old, tailor, small, rugged, very intelligent, ears prominent, and helix pointed. His father alive at 85 ; mother died in 70th year ; no abnor- mality in either. Three brothers, two sisters and their six children have presented no abnormalities. He denies venereal disease and presents no evidence of syphilis or tuberculosis. Mother’s history.—Russian Jewess, 30 years old, large, stout woman with no marks of degeneracy or ill health. Mother and father over 70; both alive and normal. Three sisters and four brothers with seven children have had no abnormalities among them. She herself has borne 5 children in 10 years, one miscarriage at 8th month (4th pregnancy). One child died of measles, others alive and normal. History of pregnancy.—Last child nursed while pregnant with foetus herewith presented. During, as nearly as the mother can remember, the second or early part of third month of this pregnancy, the mother, in a street brawl, was struck upon the abdomen. She u fainted away,” in her own words, and was sick in bed a fortnight with small amount of vaginal hemorrhage ; no medical attendance. Injured again in last two weeks of pregnancy. No evidence of syphilis or tuber- culosis; no “maternal impression.” She does not connect deformity of foetus with the injury. History of delivery.—Normal ; vertex ; L. O. A. ; duration, 10 hours and 8 minutes; second stage lasted 1 hour. Placenta, normal ; weight, 512 grm. ; measurements, 18 cm. by 15 cm. by 2 cm. Blood vessels, normal ; cord, 51 cm. long and nor- mal. Membranes, normal, smooth, complete. Liquor amnii, moderate in amount. Primary respiration of child delayed;