199 internal organ is wanted it is usually of advantage to re- construct at the same time the external form of the ob- ject, so that when the plates are piled the image they form may he compared with the picture of the original object. After getting the plates composing the positive image of the object into proper position, it is easy to trace two or three of its surface curves on paper or to represent them in wire and then to get the negative formed, as described above, mto true shape. Plaster casts can then be made in this negative mould. The plaster casts, representing the external features of the original object, are very valuable to have at hand, while engaged in reconstructing the internal features from the wax plates.2 The method of making every fifth plate a black one has proved to be extremely valuable in arranging the wax plates. In this way it is easy at any time during the reconstruction of the model to count up and place any given section. The method of reconstruction which I have found most convenient is as follows: After the plates are placed in proper position so that the external features of the object are accurately portrayed, I begin by taking off five plates from one side. The drawings of the sections I likewise have pinned together in groups of five in the same order in which the plates are piled. By going over the five finished draw- ings it is easy to obtain a good conception of the form of the structures represented in the block of five plates under con- sideration. I have at hand a paper of fine pins and these I press down through the various structures* seen in section on the surface plate, and in such a direction that they will pass into the same structure in the sections below. When the parts of the plates which represent the structures to be reconstructed are thus firmly united by pins I remove the intervening portions of the wax plate with a pair of forceps. Thus, in a very short time, one is enabled to bring to light the form of the structures lying within the block of five sections. The pins hold the various bits of wax firmly in 2 Many methods have been devised of piling plates according to special marks. The method devised by Wilson, Zeitschrift fur vvissen- sliaftliche Mikroscopie, xvii, 1900, page 177, seems a good one.