41 quently this collection does not represent merely a catacomb of human bones indiscriminately packed together, but each bone, with its origin and history clearly indicated, becomes a member of a series available for scientific comparative work. The same system is applied to all variations of the soft parts obtained from the dissecting room, and the variation collection of the general museum becomes in a like manner the means of promoting scientific inquiry into the causes and conditions at present operative in human evolution. V. DEPARTMENTAL LIBRARY. I may merely mention that a good working morphological library, containing the standard works and the more import- ant current periodicals, forms part of the accessory equipment of the museum. vi. labeling and catalogue. In conclusion I may briefly refer to the method of labeling and cataloguing the collection which we have found most o o useful. The catalogue is divided into the general and accession catalogue. Each specimen as received is given an accession number. On the card slip, corresponding to the number in the accession catalogue, are entered all the data concerning the animal, as source of supply, date of receipt, weight of body and of individual parts, presumable age, sex, method of preparation, individual peculiarities, etc., and finally a com- plete list of the finished preparations derived from the animal as they are incorporated in the museum. The general catalogue carries on each card the running number of the preparation and beneath the same the accession number of the animal from which the specimen is taken. It is thus possible, while avoiding needless repetition, to ascer- tain at once the details concerning any preparation by refer- ence to the accession catalogue. The cards of the general catalogue are arranged in accordance with the serial exhibi- tion of the museum. The running number of the general museum and the accession number appear on the label of each preparation. In addition the individual preparations carry two small disks of a bright color with a number. These are the complementary numbers of the preparation, referring it to some other group with which it is related, as well as indicat- ing its position in its proper series. For example, the shoul-