150 Embryo Greatest Length 1J+ mm.; Neck-Breech 12 mm. —The tail of this embryo is marked off ventrally by a fold of: epithelium which extends cranially from the anus, forming a shallow pit or crease between the anal prominence and the tail. This fold extends to the level of the cranial end of the thirty-third vertebra (Fig. 6), so that from this point on, i. e. distal to the third coccygeal vertebra, the caudal end of the embryo projects free from the trunk. The vertebral column extends throughout but half the length of the tail, in which, therefore, a vertebral and non- vertebral portion may be distinguished. The terminal portion of the tail or caudal filament is bent dorsally and inclined to the left side, and becoming rapidly thinner distally, ends in a slight knob-like enlargement, which is scarcely shown in the figure. The most conspicuous structure in the caudal filament is the medullary cord, which runs to the tip and there ends in a vesicular enlargement. The notochord and the terminal branches of the aorta and inferior vena cava also extend out into it though not so far as the medullary cord. The filament is supported by a dif- fuse mesenchymatous network, more concentrated in the ventral side just beneath the integument, which is perhaps an indication of the remains of the post-anal gut found in younger embryos. Counting from the atlas down, it is clear that there are in all thirty-six vertebras present, of which the distal seven be- long to the cocc}7geal or caudal region. In the trunk, down through the sacral region, the vertebral bodies are composed of embryonic cartilage, which does not stain intensely. The intervertebral discs, owing to the greater concentration of the cells composing them, stand out in sections as deeply staining bands. Between the vertebral bodies and the discs there is a zone of cells, which stains more intensely than the cartilage and less so than the discs. In the well advanced vertebrae of the lumbar region the intermediate zone is thin and clearly forms a part of the perichondrium of the vertebral cartilages. Beginning with the first coccygeal vertebra this intermediate or perichondrial layer forms a thick pad, especi-