44 bone development which may be solved in this way. Not only can we watch the successive steps in the growth and de- velopment of any one center of ossification, but we can get striking pictures of the several centers of ossific growth in the bones comprising a joint or member at the different stages of its progress towards perfected adult growth, that will enable us to take in this joint or member as a whole, a whole which will help to explain its parts. This has been especially brought home to me in the dem- onstration of the elbow joint, perhaps the most difficult one to understand in its development, the complete understanding of which may solve many riddles of bone growth. The ski- agraph giving a coronal view of the elbow, shows us in a very beautiful way the entire schema of its development, and I know of no one figure in any anatomy which reveals more of this joint. A series of skiagraphs equally as good at the different years of growth would simply tell the whole story, I have found in my work that an ossific center not bigger than a pin’s head could be made out, provided the bone could be brought close to the plate. My experience is that a good negative offers much for careful study, and details almost microscopic can be brought out by a magnifying glass. In the print giving a coronal view of the elbow the entire course of the nutrient canal of the humerus can be traced, and even more perfectly in the negative. In the study of joint movements I have attempted to show the value of the X-ray in my paper on the movements of the carpal bones and wrist. Of course the wrist lends itself especially to this method, but I am convinced that other joints can be studied in this way, and much definitely shown which is still in doubt. In the best skiagraphs we get a skeleton of the skeleton, we get the inner trabeculation and bony structure; and in the skiagraphs of the bones themselves, the negatives are most beautiful and show as much as good sections of the bones. In the study of museum specimens, for example, which cannot be mutilated, the X-ray will give us all the internal structure. A skull so skiagraphed will show us all the sinuses and bone- structure at the base, all the inequalities of the inner surface, the diploic structure, and the grooves for the meningeal ar- teries. I show you such a skiagraph, one, by the way, which can be much improved upon, for it was done when I had less