256 only a few notes dealing with their more important char- acteristics. While there is a complete arterial division in the plane connecting the posterior calices and terminating in the lat- eral half of the upper and lower calices, the veins follow quite a different arrangement. Around the bases of the pyramids they anastomose and form the familiar venous arches. They unite in large branches that run between the sides of the pyramids and the columns of Bertini to the necks of the calices, where they lie between the pyramid and the arterial branches. The thickness of these collecting veins accounts for the peculiar lobulated appearance of the base and sides of the pyramids (Fig. 6 B). Around the necks of the calices, both anteriorly and posteriorly, these veins form a second system of anastomoses (Fig. 6 B b) much shorter and thicker than that at the base of the pyramids (a). This appears as a number of thick loops or rings which fit like a collar around the necks of the calices. Nearly all the collected blood of the posterior region is carried anteriorly through these short thick stems, to join that of the anterior portion at the point indicated by c. In comparing Figs. 3 and 6 one finds that an incision through the posterior row of calices would avoid all the arteries hut would sever six of these collecting veins. As there remain, however, sufficient anastomoses at the upper and lower pole of the kidney, no serious consequence should follow' an injury to these veins. The large veins at the hilurn are generally described as being in front of the artery. This is, however, only the case in the neighborhood of the vena cava, while at the hilum and throughout the entire kidney the veins are usually situated between the arteries and the pelvis. The Surface of the Kidney and its Relation to the Under- lying Structures.—If one is thoroughly familiar with the kidney's surface it is a comparatively easy matter to deter- mine the arrangement of the underlying structures; one can map out fairly accurately the position of the pyramids, of the columns of Bertini and of the calices; and as a consequence