100 suggests the name prepciracentrcil. Broca5 describes it as an incisure pre-ovalaire de la scissure sous-frontale,” and the wood-cut illustration which accompanies his article, renders his meaning absolutely clear. Schwalbe6 likewise repre- sents this as a ramus of the calloso-marginal, in Fig. 339 of his Lehrbuch, and beside the clear and accurate description of his sulcus paracentralis as a cephalic limiting ramus (on page 341), he expressly identifies this fissure with Broca’s incisure pre-ovalaire (in a foot-note, page 544). The various synomyms for this ramus may therefore be properly grouped as follows : Incisure pre-ovalaire, Sulcus paracentralis, Sulcus praepa ra centralis, Cephalic paracentral limb, Broca. Schwalbe. Eberstaller. Wilder. In only 9 per cent, of the brains examined by me did I find this limb separated from the paracentral, and usually it was confluent with the supercallosal (Fig. 2). In the event of separation the interposed isthmus was invariably very narrow and insignificant, and in no case did I observe that this cephalic ramus ever crossed the dorsimesal margin. On the other hand, the true inflected fissure always cuts across the margin to ap- pear on both meson and dorsum, and only in rare instances, contrary to Eberstaller, is it confluent with the paracentral (or 11 calloso-marginal”). On this point Eberstaller seems to con- tradict himself, for, after stating that the sulcus praecentralis medialis is situated caudad—by the breadth of one gyrus—of his uAnfangsstuck dcr Pars posterior'''' of the u subfrontal,” he thereupon says that these two fissures anastomose in 55 per cent, of his cases. What error of observation or interpretation underlies the latter statement, I cannot say. However that may be, his comments upon Schwalbe’s description are based upon a gross misinterpretation, as inconsistent as it is erroneous. We are dealing, then, with two distinct fissures which have been erroneously identified with each other ever since Eber- staller’s work gained its wide circulation. The inflected fissure was probably unknown to Schwalbe under any name whatso- ever, and it is unrepresented upon Eeker’s diagrams7. Through the kindness of Professor Wilder I have been enabled to study the work of Eussana and Eemoigne4 in which the fissure, which forms the subject of this paper, was first designated. The fissure is shown in Figs. 174, 177, 178