224 with the ductus Cuvieri through the body wall is cut off. Fig. 1. Fig. 11 is taken from a section through a plane cut- ting the root of the arm and the otic vesicle, and can readily be placed in the outline. Fig. 10. It is seen that the lungs arise where the pericardial coelom goes over into the pleural, i. e. high up in the region of the head. Immediately on the dorsal side of them is the beginning of the lesser peritoneal cavity, and the intestinal tube struck in this section is the stomach. All these structures lie on the cephalic side of the first cervical myotome. Projecting into the peritoneal coelom, encircling and penetrating the omphalo-mesenteric veins are the projections of the liver, Figs. 11 and 12, L. The two lobes reach from the tip of the lungs and the foramen of Winslow to the point where the entodermal cells of the liver arise from the alimentary canal, or in this case the duodenum. The lobes of the liver lie entirely within the canals of the coelom on either side of the head. The caudal ends of these coelom canals have migrated from opposite the second cervical myo- tome in Embryo XII, Fig. 1, to opposite the second thoracic myotome in Embryo CXLVIII, Fig. 10. It has moved to- wards the tail eight segments, while the cephalic end of the canal, the pericardial coelom, has been kinked over to corre- spond with the bending of the head, has dilated to correspond with the growth of the heart, and has receded from the otic vesicle to the extent of the growth of the branchial arches. We have in this embryo the necessary stage to locate the organs which arise in the neighborhood of the septum trans- versum, as well as to give the fate of the coelom in their immediate neighborhood. A stage somewhat in advance of CXLVIII is LXXVI. The embryo is slightly larger, measuring 4.5 mm. in greatest length. It was obtained from the uterus 7 hours after dentil. The entire ovum was placed immediately in absolute alcohol. It was impossible to obtain a picture of the embryo before it was cut, but the specimen proved to be an excellent one. The direction of the sections is more nearly transverse than in CXLVIII. In CXLVIII the neuropore is closed with a thickening of the epidermis just over the point of closure; the umbilical vein enters the liver and its direct connection