TYPICAL FORMS OF SHAFT OF LONG BONES. By Dr. Ales Hrdlicka, of New York City. [Abstract.] The paper presents the further results of the author’s in- vestigations of Prof. Huntington’s osteologieal collection in the Medical Department of Columbia University, New York City. It deals with the variations in shape of the shaft of the loner bones of the human skeleton and with classification of c> these shapes. The first part of these studies, dealing with the typical shapes of the shaft of the tibia, was presented before the Association in 1898. There have been examined so far the long bones of 1,200 skeletons of whites, 40 skeletons of negroes and 100 skeletons of Indians. Each variety of the long bones presents more than one typical shape of the shaft. The form is best differentiated at or near the middle of the bones, in adult individuals. Variation in the shapes is greatest in the whites. There are considerable racial differences in the absolute as well as relative frequency of the different forms of shaft of the various bones; no one type, however, occurs exclusively in either of the three racial groups examined. The bones of the lower extremity show somewhat more numerous differentiations of form than those of the upper ex- tremity. Of the individual long bones the fibula shows the greatest variety of shapes ; then follow, in the order named, the tibia, femur, humerus, ulna, radius. Perfect representatives of the various types of form are found when larger collections of bones are examined ; less perfect but clearly distinguishable types are more common. Besides these a considerable percentage of bones presents intermediary, and a smaller proportion combined, forms. The fundamental form of shaft in all the long bones is the prismatic (No. 1). The outline of the cross-section of a shaft of this type approaches closely the equilateral triangle. This type of long bones is common in apes and, more or less modi- fied, in lower mammals. The base of the prism is formed in