182 on the inner side of the gall-bladder but there is usually a large vessel coming from the same side, but with the exception of one specimen figured in Plate 2, .Fig. 4, which was believed to he pathological, are not as numerous as shown by Sappey. In the subserous layer there is a network of lymph channels which empty into these larger vessels. See Fig. 7. This network is very irregular and the lymph channels vary mark- edly in size and shape. The picture of these lymphatics which seemed most normal was obtained by injecting carmine gelatin into the portal vein at a pressure of 80 mm. of mer- cury for fifteen minutes. This injects the lymphatics of the liver and in turn the larger ones over the gall-bladder, and finally these in the subserous coat in a more or less complete manner, but without any tearing or stretching of the vessels. In Fig. 2 they are represented as though the greater part lie simply on top of the subserous layer, while, as a matter of fact, they are scattered through it rather evenly. The submucous sets of lymphatics are in the connective tissue just under the mucous membrane. However, they rarely run up into the connective-tissue folds but are at their lowest part or more frequently just at their base. The net- work is almost entirely absent in the denser muscular part. These were best seen by injecting aqueous Prussian-blue slowly under the mucous membrane and the injected portion was afterwards fixed and studied. In some cleared specimens the lymphatic vessels could be seen running up and joining the more superficial lymphatics of the subserous layer or directly one of the large superficial vessels as shown in Fig. 1. The Lymphatic tissue belonging to this layer has already been described. The nerve supply of the gall-bladder has been studied by Dogiel (8) and Huber (9) within recent years. The nerve supply is derived from two sources, viz., 1. the sympathetic system of ganglia and fibres connecting them, and 2. medul- lated fibres accompanying the large arteries. In regard to the distribution of the sympathetic fibres Huber suggests from the condition prevailing in other viscera that they supply the blood-vessels and smooth muscle of the coat. Hoyon