94 artificial respiration was done and child dipped in hot and cold water alternately; breathing took place through the month. Heart sounds normal, beat regular. It lived 4 hours. Appearance of child during life.—Weight, 2 kgrrn 560 gm. ; total length, 48 cm. ; vertex coccygeal, 31 cm. Circum- ference of head : occipito mental, 33 cm. ; occipito frontal, 29 cm. Diameters of head : occipito mental, 13 cm. ; occipito- frontal, 9 cm. ; bizygomatic, 8 cm. ; bitemporal, 65 mm. ; frontomental, 77 mm. Anus, perforate ; meconium voided ; urine voided. Sacral indentation, 1 cm. deep ; testes unde- scended. Six fingers on both hands, origin from upper phalanx, little finger. Six toes on left foot, origin from upper phalanx, little toe. General description of head and face.—Occipital, temporal, parietal and mental regions apparently normal ; ears and jaw well developed. Frontal region normal with exception of mesial aspect or junction of superciliary ridges. From that point projects a tubercle with much the appearance of a penis, 5 cm. long by 15 mm. in diameter, the base slightly con- stricted. On the indented apex was a minute opening less than i/2 mm. in diameter from which exuded a watery fluid, drop by drop somewhat accelerated on pressure. This fluid contained some flat epithelial cells and fatty material much broken when examined. From the base of this tubercle on either side extended outward the eyebrows, normal in appear- ance, and well developed. Beneath this tubercle in the median line was a reddish mass looking like granulation tissue 2 cm. broad by 15 mm. longitudinally. It was enclosed on either side by eyelids with well developed eyelashes save on median junction of the upper and lower lids, which here seemed de- ficient. On separation of these lids at the outer canthi nor- mally formed, appeared conjunctiva with sclera as far inward as the red median mass. The whole cleft was 4 cm. in width. Beneath the continuous single lower lid appeared a smooth skin surface to the vermillion border of the upper lip, which appeared normal, as did the mouth, dental ridges, hard and soft palates and uvula. A probe met an obstruction in the pharynx 2 cm. above the uvula, measured post-mortem. After death the body was kept at normal room temperature in tenement house for six hours before it could be obtained, was then put in 4 per cent, solution of formaldehyde in water, 24 hours later was injected through umbilical vein with 1 per