Attach to the drawings the names of all visible structures mentioned in the nomenclature [B.N.A.]. Preserve the specimens in a four per cent, solution of formaldehyde. OUTLINE NO. 17. MEDULLA SPINALIS OF MAN. Gross Study. Directions : Remove the Meninges of the medulla spinalis, leaving the proximal portion of the nervi spinales intact. Give especial attention to the following structures : Meninges Dura mater spinalis Cavum subdurale Pia mater spinalis Lig. denticulatum Nervi spinales Radix anterior Radix posterior Ganglion spinale Medulla spinalis Pars cervicalis Intu me seen Ha cervi cal is Pars thoracalis Pars lumbalis Intumescentia lumbalis Conus medullaris Cauda equina FiliCm terminale Fissura mediana anterior Sulcus medianus posterior Sulcus lateralis anterior Sulcus lateralis posterior Sulcus intermedins posterior (Sulcus intermedins anterior) Funiculus anterior Funiculus lateralis Funiculus posterior Draw the anterior, lateral and posterior aspects of the intumescenUa lumbalis together with the portions of the nervi spinales dependent therefrom. Attach to the drawings the names of all visible structures mentioned in the nomenclature [B.N.A.]. Preserve the specimens in a four per cent, solution of formaldehyde. OUTLINE NO. 18. MEDULLA SPINALIS OF MAN. Gross Study. Directions : Divide the medulla spinalis into four segments by transverse sections as follows : Section XVI to pass through the middle of the in turn escen tia cervicalis. Section XVII to pass through the middle of the pars thoracalis. Section XVIII to pass through the middle of the intumescentia lumbalis. Draw the coronal suifaces thus exposed, giving especial attention to the following structures : Sulcus medianus poste- rior Fu n iculus posterior Fasciculus gracilis Sulcus intermedins pos- terior Fasciculus cuneatus Sulcus lateralis poste- rior Funiculus lateralis Fasciculus cerebrospi- nal is lateralis Fa sciculus cercbellospi- nalis Fasciculus anterolater- alis superficialis Fasciculus lateralis pro- prius Sulcus lateralis anterior Funiculus anterior Fasciculus cerebrospi- nalis anterior Fasciculus anteriorpro- prius Fissura mediana ante- rior Canalis centralis Substantia grisea centralis Commissura anterior alba Com m issura anterior gri- sea Commissura posterior Column a anterior Columna lateralis Colurnna posterior Apex columnae posteri- ori s Substantia gelatinosa Formatio retieula 1 is (Nucleus dorsalis)