127 OUTLINE NO. 2. SYSTEMA NERVORUM CENTRALE OF EMBRYO PIG. Gross Study. Directions : Place the embryo flat on the abdomen with limbs extended. Make an incision in the mid-dorsal line the entire length of the animal. Dissect and remove the soft parts adjacent to the colunina vertebralis work- ing laterally from the median line. Expose the medulla spinalis by removing the vertebral arches with forceps and scissors, taking care to avoid the underlying soft parts. Expose the encephalon by removing the skull cap. Draw the systema nervorum centrale as thus exposed with the meninges intact. Attach to drawings the names of all visible structures mentioned in the nomenclature [B.N.A.]. Preserve the specimen in a four per cent, solution of formaldehyde. outline no. 3. SYSTEMA NERVORUM CENTRAEE OF EMBRYO PIG. Gross Study. Eviscerate the embryo through a median ventral incision. Note the chain of ganglia on either side of the columna vertebralis. Trace fibers from the ganglia through the body wall to the peripheral nerve trunks^rami Coni- municantes. Note the extensive radiation of peripheral fibers from the gan- glia. Draw three ganglia with their several connecting fibers. With the embryo flat on the abdomen, expose the nervi spinales for a short distance beyond their exit from the Columna vertebralis. Dissect each oculus from its orbit, leaving it attached only to the enceph- alon by the nervus opticus. Remove the medulla spinalis and encephalon intact after sectioning the peripheral attachments and laving open the dura mater. Draw the ventral and lateral aspects of the system thus isolated. Attach to drawings the names of all visible structures mentioned in the nomenclature [B.N.A.]. Preserve the specimen in a four per cent, solution of formaldehyde, outline no. 4. ENCEPHALON OF MAN. Gross Study. Divide the human encephalon into four parts as follows : Remove the prosencephalon by sectioning the pedunculi Cerebri, and sepa- rate its symmetrical halves by division of the Corpus Callosum. Remove the cerebellum from the rhombencephalon by cutting the brachia conjunctiva, the brachia pontis and the Corpora resli/orrhia. Make drawings of the isolated parts as follows : 1. Prosencephalon ; median, lateral, dorsal and ventral aspects. 2. Rhombencephalon {minus the cerebellum); dorsal, ventral and lateral aspects. 3. Cerebellum; dorsal, ventral and anterior aspects. Attach to drawings the names of all visible structures mentioned in the nomenclature [B.N.A.]. Preserve the specimens in a four per cent, solution of formaldehyde.