186 into the blood capillaries of the lobule. This fact has raised an objection to the direct injection of the lymphatics from the bile capillaries. It appears more probable, the opponents say, that the extravasation of bile, or the injected material into the interlobular spaces, enters the lymphatic radicals of the capsule of Glisson, and from them the larger lymph chan- nels and the perivascular spaces of the capillaries are filled. Furthermore the injected mass may pass from the pericapil- lary spaces directly into the capillaries, thus accounting for their frequent injection. According to Fleischl,3 all the bile is taken up by the lymphatics after ligature of the bile duct, and in case the thoracic duct is also ligated no bile or only a trace of bile ever reaches the blood. The observation of Fleischl has been confirmed by Kunkel,4 Kufferath 5 6 and Harley.fi It is ex- tremely difficult to understand why the bile does not enter the blood capillaries in case it passes from the bile capillaries over into the perivascular spaces before it reaches the inter- lobular spaces after ligature of the bile duct. A further objection to the idea that the perivascular spaces first take up the bile, after ligature of the duct, is the fact that fluids injected into the bile duct pass with ease over into the lymphatics but only with difficulty into the bile capillaries. In all cases it appears as if the main origin of the lymphatics is at the periphery of the lobule and that the radicals commu- nicate freely with the perivascular lymph spaces. Further- more, it appears that the course the bile takes after ligature of the bile duct, or of a fluid injected into the bile duct in passing to the lymphatics, is between the lobules or at least at their extreme periphery. This idea is greatly strengthened since we know that the walls of the capillaries of the lobule are extremely porous, being composed of a dense layer of reticulum fibrils 7 upon which lie the endothelial or Kupffer’s cells. This layer of reticulum fibrils encircling each capillary 3 Fleischl, Ludwig’s Arbeiten, 1874. 4 Kunkel, Ludwig’s Arbeiten, 1875. 5 Kufferath, Arch, fiir Physiol., 1880 6 Harley, Archiv fiir Physiol., 1893. 1 Kupffer, Arch. f. Mik. Anat., 54.