253 ing six calices stand upon the pelvis in a double row; an anterior, irregularly arranged (2, 4, G) and a posterior, more regular, row (3, 5, 7). The horizontal axis of the pelvis (Fig. 1 I), a, ci') runs from the posterior surface of the kidney obliquely through the organ to the outer third of its anterior surface and the two rows of calices leave this axis at almost equal angles. The posterior calices, therefore, point to a line just a little pos- terior to the lateral convex border of the kidney (b), while the anterior calices are directed straight forward into the convex anterior region of the organ (c). This form of the pelvis is, next to the distended pelvis, the most favorable for a surgical incision. The great majority of pelves have well defined major calices, with a very narrow lumen, and owing to this condi- tion it is often impossible to gain access to the minor calices and remote pockets through a surgical incision into the pelvis at the site of the hilum. Furthermore, this incision must be short, as there is a constant branch of the renal artery running downward over the posterior surface of the pelvis at the hilum. The varieties of the ideal form are very numerous and will be described in detail in the fuller communication above referred to. All kidneys with a true pelvis have a smooth surface or moderate degree of lobulation, regular outline and, as a rule, a normal blood-supply. (2) Divided Pelves.—Fig. 2 shows the typical form of a divided pelvis. Comparing it with Fig. 1 one finds that between calices 2, 3 and 4, 5 there is a zone of cortical substance (a), which extends to the hilum. It divides the upper part of the pelvis from the lower, and in the majority of cases the lower portion receives the greater number of calices. Although the number of calices in divided pelves may be eight, they are generally more numerous. In other respects the topography of these pelves is similar to that of the true pelves. A kidney with a divided pelvis, as a rule, preserves its foetal lobulations and has an abnormal arterial circulation; the division between the individual sections of the pelvis is generally marked on the surface by an especially k