151 ally on the distal surface of the disc. The vertebral body is here proportionately thin, showing itself merely as a lighter streak between the more deeply staining perichondrium of each end. In fact the bodies of the distal coccygeal vertebral can hardly be spoken of as cartilaginous. In thickness (cranio- caudal) the vertebral bodies diminish steadily throughout the sacral and coccygeal regions, but there is very little diminu- tion in the dorsoventral diameter until the thirty-fourth verte- bra is reached. The last three diminish rapidly towards the tip. In the last two the discs are fully as thick as the verte- bral bodies themselves. The distal surface of the vertebra is capped by a well marked disc. There is on each side of the intervertebral discs in the coccygeal region a small mass of deeply staining tissue, which projects ventrally and laterally. They are visible only in sections which pass to the side of the mid-line. They represent undoubtedly rudimentary hypa- pophyses or haemal arches found in the caudal vertebrae of lower forms. The spinal ganglia, not counting the ganglion of the hypo- glossus, are thirty-three in number. In connection with the last a distinct ventral ramus arises and passes ventrally to the side of the vertebrae, bending distally; ventral to the vertebrae it joins a trunk from the next higher nerve. Its mode of ending is uncertain. The number of muscle plates could not be made out cleaTy. In the interval between the thirty-first and thirty-second vertebrae the medullary cord (med.) becomes suddenly attenu- ated into a filum terminate. There are apparently few or no neuroblasts beyond this point; the walls of the tube are made up of columnar epithelial cells. In the distal portion of the vertebral region and at the base of the caudal filament the eord takes a somewhat sinuous course. The central canal extends to the tip of the tail, where it ends in the slight ■enlargment mentioned above, the terminal ventricle. The notochord (cli.) forms the axis of the vertebral bodies and discs, and in the proximal portion of the coccygeal region, as in the trunk, is almost straight. In the region of the last two or three vertebrae it is more tortuous. It leaves the