99 through which two fibers were found passing. This appeared to be a rudimentary olfactory tract. On horizontal section, the optic stalk extending cephalad 2 cm., divided into two stalks, each i cm. long, terminating in a well developed eyeball, choroid, sclera, lens, and external conjunctiva with rudimentary retina, vitreous and cornea, behind the outer eanthus of the single ophthalmic slit. Mesially interposed between it and its fellow were two layers of muscle (probably internal recti), surmounted in front by the mass of granulation tissue above mentioned, entirely con- cealing the eye from external inspection. The optic stalk had no connection with the mesencephalon. The 12th, nth, 10th, 9th, 8th, 7th and 5th nerves all seemed normally de- veloped. The 4th nerve was present, but its connection cephalad was lost. The 3d nerve, divided normally, supplied a normal levator palpebrae muscle and its fibers passed to muscle tissue irregularly placed around an eyeball of which the orbit was deficient posteriorly, mesially, superiorly, and de- generate externally and inferiorly. The frontal branch was normal. The 6th nerve, of large size, passed normally to a de- generate set of muscle fibers inferior to the levator palpebrae. The muscle appeared to be unattached at either end. The mouth seems normal. Rathke’s diverticulum has closed off normally, leaving a pharynx closed cephalad above normally opening Eustachian tubes. Tooth sockets, normal. Von Hacker, in the Archiv fur mikr. Anat. at Bonn, in 1897, Vol. XLIX, pp. 35-91, has elaborately described the microscopical findings, while C. Claus, in 1892-3, elaborately described the embryology and comparative anatomy from the Zoological Institute of Vienna, Vol. X, pp. 283-356. Smith and Parker, of Philadelphia, have given one of the best de- scriptions in English of a case. In literature I counted some two hundred instances of this anomaly and then ceased to count. It is, therefore, moderately common. Its interest lies in the fact that it pursues no known laws of variation ; it is not a reversion to some animal ; its findings are cpiite regular and much alike; its causation obscure, and its influence on form, the influence of anomaly in one part over anomaly in another part. This anomaly may throw light on the forma- tion of the gyri and sulci, and the non-relation of cerebellar to cerebral gyri, or cerebellar gyri to other gyri in its substance. In the specimen here presented the interest lies in the