110 In brief, it was found that in 40 hemicerebrums of the 200 examined, the inflected was wanting ; in other words, the fissure was present in 80 per cent. All further data are based upon the 160 hemicerebrums, in which the fissure was present, as equivalent to 100. In ninety-one per cent, the inflected was situated in a plane caitdad of an unmistakable cephalic paracentral limb, while in the remaining nine per cent., this limb had become separ- ated from the main paracentral stem by a narrow isthmus or slight vadum. But in all cases the inflected was situated caudad of this limb, whether separated or confluent, or, in other words, the inflected indented and lay partly within the paracentral gyrus (or oval lobule, as Broca prefers to call it). The reader will now understand the anomalous appearance of this region in Wilder’s mulatto brain. In sixty-three per cent, of all cases there was only one such limb or ramus, bounding the paracentral gyrus cephalad, as shown in Fig. 1 ; this arrangement occurred a little oftener upon the left half than upon the right. In twenty-two per cent, there was an additional ramus, intraparacentral in nature, and probably also in origin, situ- ated just caudad of the inflected, between it and the central. Fig. 3 will show how at first glance such a ramus might be mistaken for the true cephalic limiting ramus, and one must be guided by its position with reference to the inflected, as well as by the size of the lobule thus marked off. This intra- paracentral ramus may afford a possible explanation for the odd arrangement on Wilder’s mulatto brain ; the small para- central gyre is limited cephalad by such a ramus, while the true cephalic limb failed to develop (see Wilder’s Fig. 4,766, Handbook, Vol. VIII), so that the inflected fissure appears to lie wholly within the superfrontal gyrus. Fig. 4 is a copy. In the remaining six per cent, the ramifications and dis- turbances of fissuration were so varied as not to allow readily of any classification. Sometimes there were two, or even three intraparacentral rami, or the paracentral itself was broken up into fissural segments. As cited above, Eberstaller asserts that in fifty-five per cent, of his cases, the inflected (^. prcecentralis medialis) anastomoses with the cephalic paracentral limb, or as he calls it, “Anfangs- stiick der Pars posterior,” and “ j. prceparacentralisP I found such confluence in only two of the 160 hemicerebrums, both