question, glance at a skeleton or examine briefly another dissection. We would not allow students to cluster around tables not their own ; it is usually an excuse to escape work. Upon each subdivision, head, arms, &c., once a week a demonstration should be given showing the structures to be dissected out, and the assistant in charge should be expected to see that his students do that work, and may aid them indi- vidually, but should not in any way, by demonstration or otherwise, draw men from their work at other tables. In other words, the whole emphasis of the dissecting room should be upon the dissecting, and not upon the loafing, the telling of stories, the eating of lunch, or even the reading of anatomy. In place of the text book should far more usefully be provided the wTet specimen and the explanation of the teacher. Further, as I have said elsewhere (“ Medical Education,” p. io); u Human bodies are too costly and too sacred to be used to teach novices the elementary principles of the dissecting art, such as how to take off skin or fascia, or how to clean up the insertion of a muscle. It can just as readily be done upon the cat or the rabbit. A student should not be allowed to touch a human cadaver till he knows how to dissect, and has been drilled upon a wet dissected (human) specimen to learn what to look for.” Knowing first, then, what to look for, the wet specimen of muscle, artery or joint should be kept continually before him as a pattern from which to work. We find a good dissection stimulates to good work ; and upon being shown a structure clearly defined the student is the more ready to work it out for himself. We all know it is not always possible to show everything on one part. This defect is also supplied by a wet subject; neither are the deeper connections given us at a glance, though they can well be indicated by the accessory dissection. Further, in the exhibition of deeper structures the more super- ficial must be cut away, but in the review they may be seen again in the permanent preparation. At the conclusion of the dissecting period, several days should be devoted to review, when demonstrations may be given by all the table assistants, stopping at the point where the student “ lays down upon the instructor ;” such reviews