145 taming no bone. It was covered with normal skin, contain- ing fine hairs, and was apparently well vascularized. Three distinct portions or segments could be made out. The basal piece was short and on the dorsal side scarcely marked ofii from the next following, except when the tail was in a state of contraction (Fig. 2). On the ventral side a transverse furrow separated it from the next portion. The middle seg- ment had a length of 25 mm., was curved a little to the right and tapered somewhat towards its distal end, where the much more slender end-segment was attached. These two portions were separated bv a constriction more marked on the left side. The terminal segment curved to the right and ventrally and ended in a rounded blunt extremity. On the whole, the tail gave an impression not unlike that of a pig’s tail, a similarity which has been noted in a number of cases previously re- ported. The hairs upon the tail, which were considerable in num- ber, were plainly visible to the unaided eye. They pointed towards the tip, as could readily be confirmed by examination of longitudinal sections (Fig. 4). The convergence of the hairs towards the tip of the tail corresponds with the arrange- ment of the hairs in the coccygeal whorl (vertex coccygeus of Ecker), found in normal, i. e. tailless individuals, and sup- posed to be a vestige of the embryonic tail. Two weeks after the birth of the child the tail was 4.4 cm. long; at the age of two months it had grown to 5 cm.; and at six months, when it was removed, it had attained the length of 7.0 cm., showing altogether a fairly rapid rate of growth. The most remarkable characteristic of the tail was its movability. When at rest it would lie extended in the mid- line (Fig. 1), or bent over to one side upon the buttocks. The mother of the child said that she had seen the tail bent through an angle of 180°, its tip pointing towards the head. It must, however, have been brought into this position pas- sively, for, as will be seen later, there was nothing in the arrangement of its muscles which could account for this. When the child was irritated, and cried or coughed, the tail would contract markedly. Between the basal and middle