180 connective tissue is correspondingly less. Elastic tissue oc- curs even here, however, varying in form from fine threads to coarse bands. It is especially abundant in the neighbor- hood of the blood-vessels. See Fig. 6. Unstriped muscle also exists in the larger gall-ducts, and at the point where the ductus communis joins the ductus pancreaticus it becomes modified into a sphincter. This has been found by Hen- drickson in man, the dog and the rabbit, and also by Helly (4) in man, and Oddi (5) in man. The fibro-muscular layer contains the larger blood-vessels, which divide into branches and thus supply the other layers. See Figs. 2 and 6. The subserous layer is composed of dense interwoven elastic tissue bands which contain comparatively few nuclei, and therefore few connective-tissue elements. These bands form an irregular mesh-work which is denser on the side toward the serous layer. This layer is poorly supplied with blood- vessels, although there is a well developed set of lymph chan- nels which communicate with the large superficial vessels coming from the liver. By pulling the gall-bladder apart it is possible to divide it into two layers; the separation occurring at the junction of the subserous and fibro-muscular layers. By separating injected tissues in this manner a very pretty picture of the circulation in each part can be obtained distinct from the other. The serous layer is present only on the part covered by peritoneum, i. e. the fundus, the inferior surface of the gall- bladder and the outer surface of the gall-ducts. It is com- posed of simple flat endothelial cells from 4-6 n thick and adds but little strength to the organ. The larger lymphatic vessels from the liver and deeper layers of the gall-bladder run between it and the subserous layer. Brewer (6) has described in a very careful manner the way the cystic artery reaches the gall-bladder in man and the variations one would find ordinarily. He found that in 50 subjects only 3 corresponded to the type described in text- books of anatomy. It is possible to judge from this of the great amount of variation existing in its blood-supply. The largest artery after it has reached the gall-bladder is usually found, however, omits inferior surface and on the side toward