an influence on the shape of his bones. This subject, which is very complex, is under investigation. (g.) The sum of the observations thus far concluded, points to the fact that the principal causes of the various shapes of the shafts of the long bones must be sought for, first, in original differences in the attachment of the various muscles on the shafts, and, second, in an unequal development and work oj these muscles during childhood and adolescence. The original differences in attachment, some of which can be clearly demon- strated on the bones, will probably be shown to be partly hereditary, partly anomalous conditions. The manner in which the differently attached or differently developed muscles affect the shapes of bone must evidently be largely if not entirely mechanical. Investigations continue in this direction as well as those concerning the concurrence of the different types. The studies of the various forms of shaft of the human long bones lead to the following two generalizations : (i.) The various forms of shafts represent possibilities of results of our present anatomical peculiarities and our present activities. (2.) The greater range of variation of the forms in the whites than in the Indian or negro, corresponds to and is the re- sult of the greater variation of activities among whites and probably also of inborn characters such as defects and surfects of muscle-insertions. Investigations of the bones of whole families, or of persons related through much intermarriage or through some definite occupation practiced for several generations, are very desirable. As to the tendency of the diversification of the forms of the shaft of the long bones, only possibilities can be spoken of. The variation of shapes may further increase. As to an evolu- tion of any new type of skeleton, there can not be much ex- pectation of such an event so long as activities diversify and mixture is great. Should, however, any definite class of ac- tivities continue to preponderate, either in some more isolated community or generally, it is logical to suppose that the type of bones most adapted, that is, presenting the least resistance, to those activities, would show a gradual augmentation.