1 So t Attach to the drawings the names of all visible structures mentioned in the nomenclature [B.N.A.j. Preserve the specimens in a four per cent, solution of formaldehyde. outline no. 19. CONDUCTION PATHS. Reconstruction. Directions : With the aid of the drawings already made, together with the lecture notes and descriptive texts, construct diagrams illustrating the following conduction paths and the neurone systems of which these paths are composed : I. The General Sensory Conduction Paths from the Skin, Muscles, Etc., to the Cerebral Cortex : A. The Direct Path ; 1. The neurones of the first order, or the peripheral spinal and cerebral sensory neurones. 2. The sensory neurones of the second order (with crossed axones), (:nuclei terminates, Jibrae arcuatae internae, dcCussalio lemuisco- rum, stratum interolivare lemnisci, lemniscus medialis, thala- mus). 3. The sensory neurones of .the third order, or thalamocortical neurones {thalamus, Capsula interna \_pars occipitalis^, corona radiata, gyri centrales). B. The Indirect Path by the Way of the Cerebellum : 1. The peripheral spinal and cerebral sensory neurones. 2. The spino-cerebella neurones. {a) Direct cerebellar tract {nucleus dorsalis, fasciculus Cerebellos* pinalis. Corpus restiforme, vermis). {b) Gowers’ tract {substantia grisea, medullae spinalis, fascicu- lus anterolateralis superficialis, vermis). 3. The neurones whose axones constitute the brachium conjunctivum {nucleus dentatus, brachium conjunctivum, dccussatio brachii con- junctivi, nucleus ruber). 4. The neurones extending from the nucleus ruber to the pallium {nucleus ruber, Capsula interna \_pars occipitalis], gyri centrales, etc.) OUTLINE NO. 20. CONDUCTION PATHS. Reconstruction. Directions : With the aid of the drawings already made, together with the lecture notes and descriptive texts, construct diagrams illustrating the following conduction paths and the neurone systems of which these paths are composed ; II. The Olfactory Conduction Bath. 1. Peripheral olfactory neurones {regio olfadorici nasi, nn. olfactorii, bulbus olfadorius). 2. Central olfactory neurones {bulbus olfadorius, trades olfadorius, lobusfrontalis and lobus temporalis [uncus]).