191 with the growing liver. Hendrickson 10 has shown by staining the bile capillaries and ducts of the embryo’s liver by Golgi’s method that the tip of the primitive bile duct is added to by a coalescence of the bile capillaries at the periphery of the embryonic liver lobule. My own observation on the liver lobole after it is well formed is that whenever karyokinetic cell figures are present they are at the periphery of the liver lobule, i. e. at the junction of the bile capillary with the bile duct. It also appears that the vascular walls of the embryo are much more pervious than those of the adult, judging by the ease extravasation takes place when the blood-vessels of embryos are injected. This observation taken with that o! the growth of the bile ducts may be an explanation why the extravasation of a fluid injected into the bile duct takes place at the periphery of the lobule A further hint in this direc- tion is the observation that it is easy to inject the lymphatics from the blood-vessels of an inflamed area. I have often seen the lymphatics of an inflamed intestine filled with blood, ancT upon injecting the blood-vessels found that the fluid readily entered the lymphatics.* 11 That the capillaries of the liver communicate more freely with the lymphatics than do the bile ducts is proved by in- jecting the bile duct and the portal vein with fluids of dif- ferent color under the same pressure at the same time. In all the experiments I made the fluid injected into the vein appeared in the lymphatics first. In many instances beautiful injections of the lymphatics were obtained from the vein while the fluid injected into the bile duct did not extravasate at all, showing at least that the veins communicate with the lymphatics much more freely than do the bile ducts. The conclusions to be drawn from the above observations are (1) that the lymphatics of the liver arise from the peri- lobular lymph spaces and that these communicate directly with the perivascular lymph spaces; and (2) that the lymph reaches these spaces by a process of filtration through open- ings which are normally present in the capillary walls of the 10 Hendrickson, Johns Hopkins Hospital Bulletin, 1898. 11 See also Sigmund Mayer, Anat. Anz., 1899.