the parietal and subparietal gyres, respectively, while O is the occipital lobe. Now, as is well known, at some point near PO, but con- cealed within the depths of the fissure, “ there develops in the monkeys, from its floor, a small bridging convolution ”* and the external perpendicular fissure, O', is pushed backward just in proportion to the development of this gyrus. It is this gyrus which every one will recognize as Gratiolet’s premiere pli depassage, attaining in man the dignity of a paroccipital gyrus, as it was first named by Professor Wilder. We see, then, that Parker attaches some significance and value to the relative growth of this pli de passage in the sub- sequent formation of the paroccipital fissure and he advances the opinion (p. 336, loc. citi) that all the plis de passage “are nothing but the posterior extremities of the occipito-frontal and oceipito-temporal convolutions, which, checked in their development by the evolution of the occipital lobe in Primates, lie concealed in the majority of them by the overhanging operculum, whilst in the higher forms, through a renewed growth in this region, as we have seen in the case of the con- volution 2 (Fig. 2 of this article,) they finally reach the sur- face, displacing in their turn the operculum and pushing it backward.” The more one studies the morphology of the cerebral fis- sures and gyrus, the more apparent does the value of Gratio- let’s plis de passage become, and it is to be regretted that Ecker5 should have rejected the name because they appeared to him to have no “ justification in the human brain.” Parker does not proceed further in his very excellent argu- ment though he might easily have done so and assigned an equally important role to the denxihne pli de passage. It is also evident that he considers the caudal rami (or the trans- verse piece called by Ecker the S. occipitalis transversus) as the human representative of a portion of the simian exoccipital. If we take up the discussion at the point where Parker left it, it can be readily understood how a simultaneous up-growth of the deiixieme pli de passage would serve to limit the ectal extension of such a paroccipital, always bearing in mind that it must be regarded as a segment of the simian exoccipital. The chief difficulty that we encounter then is that we have * Parker, p. 321.