45 experience in this work than I now have. In fact, on the living, we can get good outlines of all the sinuses, the sella turcica even, and thus measure the size of the hypophysis cer- ebri! A little thought will show ns how certain other points of the skull can be made out on the living. We get thus a certain projection plan of the skull not obtained in any other way. Another important feature of this work is the proper spac- ings and positions of the bones, revealed to us as they exist in the joints and in the groups of smaller bones, as in the car- pus and tarsus. How many figures are given us in the text- books where the bones are huddled together as in the articu- lated skeleton. In comparative osteology its value here must be even greater in giving us the true relations and arrange- ments of the bones, especially in the smaller animals, where the bones are so much smaller and their positions more dif- ficult to estimate. Another field but little worked up as yet, is the demonstration of the arteries, where the arterial trunks are injected with a substance which the X-ray can shadow. The Germans have done some work in this direction. We can get in this way skiagraphs of the arterial trunks, even up to the minutest arterioles, and in their exact relations to the bones, and even to tendinous and muscular landmarks, for much of the latter can be brought out by careful technique. There is a certain mental drill associated with this work. From these bone-shadows the imagination is constantly build- ing up mental pictures of the real bones. One is ever tallying the substance with the shadow. And these shadows are so different from the two-dimensional shadow of ordinary light. * The X-ray shadow is a translucent one, so to speak. There is a perspective to the picture, and the bone shadows stand out like the real thing, with contrast, and depth, and the most delicate shading. The good negative is like an etching, and the better the negative the more this etching effect comes out in the print. My X-ray work has given me vivid mental pictures of the bones that I never had before. It has given a new interest to what had become familiar and common- place. As the acid eats out for us the earthy salts of the dead bone, leaving the animal matter, the X-ray eats out for us the an-