14G segments but little movement was possible; the contraction of the muscles merely brought out the constriction between the two portions more plainly. Between the middle and distal segments the movement was considerable. The latter could be drawn in sharply, telescoping the middle segment, and at the same time flexion to the left side took place. During this action the middle segment became much shorter and thicker. When the child was about six months old the tail was removed by Dr. Watson.14 The amputated appendage was put immediately into Zenker’s fluid to harden. After it had been washed and kept in strong alcohol for some time it measured 5.3 cm. in length. It was then cut into four pieces with a sharp razor, and the pieces were imbedded in celloidin. Cross sections were cut at three different levels, near the base, proximal to the second joint, and near to the tip, as is indicated in Fig. 4. After a few transverse sections were cut off, the pieces were stuck together and reimbedded in celloidin for the purpose of cutting longitudinal sections of the whole. From the study of sections it is seen that the skin covering the whole of the tail except a limited area on the ventral sur- face is of normal structure. The layers of the epidermis are easily distinguishable. The thickness of the skin varies some- what. Near the base of the tail on the ventral side it is found to be quite 2 mm. thick, while on the dorsal surface of the same portion it is scarcely 1.5 mm. Further out, i. e. at the middle cut (Fig. 4, a), there is the same difference in thickness between skin of the ventral and dorsal surface (Fig. 5), although the skin is here not quite so thick as at the base. Near the tip the thickness throughout the whole 14 It seemed advisable to remove tbe tail, not only in order to aceede to the wishes of the child’s parents, who regarded its presence with chagrin, bnt also on more practical grounds. It looked as if the tail might become the seat of a troublesome intertrigo. Besides, its rate of growth was considerable, and it did not seem unlikely that the appendage might have later attained undue proportions, causing, as has been reported in several instances, considerable inconvenience in sitting. (See Lissner: Virchow’s Archiv, Bd. 99, 1SS5.