38 question for their inception, rendering this or that proposed operative interference proper and advantageous, or interdict- ing it. A museum which offers to the medical specialist not only the normal and variant human structures which constitute his field of work, but which enables him at the same time to examine the homologous parts of other vertebrates for the purpose of gaining clearer insight into obscure morphological conditions and the origin of aberrant formations, will certainly be an aid to practical advance which can be obtained by no other means. It is needless to point out further connections of a similar character, or to more than touch upon the line along which pathology and embryology meet, a line which is sufficiently extensive, but obscure because the assistance which vertebrate embryology can afford to the pathologist is only rarely attainable in the form which the museum proposes to offer, viz: complete sets of serial preparations. As the museum develops it is proposed to take successively certain portions of the subject, such as eye, ear, larynx, brain, genito-urinary tract, etc., and to develop these as fully as possible, demon- strating the results in the form of an exhibition to a selected number of scientific men who are directly interested in the matter as expert specialists. The importance of this feature of the museum work will thus be brought more particularly to the attention of those best able to judge of its value and to profit by the same. I have no doubt that from this class of men valuable work in investigation will be secured. IV. UTILIZATION FOR THE PURPOSES OF THE MUSEUM OF TPIE MATERIAL OBTAINED FROM THE DIS- SECTING ROOM, AND REFERENCE COL- LECTION IN OSTEOLOGY. The question has at times been discussed whether the mor- phological museum should take its place in the university system as part of the departments of general biology and zoology, or as an integral division of the department of an- atomy in the medical school. I am unhesitatingly of the latter opinion. Aside from the obvious relation to under- graduate medical instruction which I have attempted to out- line above, the mere fact that man, the highest vertebrate of the series, forms the object of study in the medical curriculum, assigns to the morphological museum its logical place in the