56 the tibia, fibula and humerus by the posterior ; in the femur by the anterior ; in ulna by the internal, and in radius by the external surface of the bone. In whites this type of shaft is most frequent in the humerus. In the fibula it is slightly modified by the anterior surface of the bone. The nearest modifications of type i are types of shaft Nos. 2, 2«, and 4. Types 2 and 2a occur principally in the tibia, fibula and humerus; and are characterized by the obliquity of the posterior surface of the bone. Type 4 occurs in all the long bones, and is characterized by the presence of a distinct additional surface on the shaft. The formation of the surface differs in the various bones. In the tibia the additional sur- face results from a division into two, by a vertical ridge, of the posterior surface ; in the fibula a duplication is observed on the external surface; in the femur it is the anterior, in the radius the external, and in the ulna the posterior surface, which occasionally, through the influence of a vertical ridge, shows a formation of a distinct additional plane; in the humerus, finally, a new, anterior surface results occasionally by the broadening out of the anterior border of the bone. A special class of modifications of the form of the shaft is that where one or more surfaces of the bone show a pro- nounced concavity. We find such types (3, 3^, 3/;,) partic- ularly in the fibula, but also in the tibia, ulna and radius. In the fibula the concavity affects especially the external, but also the internal, and occasionally both the external and in- ternal surfaces; in tibia the character is observed on the external and in the ulna and radius mainly on the anterior surface. Types 5, 6, e. and r., are widely differing forms of the shaft of some of the long bones ; all these types have, nevertheless, two features in common, and that is an indistinctness or com- plete obliteration of one or more of the borders of the bone and marked convexity of two or all the surfaces. They ap- proach more or less the infantile types of the bones. Type 5 occurs occasionally in the tibia and frequently in the radius. It is marked by the convexity of the pos- terior tibial and external radial surface and by indistinctness of the internal and sometimes also the external border in the tibia and the anterior and posterior borders in the radius. I11 both bones, but particularly in the tibia, this type of form represents a deficiency in the differentiation of the bone.