215 tissue His termed the septum transversum. Ilis’s studies were made upon the human embryo, mainly by the method of reconstruction, and shortly after they were published Uskow made a very careful study of the further growth of the septum transversum. Uskow recognized the great importance of two additional structures in the formation of the pericardium and adult diaphragm from the septum transversum; these he termed the pleuro-pericardial membrane, containing the phrenic nerve, and the pillars which form the dorsal ends of the diaphragm. The pillars of Uskow have been termed the pleuro-peritoneal membranes by Braehet, and as the latter term is more appropriate than the former I shall employ it in the present paper. My own studies show that the pleuro-pericardial and pleuro- peritoneal membranes arise from a common structure, which extends from the lobe of the liver along the dorsal wall of the ductus Cuvieri to the dorsal attachment of the mesocardium. Later this structure grows towards the head to complete the pleuro-pericardial membrane and then towards the tail to complete the pleuro-peritoneal membrane. This structure, which I shall term the pulmonary ridge, is located in the sagittal plane of the body-cavity with cephalic and caudal horns on its dorsal side. The ductus Cuvieri lies between these horns (Fig. 29). The purpose of this paper is to follow carefully the fate of the septum transversum and the origin and fate of the pulmonary ridge in the human embryo. In so doing it is of course necessary to consider the division of the body-cavity into the pericardial, pleural and peritoneal cavities. Accord- ing to His, the body-cavity, in early embryos is divided into the Parietalhohle and Rumpfliolilen. The communication be- tween these spaces he has also termed the recessus parietalis. The parietal cavity from its earliest appearance contains the heart and is destined to form the pericardial cavity. I shall term it the pericardial coelom. A portion of the recessus parietalis forms the pleural cavity; it surrounds the lung- bud throughout its development and I shall term it the pleural coelom. The remainder of the recessus parietalis to the origin of the liver has developed in it the liver and