59 Type No. 6 occurs in the tibia, femur and humerus. The shaft is plano-convex. The type is much more frequent in negro tibiae and Indian humeri than in these bones in the other races here considered. Types <? (elliptical) and r (round) are found in the femur. The condition of flatness in long bones occurs quite inde- pendently of the shape otherwise of these shafts. Flatness is not only found in the tibia, but also in the fibula (lateral), femur (antero-posterior of whole shaft, and, independently, antero-posterior of the upper part of the shaft, below the minor trochanter) and humerus (lateral). Flatness of the long bones is most frequent in the Indians, least frequent in the negroes. The flat femur (whole shaft) occurs almost exclusively in whites and independently of the flatness of other long bones. A flat tibia is often accompanied by a flat fibula. CAUSES OF THE VARIOUS SHAPES. (a.) Stage of life : Exceptionally a clear type of one or more of the shafts of the long bones is found in an infant. The ulti- mate stage of differentiation of the shape of the shafts of the various long bones is apparently reached in some individuals during adolescence, but in the majority of cases probably not until during the first part of the adult life. Senility seems to have no effect on the shape of the bones. (b.) Sex: Excepting individual cases, the male bones show more differentiation in shapes than the female. (c.) Race : The whites show more differentiation in the shapes of the long bones than the Indians, and these show probably a somewhat greater variety than the negroes. Shapes frequent or not uncommon in one race (6 in negro tibiae, 4 in Indian humeri) may be rare in the others. (d.) Size of the body : The longest and the shortest bones ' of any variety show in general less differentiation than the in- termediary sizes. Weak bones show on an average less differ- entiation of shapes than stronger ones. (e.) Pathological conditions : Curvatures of the tibia, par- ticularly the outward curvatures of the upper half or third of the bone, accentuate the concavity of the external surface. Curvatures also influence the shape of the fibula, femur and ulna. {/.) The occupation of the individual undoubtedly exercises