30 basis for broad comparison between the organizations of the different vertebrate classes. For example, the comparison of the entire anatomical system of a typical reptile, bird and mammal will show why reptiles and birds, although differing widely in structural detail, yet have sufficient general morpho- logical characters in common, as against the mammal, to entitle them to be grouped under the single broad head of the Sauropsida. Then, again, this portion of the museum is designed to elucidate the important problems of derivation of vertebrate sub-classes. 2. The second main division of the museum deals with the development, evolution and comparative structure of single organs and systems. The homologies in the different classes, and the modifications of the typical structures in each class, are here demonstrated as completely as possible. In many respects this portion of the work is educationally the most important. We draw most extensively upon it for our an- atomical undergraduate instruction in the elucidation of problems in human morphology. I cannot take time in even superficially outlining the detailed development of this division of the anatomical museum. The enumeration of a few of the principal series must suffice. I may instance the series dealing with the morphology of the alimentary tract, and especially the group devoted to the structure of the ileo-colic junction, caecum, vermiform appen- dix and the allied segments of the large intestine. This series, including at present over 600 preparations, and beginning with type forms illustrating this portion of the alimentary canal in fishes, amphibia, reptiles and birds, passes to a com- plete demonstration of the structures in mammals, terminating with several specimens of the four anthropoid apes and leading up to the detailed study of the human caecum and appendix, the numerous variations of which are all represented by one or more type specimens. I11 the same way the various forms of the stomach and the modifications of small and large intestine constitute a series of great morphological interest. Other series deal with the vertebrate respiratory apparatus, especial stress being laid on the clear demonstration of the development, evolution and structure of the mammalian lung. Closely connected with this group is the serial exhibit dealing with the heart and circulatory system. Other series include