254 deep groove, thus causing the appearance as though there were two separate kidneys, one on top of the other. Fre- quently they are indeed separate organs as far as their secre- tory function and their arterial circulation are concerned. The veins, however, collect, as a rule, in one single trunk. These conditions are readily understood by one who is familiar with the different stages of the development of the kidney, with its origin, its ascent from the pelvis to the lumbar region and finally the wandering in of the vessels. The Renal Artery.—The renal artery divides at the hilum, as a rule, into four to five branches, the distribution of which, in relation to the pelvis, is such that three-fourths of the blood-supply is carried anteriorly, while one-fourth runs posteriorly. The relative size of the two systems may occa- sionally be f : J, f : J, but rarely \ : h The arteries are end-arteries in the strictest sense of the word and the branches of the anterior division never cross over to the posterior side, or vice versa. They do not anastomose with each other.3 The plane of division between the two arterial trees is indicated by the axes of the posterior row of calices (see Fig. 1 D & and Fig. 3 B arrow). Fig. 3 B demonstrates this in a schematic way. The sec- tion is imagined as passing transversely through the middle of the kidney, as in the lower diagram in Fig. 1. The artery (a) sends a large branch (a') anteriorly and a small branch (a") posteriorly. Both branches are seen running close to the pelvis and the calices up to the region of the papillae, whence they send off fan-like branches (h) around the pyra- mids. The anterior branch (a') supplies the whole of the anterior pyramid (P) and the anterior portion of the pos- 3 To Hyrtl apparently is due the credit of having first mentioned the “naturliche Theilbarkeit der Niere,” by which he means that in a corrosion specimen the two arterial systems are completely separated by the pelvis. lie also affirms that this arrangement of the renal arteries is found “ without exception in all mammalia from the whale to man.” [Hyrtl, Topographische Auatomie. Wien, 1882. Bd. I, pg. 834.] Hyrtl’s statement has unfortunately been overlooked and up to this date the text-books on anatomy and surgery make no mention of this anato- mical fact, so important to the surgeon.