148 degeneration. The fibrils are less distinct than usual, and the nuclei may be found scattered throughout the substance of the fibres. The muscle is, in fact, in an advanced stage of simple atrophy. No one of the blood-vessels stands out preeminently in size. The largest artery is on the left side, held in place by strong connective-tissue bundles. This may be seen in sec- tions through the middle (Fig. 5, A), as well as through the base of the tail. There are several smaller vessels in the vicinity. Two small arteries are seen in the right dorsal quadrant near the centre and one just beneath the corium, to the left of the mid-line. The veins are small and incon- spicuous. There is nothing to be seen of a tuft-like branch- ing of the vessels as Virchow 13 describes in one of his cases, nor is there anything resembling erectile tissue.10 There is, however, an abundant supply of blood-vessels in the corium. A number of small nerve trunks (Fig. 5, N) run longitu- dinally in the areolar tissue of the appendage. The majority of these accompany blood-vessels. Similar Cases.—While it is not practicable to enumerate here all of the similar cases which have hitherto been re- ported, there are some which for one reason or other are of especial interest. The tail of a Moi,17 ten years of age, which had attained the length of over twenty-five centimeters, is interesting on account of its size. Many of the cases have been described very briefly and only as regards external ap- pearance. There are, however, a number of cases which have either been dissected or examined microscopically. These include Greve’s case described by Virchow,18 and cases re- ported by Meyers,19 Vinogradow,20 Rodenacker21 and Schebold- 15 Virchow’s Archiv, Bd. 79, 1880. 16 Bartels : Archiv f. Anthropol., Bd. xv, p. 116. 17 Caudal Appendage in Man. (From the French of Etienne Rabaud, in “ La Naturaliste.”) Scientific American, vol. 50, 1889. ]S Virchow’s Archiv, Bd. 79, 1880. 19 Proc. N. Y. Pathol. Soc., 1898. 20 K. N. Vinogradow : On Human Tails. Vrach, vol. xv, 1894 (Russian). 21 G. Rodenacker: Ueber den Saugetliiersehwanz mit hesonderer