197 reconstruction is the great essential. In addition it is often of value to distinguish by using pencils of various colors the different organs in structures as they appear in the section. If desired, direct bromide enlargements can be made of the sections on the slides. This is the method preferred by His: The simpler method described above we have found, how- ever, to be more convenient for general purposes. The outline drawings may often be elaborated to any de- sired extent when the sections are subjected to careful micro- scopic study. It is a great help for the subsequent recon- struction to label, so far as possible, the various structures in the outlines of the sections before proceeding to the wax plates. 4. Much trouble in the preparation of the wax plates is to be saved by using plates of a uniform thickness and by mak- ing the magnification of the object under reconstruction cor- respond. The most convenient thickness for general use is 2 mm. Occasionally, for coarser work, 4 mm. plates have proved of value. It is very easy, with the apparatus above described, to make the ratio of the diameter of magnification of the drawings to the diameter of the sections equal to that of two millimetres to the thickness of the section. If plates 2 mm. thick be used and every section be drawn, sections 20 mm. thick = 1/50 mm: must be magnified one hundred times. Or if desired, as is more often the case, every other section may be drawn at a magnification of fifty diameters. For making the wax plates we have a large zinc pan with vertical sides. Its surface area is such that one kilogram of the wax mixture which we use will make a plate 1 mm. thick. The method of casting the plates is essentially that described by Born. Boiling water is run into the pan to the depth of several inches. On the surface of this the hot melted wax mixture is poured and quickly forms an even, smooth layer. Bubbles, which occasionally appear in the wax, may be quickly exploded by turning the flame of a Bunsen burner on the surface of the wax where they appear. As the wax plate cools it is necessary to free it from the sides of the pan by running a knife along the edge. Before the plates are perfectly cool they may readily be cut into smaller plates of any desired size.