71 the well-known historian of Greece ; Hugo Gylden, the astron- omer; Prof, von Helmholtz, physiologist and physicist; Rudolf Lenz, violin virtuoso; Prof. Carlo Giacomini, Gam- betta, Broca, Bertillon, Assezat, Asseline, Veron, Gauss, Fuchs, Dirichlet and perhaps a few others. The brain of Prof. Gia- comini, recently studied (Giornale della R. accadcmia de Torino, August, 1900, pp. 737-808), is said to add a note- worthy item to the chapter of coincidences since it exhibited an anomaly which he himself was the first to describe, namely : two central fissures, and therefore a gyrus Rolandicus, so- called, upon the right side. Upon closer scrutiny of Prof. Sperino’s descriptions and plates, it has become evident to the writer that the supposed second central is an unusually long and well marked post central fissure. Still fewer brains of eminent women have been studied. One is that of Madam Sonya Kovalewski, the celebrated mathematician, and another is that of Laura Bridgman, who, though bereft of the powers of language, sight and hearing, displayed an intelligence and education of a remarkable de- gree. Kovalewski’s brain, after being immersed in alcohol for four years, weighed 1,108 grams; Retzius calculated the original weight to have been about 1,385 grams. (G. Retzius: Biologische Untersuchungen, Neue Folge, 1900, IX, pp. 1-16.) Laura Bridgman’s brain weighed 1,389.5 grams after having been immersed in a two per cent, solution of potassium bichro- mate for about three months. Donaldson (Amer. Jour. Psy- chology, III, No. 3, 1890, p. 306,) thinks that the probable weight was somewhat over 1,200 grams. I11 this view of the subject the writer ventures to assume that the presentation of the following preliminary account may not be uninteresting when it is learned that it is based on the examination of the brains of two eminent physicians, which have been “ saved for scientific uses rather than wasted upon worms.” But what is of especial importance and with- out -precedent is that one is the descendant of the other, and furthermore, that their ancestors and several relatives of the same name had been for several generations physicians, chemists, engineers and architects, and that the ancestral his- tory is marked by many meritorious achievements. The brains of which I speak are those of Dr. Edouard Seguin, and his son, Professor Edward C. Seguin, both of whom were distinguished for high scholarship and brilliant attainments.