195 especially good for holding many small objects in the posi- tion in which it is desired to photograph them. For detail in the distant as well as the proximal part of the object it is a great aid to make use of a stand capable of being raised without moving the object laterally. In this way, if the diaphragm he closed down so as to make the exposure a long one, the object may from time to time be brought slightly nearer to the lens of the camera, so that parts more distant are brought into sharp focus. From the photographic plates thus obtained lantern slides are made or the negative itself is used to project the image at the required magnification upon a screen. Free-hand drawings are then traced on a paper upon which the imag-H falls, or, if desired, bromide enlargements can be made. In this way accurate records can quickly be made of the external appearance of the object to be studied, yet no special talent for drawing is required. In the study of embryos the profile view is the most essential one, though others also prove of great value. 2. The only real essentials in the technique of obtaining serial sections of the object to be studied are that the series should be complete, the sections perfect and of uniform thick- ness. As pointed out by Born, the most convenient sec- tions for this work are those from 20-40 microns in thick- ness. For sections of this thickness we have found alum cochineal to give uniformly the most satisfactory stain. It is important to know which side of the sections was upper- most during the cutting, so that in the subsequent reconstruc- tion a true and not a mirror image of the object will be formed. For this reason it is well to make it a uniform practice to begin at the head when cutting transverse sections through an embryo, at the right side when cutting longitu- dinal vertical sections, and at the dorsal side when cutting horizontal sections and to label the sections in the order in which they have been cut. 3. For making drawings of the sections we have found that in general a projection apparatus is more convenient than a camera lucida unless the sections are small. Our pro- jection apparatus is set up in a large dark room.