0 THE MORPHOLOGICAL MUSEUM AS AN EDUCA- TIONAL FACTOR IN THE UNIVERSITY SYSTEM. By Dr. Geo. S. Huntington, New York City. The educational value of the modern morphological mu- seum has of late years received such general recognition that we may well regard its position as established in the univer- sity system. Not only do the departments of undergraduate instruction draw more and more extensively upon this portion of the university equipment for the illustration of courses and demonstrations, but the museum itself has assumed its proper relation to independent scientific research and to the investi- gation of biological problems. It has seemed to me desirable to present to this association—whose members are so largely both teachers of anatomy and investigators of the science— some account of the progress made during the last decade in museum work in the department of vertebrate morphology. More especially does it appear proper at this time to note the present stage of development of the modern anatomical mu- seum, because we have, I think, reached a period at which we can look back over a series of busy years and gauge cor- rectly the value of the results obtained, as well as forecast the probable future development of this work. Ten or fifteen years ago the morphological museum—established on lines of modern thought and research—existed in an embryonic form in only a few of our institutions of learning. From this period date a number of excellent monographs—in which the au- thors outline the plans of a proposed anatomical museum de- signed to meet the requirements demanded by the advance of the biological sciences—from the standpoint both of the teacher and the investigator. Prominent among these interesting publications are the following : u Outlines for a Museum of Anatomy. Prepared for the Bureau of Education,” by R. W. Shufeldt. 1885. “ Die Aufgaben der anatomischen Institute,” by Professor A. Koelliker, 1884. An address delivered at the opening of the new anatomical institute in Wurzburg on November 3, 1883.