89 The left insula exhibits an incomparably richer development than the right. The left occipital index is smaller than the right. The left frontal index is larger than the right. The left subfrontal gyrus is larger than the right. On both right operculums there is a single isolated fissure embraced by the limbs of the presylvian fissure. The left medifrontal fissure is in two segments (in one case separated by a superficial isthmus, in the other by a slight vadum of 4 millimeters). Furthermore, the medifrontal is poorly represented on the right sides. The left cephalic limb of the paracentral fissure is short; long on the right. The left episylvian fissure, and also the hyposylvian are longer than on the right half. The left fronto-marginal fissural segments are easily traced ; they are absent on the right sides. The left olfactory fissure is shorter than the right. The left Sylvian fissure more nearly approaches the hori- zontal than does the right. The existence of these and other facts gave strongs evidence of direct hereditary transmission. In addition, however, there are other interesting points of resemblance in attributing which to such transmission, one strange apparent difficulty is en- countered, namely : their reversed position as to sides. This “ crossed heredity,” or the reproduction of unilateral asymmet- rical peculiarities of one side in the father’s brain upon the opposite side in the son’s, would constitute an interesting chapter in itself. An enumeration of the facts in support of this mode of crossed hereditary transmission can only be briefly made here. Father’s Brain. I. Left parietal f. and paroccipital f. separated ; continuous on right. II. Postcalcarine f. bifurcated on right only. III. Right occipitocalcarine angle =70° ; left 6o° (circa). IV. Father’s right “ exoccipital complex” almost identical with son’s left. V. Left parietal f. joins supertem- poral f. and intermedial f. VI. Mode of junction of right medifrontal f. with orbitofrontal f. exactly as in son’s left. VII. Father’s right half heavier. Son’s Brain. Left parietal f. and paroccipital f. continuous ; separated on right. Postcalcarine f. bifurcated on left only. Right occipitocalcarine angle = 6o° ; left = 70° (circa). Son’s left “exoccipital complex” almost identical with father’s right. Right parietal f. joins supertem- poral f. and intermedial f. Mode of junction of left medifron- tal f. with orbitofrontal f. exactly as in father’s right. Son’s left half heavier.