205 light by the dissector have been recorded only when of an unusual nature. These observations, however, have been so numerous that we may assume that most of the variations likely to be brought to light have previously been recorded. While the limits of variation of the various organs of the body are thus fairly well understood, the frequency of varia- tions has been determined but for few organs and for them only incompletely. The true “ normal ” or “ most usual ” is unknown. Henle, in his anatomy, pictured that as normal which his experience led him to think the most usual. Most of the other leading anatomists have done likewise. No two books, other than compilations from similar sources, give the same account of the normal form of the various organs. The great opportunity which the dissecting room offers is that of determining the curve of frequency of the various forms presented by bodily structures, and thus to make the normal a question of measurement rather than one of judgment. To render this possible, accurate records of the conditions found in each body must be made, of such a nature that they may be afterwards compared and reduced to tables. The method of record thus becomes a question of para- mount importance. In the Anatomical Laboratory at the Johns Hopkins Uni- versity the first attempts at making systematic records of conditions of structure revealed at the dissecting table were begun in the fall of 1895. It was determined to make a study of the variations in the distribution of the cranial and spinal nerves, especial attention being paid to the cervico- brachial and the lumbosacral plexuses. At the instigation of Professor Mall, Dr. A. W. Elting, at that time Assistant in Anatomy, prepared three record-charts, one for the nerves of the head, one for the nerves of the neck, arm and upper half of the thorax, and one for the lower half of the body. On these charts a record was made of the sex, color, and age. as well as of the nerve distribution in the body of the indi- vidual dissected. The scheme for recording the latter was as follows. On separate successive lines the numerical desig- nation of a given cranial or spinal nerve was placed, followed by a list of the names of the nerves to which the given main