252 specimens were then digested 2 and the casts thus obtained, examined. Nearly thirty additional injected kidneys were not digested, but were cut into sections in various planes in order to control the results obtained by the method of digestion. Some of these sections were rendered translucent by the usual methods. I made separate injections of the arteries, of the venous system and of the pelvis, combinations of any two out of three and finally triple injections. The great majority were of the last class. At first I confined my injections to kidneys which seemed normal so far as regarded form and size; later, after I had, in this way, determined the law according to which the vessels were grouped, I concentrated my attention upon abnormally shaped kidneys. The present paper will contain a short abstract of the main results of these studies. I shall confine myself to the description of the normal form and mention briefly only a few variations. A more elaborate communication will appear later. The Pelvis of the Kidney.—From a surgical standpoint all forms of pelves may be classified under two main groups. (1) True pelves with major and minor calices. (2) Divided pelves, where there is no free communication possible between all of the calices inside of the kidney. (1) True Pelves.—Fig. 1 shows the ideal form of a true pelvis. There are eight calices; the uppermost (1) and lowest (8) of which many have double papillae. The remain- 21 employed Scliieferdecker’s corrosion-method, slightly modified by Mixter and Mall. The procedure was as follows : The vessels and pelvis of the kidney were thoroughly washed out and then dehydrated with alcohol and ether. The arteries, veins and pelvis were then injected with cinnabar, Prussian blue and arsenic preparations of an alcohol and ether solution of celloidin, respectively. The kidney was then placed in a digesting fluid consisting of varying amounts of 1:3000 pepsin (Sharp & Dolime) dissolved in 0.3 per cent to 0.5 per cent of HC1. The process of digestion was completed in from three to four days to two weeks. When the substantia propria and the connective tissue of the kidney were completely dissolved, they were washed out with a gentle stream of water, leaving only the casts of the injected vessels and pelvis. The casts were preserved in glycerin to which a few drops of carbolic acid were added.