33 manner that for both undergradnates and advanced students the preparations should be readily accessible and capable of being- examined with only such restrictions as the safety of the object demands. The museum should be the reference library of the student in the widest sense, where the under- graduate can review and extend his anatomical knowledge on the hand of the actual object of his study, and where the advanced worker will find the necessary material in directing and supplementing his research in any given problem under investigation. 2. In the demonstrative teaching of the anatomical course the material of the museum in our experience can best be utilized in two ways : a. It is our custom, in approaching any one of the large subdivisions of the course—such as the respiratory and circu- latory system, the alimentary canal or genito-urinary tract— to devote a portion of the available time to a preliminary gen- eral consideration of the development, peculiarities of morph- ological structure and the physiological significance of the parts involved. For this purpose a judicious selection of a limited number of the museum preparations is made, and the objects are arranged in the form of a series, each number of which distinctly and forcibly illustrates a developmental stage or a significant and important structure or functional fact. It is necessary to limit the preparations thus selected in num- ber to avoid confusion and superfluous expenditure of time, but it is surprising how clearly and convincingly the main broad lines of vertebrate development and evolution and the relation between structure and function can be brought out in a comparatively short series of selected preparations. Every teacher knows and appreciates the difference in the quality of instruction and its results between a demonstration of models and drawings, schematic or otherwise, and one re- ferring directly to the natural object. The most important function of the museum, as an integral part of the educational system of the university, is exerted in supplying the material necessary for this kind of demonstrative teaching. Practically I find in the schematic blackboard sketch or the more care- fully prepared colored chart a most valuable adjunct. The drawing should, however, be made directly from the actual preparation demonstrated and the student should have the opportunity of directly comparing both. In this way salient