40 and reproductions prepared in sufficient numbers to allow one to each student for personal examination during the demon- stration of the organ to the class. This plan, when extended as purposed by the museum, will vastly add to the effect and value of our demonstrative teaching. The development of the facilities for plastic reproduction of morphological objects enables the museum to enter into connection with other institutions for purposes of exchange and scientific intercourse. In connection with the utilization of the human material for the museum I desire to mention brieflv the Reference Col- lection in Osteology, as part of the plan of offering opportuni- ties for extensive morphological and anthropological research. This collection includes : 1. The disarticulated skeletons of vertebrate animals. These are kept in boxes, arranged like the books of a lib- rary, accurately catalogued and indexed, so that any desired skeleton can be immediately found and used. The collection is placed in the osteological laboratory. It is proposed to make the collection thoroughly representative, and to include sufficient individual specimens of each form to avoid erroneous deductions possibly based on unusual variations. 2. The department includes, in the second place, a reference collection of human bones, on a scale which renders possible a thorough comparative study in reference to racial character, variations, reversions, age and sex differentiations, etc. The collection is now approaching the limit which we originally designed for it, viz., 5,000 specimens of each of the bones of the human body, but will be extended beyond this point. I am gratified that this material has afforded one of our mem- bers, Dr. A. Hrdlicka, opportunity for some very interesting researches, some of which have already been presented to this Association, while his more recent results are to come before us at this meeting. The value of the collection is greatly in- creased by our system of record-keeping, which makes the material available for anthropological study in the widest sense. We obtain now, from the hospital records, the neces- sary data as to parentage, age, birthplace, etc., of each subject delivered at the college. These data are entered upon the record under a running number, which follows each bone on a lead tag through all stages of maceration and preparation until it is turned into the reference collection as finished. Conse-