9S The 3d ventricle, of which the walls seemed in contact, the cavity not dilated, was 3 cm. long by 15 mm. deep. The thalami were united cephalad by an apparently enlarged mid- dle commissure, which closed in cephalad and dorsad the anterior wall of this ventricle. Beneath this commissure and extending cephalad to it was a hollow stalk 2 cm. long, 1 cm. in diameter. This was the single or fused optic vesicles. At its mesial eephalal termination it divided into two hollow prolongations. Three mm. ventrad and caudad to the open- ing of the optic vesicle was the prolongation making the infundibulum, extending ventrad into an apparently normal hypophysis. A thin layer of gray matter passes caudad from the infundibulum to the floor of the iter. There is no fornix, no mammillary body, no superior pineal peduncles, no anterior commissure, no foramina of Monro. The choroid plexus did not penetrate the 3d ventricle beyond the hypophysis. The velum interpositum enfolded the hypophysis and the choroid plexus extended laterad into the surrounding fluid. Between the middle and posterior commissure is a wide opening into the space dorsad. The optic thalami of the thalamencephalon were 2 cm. long by 15 mm. deep and (later measurement) 15 cm. wide, rounded and somewhat larger than normal. Dorsad and cephalad to this brain, so far only moderately abnormal, is a single cyst, occupying the rest of a normally- shaped cerebral cavity. Cephalad in the region of the frontal and temporal lobes of a normal brain is a wall of brain tissue, gray and white matter, 2 cm. thick, with, however, no gyri or sulci marked upon its external surface, and only one thick- ening on its internal surface. This thickening, taking origin at the cerebral peduncles, passed laterad and dorsad around the entire brain cavity like a misplaced hippocampus major. This thickening was 3 cm. deep and 15 mm. broad. Caudad to it, in the region normally occupied by the occipital lobes, the pia covered no brain tissue whatever. The brain tissue in front was covered by congeries of blood vessels on both of its surfaces, which vessels are continuous with large vessels coursing over the occipital walls, to vessels in the folds of a nearly normal tentorium cerebelli. Cephalad to the thalamencephalon, extending ventrad from this abortive prosencephalon (if it can so be called), extended a thin nerve fiber to the rudimentary ethmoid plate in front,