107 and 179. It is designated so/co injiesso in Fig. 177 and Sc. injlessa (Sc. stands for Scissor a) in Fig. 179. The relations in Fig. 174 are substantially as in Fig. 1 of this article. In Figs. 177 and 179 it is placed cephalad of the supercentral, while in Fig. 178 it is a little caudad, i. e., just cephalad of the central. The designation usolco injiesso” does not appear in the text, though the fissure is evidently described in four lines 011 page 163. Freely translated, it reads : “ The eandal part (c pezzo posteriore T’i of the snperfrontal gyrus (‘ appendiee anteriore’) exhibits an inflection (y) on the middle of its mesial face (‘ ha una injlessione media-interna (f') by means of which this gyrus is readily identified on the dorsal aspect, in man as well as in ruminants.” It is evident that this gyrus, named by Lussana the pezzo posteriore della appendiee anteriore, corresponds to Wilder’s inflected gyrus, or the lateral root, by means of which the snperfrontal gyrus springs from the precentral gyrus. The statement that the inflected is recognizable in the brains of ruminants lacks confirmation, both in literature and in the present writer’s researches. On the other hand, Eherstaller denies its existence upon the brains of the primates (p. 65, loc. cit.), supposing him to mean thereby that it is absent upon the brains of the other primates, exclusive of man. This statement likewise fails of corroboration. The contributions of Professor Wilder upon this subject have already been referred to. Flesch8 in 1885 designated it as the x-fissure, and with Familiant9 believed it homolo- gous with the cruciate jissure of the carnivores. Benedikt’s view10 is that the cruciate fissure is represented in man by both of the fissures discussed in this paper, at least so they are described ; (1) on the meson, the anterior limiting fissure of the paracentral lobule ; (2) on the dorsum, a transverse fissure which limits the superior part of the pre-central gyrus. As Wilder3 pointed out, one is left u in doubt as to whether the lateral fragment is the inflected fissure or the supercentral or some third fissure.” In opposition to these opinions, Betz is said11 to favor Broca's pre-oval incisure with this claim. Having shown, then, the importance of distinguishing be- tween these fissures from a physiological as well as morpho- logical standpoint, it will become apparent that the anatomical relations of these fissures are of equal importance, and with