9 Mall, Abhandl. d. K. S. Ges. cl. Wiss., xvii, 1891. lias been described from time to time by many investigators, and has been isolated by Oppel8 9 and by myself.0 Oppel ob- tained clear pictures of the connective tissue of the liver lobule by means of silver precipitation, while I employed Kiihne’s method of pancreatic digestion to remove the cells, followed by some intense stain like acid fuchsin. The nature of these fibrils is still under discussion but that matters little for the present communication. It is sufficient to know that the fibrils of reticulum form a basket-like membrane surrounding each capillary of the whole lobule, the interior of which is only partly lined by Kuptfer’s syncytial endothelial cells. The capillary walls then are very pervious, blood plasma pass- ing easily from them out into the perivascular spaces to bathe the liver cells. It is well known that a large quantity of lymph is con- stantly passing from the liver, much more than from any other organ. That this lymph comes directly from the blood is indicated by its high per cent of proteid matter, nearly that of the blood, and from two to three times that of the lymph from other parts of the body. The course the lymph takes from the blood to the lymph radicals, i. e. its natural course, can easily be marked by injecting colored gelatin into any of the blood-vessels. 1 have usually found it most convenient to inject the gelatin into the portal vein, but it is just as easy to fill the lymphatics by injecting either the hepatic artery or hepatic vein. In all cases the colored fluid reaches the main lymph channels in the same way. The colored gelatin flows with great ease from the capillaries at the periphery of the lobule as well as from those around the sublobular vein into the lymphatics. After the lymphatics have all been filled it is well to inject a small quantity of fluid of different color into the blood- vessels. A much better method of making double injections is to mix red granules with a blue gelatin or blue granules with a red gelatin, the fenestrated lining membrane of the capillary acting is a sieve which allows the fluid to pass but 8 Oppel, Arcb. Anz., 1890.