47 THE LEVATOR AN I MUSCLE. By Dr. Edmund W. Holmes, Philadelphia. If we trace the transversalis fascia downwards over the pelvic brim, we will find it continuous along the outer pelvic wall, in its attachments, to the margin of the sacrum and coccvx, to the tuber ischii and rami of the ischium and pubes, and anteriorly it spans the triangular space of the vesical triangle to join its fellow of the opposite side, subtending the subpubic membrane, forming the so-called posterior layer of the triangular ligament. Thus regarded, the fascia is wholly parietal, shutting out from the pelvic lumen the pyriformis, the obturator and the compressor urethrae muscles, and af- fording practically a mesial sheath for these muscles. Internal to the fascia, on a line from the posterior surface of the crest of the pubes, to the spine of the ischium, our muscle arises from the face of this parietal fascia, from which also a fibrous leaflet projects proximal and distal to the levator ani, running downwards and inwards parallel to its muscular fibers, being called, respectively, the recto-vesical and anal fascias, but for our present purpose merely forming a sheath for this muscle, and in reality constituting the true supporting floor of the pelvic outlet. The levator ani in its origin is unique. At its extremes, two small, bony points, and the rest, u the white line,” all membranous. Powerful as its fibres are and important its function, I can think of exactly no such origin for any other muscle in the body. Its insertion also is fixed, only at the perineal center and the coccyx, while at the median raphe, movable, though counterbalanced by its fellow of the oppo- site side, and at the sphincters is as yielding as the soft viscera themselves. Its peculiar attachments indicate a more varied function than its name implies, while its muscular layers are amply exercised, in affording a flexible floor for the pelvic viscera, which is influenced by each respiratory movement. In fact every practical operating gynecologist watches the breathing